Annual Report 2014 This is Handelsbanken Handelsbanken is a full-service bank for both private and corporate customers. The Bank has a nationwide branch network in Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. The Bank regards these countries as its home markets. Handelsbanken was founded in 1871 and has operations in 24 countries. 143 832 offices in 24 countries. years of availability. 43 years running with better profitability 26 years with the most than the average of satisfied customers peer banks in home according to SKI markets. (Swedish Quality Index)*. SATISFIED CUSTOMERS IN STRONG SHARE PERFORMANCE HANDELSBANKEN CREATES OUR HOME MARKETS For 26 of the trading days in 2014, the HandelsSHAREHOLDER VALUE Every year, SKI (Swedish Quality Index) and its asbanken share was listed at an all time high. The Handelsbanken is one of few banks in Europe sociated organisation EPSI Rating carry out indehighest listing for 2014 – SEK 372.80 – was on which has created a positive shareholder value pendent surveys of customer satisfaction, based 11 December. Handelsbanken’s market capitaliduring the years of the ﬁnancial and debt crisis. on a European standard. The results for 2014 sation increased during the year by SEK 32 billion During the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsbanken showed that Handelsbanken has the most satisand was SEK 233 billion as at 31 December 2014. has generated a positive shareholder value of ﬁed customers of the four major banks in Sweden. The Swedish stock market went up by 10 per SEK 140 billion. Market capitalisation has grown by Handelsbanken also retains its strong and stable cent during the year and the Stockholm stock SEK 106 billion, while Handelsbanken has paid out position in all home markets. exchange bank index rose by 10 per cent. HandelsSEK 34 billion in share dividends. Handelsbanken banken’s class A share ended the year at SEK is also the only commercial bank listed on the 366.60, an increase of 16 per cent. Including share Stockholm stock exchange which has not needed dividends, the total return was 21 per cent. to ask its shareholders for new capital during this period. * According to SKI (Swedish Quality Index), since surveys started in 1989, Handelsbanken has had the most satisﬁed private customers among the four major Swedish banks – Handelsbanken, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. Highlights of the year Operating profit went up by 6 per The Board has resolved on new cent to SEK 19,212 million (18,088) capital goals, meaning that, under – the highest figure in the Bank’s normal circumstances, the Bank’s 143-year history. common equity tier 1 ratio must exceed the Swedish Financial SuperThe period’s profit after tax for total visory Authority’s communicated operations increased by 6 per cent requirements by 1 to 3 percentage to SEK 15,184 million (14,295). points, and that the tier 1 ratio and Earnings per share for total the total capital ratio must exceed the operations increased by 6 per cent Financial Supervisory Authority’s to SEK 23.89 (22.52). communicated requirements by at least 1 percentage point. Return on equity for total operations was 13.4 per cent (13.9). Income increased by 5 per cent to SEK 38,314 million (36,327) . The Board proposes an ordinary dividend of SEK 12.50 per share and Net interest income went up by also an extra dividend of SEK 5.00 2 per cent to SEK 27,244 million per share. (26,669) and in the home markets outside Sweden, net interest income The Board has decided to propose increased by 11 per cent. a stock split of 3:1. Total expenses decreased by Following the Board’s dividend 0.5 per cent, adjusted for exchange proposal, the common equity tier 1 rate movements. ratio according to CRD IV increased to 20.4 per cent (18.9) and the total The C/I ratio improved to 45.2 per capital ratio rose to 25.6 per cent (21.6). cent (47.0). The loan loss ratio was 0.10 per cent (0.07). Average growth in equity Total return since the start of the financial crisis 2007–2014* 30 June 2007 – 31 December 2014 SEK % 325 200 300 % 150 275 R: 15 CAG 250 100 225 200 50 175 150 0 125 100 -50 75 50 -100 Handelsbanken DNB Nordea HSBC SEB Swedbank Standard Chartered Danske Bank BNP Paribas BBVA Intesa-Sanpaolo KBC Group Barclays Credit Agricole Erste Group Euro STOXX Banks Credit Suisse Deutsche Bank Lloyds Societe Generale UBS Unicredit RBS Commerzbank Bank of Ireland Allied Irish Banks Q4 14 Q3 14 Q2 14 Q1 14 Q4 13 Q3 13 Q2 13 Q1 13 Q4 12 Q3 12 Q2 12 Q1 12 Q4 11 Q3 11 Q2 11 Q1 11 Q4 10 Q3 10 Q2 10 Q1 10 Q4 09 Q3 09 Q2 09 Q1 09 Q4 08 Q3 08 Q2 08 Q1 08 Q4 07 Q3 07 Adjusted equity per share Accumulated dividends since 2008 * Including dividends. Source: SNL, as at 31 December 2014 (dividends reinvested) H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 1 Brief information Handelsbanken’s Annual General Meeting 2015 Location: Grand Hôtel, Winter Garden, Royal entrance, Stallgatan 4, Stockholm. Time: Wednesday, 25 March 2015 at 9.30 a.m. Notice of attendance Shareholders wishing to attend the AGM must be entered in the register of shareholders kept by Euroclear Sweden AB (formerly VPC AB), by Thursday, 19 March 2015 at the latest. Notice of attendance is to be made to Handelsbanken, Corporate Governance, SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden, telephone +46 (0)8 701 19 84, or via handelsbanken.se/ireng by Thursday, 19 March 2015 at the latest. To be entitled to take part in the meeting, shareholders whose shares are nominee-registered must also request a temporary entry in the register of shareholders kept by Euroclear. Shareholders must notify the nominee of this well before Thursday, 19 March 2015, when this entry must have been effected. Dividend The Board proposes that the record day for the dividend be Friday, 27 March 2015, which means that Handelsbanken’s shares will be traded ex-dividend on Thursday, 26 March 2015. If the meeting resolves in accordance with the proposal, Euroclear expects to distribute the dividend on Wednesday, 1 April 2015. It is possible for private individuals who are domiciled in Sweden for tax purposes, to donate dividends to non-proﬁt organisations without paying tax on them, under certain conditions. Shareholders who are interested in this must contact their bank or asset manager well in advance so that the gift can be registered prior to the AGM. Financial calendar 2015 4 February Annual accounts 2014 25 March Annual General Meeting 29 April Interim report January–March 2015 21 July Interim report January–June 2015 21 October Interim report January–September 2015 Financial information The following reports can be downloaded or ordered from handelsbanken.se/ireng: • annual reports • interim reports • risk reports • corporate governance reports • fact books • sustainability reports. Distribution The Annual Report can be ordered from Investor Relations, phone +46 (0)8 701 10 00, or at handelsbanken.se/ireng where other reports as listed above are also available. Handelsbanken’s printed annual report will be distributed to shareholders who are new for the year. A written request is then sent asking them how they wish to receive the report in future. A printed version is sent to all shareholders who reply in the afﬁrmative. Annual Report including Sustainability Report Handelsbanken’s Annual Report for 2014 contains the Bank’s complete Sustainability Report for 2014. The Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) 3.0 guidelines for reporting and covers activities and results for the 2014 calendar year. Handelsbanken’s Sustainability Report meets the information requirements of level C+ and this has been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. Handelsbanken reports the Group’s sustainability activities annually. The report constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Additional information regarding Handelsbanken’s sustainability activities is presented in an expanded GRI supplement, published at handelsbanken.se/csreng. 2 H A N D E L S B A N K EN | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 Contents The Group Chief Executive’s comments Creating value and beneﬁt 4 ADMINISTRATION REPORT ADMINISTRATION REPORT GROUP PARENT COMPANY 153 Contents 7 FINANCIAL REPORTS Concept and goal 9 PARENT COMPANY Goal achievement 10 Contents 154 Our concept 12 Income statement Parent company 155 Organisation and working methods 14 Statement of comprehensive income Parent company 155 Our digital journey – all paths lead to the branch 16 Balance sheet Parent company 156 Statement of changes in equity Review of operations Financial overview 2014 19 Parent company 157 Review of operations 20 Cash ﬂow statement Parent company 158 Five-year overview Group 22 Five-year overview Key ﬁgures per year 24 Parent company 159 Quarterly performance 25 Notes Parent company 161 Business segments 26 Branch operations in Sweden 28 RECOMMENDED APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS Branch operations in the UK 30 Recommended appropriation Branch operations in Denmark 32 of proﬁts 191 Branch operations in Finland 34 Branch operations in Norway 36 AUDITOR’S REPORT Branch operations in the Auditor’s report 192 Netherlands 38 Handelsbanken Capital Markets 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Handelsbanken’s shares and Contents 196 shareholders 44 Sustainability at Handelsbanken 197 Sustainability, employees and Key ﬁgures for sustainability work 198 the environment 46 Our concept and organisation 200 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 2014 49 Customers 202 Employees 204 Contents 49 Owners 207 Corporate Governance structure 50 Society 208 Board members 62 Initiatives, awards, surveys Senior Management and Audit and sustainability index 218 and Whistleblowing Function 64 Content and restrictions 220 FINANCIAL REPORTS GRI index 221 GROUP Auditor’s report 223 Contents 66 Income statement Group 67 CONTACT INFORMATION Statement of comprehensive Contents 225 income Group 68 Contact information 226 Balance sheet Group 69 Branches and branch managers 228 Statement of changes in equity Boards of subsidiaries and Group 70 business area 235 Cash ﬂow statement Group 71 Notes Group 72 OTHER Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity no.: 502007-7862 Deﬁnitions and explanations 236 Registered ofﬁce: Stockholm handelsbanken.com This Annual Report is also available in Swedish. 3 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS Creating value and benefit • Operating profit for 2014 grew to SEK 19.2 billion, the highest figure in the Bank’s 143-year history. • Earnings per share increased to SEK 23.89. • Handelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations was 13.4 per cent. • The C/I ratio – our expenses divided by our income – improved to 45.2 per cent. • Following the dividend proposal, the common equity tier 1 ratio according to CRD IV increased to 20.4 per cent and the total capital ratio rose to 25.6 per cent. • For many years, Handelsbanken’s equity, including dividends paid and share repurchases, has grown by an average of 15 per cent per year. • Handelsbanken’s share price reached all time high levels on 26 trading days in 2014. • In Sweden we had the most satisfied customers, in terms of the banking sector as a whole. In our other home markets too, we maintained our strong, stable position as regards customer satisfaction. BUSINESS MODEL Operating proﬁt for 2014 was SEK 19.2 billion, which is the highest ﬁgure Handelsbanken is essentially organised on a geographical basis. Like all in the Bank’s now 143-year history. companies with more than one customer and one product, we have to Since the ﬁnancial crisis started in summer 2007, the total return for deal with matters of product responsibility, customer responsibility and Handelsbanken’s shareholders – i.e. share price performance including function responsibility. We’ve made things simple for ourselves by esdividends – has amounted to 168 per cent. The average ﬁgure for European tablishing a geographical organisational model, with one manager being banks is -63 per cent, and no other Scandinavian bank achieves a level appointed for each area of operations. An area of operations is a wellof more than 80 per cent. deﬁned geographical area, for example a town, a local authority, or part The Handelsbanken share is listed on the Stockholm stock exchange, of a city. This manager has full responsibility for all the Bank’s business in and has attained all time high price levels many times in the past few years. this well-deﬁned geographical area. In the past two and a half years this has occurred on 65 trading days. We call this manager a branch manager. At Handelsbanken, the branch manager’s role is an autonomous one. CUSTOMER BENEFIT For every branch we have an income statement and draw up a balance At Handelsbanken, we are convinced that sustainable long-term growth sheet. In this way, the branch manager, together with his or her staff, can and shareholder value can only be achieved if we also create long-term make decisions based on local information and quickly gauge the ﬁnancial value for the Bank’s customers. consequences of their decisions. Every year, SKI and its associated organisation EPSI Rating carry out Centrally, we establish policies and guidelines that set the framework independent surveys of customer satisfaction. The 2014 surveys showed within which we run our business. Examples of this include guidelines for that Handelsbanken has considerably more satisﬁed private customers than the ﬁnancial control system, measurement methods for customer satisthe average for the banking sector in all of the Bank’s six home markets. faction, and guiding principles for granting credit. In the past year, Handelsbanken has received a string of awards, which With a clear organisational model and decentralised decision-making – naturally make us feel pleased, proud and encouraged. And we are parincluding a strong belief in the individual – we have been able to run a bank ticularly pleased when the award in question is voted for by customers. without setting budgets or having central marketing departments. One example of this is the Best Customer Service award from ServiceWe grow primarily by opening branches in locations where we currently Score, which we again won this year. The results were based on a simple have no presence. A newly opened branch needs one to two years before question to the general public: which bank do you think provides the best it shows positive cash ﬂow. After this, the branch’s income usually grows service? The same thing applies – although there are more questions and much more rapidly than its expenses. In exceptional circumstances, we the calculations may be more complex – when we were again named Busisupplement this organic growth model by acquiring small, well-run players ness Bank of the Year, No.1 Private Banking Player and Sweden’s Small – if they ﬁt in with our business model and corporate culture. Enterprise Bank. All these awards are essentially based on customers’ A long-term approach is characteristic of the Bank as a whole – in own assessments. everything from our commitment and how we build up and nurture our According to the research company TNS Sifo, we have – for a bank customer relationships to our view of our staff. And it applies particularly – an unusually high proportion of “ambassadors,” i.e. customers who to our idea of how we aim to run our Bank. actively recommend us to their friends and business acquaintances. There’s no better – or more effective – marketing than this. SHAREHOLDER VALUE For a long time, Handelsbanken has created value for its shareholders. For BENEFIT TO THE COMMUNITY many years, Handelsbanken’s equity, including dividends paid, has grown For a community to function well, it needs banks that function well. A bank by an average of 15 per cent per year. Unlike in the other major Swedish that does not function well will create problems for the community in which banks, this value in Handelsbanken has been created entirely without the it operates. And the bigger the bank, the bigger the problems for the aid of state support, subsidised loans from central banks, or capital support community. Ultimately, the citizens of the community, the taxpayers, may in the form of new share issues. In fact, Handelsbanken is, and has been have to step in, either directly with aid, or indirectly by utilising resources throughout the ﬁnancial crisis, one of Sweden’s largest taxpayers, as well as for guarantee commitments, etc. – resources that the community would the largest contributor to the Swedish state’s Stabilisation Fund. probably have preferred to use for other purposes. 4 H A N D E L S B A N K E N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS Therefore, a bank’s ﬁrst and most important task is to function well, to be Denmark ﬁnancially stable and thus be available when the community, its citizens In Denmark the business climate remained difﬁcult, with demand being and customers require the bank’s services. In order to achieve this, the weak. In 2014, Handelsbanken again had the most satisﬁed customers bank must be proﬁtable in the long term. on this market, on both the corporate and the private side. The Bank Handelsbanken is one of the absolute most stable banks in the world. opened a new branch in Aarhus North, and has generally seen a strong We grow at the rate that our customers grow, we build for the long term inﬂow of new customers, with growing business volumes as a natural and we have low tolerance of risks. Therefore, over time, the Bank has consequence of this. had considerably lower loan losses than the rest of the sector. And hence, throughout the ﬁnancial crisis, we were the only major Finland player on our home markets that did not require aid from central banks In Finland we developed both our branch network and our digital channels. or state support programmes. We opened a new branch in Ruoholahti in Helsinki, a new service location Being part of a community includes being present there – in the comon Åland, and moved some branches to new premises where we can munity, in physical terms. Today we have a network of 832 ofﬁces in 24 serve our customers better in terms of location and functionality. According countries, 463 of which are in Sweden. For us, there is no incompatibility to EPSI’s customer satisfaction survey, we had the most satisﬁed customers between branches and customers’ use of apps in mobile phones, tablets, on both the private and corporate side. etc. On the contrary, customers who are at the leading edge of technology usage also value a personal relationship more, and regard this service as Norway more exclusive today than people did ﬁve or ten years ago, for example. In Norway, 2014 continued with volumes growing on both the private and corTherefore we continue to open new branches on a regular basis. We are porate markets. We increased our deposits considerably during the year, and currently the only bank in a total of 59 locations. this, coupled with rising corporate lending, means that we are now Norway’s For us it’s also self-evident that a business decision that affects a third largest bank. We also opened two new branches during the year. community should be taken there – in the town, village or city district. Our staff almost always live in the town where their branch is located. In The Netherlands this way Handelsbanken also reﬂects the community in which it operates. Business in the Netherlands showed positive development, and we To further strengthen this local presence, we also endeavour to concontinued to expand our branch network. During the year, two new stantly broaden our recruitment base and increase diversity in all areas. branches were opened, and a further two are being formed. In the annual By seeking employees with other origins and backgrounds we will be an EPSI customer satisfaction survey, Handelsbanken remains the bank with even better bank, better equipped to face new challenges in a constantly far and away the most satisﬁed customers in the Netherlands, among changing society. private and corporate customers alike. We’ve come a long way, but are far from satisﬁed. One example of this is our work with gender equality: although we’ve won several prizes and WE HAVE MORE TO GIVE... awards for this work, we think there’s a great deal left to be done. Although many things went our way during the year, with increasing Our strong local presence means that working with sustainability is a customer satisfaction, growth in our income and the strong price perfornatural part of our day-to-day activities. You naturally want to take responmance of our share, there is a great deal more to be done. sibility for the area that you live and work in. Therefore, sustainability and In my view, we have a fairly long way to go before we reach our full corporate social responsibility are deeply rooted in Handelsbanken’s culpotential. ture and working method. In addition to our internal steering documents Our business model combines local physical presence with digital platand guidelines that govern Handelsbanken’s actions, the Bank is also forms in such a way that it enables us to grow in a scalable, repeatable a member of the voluntary initiatives Global Compact and Principles of manner. Evidence of this is the fact that customer satisfaction is top-ranked Responsible Investment (PRI), both UN initiatives directed at companies. in both the branch networks that are more than 100 years old and those that Handelsbanken continues to support these initiatives which are in keeping have only just been formed, such as those in the Netherlands and the UK. with the values and principles already applying at Handelsbanken. In strict ﬁnancial terms, too, our business model displays a similarly strong performance, irrespective of the market, as regards income/expenses and OUR HOME MARKETS capital efﬁciency, for example. At present, Handelsbanken has six home markets: Sweden, the UK, If we look at the size of various markets in terms of population, numbers Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. On these markets we of companies and GDP, the conclusion is a simple one: we have not yet strive to be a full-service bank with a nationwide branch network. exploited most of our business opportunities. Sweden FINALLY... Despite the prevailing economic situation in Sweden, with the repo rate Summing up the past year, Handelsbanken continued to grow, with ever at zero per cent and low demand for credit in the market, Handelsbanken increasing income, even better proﬁts and the most satisﬁed customers. continued to develop its business. Our commission-based business also Looking back on 2014, it is clear that the Bank’s healthy proﬁt is the result showed increased activity and growing volumes. In a market where other of hard work by all our employees, and therefore I would like to extend my banks are closing down branches, Handelsbanken opened new ones, sincere thanks to them. and we now have 463 branches in Sweden. Also, I would especially like to take this opportunity to thank all our customers for the conﬁdence you’ve had in us. UK In 2014, we maintained our expansion in the UK. We opened 17 new branches, and at year-end, a further eleven managers had been recruited for forthcoming branches. To ensure that new and existing branches continue to receive strong support, a new, ﬁfth regional UK bank was established, with its operations ofﬁcially commencing on 1 January 2015. Business volumes – particularly deposits – continued to grow. The Heartwood acquisition is showing positive performance: since the acquisition in May 2013, assets under management have grown by just Pär Boman over 50 per cent to GBP 2.3 billion. Stockholm, February 2015 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 5 Administration report CONTENTS Concept and goal 9 Goal achievement 10 Our concept 12 Organisation and working methods 14 Our digital journey – all paths lead to the branch 16 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW 2014 19 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS 20 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP 22 KEY FIGURES PER YEAR 24 QUARTERLY PERFORMANCE 25 BUSINESS SEGMENTS 26 Branch operations in Sweden 28 Branch operations in the UK 30 Branch operations in Denmark 32 Branch operations in Finland 34 Branch operations in Norway 36 Branch operations in the Netherlands 38 Handelsbanken Capital Markets 40 HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS 44 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2014 49 Contents Corporate Governance Report 49 Corporate Governance structure 50 Board members 62 Senior Management and Audit and Whistleblowing Function 64 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 7 CONCEPT AND GOAL | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Concept Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a decentralised way of working, a strong local presence due to nationwide branch networks and a long-term approach to customer relations. The Bank grows internationally by establishing its business model on selected markets. Goal Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher profitability than the average of peer banks in its home markets. One of the purposes of Handelsbanken’s corporate goal is to offer shareholders long-term high growth in value expressed in increasing earnings per share over a business cycle. This goal is mainly to be achieved by having more satisfied customers and lower costs than those of competitors. High profitability is crucial, not only because it attracts shareholders to invest in the Bank, but also because it creates the conditions for growth, a high rating and low funding costs, and for the Bank’s lending capacity. The Bank’s profitability also affects its ability to manage risks and to achieve efficient capital management. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 9 GOAL ACHIEVEMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Goal achievement Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher profitability than the average of peer banks in its home markets. This goal is mainly to be achieved by the Bank having more satisfied customers and lower costs than its competitors. OVERALL GOALS Return on equity 1973–2014 % Corporate goal 30 Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher profitability than 25 the average of peer banks in its home markets. 20 Goal achievement Handelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations 15 was 13.4 per cent (13.9). The corresponding figure for a 10 weighted average of other major Nordic banks was 11.3 5 per cent (11.4). The corresponding figure for a weighted 0 average of all peer banks in the home markets is estimated -74 -76 -78 -80 -82 -84 -86 -88 -90 -92 -94 -96 -98 -00 -02 -04 -06 -08 -10 -12 -14 at approximately 10 per cent (10.2). This means that for -5 the 43rd consecutive year, Handelsbanken has met its -10 corporate goal. Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2002 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. STABLE, HIGH VALUE GROWTH Average growth in equity per share, SEK, 2007–2014* Growth in equity, including dividends and share 325 repurchases, is a measure of the financial value created. 300 275 15% Outcome CAGR: 250 Average growth in equity, including dividends and share 225 repurchases, has been 15 per cent each year for the 200 past seven years. The low variation between the quarters 175 confirms the Bank’s low risk tolerance and is a measure 150 of the stability of the value creation. 125 100 75 50 Q3 07 Q4 07 Q1 08 Q2 08 Q3 08 Q4 08 Q1 09 Q2 09 Q3 09 Q4 09 Q1 10 Q2 10 Q3 10 Q4 10 Q1 11 Q2 11 Q3 11 Q4 11 Q1 12 Q2 12 Q3 12 Q4 12 Q1 13 Q2 13 Q3 13 Q4 13 Q1 14 Q2 14 Q3 14 Q4 14 Adjusted equity per share Accumulated dividends since 2008 * Including dividends. MOST SATISFIED CUSTOMERS Customer satisfaction – Private customers 2014 Customer satisfaction – Corporate customers 2014 One of the ways in which Handelsbanken will achieve its Index Index profitability goal is by having more satisfied customers 90 90 than its competitors. The quality and service must therefore at least meet customer expectations, and preferably exceed them. 80 80 Outcome Handelsbanken continued to have the most satisfied 70 70 customers of the four major banks in Sweden, both private and corporate. Handelsbanken also retains its strong and stable position regarding customer satisfaction in the 60 60 Nordic countries, the UK and the Netherlands. Satisfied customers are proof of the viability of Handelsbanken’s method of working. 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI MOST COST-EFFECTIVE BANK Costs/Income, excluding loan losses, 2002–2014 The profitability goal will also be achieved by having % higher cost-effectiveness than peer banks. 70 Outcome 60 Handelsbanken’s costs in relation to income for continuing operations improved to 45.2 per cent (47.0). The cor50 responding figure for an average of other major Nordic 40 banks was 49.5 per cent (52.1). 30 20 10 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Handelsbanken Average Nordic banks excl. Handelsbanken 10 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 GOAL ACHIEVEMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT GROWTH Income and cost performance, new branches in the UK Handelsbanken’s business is based on meeting the customer SEK m per branch locally. It is therefore natural to open new branches in places 50 where the Bank has not previously had operations. 40 Some 55% of the branches are Some 45% of the branches are Outcome less than 4 years old more than 4 years old In 2014, Handelsbanken opened 24 new branches in its 30 home markets: one in Sweden, 17 in the UK, two in Norway, 20 two in the Netherlands and one new branch in each of Denmark and Finland. 10 0 yr 0 yr 1 yr 2 yr 3 yr 4 yr 5 yr 6 yr 7 yr 8 yr 9 yr 10 Average income Average expenses Refers to the average of the 175 branches opened in the UK 2000–2014. CAPITAL Common equity tier 1 capital, CRD IV 2013–2014 Under normal circumstances, the Bank’s common equity tier % 1 ratio must be between 1 and 3 percentage points above the 25 combined common equity tier 1 capital requirement received by the Bank from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. 20 In addition, the tier 1 ratio and the total capital ratio must ex15 ceed the levels for the combined capital requirements received by the Bank from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority 10 by at least 1 percentage point. The Bank must also fulfil all other capital requirements decided upon by public authorities. 5 Outcome 0 The common equity tier 1 ratio according to CRD IV increased 2013 2014 to 20.4 per cent (18.9), the tier 1 capital ratio rose to 22.1 per cent (21.0) and the total capital ratio increased to 25.6 per cent (21.6). All three capital levels met the stipulated capital ratios. LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING ITRAXX Financials 5-year and Handelsbanken’s CDS spread 5-year Handelsbanken must be able to manage for at least 12 months Basis points without borrowing any new funds in the financial markets. Its 400 funding cost must be lower than for peer banks. Outcome 300 The issue volume for long-term funding during the year amounted to SEK 189 billion. At the end of the year, the total 200 liquidity reserve exceeded SEK 800 billion. The Bank’s funding costs and five-year CDS-spread were the lowest among peer banks and continued to be among the very lowest in 100 the global banking market. 0 6 7 7 7 7 8 8 8 8 9 9 9 9 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 4 4 4 4 c-0 r-0 n-0 p-0 c-0 r-0 n-0 p-0 c-0 r-0 n-0 p-0 c-0 r-1 n-1 p-1 c-1 r-1 n-1 p-1 c-1 r-1 n-1 p-1 c-1 r-1 n-1 p-1 c-1 r-1 n-1 p-1 c-1 De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De ITRAXX Financials 5-year SHB CDS 5-year Source: Ecowin, Bloomberg CREDIT QUALITY Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1998–2014 Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This means that % the quality of credits must never be neglected in favour of 1.2 achieving higher volume or a higher margin. 1.0 Outcome 0.8 Loan losses were SEK -1,781 million (-1,195). Loan losses 0.6 as a proportion of lending were 0.10 per cent (0.07). The 0.4 corresponding figure for other major Nordic banks was 0.12 per cent (0.15). 0.2 0.0 -0.2 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. A LONG-TERM PERSPECTIVE RATING The Bank takes a long-term approach to relations with both customers and Handelsbanken aims to have a high rating with the external rating agencies. employees. It sees each recruitment as important and long term. Outcome Outcome During the year, Handelsbanken’s short-term and long-term ratings with the External staff turnover in Sweden was very low and amounted to 2.2 per cent rating agencies which monitor the Bank were unchanged. in Sweden (1.8). External staff turnover 2010–2014* Ratings of Nordic banks % Standard & Poor’s Fitch Moody’s 10 LongShortLongShortFinancial LongShort8 31 December 2014 term term term term strength* term term 6 Handelsbanken AAA-1+ AAF1+ C Aa3 P-1 4 SEB A+ A-1 A+ F1 CA1 P-1 Nordea AAA-1+ AAF1+ C Aa3 P-1 2 Swedbank A+ A-1 A+ F1 CA1 P-1 0 Danske Bank A A-1 A F1 CA3 P-2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 DNB A+ A-1 CA1 P-1 * The proportion of employees who have left externally (excluding retirements and deaths) * Bank Financial Strength Rating (BFSR) is an assessment of a bank’s own strength regardless in relation to the average number of employees. of support in any form. Sweden H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 14 11 OUR CONCEPT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Our concept Handelsbanken is a full-service bank where personal meetings with our customers are key. We have a decentralised way of working and a strong local presence through nationwide branch networks. The Bank attaches great importance to availability and long-term customer relations, has low tolerance of risks and achieves international growth by applying its business model to selected markets. Handelsbanken has been conducting bankevery meeting. By winning its customers’ trust, Banking for both personal and corporate cusing operations since 1871 and has the oldest Handelsbanken becomes their natural choice tomers has also been developed with expanded listed share on the Stockholm stock exchange. as a provider of ﬁnancial services. Therefore, functionality and it is also possible to log on using Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher proﬁtameetings with customers are key to Handelsthe Mobile BankID. bility than the average of peer banks in its home banken’s operations. markets. This goal is mainly to be achieved by Care having more satisﬁed customers and lower In everything it does, the Bank aims to create costs than those of competitors. the best possible conditions for successful Our idea of how we should run our bank is based on trust and respect for individuals. This is why we are decentralised. This approach leads to better, quicker decisions close to the “ We put a great deal of effort into being available meetings with customers. It is through these meetings that the Bank creates, maintains and develops strong, long-term customer relationships. customer, and creates commitment and the opportunity for our employees to make an impact and do an even better job. This in turn helps the Bank to gain more satisﬁed customers. for our customers. ” One example which creates the right conditions for customers to regard us as “the best bank in town” is that we still handle cash and that we do not close branches. On the contrary, The whole of a bank’s business is based on Availability we develop the Bank’s meeting-places – since trust. Our customers have chosen us because We put a great deal of effort into being available this is what our customers want. they trust us and have conﬁdence in the way we for our customers and this is a major compoWhen we meet our customers, it is not just a do banking. nent in Handelsbanken’s method of banking. matter of solving their everyday banking needs We don’t close branches – instead we open in a simple way. We always focus on the cusnew ones. In Sweden, Handelsbanken Direkt tomer’s needs and our aim is that they should Personal Service is always open, and is staffed feel that our service is caring. “ The whole of a bank’s business is based on by professional bankers to help customers by phone – 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We constantly strive to develop and improve our meeting-places and to increase the level Decentralised decisions Handelsbanken’s constant aim is that all important business decisions should be taken as trust. ” of availability for customers. This applies at our branches, online, and at new digital meetingplaces, such as services in the form of apps (mobile applications) for mobile phones and close to the customer as possible. This contributes to better meetings with customers, better decisions and more satisﬁed customers. In short, our customers attach great importablets. tance to the fact that we are available, simple to deal with, and show understanding and care when interacting with them. With more than 140 years’ experience, we have learned what is important to the Bank’s customers. Simplicity When a customer contacts us, the meeting should be simple and unbureaucratic. For example, regardless of how the customer con“ The branches’ independence gives them Slightly simpliﬁed, the basis of our method of tacts us, we aim to have the same range of sera very strong local building and running Handelsbanken has sevvices in our various meeting-places. This means eral important elements, as follows: that it should be possible to do the same type of presence, with longbusiness with the Bank, regardless of whether CUSTOMER MEETINGS the customer visits their local branch, calls us, term customer relationAll important business decisions should be or logs on to one of our digital meeting-places. taken as close to the customer as possible. This contributes to better decisions and more satisﬁed customers: our customers meet the person Therefore, we are constantly working to develop and improve the Bank’s technical solutions. Several new technical solutions were ships. ” ” who will make the decision, not a messenger. launched during the year involving simpliﬁcaThis gives a sound basis for successful customer tions for our customers. For example, the Bank Every branch of Handelsbanken is led by a meetings – both at branches and our other was ﬁrst of the major banks in Sweden to offer manager who is solely responsible for all operameeting-places. The customer’s trust is built up companies the opportunity of accepting paytions in his/her branch’s local area of operations. over the long term, but is won and nurtured at ments via mobile phones or tablets. Mobile The branches’ independence gives them a very 12 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 OUR CONCEPT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT strong local presence, with long-term customer The goal is for customers to be able to move and countries. For example, during the year, the relationships. In addition, short decision paths freely between our various meeting-places and Bank started to set up a ﬁfth regional bank in the make it possible to adapt more quickly to varido their banking business when it suits them UK with its head ofﬁce in Leeds. ous changes in local markets and make the best. We like to say that we should give the cusmost of new business opportunities. tomer “the keys to the Bank”. STABLE FINANCES By means of low funding costs and low loan Skilled staff A full range of products and services losses, coupled with high proﬁtability, HandelsHandelsbanken’s decentralised method of A vital condition for successful customer meetbanken builds a strong balance sheet. Stable working means that we give our staff a high ings is never to lack any product or service that ﬁnances are essential for the Bank to be able to degree of responsibility and authority to conduct a customer needs. We do not divide our cusdo all the business that it and its customers wish customers’ business. This high degree of trust tomers into different segments or specialise in to do – on favourable terms. is based on a belief in people’s willingness and product or service niches. Stable ﬁnances not only provide freedom of ability to constantly become more skilled in their The individual customer’s unique requireaction, but also lower funding costs, and thus work and in their efforts to seek and overcome ments are the governing factor. Therefore, contribute to higher proﬁtability – without the new challenges. Handelsbanken has a full range of products and customer paying more. The Bank takes a long-term approach to services to meet all the ﬁnancial needs of our Handelsbanken builds its stable ﬁnances on relations with both customers and employees. customers. entirely commercial terms, and is one of the few It sees each recruitment as important and long banks in its home markets that has not sought term. Employees with long experience and with Our best advice ﬁnancial support from the government, central broad knowledge from the whole Bank make Regardless of the meeting-place, we always banks or shareholders during periods of turbua vital contribution to the Bank having satisﬁed give the customer our best advice without looklence in the ﬁnancial markets. customers. To retain employees, the right coning at what is the most proﬁtable product for ditions must exist for development in their work, Handelsbanken in the short term. Our employas well as a variety of career opportunities – and ees who meet customers are not paid variable consideration must be taken of the stage of life that she or he is in. Our aim for long-term relations with our employees is reinforced by the proﬁt-sharing remuneration, either in the form of bonuses or commission, and therefore have no ﬁnancial incentive to convince the customer that a certain service or product suits them best. “ This low risk tolerance is maintained through a scheme Oktogonen which instead of short-term By giving our best advice, we build trusting, strong risk culture that bonus systems creates a long-term and similar long-term relationships with every customer. It is incentive for all employees of the Bank, regardthe customer’s needs that are important. is sustainable in the long less of their position or work tasks. Furthermore, the employees are the second largest owner PROFITABILITY BEFORE VOLUMES term and applies to all of the Bank via Oktogonen since it mainly inHandelsbanken adapts its offering to each cusvests the employees’ units in shares in Handelsbanken. Some 98 per cent of the Group’s employees are now covered by Oktogonen. tomer’s unique needs and circumstances. The Bank therefore has no requirements as regards volumes, budgets or centrally determined sales areas of the Group. ” External staff turnover in the Group was 3.2 targets. Instead, the Bank measures its success per cent during the year. in terms of customer satisfaction, proﬁtability LOW RISK TOLERANCE and cost-effectiveness. Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. The Handelsbanken achieves higher proﬁtability Bank’s strict approach to risk means that it by running the Bank more efﬁciently, and thus deliberately avoids high-risk transactions, even “ A vital condition for successful customer meetat a lower cost, than peer banks on its home markets. Consequently, ‘high proﬁtability’ does not mean that Handelsbanken’s customers pay more. if the remuneration is high at the time. This low risk tolerance is maintained through a strong risk culture that is sustainable in the long term and applies to all areas of the Group. ings is never to lack any The Bank’s business model focuses on takORGANIC GROWTH ing credit risks in the branch operations. The product or service that For Handelsbanken to achieve and retain high objective is therefore to minimise other risks, proﬁtability, growth is also necessary. Handelssuch as market risks. Position-taking in the a customer needs. ” banken grows primarily by opening new branches in locations where it has not previously had operations. In this way, Handelsbanken grows Bank’s business operations is only accepted in customer-driven transactions, and only within strictly deﬁned limits. customer by customer, branch by branch. Handelsbanken also seeks to reduce all macro The keys to the Bank This organic growth model means that Handelsrisks, in order to have a business model that is Almost all our customer relations started at banken can achieve growth, coupled with low independent of ﬂuctuations in the economy. the customer’s branch, but customers meet risk and good cost control. This method of Handelsbanken far more often on the phone, working and of achieving growth has proved via their mobile phones, tablet devices or online. successful in an increasing number of locations H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 13 ORGANISATION AND WORKING METHODS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Organisation and working methods Handelsbanken is organised so as to create the best possible conditions for successful meetings with customers. Practically all important business decisions are therefore made close to our customers, at more than 830 local branch offices worldwide. Our branches can be reached in many different ways: online, apps, personal visits or 24 hours a day on the phone. BRANCH OPERATIONS We have given our branch managers a very the markets where the Bank operates. Our local Handelsbanken has six home markets: Sweden, high degree of independence, as we are conbranches are responsible for all the Bank’s custhe UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the vinced that those who work closest to the customers and make all credit decisions within their Netherlands. Handelsbanken has a nationwide tomer will make the most sensible decisions, geographical area of operations, for example. branch network in these countries, organised from the customer’s and from the Bank’s point All income and expenses within the branch’s into one or more regional banks in each country. of view. area of operations are allocated to the branch, In step with the establishment of new home At Handelsbanken, we strive for as many while the Bank’s central administrative departmarkets, the Bank strives to devolve central business decisions as possible to be taken ments and business areas have only one main decision-making power, so that the decisions locally, close to the customer. This creates a task: to support the branches. Product specialcan be taken as close to the customers and the cost-effective, ﬂexible organisation based on the ists at the Bank’s business areas are responsible market as possible. Each home market has its customer’s requirements and circumstances for the full range of products and services that own national organisation with responsibility for which can quickly react to market changes. the local branches offer their customers. the proﬁtability of the branch operations in that country. The need for stronger national organiEFFICIENT GEOGRAPHICAL STRUCTURE INDEPENDENT LOCAL BRANCHES sations has grown as the Bank has expanded. Handelsbanken is an internationally active fullHandelsbanken’s geographical structure ensures service bank with a local presence and long a local presence that creates loyal, satisﬁed custerm customer relations. The individual customtomers and provides access to local information er’s unique requirements are the governing facin the markets where we operate. “ We have given our branch managers a very tor. Therefore, Handelsbanken has a full range of products and services to meet all the ﬁnancial needs of our customers. Handelsbanken is organised geographically. Decision-making at Handelsbanken is strictly decentralised to the local branch. Every branch of Handelsbanken is led by a manager who is solely responsible for all operahigh degree of indeThis means that we do not face the challenges tions in his/her branch’s local area of operations. of a complex matrix organisation where both Branch managers staff and organise their pendence, as we are employees and customers risk ending up in branches according to the business that the inefﬁcient work processes. branch chooses to do in its local market. convinced that those Our geographical structure is decentralised and cost-effective, with short, clear decision who work closest to the paths. Every local branch has its own area of customer will make the operations, with its own proﬁt responsibility. An ‘area of operations’ is a geographically delimited “ Decision-making at Handelsbanken is ” area that constitutes the branch’s local market. most sensible decisions. When there are a sufﬁcient number of branches in a larger geographical area, strictly decentralised Handelsbanken establishes a regional bank. In the UK, we now have 178 branches, and the Bank’s growth there continues. Handelsbanken has also opened several new branches in the Netherlands, where we now have 20 branches. This encompasses all the branches’ business areas, and has joint administrative resources, regional expertise and specialists to support the branches’ business. to the local branch. ” In addition, the Bank has opened new branches The regional bank is part of, or in turn forms, This mandate to take the important business and meeting places in its more mature markets a national organisation that may include several decisions on the spot with the customer is a in the Nordic countries. Handelsbanken has regional banks, depending on how many local sound basis for successful customer meetings. over 830 ofﬁces in 24 countries worldwide. branches there are in the country concerned, Our customers are able to meet the person who Nearly 30 ofﬁces – of which 17 branches and and where they are located. takes the decisions – not a representative of a nine representative ofﬁces – are located in 18 At present, Handelsbanken has more than central decision-maker. countries around the world, organised within 830 proﬁt centres, each of which contributes to This engenders trust and increases customer Merchant Banking International, whose main the Group’s proﬁts. satisfaction. In most cases, the branch manager task is to support the Bank’s customers in its Handelsbanken’s geographical structure also lives in the local town and is very much home markets with their international business. means that it has a distinct local presence in all involved in the community in which she or he 14 H A N D E L S B A N K E N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 ORGANISATION AND WORKING METHODS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT works, including excellent knowledge of the In step with rapid IT advances, Handelsbanken local market. is constantly presenting new meeting places This in turn creates a sound basis for rapid access to local information when assessing credit risks, for example. At the same time, it increases where customers can meet the branch. Regardless of how the customer chooses to contact the Bank, the local branch always offers one or “ Our task is to make it simple for customers to the branch’s knowledge of its customers and more meeting places with good availability, so their local situation; it also enables better docuthat customers can present or carry out their access the branch when mentation for decisions and personal service that business – for example via mobile phone, tabis adapted individually to our customers. let device, e-mail, online, Handelsbanken Direkt it suits them best, and At the central level, Handelsbanken estabPersonal Service, or a personal visit to a branch. lishes policies and rules in a number of different Our task is to make it simple for customers to with the greatest possible ” areas, including lending, ethical guidelines and access the branch when it suits them best, and personnel issues. And it is within these central with the greatest possible freedom of action. freedom of action. frameworks that the branches take decisions This is why, in Handelsbanken’s geographical that are based on local information. structure, all contact paths lead to the branch. Handelsbanken’s decentralised structure We have long worked in this way, because it At the same time, we are continually improving has been developed and reﬁned for 143 years, ensures that we offer our customers high availathe meeting-places for customers with various in order to increase customer satisfaction and bility to their local branches. At Handelsbanken, types of IT support, such as better and more the Bank’s efﬁciency. With a geographically the customer’s needs always come ﬁrst. comprehensive functions in apps for mobile organised structure, it is easier for the branches Technical advances are not only rapid, inphones and tablet devices. to contribute to Group proﬁtability. creasing availability for the Bank’s customers. Customers’ needs regarding how they wish In addition, local, decentralised decisionThey also lead to great efﬁciency, so that branch to meet and visit the branch determine the making reduces the Bank’s need of central costs decrease. development of our meeting-places. functions and managers at middle levels. But For example, all IT communications used Thus for many years we have offered many at the same time it requires a well-deﬁned busito be wired; now they are wireless, and more different paths into the Bank, to increase cusness model, a strong corporate culture and a cost-effective. Among other things, modern IP tomers’ options when deciding when and how robust system for business control. Handelstelephony makes it possible to automatically rethey wish to visit the branch. banken has had this work method and these route an unanswered customer call to a branch The contact routes to Handelsbanken are not functions for a long time, and thus the Group to a neighbouring branch, so that the call can be only meeting-places or channels of communihas excellent cost-effectiveness. answered more quickly. cation between the customer and the branch: The option of digital signatures on various they are the branch’s meeting-places, where THE BRANCH IS THE BANK types of documents means that more business customers can carry out their banking business. At Handelsbanken, the local branch always processes have become paperless. This saves has customer responsibility, regardless of how, time for both customers and branches, and also where or when the customer contacts the Bank. reduces costs. But the customer can meet the branch in many New, better and more cost-effective infordifferent ways. Almost all the Bank’s customer mation technology is constantly creating new relationships begin with a personal meeting at a methods for the customer to contact Handelslocal branch. However, after this, relatively few banken. But in parallel with the high-tech customer meetings take place at the customer’s environment of today, Handelsbanken also branch. Although our customers consider onecontinues to open new local branches with perto-one meetings to be important to them, these sonal service on all our home markets – simply are no longer the most common way for cusbecause that is what our customers want. tomers to meet the Bank. Central Central business departments and Regional areas and Branches CUSTOMER administrative head ofﬁces product owners functions This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working can best be depicted by an arrow where all the operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the proﬁtability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of central business areas where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head ofﬁce also has administrative functions and specialist departments with overarching responsibility for various functions at the Bank. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 15 OUR DIGITAL JOURNEY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Our digital journey – all paths lead to the branch Handelsbanken’s customers visit the Bank in many different ways – in person at our branches, by telephone, online, or via apps for mobile phones and tablet devices. Regardless of which path the customer chooses to visit Handelsbanken, it leads to the same place: the customer’s local branch. This is how the Bank has worked for many years. Our customers choose where and when they wish to visit Handels1990s: BREAKTHROUGH FOR DIGITAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY banken. We can be found at more than 830 local ofﬁces around the When the internet arrived in the early 1990s, Handelsbanken began to world, online and by telephone, as well as via apps for mobile phones consider how the new digital technology could improve availability for and tablet devices. customers. Here are some examples: In 1995, a new telephone service Handelsbanken focuses on the customer’s needs, and therefore the – Telefonöppet – was opened, which allowed customers to carry out Bank offers a broad range of meeting-places for the customer’s various their banking transactions by phone between 7 a.m. and 10 p.m. One requirements and purposes. This is nothing new. It’s how we’ve worked year later, Handelsbanken started up its ﬁrst website, an important step for many years. For example, back in the early 1970s, cash dispensers on the road to automated banking services. With the growth of the interwere set up close to the branches and since then customers have been net, new doors to the branches were opened. In 1997, Handelsbanken able to take out cash without visiting their branch. launched Online Banking, so that customers could take care of their Today, customers can manage almost all their banking business via banking transactions from a home PC, for example. one of the Bank’s digital platforms, for example Online Banking or in a The Bank had thus transferred the ﬁrst of the three main functions mobile phone app. But before making important decisions, many cusfrom the branches to Online Banking: cash desk services. tomers prefer to visit their local branch for advice or personal service. Remaining at the branches were the other two main functions: product Therefore Handelsbanken is constantly expanding the nationwide local information and brochures and also advice and personal service. branch networks on our six home markets: Sweden, the UK, Denmark, In the ensuing years, Online Banking was developed step by step, not Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. At the same time, we keep only for private customers, but for corporate customers too. abreast of rapid IT advances and continue to develop new digital meetIn the 1990s, digital advances came rapidly. The internet was here to ing-places so that our customers can access their local branch when it stay. The Bank’s ﬁrst website was primarily a marketing tool to present suits them. the services that were available at the branches. We have done this since the breakthrough of digital information technology in the 1990s. Our digital meeting-places have evolved and devel2000s: CHANGING CUSTOMER BEHAVIOUR oped in a journey over the past 25 years. Before the internet and advances By the early 2000s, Handelsbanken had fully developed online services in telephony, our physical branches were the main meeting-places for and separate websites on all the Nordic home markets, as well as a our customers. The services offered at our branches at that time can be newly opened online service in the UK. summarised in three main functions: This meant that the Bank’s websites were no longer just marketing • Cash desk services channels for the branches, but complete meeting-places representing • Product information, brochures and reports another way for customers to visit the branch, allowing them to carry out • Advice and personal service. most of their banking business. The cash desk services had been supplemented with savings, card management and securities trading, and also services for corporate business. Online Visit Online Visit Phone Handelsbanken Phone Direkt 1990s 2000s 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 525 514 511 518 527 527 533 531 528 533 538 567 569 571 590 603 16 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 OUR DIGITAL JOURNEY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT New publishing tools made it possible to design modern websites. With A very limited proportion of the Bank’s extensive range of information is this technology available, the Bank moved over the next main function to available in an app – for reasons of space. the online service: product information, brochures and reports. A mobile phone screen is not sufﬁcient to present an adequate overOne main function now remained for personal visits to the branches: view, and the apps are designed for one-way communication, from the advice and personal service. customer to the Bank, and not vice versa. At the same time, the link between customers’ digital and local presThis means that customers’ behaviour is changing again. People like ence became clearer to the branches when the customers’ behaviour to meet people, and so before making important decisions, more and gradually changed. In the early 2000s, it was seen that four out of ﬁve more customers want personal advisory services – to talk to someone customers visited their branch via Online Banking. This was a clear difwho knows what they’re talking about – rather than just searching for ference compared to ten years earlier when four out of ﬁve customer information online. visits were to a physical branch. Handelsbanken has full online banking services and nationwide local In 2006, Handelsbanken Direkt was launched with personal service 24 branch networks in our six home markets. Here we still have the third hours a day, 365 days a year for the Bank’s private customers, to increase main function for our customers: advice and personal service. availability in the Swedish market. This gave customers wider opportunities We know that our customers appreciate this facility – particularly to choose when and how they would do their banking business. young adults who have grown up with mobiles and tablets, but not with home computers. They are pleased to visit their local branch – when the 2010s: AVAILABLE ON THE CUSTOMER’S TERMS app in their mobile phone is not sufﬁcient. The early years of this decade saw the rapid development continuing, In 2014, IT advances have been progressing more rapidly than ever. with apps being launched for mobile phones and tablet devices in our six Handelsbanken is continually offering new, improved digital solutions and home markets. When the cash desk services in Handelsbanken Online constructing new locations where our customers can meet their branch. Banking were also included in the apps, customers were able to carry In parallel with the digital developments, Handelsbanken continues to out banking transactions on their mobile phones, such as paying bills regularly open new branches. Newly opened branches don’t always look and transferring money between different accounts. the same as before, with a large space devoted to cash desk services and It wasn’t long before it was also possible to manage cards and to centrally located on the town’s main street. Our new branches can also be trade in mutual funds and other securities via apps for mobile phones smaller, and situated on the ﬁrst or second ﬂoor. In the Bank’s decentraland tablets. ised organisation, it is the local branch manager who decides where the Since the great majority of customers have a mobile phone, there was branch is located and how it is designed according to the local market. a rapid change in customer behaviour. The apps became Handelsbanken’s At Handelsbanken, the highest possible availability for customers is a key fastest growing meeting-place – indeed, at the halfway point in the decade issue. For our customers, being able to visit their branch via different physiwe can say that apps have transformed the banking sector. cal and digital meeting-places is a question of security and personal service. Customers pay bills, view their balance information, trade securities However our customers choose to visit the Bank, they will end up in and do many other types of banking business. But they cannot acquire the right place – all paths within the Bank lead to the branch. information from the Bank in the same way as in Online Banking or from a visit to a branch. The various phases of the digital revolution have enabled us to offer more locations where our customers can meet their branch when it best Phone suits them. Since people like to meet people, the need for personal meetMobile ings remains. This is why the Bank is Online continually opening new branches. ATM Video call Card The local e-mail branch Handelsbanken Tablet Direkt Visit 2010s 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 615 660 702 705 723 746 Number of 774 810 832 branches worldwide H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 17 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial overview 2014 • Operating profit went up by 6 per cent to SEK 19,212 million (18,088) – the highest figure in the Bank’s 143-year history. • The period’s profit after tax for total operations increased by 6 per cent to SEK 15,184 million (14,295). • Earnings per share for total operations increased by 6 per cent to SEK 23.89 (22.52). • The Board proposes an ordinary dividend of SEK 12.50 per share and also an extra dividend of SEK 5.00 per share. • The Board has decided to propose a stock split of 3:1. • Following the Board’s dividend proposal, the common equity tier 1 ratio according to CRD IV increased to 20.4 per cent (18.9) and the total capital ratio rose to 25.6 per cent (21.6). • The Board has resolved on new capital goals, meaning that, under normal circumstances, the Bank’s common equity tier 1 ratio must exceed the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s communicated requirements by 1 to 3 percentage points, and that the tier 1 ratio and the total capital ratio must exceed the Financial Supervisory Authority’s communicated requirements by at least 1 percentage point. • Return on equity for total operations was 13.4 per cent (13.9). • Income increased by 5 per cent to SEK 38,314 million (36,327) . • Net interest income went up by 2 per cent to SEK 27,244 million (26,669) and in the home markets outside Sweden, net interest income increased by 11 per cent. • Total expenses decreased by 0.5 per cent, adjusted for exchange rate movements. • The C/I ratio improved to 45.2 per cent (47.0). • The loan loss ratio was 0.10 per cent (0.07). H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 19 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Review of operations The Group’s operating profit grew by 6 per cent to SEK 19,212 million (18,088) – the highest figure in the Bank’s history. The period’s profit after tax for total operations increased by 6 per cent to SEK 15,184 million (14,295). Earnings per share increased to SEK 23.89 (22.52). The Board proposes an ordinary dividend of The average volume of deposits and borrowing The average number of employees rose by SEK 12.50 per share and also an extra dividend of rose by 20 per cent to SEK 893 billion (742). The 189 to 11,692 (11,503). At the end of the year, SEK 5.00 per share. After taking into account the average volume of household deposits went however, the number of employees was slightly proposed dividend, the common equity tier 1 ratio up by 11 per cent to SEK 300 billion (271) and lower than at the beginning. More than the enincreased to 20.4 per cent (18.9). Return on equity corporate deposits increased by 26 per cent to tire increase in the average number of employfor total operations was 13.4 per cent (13.9). SEK 593 billion (470). ees is attributable to the continuing expansion The C/I ratio improved to 45.2 per cent (47.0). Net fee and commission income rose by 10 in Branch operations in the UK and the Netherper cent to SEK 8,556 million (7,804), mainly as lands, where the average number of employees INCOME a result of higher asset management and payrose by 307 and 29 respectively. At Branch ment commissions. Fund management comoperations in Sweden, the number of employees The Group – Income Full year Full year missions rose by 23 per cent to SEK 2,475 decreased by 1 per cent. SEK m 2014 2013 Change million (2,008), mainly as a result of increasing Adjusted for exchange rate movements of Net interest income 27 244 26 669 2% inﬂows, as well as rising share prices. CusSEK -112 million, other administrative expenses Net fee and commission tody commissions increased by 26 per cent to went down by 4 per cent. Including exchange income 8 556 7 804 10% SEK 540 million (427). Net payment commisrate movements, the decrease was 2 per cent, Net gains/losses on sions rose by 13 per cent to SEK 1,855 million due chieﬂy to lower IT-related costs, but also to ﬁnancial trans. 1 777 1 357 31% (1,638), chieﬂy as a result of net commissions decreasing costs for purchased services, travel Other income 737 497 48% from card operations increasing by 16 per cent and marketing. Total income 38 314 36 327 5% to SEK 1,270 million (1,094). Insurance commissions also grew, reaching SEK 637 million LOAN LOSSES Income increased by 5 per cent to SEK 38,314 (571), an increase of 12 per cent. Loan losses Full year Full year million (36,327). Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions SEK m 2014 2013 Change Net interest income rose by 2 per cent to grew by 31 per cent to SEK 1,777 million Net loan losses -1 781 -1 195 586 SEK 27,244 million (26,669). Exchange rate (1,357). Adjusted for capital gains of a nonLoan loss ratio as a movements positively affected net interest recurring nature on the sale of equities during % of loans 0.10 0.07 0.03 income by SEK 427 million. Higher business the year, the increase was 4 per cent. Impaired loans, net 4 591 3 041 51% volumes boosted net interest income by SEK Proportion of 1,312 million, while rising lending margins imEXPENSES impaired loans, % 0.25 0.18 0.07 proved net interest income by SEK 292 million. The Group The positive effects were offset by the – Expenses Full year Full year Loan losses increased to SEK -1,781 million fact that deposit margins in Sweden and interSEK m 2014 2013 Change (-1,195), and the loan loss ratio was 0.10 per est income related to equity decreased by SEK Staff costs -11 766 -11 404 3% cent (0.07). Credit quality remained stable. Net 1,374 million, due to declining short-term interOther administrative impaired loans increased to SEK 4,591 million est rates. This negative short-term interest rate expenses -5 099 -5 181 -2% (3,041), equivalent to 0.25 per cent (0.18) of effect is equivalent to an 8 per cent decrease in Depreciation and lending. amortisation -462 -476 -3% operating proﬁt. Total expenses -17 327 -17 061 2% The benchmark effect in Stadshypotek FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY totalled SEK -27 million (19), and the cost of During the year, the sharp increase in deposit the Swedish Stabilisation Fund and various Adjusted for exchange rate movements, total volumes has meant that there has been less need deposit guarantees rose by SEK 121 million to expenses fell by 0.5 per cent. Including exchange of market funding than in previous years. The SEK -1,222 million (-1,101). rate effects of SEK -338 million, expenses rose work of diversifying the investor base has conNet interest income grew by 33 per cent by 2 per cent to SEK -17,327 million (-17,061). tinued. During the year, the Bank has carried out in the UK, by 23 per cent in the Netherlands, Staff costs increased by 3 per cent to SEK benchmark issues in USD, EUR, CHF, AUD and by 14 per cent in Finland, and by 6 per cent in -11,766 million (-11,404), of which 2 percentJPY, as well as regular issues in SEK and NOK. Denmark. Net interest income fell by 3 per cent age points, or SEK -215 million, was attributable In 2014, the issued volume of long-term marin Sweden, and by 4 per cent in Norway. to exchange rate effects. The allocation to the ket funding amounted to SEK 189 billion (281). The average volume of loans to the public Oktogonen Foundation decreased to SEK -795 This volume includes SEK 13.4 billion in a tengrew by 4 per cent to SEK 1,746 billion (1,674). million (-1,096), and variable remuneration, inyear tier 2 subordinated loan that was issued in Exchange rate effects increased lending volcluding social security costs and other payroll early 2014. umes by SEK 21 billion. Household lending inoverheads, totalled SEK -140 million (-136). During the fourth quarter, bonds with a total creased by 8 per cent to SEK 860 billion (800) The underlying growth was due to annual salary value of SEK 48 billion (SEK 46 billion in Q4 2013) and corporate lending grew by 1 per cent to increases in the Group and a higher number of were issued, including SEK 47 billion in covered SEK 886 billion (874). employees, particularly in the UK. bonds and SEK 1 billion in senior bonds. 20 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Bank has a very high proportion of nonage points, while exchange rate movements RATING encumbered assets on its balance sheet, inmade a positive contribution of 0.4 percentage During 2014, Handelsbanken’s long-term and cluding mortgage loans that are outside the pool points. The net effect of other factors, including short-term ratings with the rating agencies for covered bond issues. At year-end, the ratio ﬁnal changes in CRD IV, increased the common which monitor the Bank were unchanged. of non-encumbered assets to all non-encumequity tier 1 ratio by 0.4 percentage points. bered market funding was 237 per cent (222). Financial Rating Long-term Short-term strength The liquidity reserve continued to exceed SEK Capital requirements for Swedish banks 800 billion. Cash funds and liquid assets invested On 8 September, following the Riksdag’s 26 Standard & Poor's AAA-1+ with central banks amounted to SEK 504 billion, June decision regarding strengthened capital Fitch AAF1+ while the volume of liquid bonds and other liquid adequacy regulations, the Swedish Financial Moody's Aa3 P-1 C assets totalled SEK 144 billion. The remainder of Supervisory Authority published a memoranDBRS AA (low) the reserve mainly comprises an unutilised issue dum on the structure of the new capital requireamount of covered bonds at Stadshypotek. ments for Swedish banks. ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE According to the current Swedish deﬁnition The countercyclical buffer for Swedish expoStarting from the fourth quarter, Handelsbanken from January 2013, the Handelsbanken Group’s sures was set at 1 per cent, applying from 13 International is included as part of the Handelsliquidity coverage ratio (LCR) at the end of the September 2015. The capital requirement also banken Capital Markets segment. Historical period was 140 per cent. In USD, the LCR was includes increased risk weights for Norwegian comparison ﬁgures have been adjusted to reﬂect 137 per cent and in EUR it was 154 per cent. mortgage loans. this change. The Group’s LCR according to the January 2013 In November, the Swedish Financial Superdeﬁnition in CRR is estimated to be 173 per cent. visory Authority published Swedish banks’ HANDELSBANKEN’S ANNUAL capital requirements for Q3 2014. For HandelsGENERAL MEETING ON 25 MARCH CAPITAL banken, the combined common equity tier 1 The Board proposes a total dividend of SEK 17.50 capital requirement in Pillars 1 and 2 amounted per share, comprising an ordinary dividend Capital-related matters 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK m 2014 2013 Change to 17.7 per cent. of SEK 12.50 per share and an extra dividend The Bank’s assessment is that, taking of SEK 5.00 per share. Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRD IV 20.4% 18.9% 1.5 account of the future regulations, the Group In addition, the Board is proposing a stock Total capital ratio, CRD IV 25.6% 21.6% 4.0 is well-capitalised. split of 3:1 and that the existing repurchase Risk exposure amount programme for a maximum of 40 million shares CRD IV 480 388 492 785 -3% New risk-weighted capital goals before the stock split, or 120 million after the Common equity tier 1 In the Board’s assessment, the form of the new stock split, is extended for another year. capital 98 084 93 039 5% CRD IV capital regulations is now sufﬁciently The Board proposes that the record day Total own funds 122 858 106 394 15% clear for the new risk-weighted capital goals to for the dividend be Friday, 27 March 2015, Capital requirement, Basel I ﬂoor 90 406 81 295 11% be set. Under normal circumstances, the Bank’s which means that the Handelsbanken share Total own funds, common equity tier 1 ratio must be between will be traded ex-dividend on Thursday, 26 Basel I ﬂoor 124 961 100 406 24% 1 and 3 percentage points above the combined March 2015, and that the dividend will then common equity tier 1 capital requirement rebe disbursed on 1 April 2015. The common equity tier 1 capital increased by ceived by the Bank from the Swedish Financial 5 per cent to SEK 98 billion (93) and the common Supervisory Authority. In addition, the tier 1 ratio EVENTS AFTER THE END OF equity tier 1 ratio rose by 1.5 percentage points and the total capital ratio must exceed the levels THE REPORTING PERIOD to 20.4 per cent (18.9). The period’s proﬁt confor these ratios received by the Bank from the In a press release on 22 January, the Board of tributed 0.7 percentage points of this increase, Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority by at Handelsbanken announced that Industrivärden after a deduction for the proposed dividend. least 1 percentage point. and its major shareholders have stated that their Higher business volumes and credit risk migraThe Basel Committee is currently developing intention is that Pär Boman, currently President tion in the loan portfolio affected the common a new standard method for calculating capital and Group Chief Executive of Handelsbanken, equity tier 1 ratio by -0.3 and +0.1 percentage requirements for banks that do not use internal be proposed as the new Chairman of the Bank’s points respectively. The fact that new lending approaches. Linked to the new standard Board. Provided that the nomination committee volumes are low-risk and improve the average approach, the Committee also plans to deﬁne proposes these changes, and that the 2015 credit quality of the loan portfolio (known as new ﬂoor rules, which in the future may replace AGM resolves in accordance with this, Pär volume migration) had a positive impact of 0.4 the current transitional rules. Boman will be appointed as the Chairman of percentage points. Higher quality and increasThe Board has also resolved that concerning the Board. ing volumes of collateral increased the common the dividend, the Bank aims for the ordinary equity tier 1 ratio by 0.2 percentage points. The dividend to show long term, stable growth which effect of IAS 19 (pensions) was -0.4 percentreﬂects the value creation. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 14 21 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Five-year overview Group Consolidated income statement SEK m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Net interest income 27 244 26 669 26 081 23 613 21 337 Net fee and commission income 8 556 7 804 7 369 7 673 8 022 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 1 777 1 357 1 120 1 016 1 377 Risk result, insurance 165 142 196 209 205 Other dividend income 251 161 152 146 190 Share of proﬁt of associates 18 9 8 9 11 Other income 303 185 136 143 154 Total income 38 314 36 327 35 062 32 809 31 296 Staff costs -11 766 -11 404 -11 167 -9 942 -9 504 Other expenses -5 099 -5 181 -5 069 -5 060 -5 062 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -462 -476 -464 -462 -452 Total expenses -17 327 -17 061 -16 700 -15 464 -15 018 Proﬁt before loan losses 20 987 19 266 18 362 17 345 16 278 Net loan losses -1 781 -1 195 -1 251 -816 -1 507 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 6 17 -3 7 -1 Operating proﬁt 19 212 18 088 17 108 16 536 14 770 Taxes -4 069 -3 915 -3 092 -4 372 -3 962 Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 15 143 14 173 14 016 12 164 10 808 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax 41 122 22 159 217 Proﬁt for the year 15 184 14 295 14 038 12 323 11 025 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 15 183 14 295 14 037 12 323 11 025 Minority interest 1 0 1 0 0 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 23.82 22.33 22.30 19.52 17.37 after dilution 23.45 22.07 21.82 19.14 17.10 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.06 0.19 0.04 0.26 0.35 after dilution 0.06 0.19 0.03 0.25 0.34 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 23.89 22.52 22.34 19.78 17.72 after dilution 23.51 22.26 21.85 19.39 17.44 A ﬁve-year overview for the parent company is shown on page 159. The last ﬁve-year period has been characterised dividends to its shareholders. Handelsbanken year for private customers and every year but by the global ﬁnancial crisis that started in 2008 is the only listed commercial bank in Sweden one for corporate customers, Handelsbanken and gradually developed into a debt crisis and which did not need to ask its shareholders for has been the major bank with the most satisﬁed severe recession. During this period, Handelsnew capital during the ﬁnancial crisis. customers in Sweden. In autumn, SKI presentbanken has increased its proﬁts, strengthened ed the 2014 survey stating that “overall for the its balance sheet, expanded its operations and Lower risk banking sector (private and corporate customboosted customer satisfaction. At the beginning of 2007, Handelsbanken beers combined), Handelsbanken has the most gan working on reducing the risks in its operasatisﬁed customers”. For private customers, 15 per cent annual growth in equity tions in order to reduce volatility. For example, Handelsbanken’s index value was 74.3 (74.2), Since 1 July 2007, the Bank has increased its adthe occupational pensions company SPP was as compared with the other major banks, all of justed equity per share by 82 per cent, from SEK sold in autumn 2007. Other market risks were which recorded scores in the 64.0–69.6 range. 105.90 per share to SEK 192.40 per share. Taking also purposefully reduced. For corporate customers, Handelsbanken’s into account reinvestment of the period’s accuDuring the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsindex value was 73.4 (71.1), as compared with mulated dividends, the average annual growth in banken’s total loan losses amounted to SEK the average for the other major banks of 68.1. adjusted equity per share was 15 per cent. 6,550 million, which corresponds to an averThe gap in customer satisfaction on the age annual loan loss ratio of 0.08 per cent. The private market between Handelsbanken and Creating shareholder value corresponding ﬁgure for the other major Nordic the average of the other major banks was larger In the past ﬁve years – since 31 December 2009 banks was 0.21 per cent. in 2014 than ﬁve years ago. – Handelsbanken has generated positive shareOn the other home markets, Handelsbanken holder value of SEK 140 billion. Market capiMore satisﬁed customers had more satisﬁed customers than the sector talisation has grown by SEK 106 billion, while Since SKI (Swedish Quality Index) started its average. Handelsbanken has paid out SEK 34 billion in customer satisfaction surveys in 1989, every 22 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Proﬁt for the year 15 184 14 295 14 038 12 323 11 025 Other comprehensive income Items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss Deﬁned beneﬁt plans -2 699 1 402 2 583 Taxes on items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss 592 -307 -568 Total items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss -2 107 1 095 2 015 Items that can be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss Cash ﬂow hedges 8 772 -3 410 2 390 -297 -325 Available-for-sale instruments 295 535 984 -1 318 2 186 Translation difference for the year 5 924 763 -126 -4 -2 015 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations 2 558 767 486 -2 377 Tax on items that can be related into proﬁt and loss -2 501 514 -913 443 -612 of which cash ﬂow hedges -1 924 744 -565 78 85 of which available-for-sale instruments -14 -61 -248 365 -598 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations -563 -169 -100 0 -99 Total items that can be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss 12 490 -1 598 2 335 -1 176 -766 Total other comprehensive income 10 383 -503 4 350 -1 176 -766 Total comprehensive income for the year 25 567 13 792 18 388 11 147 10 259 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 25 566 13 792 18 387 11 147 10 259 Minority interest 1 0 1 0 0 Consolidated balance sheet SEK m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Assets Cash and central banks 505 579 369 954 248 915 375 979 107 626 Loans to the public 1 807 836 1 696 339 1 680 479 1 591 128 1 513 687 Loans to other credit institutions 70 339 62 898 89 511 106 823 123 465 Interest-bearing securities 141 944 121 576 117 260 104 202 119 238 Other assets 290 978 233 954 247 786 276 234 289 514 Total assets 2 816 676 2 484 721 2 383 951 2 454 366 2 153 530 Liabilities and equity Deposits and borrowing from the public 1 022 267 825 205 682 223 724 888 564 142 Due to credit institutions 200 074 171 624 183 945 201 889 251 972 Issued securities 1 212 613 1 150 641 1 151 426 1 140 074 963 501 Subordinated liabilities 30 289 15 965 21 167 35 317 43 948 Other liabilities 224 606 209 947 241 340 257 674 241 576 Equity 126 827 111 339 103 850 94 524 88 391 Total liabilities and equity 2 816 676 2 484 721 2 383 951 2 454 366 2 153 530 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 23 KEY FIGURES PER YEAR | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Key figures per year Key ﬁgures for the Handelsbanken Group 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Proﬁt before loan losses, continuing operations, SEK m 20 987 19 266 18 362 17 345 16 278 Net loan losses, SEK m -1 781 -1 195 -1 251 -816 -1 507 Operating proﬁt, continuing operations, SEK m 19 212 18 088 17 108 16 536 14 770 Proﬁt for the year, continuing operations, SEK m 15 143 14 173 14 016 12 164 10 808 Proﬁt for the year, discontinued operations, SEK m 41 122 22 159 217 Proﬁt for the year, total operations, SEK m 15 184 14 295 14 038 12 323 11 025 Total assets, SEK m 2 816 676 2 484 721 2 383 951 2 454 366 2 153 530 Equity, SEK m 126 827 111 339 103 850 94 524 88 391 Return on equity, total operations, % 13.4 13.9 14.9 13.5 12.9 Return on equity, continuing operations, % 13.3 13.8 14.8 13.4 12.6 Return on capital employed, % 0.57 0.59 0.57 0.53 0.50 Cost/income ratio, continuing operations, % 45.2 47.0 47.6 47.1 48.0 Cost/income ratio, continuing operations, incl. loan losses, % 49.9 50.3 51.2 49.6 52.8 Loan loss ratio, % 0.10 0.07 0.08 0.05 0.10 Impaired loans reserve ratio, % 47.2 56.2 56.4 60.7 60.7 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.25 0.18 0.18 0.16 0.23 Earnings per share, SEK 23.89 22.52 22.34 19.78 17.72 after dilution 23.51 22.26 21.85 19.39 17.44 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 12.501 11.50 10.75 9.75 9.00 Total dividend per share, SEK 17.501 16.50 Adjusted equity per share, SEK 192.40 177.71 162.63 152.71 143.14 No. of shares as at 31 December, millions 635.7 635.6 632.8 624.1 623.5 of which outstanding 635.7 635.6 632.8 624.0 623.5 Average number of outstanding shares (millions) 635.7 634.8 628.5 623.1 622.1 after dilution 653.0 647.5 649.9 642.4 634.3 Common equity tier 1 ratio, % according to Basel II 19.2 17.9 15.6 13.8 Common equity tier 1 ratio, % according to CRD IV 20.4 Tier 1 ratio, % according to Basel II 21.5 20.4 18.4 16.5 Tier 1 ratio, % according to CRD IV 22.1 Capital ratio, % according to Basel II 21.6 20.7 20.9 20.9 Total capital ratio, % according to CRD IV 25.6 Average number of employees 11 692 11 503 11 192 11 184 10 850 No. of branches in Sweden 463 462 461 461 461 No. of branches in our other home markets 352 329 281 253 230 No. of branches in other countries 17 19 32 32 32 For deﬁnitions, see page 236. 1 Dividend as recommended by the Board. 24 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 QUARTERLY PERFORMANCE | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Quarterly performance Quarterly performance for the Handelsbanken Group SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 Q4 2013 Interest income 12 512 12 591 12 926 12 870 13 573 Interest expense -5 629 -5 587 -6 222 -6 217 -6 801 Net interest income 6 883 7 004 6 704 6 653 6 772 Fee and commission income 2 648 2 530 2 540 2 425 2 484 Fee and commission expense -420 -397 -405 -365 -377 Net fee and commission income 2 228 2 133 2 135 2 060 2 107 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 264 389 466 658 304 Risk result, insurance 34 46 43 42 35 Other dividend income 2 0 245 4 1 Share of proﬁt of associates 22 2 5 -11 7 Other income 123 56 49 75 52 Total income 9 556 9 630 9 647 9 481 9 278 Staff costs -3 026 -2 943 -2 910 -2 887 -2 980 Other expenses -1 418 -1 166 -1 267 -1 248 -1 411 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -108 -121 -122 -111 -116 Total expenses -4 552 -4 230 -4 299 -4 246 -4 507 Proﬁt before loan losses 5 004 5 400 5 348 5 235 4 771 Net loan losses -697 -497 -272 -315 -322 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 4 1 1 0 9 Operating proﬁt 4 311 4 904 5 077 4 920 4 458 Taxes -935 -1 022 -1 074 -1 038 -966 Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations 3 376 3 882 4 003 3 882 3 492 Proﬁt for the period pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax -34 17 31 27 35 Proﬁt for the period 3 342 3 899 4 034 3 909 3 527 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 3 342 3 899 4 033 3 909 3 527 Minority interest 0 0 1 0 0 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 5.31 6.10 6.30 6.11 5.50 after dilution 5.23 5.97 6.21 6.04 5.44 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK -0.05 0.03 0.05 0.04 0.05 after dilution -0.05 0.03 0.05 0.04 0.05 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 5.26 6.13 6.35 6.15 5.55 after dilution 5.18 6.00 6.26 6.08 5.49 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 25 BUSINESS SEGMENTS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Business segments Segment reporting 2014 Home markets Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch operations Adjustments operations operations operations operations operations in the Capital and SEK m in Sweden in the UK in Denmark in Finland in Norway Netherlands Markets Other eliminations Total Net interest income 15 734 3 497 1 610 1 389 3 439 283 847 495 -50 27 244 Net fee and commission income 3 908 344 385 440 390 26 3 041 22 8 556 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 400 158 116 76 102 7 1 537 -619 1 777 Risk result, insurance 165 165 Share of proﬁt of associates 18 18 Other income 92 18 21 11 20 0 17 375 554 Total income 20 134 4 017 2 132 1 916 3 951 316 5 607 291 -50 38 314 Staff costs -3 421 -1 471 -584 -351 -711 -127 -2 542 -2 587 28 -11 766 Other administrative expenses -1 221 -333 -181 -158 -219 -28 -859 -2 100 -5 099 Internal purchased and sold services -2 770 -379 -273 -232 -390 -68 -126 4 188 50 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -85 -18 -19 -8 -11 -1 -79 -241 -462 Total expenses -7 497 -2 201 -1 057 -749 -1 331 -224 -3 606 -740 78 -17 327 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 637 1 816 1 075 1 167 2 620 92 2 001 -449 28 20 987 Net loan losses -657 -203 -529 -277 -141 -1 27 0 -1 781 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 4 1 0 0 0 0 1 6 Operating proﬁt 11 980 1 617 547 890 2 479 91 2 028 -448 28 19 212 Proﬁt allocation 930 35 62 85 66 8 -1 186 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 12 910 1 652 609 975 2 545 99 842 -448 28 19 212 Internal income -492 -1 230 -468 -429 -3 430 -154 -1 858 8 061 C/I ratio, % 35.6 54.3 48.2 37.4 33.1 69.1 81.6 45.2 Loan loss ratio, % 0.06 0.15 0.73 0.25 0.07 0.01 -0.05 0.10 Assets 1 402 774 263 459 88 395 177 009 206 536 38 651 423 265 1 919 427 -1 702 840 2 816 676 Liabilities 1 335 671 254 029 82 387 170 464 193 355 37 754 415 817 1 919 427 -1 719 055 2 689 849 Allocated capital 67 103 9 430 6 008 6 545 13 181 897 7 448 0 16 215 126 827 Return on allocated capital, % 15.7 15.2 8.5 12.4 15.9 9.2 8.1 13.3 The year's investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 53 41 13 12 14 11 144 186 474 The year's investments in associated companies 2 2 Average number of employees 4 381 1 567 631 494 672 131 1 885 1 931 11 692 Applied principles for segment reporting and a description of the items shown in the Other and Adjustments and eliminations columns are explained further in note G45. 26 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BUSINESS SEGMENTS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Segment reporting 2013 Home markets Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch operations Adjustments operations operations operations operations operations in the Capital and SEK m in Sweden in the UK in Denmark in Finland in Norway Netherlands Markets Other eliminations Total Net interest income 16 299 2 624 1 519 1 219 3 574 230 936 313 -45 26 669 Net fee and commission income 3 486 213 329 412 364 23 3 008 -31 7 804 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 445 120 97 40 83 1 1 073 -502 1 357 Risk result, insurance 142 142 Share of proﬁt of associates 9 9 Other income 27 13 18 5 12 16 255 346 Total income 20 257 2 970 1 963 1 676 4 033 254 5 175 44 -45 36 327 Staff costs -3 283 -1 059 -546 -331 -662 -96 -2 560 -2 858 -9 -11 404 Other administrative expenses -1 187 -243 -175 -145 -232 -21 -969 -2 209 -5 181 Internal purchased and sold services -3 002 -317 -252 -239 -368 -56 -147 4 336 45 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -87 -41 -17 -10 -10 -1 -61 -249 -476 Total expenses -7 559 -1 660 -990 -725 -1 272 -174 -3 737 -980 36 -17 061 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 698 1 310 973 951 2 761 80 1 438 -936 -9 19 266 Net loan losses -357 -168 -161 -268 -169 -7 -65 -1 195 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 9 1 0 0 0 7 17 Operating proﬁt 12 350 1 143 812 683 2 592 73 1 373 -929 -9 18 088 Proﬁt allocation 876 30 47 70 43 4 -1 070 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 13 226 1 173 859 753 2 635 77 303 -929 -9 18 088 Internal income -925 -1 212 -395 -417 -3 606 -140 -1 672 8 367 C/I ratio, % 35.8 55.3 49.3 41.5 31.2 67.4 91.0 47.0 Loan loss ratio, % 0.03 0.14 0.24 0.27 0.08 0.05 0.08 0.07 Assets 1 309 092 194 503 78 830 153 436 202 567 33 039 377 283 1 528 713 -1 392 742 2 484 721 Liabilities 1 248 603 186 859 73 482 147 315 190 444 32 221 368 685 1 528 713 -1 402 940 2 373 382 Allocated capital 60 489 7 644 5 348 6 121 12 123 818 8 598 10 198 111 339 Return on allocated capital, % 17.9 13.2 12.7 9.9 17.0 7.7 2.6 13.8 The year's investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 71 22 37 10 14 8 247 233 642 The year's investments in associated companies 53 53 Average number of employees 4 410 1 260 624 490 650 102 1 985 1 982 11 503 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 27 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN SWEDEN | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Branch operations in Sweden Branch operations in Sweden comprise six regional banks, as well as Handelsbanken Finans’s and Stadshypotek’s operations in Sweden. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional banks offer a full range of banking services at 463 branches throughout Sweden. Handelsbanken Finans offers finance company services and works through the Bank’s branches. Stadshypotek is the Bank’s mortgage company, and is completely integrated with the branch operations. Quarterly performance Branch operations in Sweden Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 3 931 3 986 3 914 3 903 15 734 16 299 -3 Net fee and commission income 1 069 967 961 911 3 908 3 486 12 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 87 80 149 84 400 445 -10 Other income 28 32 12 20 92 27 241 Total income 5 115 5 065 5 036 4 918 20 134 20 257 -1 Staff costs -853 -901 -832 -835 -3 421 -3 283 4 Other administrative expenses -352 -315 -289 -265 -1 221 -1 187 3 Internal purchased and sold services -677 -571 -764 -758 -2 770 -3 002 -8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -20 -27 -18 -20 -85 -87 -2 Total expenses -1 902 -1 814 -1 903 -1 878 -7 497 -7 559 -1 Proﬁt before loan losses 3 213 3 251 3 133 3 040 12 637 12 698 0 Net loan losses -100 -232 -77 -248 -657 -357 84 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0 9 -100 Operating proﬁt 3 113 3 019 3 056 2 792 11 980 12 350 -3 Proﬁt allocation 247 246 240 197 930 876 6 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 3 360 3 265 3 296 2 989 12 910 13 226 -2 Internal income 127 -219 -89 -311 -492 -925 47 C/I ratio, % 35,5 34,2 36,1 36,7 35,6 35,8 Loan loss ratio, % 0,04 0,08 0,03 0,09 0,06 0,03 Assets 1 402 774 1 369 499 1 345 037 1 320 445 1 402 774 1 309 092 7 Liabilities 1 335 671 1 305 341 1 283 985 1 256 587 1 335 671 1 248 603 7 Allocated capital 67 103 64 158 61 052 63 857 67 103 60 489 11 Return on allocated capital, % 15.6 15.9 16.8 14.6 15.7 17,9 Average number of employees 4 343 4 534 4 306 4 340 4 381 4 410 -1 Number of branches 463 462 462 462 463 462 0 Business volumes, Sweden Average volumes SEK bn 2014 2013 Change % Loans to the public1 1 118 1 092 2 households 645 614 5 of which mortgage loans 593 560 6 companies 473 478 -1 of which mortgage loans 266 248 7 Deposits from the public 399 379 5 of which households 238 220 8 companies 161 159 1 1 Excluding loans to the National Debt Ofﬁce. 28 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN SWEDEN | ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt fell by 3 per cent to SEK 11,980 million (12,350), due to lower net interest inIn its major customer satisfaction survey, Swedish Quality Index (SKI) found that Handels463 branches come and higher loan losses. banken has the most satisﬁed customers in the Net interest income decreased by SEK 565 banking sector. For private customers, Handelsmillion, or 3 per cent, to SEK 15,734 million banken’s index value was 74.3 (74.2), as com(16,299). A lower interest rate environment repared with the other major banks, all of which duced the deposit margin by SEK 769 million, recorded scores in the 64.0–69.6 range. For and interest income related to allocated equity corporate customers, Handelsbanken’s index decreased by SEK 432 million. Lending margins value was 73.4 (71.1), as compared with the had a positive impact of SEK 408 million, and average for the other four major banks of 68.1. growing deposit and lending volumes increased In 2014, Handelsbanken was the only one net interest income by SEK 386 million. The of the four major banks to increase its market benchmark effect in Stadshypotek decreased share of household deposits in Sweden. The by SEK 46 million to SEK -27 million (19), while average volume of deposits from households fees to the Swedish Stabilisation Fund and the rose by 8 per cent during the year to SEK 238 deposit guarantee increased by SEK 44 million billion (220). During the year, new savings in to SEK -674 million (-630). the Bank’s mutual funds in Sweden amounted Net fee and commission income grew by to SEK 28.6 billion, corresponding to a market 12 per cent to SEK 3,908 million (3,486), chieﬂy share of 18.7 per cent. due to increased payment and mutual fund The average volume of mortgage loans to commissions. private individuals increased by 6 per cent to Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions SEK 593 billion (560), while the average volume declined by 10 per cent to SEK 400 million of lending to companies fell by 1 per cent to (445), mainly as a result of a lower volume of SEK 473 billion (478). loans redeemed ahead of time and a lower One new branch, Lund West, was opened on currency gain. 1 October 2014. This brings the total number of Total expenses decreased by 1 per cent to Handelsbanken branches in Sweden to 463. SEK -7,497million (-7,559). Staff costs rose by SEK 138 million or 4 per cent, but adjusted for an internal organisational change, staff costs rose by 1 per cent. Other expenses decreased by SEK 232 million. The C/I ratio improved to 35.6 per cent (35.8). Loan losses increased to SEK -657 million (-357) and the loan loss ratio rose to 0.06 per cent (0.03). H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 29 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN THE UK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Branch operations in the UK Branch operations in the UK comprise five regional banks and the wealth and asset management company Heartwood. Handelsbanken Finans’s operations in the UK are also included. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional banks offer banking services at 178 branches throughout the UK. Quarterly performance Branch operations in the UK Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 963 933 834 767 3 497 2 624 33 Net fee and commission income 96 89 83 76 344 213 62 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 40 45 37 36 158 120 32 Other income 3 8 4 3 18 13 38 Total income 1 102 1 075 958 882 4 017 2 970 35 Staff costs -401 -393 -348 -329 -1 471 -1 059 39 Other administrative expenses -105 -78 -79 -71 -333 -243 37 Internal purchased and sold services -87 -94 -102 -96 -379 -317 20 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -5 -2 -6 -5 -18 -41 -56 Total expenses -598 -567 -535 -501 -2 201 -1 660 33 Proﬁt before loan losses 504 508 423 381 1 816 1 310 39 Net loan losses -86 -66 -51 0 -203 -168 21 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 3 0 1 0 4 1 Operating proﬁt 421 442 373 381 1 617 1 143 41 Proﬁt allocation 12 6 8 9 35 30 17 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 433 448 381 390 1 652 1 173 41 Internal income -330 -311 -289 -300 -1 230 -1 212 -1 C/I ratio, % 53.7 52.5 55.4 56.2 54.3 55.3 Loan loss ratio, % 0.25 0.19 0.15 0.00 0.15 0.14 Assets 263 459 251 012 244 496 211 551 263 459 194 503 35 Liabilities 254 029 242 412 236 764 203 365 254 029 186 859 36 Allocated capital 9 430 8 600 7 732 8 186 9 430 7 644 23 Return on allocated capital, % 14.4 16.2 15.4 14.9 15.2 13.2 Average number of employees 1 638 1 608 1 547 1 476 1 567 1 260 24 Number of branches 178 173 170 166 178 161 11 Business volumes, UK Average volumes GBP m 2014 2013 Change % Loans to the public 13 153 11 633 13 of which households 4 044 3 252 24 companies 9 109 8 381 9 Deposits from the public 7 394 3 676 101 of which households 1 261 688 83 companies 6 133 2 988 105 30 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN THE UK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt rose by 41 per cent to SEK 1,617 million (1,143), chieﬂy due to higher net According to the EPSI customer satisfaction survey, Handelsbanken had the most satisﬁed 178 branches interest income and improved net fee and comprivate and corporate customers among UK mission income. Exchange rate movements inbanks for the sixth year running. Private cuscreased operating proﬁt by SEK 110 million, and tomers gave Handelsbanken an index value of expressed in local currency, operating proﬁt im83.8 compared with a sector average of 74.7. proved by 28 per cent. Proﬁts take full account Corporate customers gave the Bank an index of expenses relating to continuing expansion; value of 83.1 as compared to the sector averover the past 12 months, 17 new branches age of 72.7. have been opened. Business volumes – particularly deposits – Proﬁt before loan losses grew by 39 per cent continued to grow. The average volume of lendto SEK 1,816 million (1,310), as a result of coning increased by GBP 1.5 billion, while deposits tinuing growth in business volumes and cusgrew by GBP 3.7 billion. The average volume of tomer numbers. lending increased by 13 per cent compared to Income increased by 35 per cent and net inthe corresponding period in the previous year; terest income grew by 33 per cent to SEK 3,497 within this ﬁgure, lending to households grew by million (2,624). The increase was mainly attribut24 per cent. The overall average volume of deable to the continuing increase in deposit and posits was up 101 per cent; household deposits lending volumes, but higher lending margins increased by 83 per cent. During the year, the also made a positive contribution. Deposit marloan/deposit ratio fell to 181 per cent (247). gins decreased slightly. Since the acquisition was made at the end of Net fee and commission income went up by May 2013, Heartwood’s assets under manage62 per cent to SEK 344 million (213), due mainly ment have increased from GBP 1.5 billion to to continuing growth in business volumes. AsGBP 2.3 billion. set management commissions grew by 115 per During the year, 17 new branches were cent, and payment commissions increased by opened, including ﬁve in the fourth quarter, so 40 per cent. Heartwood, which was acquired in that at year-end, the Bank had 178 branches May 2013, contributed asset management and in the UK. In addition, managers have been advisory commissions of SEK 198 million (95). recruited for another eleven new branches. Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions On 1 January 2015, the Bank established a went up by 32 per cent to SEK 158 million (120), ﬁfth regional bank in the UK, with its head ofﬁce as a result of growth in business volumes and in Leeds. customer numbers. Expenses rose by 33 per cent to SEK -2,201 million (-1,660); this was attributable entirely to the expansion of operations. The average number of employees increased by 24 per cent to 1,567 (1,260). Loan losses increased to SEK -203 million (-168), and the loan loss ratio was 0.15 per cent (0.14). H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 14 31 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN DENMARK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Branch operations in Denmark Branch operations in Denmark comprise the regional bank, as well as Handelsbanken Finans’s and Stadshypotek’s operations in Denmark. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional bank offers a full range of banking services at 57 branches throughout Denmark. Handelsbanken Finans offers finance company services and works through the Bank’s branches. The mortgage operations at Stadshypotek are fully integrated with the branch operations. Quarterly performance Branch operations in Denmark Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 421 420 389 380 1 610 1 519 6 Net fee and commission income 99 84 107 95 385 329 17 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 15 68 8 25 116 97 20 Other income 3 4 8 6 21 18 17 Total income 538 576 512 506 2 132 1 963 9 Staff costs -149 -148 -147 -140 -584 -546 7 Other administrative expenses -53 -41 -44 -43 -181 -175 3 Internal purchased and sold services -81 -65 -64 -63 -273 -252 8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -5 -5 -5 -4 -19 -17 12 Total expenses -288 -259 -260 -250 -1 057 -990 7 Proﬁt before loan losses 250 317 252 256 1 075 973 10 Net loan losses -336 -172 -23 2 -529 -161 229 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 1 0 0 1 Operating proﬁt -86 146 229 258 547 812 -33 Proﬁt allocation 18 17 14 13 62 47 32 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation -68 163 243 271 609 859 -29 Internal income -102 -122 -129 -115 -468 -395 -18 C/I ratio, % 51.8 43.7 49.4 48.2 48.2 49.3 Loan loss ratio, % 1.85 0.95 0.13 -0.01 0.73 0.24 Assets 88 395 85 618 82 857 79 345 88 395 78 830 12 Liabilities 82 387 79 971 77 685 73 781 82 387 73 482 12 Allocated capital 6 008 5 648 5 172 5 564 6 008 5 348 12 Return on allocated capital, % -3.5 9.0 14.7 15.2 8.5 12.7 Average number of employees 627 632 635 633 631 624 1 Number of branches 57 57 57 57 57 56 2 Business volumes, Denmark Average volumes DKK bn 2014 2013 Change % Loans to the public 61.1 59.1 3 of which households 32.8 29.1 13 companies 28.3 30.0 -6 Deposits from the public 23.6 22.7 4 of which households 9.9 9.1 9 companies 13.7 13.6 1 32 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN DENMARK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt decreased by 33 per cent to SEK 547 million (812) due mainly to higher loan The EPSI annual customer satisfaction survey showed that Handelsbanken had the most satis57 branches losses related to provisions for a single exposure. ﬁed customers in Denmark. Private customers Proﬁts before loan losses grew by 10 per cent to gave the Bank an index value of 76.5, as comSEK 1,075 million (973). Exchange rate movepared to the sector average of 69.5. From corments increased operating proﬁt by SEK 38 milporate customers the Bank received an index lion, and expressed in local currency, operating value of 73.2, as compared with the sector proﬁt declined by 36 per cent. Income increased average of 68.0. by 9 per cent, while expenses rose by 7 per cent. During the autumn, The Banker magazine Net interest income grew by 6 per cent to named Handelsbanken Bank of the Year in SEK 1,610 million (1,519), chieﬂy due to higher Denmark. lending to households. In local currency, the The Bank continued to have a stable inﬂow increase was 1 per cent. Fees for the Swedish of new customers, and both business volStabilisation Fund and the deposit guarantee, umes and market shares continued to increase. together with the Danish state deposit guaranThe average volume of lending to households tee, burdened net interest income by SEK -51 climbed by 13 per cent, while corporate lendmillion (-45). ing declined by 6 per cent. In total, the average Net fee and commission income grew by volume of loans to the public increased by 3 per 17 per cent to SEK 385 million (329), chieﬂy due cent. The average volume of deposits from the to increased commissions on payments and public grew by DKK 0.9 billion, or 4 per cent, to lending. DKK 23.6 billion (22.7). Mutual fund savings also Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions performed well, growing by 16 per cent. rose to SEK 116 million (97). At the beginning of the year, one new branch Expenses increased by 7 per cent to SEK was opened, in Aarhus North, bringing the -1,057 million (-990). Expenses, adjusted for the Bank’s total number of branches in Denmark effects of exchange rate movements, increased to 57. by 1 per cent, partly as a result of a newly opened branch. Loan losses rose to SEK -529 million (-161), chieﬂy due to provisions made on a single customer exposure. The loan loss ratio rose to 0.73 per cent (0.24). H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 33 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN FINLAND | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Branch operations in Finland Branch operations in Finland comprise the regional bank, as well as Handelsbanken Finans’s and Stadshypotek’s operations in Finland. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional bank offers a full range of banking services at 46 branches throughout Finland. Handelsbanken Finans offers finance company services and works through the Bank’s branches. The mortgage operations at Stadshypotek are fully integrated with the branch operations. Quarterly performance Branch operations in Finland Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 348 357 340 344 1 389 1 219 14 Net fee and commission income 110 113 109 108 440 412 7 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 21 18 28 9 76 40 90 Other income 6 1 2 2 11 5 120 Total income 485 489 479 463 1 916 1 676 14 Staff costs -97 -86 -83 -85 -351 -331 6 Other administrative expenses -46 -39 -38 -35 -158 -145 9 Internal purchased and sold services -55 -56 -60 -61 -232 -239 -3 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -2 -2 -2 -2 -8 -10 -20 Total expenses -200 -183 -183 -183 -749 -725 3 Proﬁt before loan losses 285 306 296 280 1 167 951 23 Net loan losses -113 -10 -106 -48 -277 -268 3 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0 0 Operating proﬁt 172 296 190 232 890 683 30 Proﬁt allocation 26 19 19 21 85 70 21 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 198 315 209 253 975 753 29 Internal income -93 -116 -119 -101 -429 -417 -3 C/I ratio, % 39.1 36.0 36.7 37.8 37.4 41.5 Loan loss ratio, % 0.42 0.04 0.39 0.18 0.25 0.27 Assets 177 009 169 978 170 598 163 005 177 009 153 436 15 Liabilities 170 464 163 945 164 881 156 801 170 464 147 315 16 Allocated capital 6 545 6 033 5 717 6 204 6 545 6 121 7 Return on allocated capital, % 9.4 16.3 11.4 12.7 12.4 9.9 Average number of employees 483 506 500 486 494 490 1 Number of branches 46 46 46 45 46 45 2 Business volumes, Finland Average volumes EUR m 2014 2013 Change % Loans to the public 12 281 11 672 5 of which households 3 843 3 693 4 companies 8 438 7 979 6 Deposits from the public 4 513 3 026 49 of which households 1 264 1 262 0 companies 3 249 1 764 84 34 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN FINLAND | ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt improved by 30 per cent to SEK 890 million (683), as a result of income According to the EPSI customer satisfaction survey, Handelsbanken had the most satisﬁed 46 branches growing by 14 per cent while expenses went private and corporate customers among banks up by only 3 per cent. Exchange rate effects in Finland. Private customers gave the Bank increased the operating proﬁt by SEK 30 million, an index value of 81.5 compared with a sector and expressed in local currency, operating proﬁt average of 74.7. Corporate customers gave the grew by 24 per cent. Bank an index value of 77.0 as compared to Net interest income rose by 14 per cent to 73.5 for the sector as a whole. SEK 1,389 million (1,219); SEK 61 million of this Business volumes increased. Average lendimprovement was attributable to exchange rate ing increased by 5 per cent compared with the movements. In local currency, net interest income previous year. The Bank’s lending to comparose by 8 per cent, which was chieﬂy attributnies increased by 6 per cent, and the average able to increasing business volumes. Fees for the volume of lending to households rose by 4 per Swedish Stabilisation Fund and the deposit guarcent; this growth rate exceeded that of the marantee went up by SEK 5 million and burdened net ket as a whole. interest income by SEK -52 million (-47). The average volume of deposits from houseNet fee and commission income went up by holds increased slightly, while corporate depos7 per cent to SEK 440 million (412), due mainly its increased by 84 per cent. to higher payment commissions from card Earlier in 2014, the Bank opened a new branch business. in Helsinki-Ruoholahti, bringing the Bank’s total Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions innumber of branches in Finland to 46. creased to SEK 76 million (40), chieﬂy as a result of higher early repayment charges. Total expenses increased by 3 per cent to SEK -749 million (-725). Adjusted for exchange rate movements of SEK -38 million, expenses decreased by 2 per cent. The average number of employees rose to 494 (490). Loan losses increased slightly to SEK -277 million (-268), and the loan loss ratio fell to 0.25 per cent (0.27). H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 35 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN NORWAY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Branch operations in Norway Branch operations in Norway comprise the regional bank, as well as Handelsbanken Finans’s and Stadshypotek’s operations in Norway. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional bank offers a full range of banking services at 51 branches throughout Norway. Handelsbanken Finans offers finance company services and works through the Bank’s branches. The mortgage operations at Stadshypotek are fully integrated with the branch operations. Quarterly performance Branch operations in Norway Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 851 886 859 843 3 439 3 574 -4 Net fee and commission income 97 99 97 97 390 364 7 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 28 34 23 17 102 83 23 Other income 6 3 5 6 20 12 67 Total income 982 1 022 984 963 3 951 4 033 -2 Staff costs -183 -185 -174 -169 -711 -662 7 Other administrative expenses -58 -45 -63 -53 -219 -232 -6 Internal purchased and sold services -100 -101 -99 -90 -390 -368 6 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -3 -3 -3 -2 -11 -10 10 Total expenses -344 -334 -339 -314 -1 331 -1 272 5 Proﬁt before loan losses 638 688 645 649 2 620 2 761 -5 Net loan losses -41 -32 -47 -21 -141 -169 -17 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0 0 Operating proﬁt 597 656 598 628 2 479 2 592 -4 Proﬁt allocation 25 16 14 11 66 43 53 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 622 672 612 639 2 545 2 635 -3 Internal income -830 -870 -898 -832 -3 430 -3 606 5 C/I ratio, % 34.2 32.2 34.0 32.2 33.1 31.2 Loan loss ratio, % 0.08 0.06 0.10 0.04 0.07 0.08 Assets 206 536 216 359 209 799 208 007 206 536 202 567 2 Liabilities 193 355 203 938 198 267 195 246 193 355 190 444 2 Allocated capital 13 181 12 421 11 532 12 761 13 181 12 123 9 Return on allocated capital, % 14.7 16.9 16.5 15.6 15.9 17.0 Average number of employees 672 689 663 663 672 650 3 Number of branches 51 51 50 49 51 49 4 Business volumes, Norway Average volumes NOK bn 2014 2013 Change % Loans to the public 190.2 182.8 4 of which households 76.3 72.0 6 companies 113.9 110.8 3 Deposits from the public 62.4 49.6 26 of which households 15.3 14.0 9 companies 47.1 35.6 32 36 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN NORWAY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt went down by 4 per cent to SEK 2,479 million (2,592). Exchange rate effects As in previous years, Handelsbanken had private customers that were more satisﬁed than 51 branches reduced operating proﬁt by SEK 41 million. the average among banks in Norway, according Expressed in local currency, operating proﬁt to the annual EPSI customer satisfaction surwas 3 per cent lower. vey. Private customers gave the Bank an index Net interest income declined by 4 per cent till value of 74.9, as compared to the sector averSEK 3,439 million (3,574), but adjusted for exage of 69.6. change rate movements of SEK -58 million, the During the autumn, The Banker magazine decrease was 2 per cent. Increasing volumes named Handelsbanken Bank of the Year in of business made a positive contribution of Norway. SEK 227 million. At the same time, lending Business volumes continued to grow. The margins declined by SEK 187 million, and a average volume of lending rose by 4 per cent, lower interest rate level led to a SEK 57 million with household lending increasing by 6 per cent decrease in net interest income on allocated and corporate lending by 3 per cent. capital. Fees for the Swedish Stabilisation Fund The average volume of deposits from and the deposit guarantee, together with the households increased by 9 per cent, while Norwegian state deposit guarantee, increased corporate deposits grew by 32 per cent. by SEK 6 million, burdening net interest income During the ﬁrst half of the year a new by SEK -104 million (-98). branch was opened in Oslo-Økern, and Net fee and commission income increased in the third quarter a new branch was by 7 per cent to SEK 390 million (364), chieﬂy opened in Leangen in Trondheim. This due to higher fund management and lending brings Handelsbanken’s total number of commissions. branches in Norway to 51. Expenses increased by 5 per cent to SEK -1,331 million (-1,272). Expressed in local currency, expenses were up by 7 per cent. Staff costs increased by 7 per cent, due to annual salary adjustments and a 3 per cent rise in the average number of employees. Loan losses went down to SEK -141 million (-169), and the loan loss ratio was 0.07 per cent (0.08). H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 37 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN THE NETHERLANDS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Branch operations in the Netherlands Since January 2013, branch operations in the Netherlands have been a home market with a regional bank. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional bank offers banking services at 20 branches in the Netherlands. Quarterly performance Branch operations in the Netherlands Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 73 73 67 70 283 230 23 Net fee and commission income 7 7 7 5 26 23 13 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 1 1 3 2 7 1 600 Other income 0 0 0 0 0 Total income 81 81 77 77 316 254 24 Staff costs -32 -34 -32 -29 -127 -96 32 Other administrative expenses -9 -7 -6 -6 -28 -21 33 Internal purchased and sold services -20 -17 -15 -16 -68 -56 21 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 -1 0 -1 -1 0 Total expenses -61 -58 -54 -51 -224 -174 29 Proﬁt before loan losses 20 23 23 26 92 80 15 Net loan losses 0 0 -2 1 -1 -7 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 Operating proﬁt 20 23 21 27 91 73 25 Proﬁt allocation 1 1 1 5 8 4 100 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 21 24 22 32 99 77 29 Internal income -35 -36 -38 -45 -154 -140 -10 C/I ratio, % 74.4 70.7 69.2 62.2 69.1 67.4 Loan loss ratio, % 0.00 0.00 0.04 -0.02 0.01 0.05 Assets 38 651 36 957 38 681 34 850 38 651 33 039 17 Liabilities 37 754 36 098 37 939 33 985 37 754 32 221 17 Allocated capital 897 859 742 865 897 818 10 Return on allocated capital, % 7.4 8.4 9.7 11.4 9.2 7.7 Average number of employees 141 135 128 120 131 102 28 Number of branches 20 20 18 18 20 18 11 Business volumes, Netherlands Average volumes EUR m 2014 2013 Change % Loans to the public 1 932 1 728 12 of which households 723 478 51 companies 1 209 1 250 -3 Deposits from the public 1 065 944 13 of which households 32 26 23 companies 1 033 918 13 38 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN THE NETHERLANDS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt increased by 25 per cent to According to the EPSI customer satisfaction SEK 91 million (73). Income rose by 24 per cent, survey, Handelsbanken, as in previous years, 20 branches while continuing investments in operations led had the most satisﬁed private and corporate to a 29 per cent increase in expenses. customers among banks in the Netherlands. Income grew by 24 per cent to SEK 316 milPrivate customers gave the Bank an index value lion (254). Net interest income rose by 23 per of 73.3 compared with a sector average of 63.3. cent to SEK 283 million (230), mainly due to Corporate customers gave the Bank an index growing business volumes, while net fee and value of 66.4 as compared to the sector avercommission income increased by 13 per cent, age of 56.6. as a result of higher lending commissions. Average lending volumes rose by EUR 204 Expenses rose to SEK -224 million (-174), million, or 12 per cent, while deposits grew by owing to the expansion of the branch network EUR 121 million, or 13 per cent. Household and the regional head ofﬁce. The average numdeposits grew by 23 per cent, while lending to ber of employees rose to 131 (102). households increased by 51 per cent. CorpoLoan losses decreased to SEK -1 million (-7), rate lending decreased by 3 per cent, while the which corresponds to a loan loss ratio of 0.01 average volume of deposits from companies per cent (0.05). went up by 13 per cent. During the year, two new branches were opened: in Arnhem and in Apeldoorn. This brought the Bank’s total number of branches in the Netherlands to 20. In addition, branch managers were recruited for future branches to be opened in Alphen aan den Rijn and in Haarlem. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 39 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken Capital Markets Handelsbanken Capital Markets consists of the three business areas Markets & Asset Management, Merchant Banking International and Pension & Life. Operations are run in 23 countries. Quarterly performance Handelsbanken Capital Markets Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 180 214 217 236 847 936 -10 Net fee and commission income 740 749 779 773 3 041 3 008 1 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 431 307 442 357 1 537 1 073 43 Risk result, insurance 34 46 43 42 165 142 16 Other income 5 4 9 -1 17 16 6 Total income 1 390 1 320 1 490 1 407 5 607 5 175 8 Staff costs -628 -626 -633 -655 -2 542 -2 560 -1 Other administrative expenses -231 -192 -216 -220 -859 -969 -11 Internal purchased and sold services -50 -8 -17 -51 -126 -147 -14 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -22 -20 -26 -11 -79 -61 30 Total expenses -931 -846 -892 -937 -3 606 -3 737 -4 Proﬁt before loan losses 459 474 598 470 2 001 1 438 39 Net loan losses -21 15 34 -1 27 -65 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0 0 Operating proﬁt 438 489 632 469 2 028 1 373 48 Proﬁt allocation -330 -304 -296 -256 -1 186 -1 070 11 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 108 185 336 213 842 303 178 Internal income -669 -426 -420 -343 -1 858 -1 672 -11 C/I ratio, % 87.8 83.3 74.7 81.4 81.6 91.0 Loan loss ratio, % 0.15 -0.10 -0.24 0.01 -0.05 0.08 Assets 423 265 401 771 387 864 370 728 423 265 377 283 12 Liabilities 415 817 393 619 379 433 362 124 415 817 368 685 13 Allocated capital 7 448 8 152 8 431 8 604 7 448 8 598 -13 Return on allocated capital, % 4.5 7.1 12.4 7.7 8.1 2.6 Average number of employees 1 809 1 889 1 900 1 940 1 885 1 985 -5 Number of branches 17 19 19 19 17 19 Business volumes, Merchant Banking International Average volumes, SEK bn 2014 2013 Change % Loans to the public 45.5 48.9 -7 of which households 4.0 3.5 14 companies 41.5 45.4 -9 Deposits from the public 49.4 34.1 45 of which households 2.7 2.4 13 companies 46.7 31.7 47 40 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Handelsbanken remained the largest player Operating proﬁt improved by 48 per cent to New savings in Handelsbanken’s mutual funds in Sweden for capital-protected investments SEK 2,028 million (1,373). Of the proﬁt improvein Sweden during the year were SEK 29 bilfocused on the general public, with a market ment of SEK 655 million, SEK 627 million delion (16), corresponding to a market share of share of just over 21 per cent. rived from Markets & Asset Management and 18.7 per cent. Total net savings in the HandelsDemand for capital market funding remained SEK 61 million from Pension & Life. Operating banken Group’s funds were SEK 32.2 billion. healthy, with several new issuers. In 2014, the proﬁt in Merchant Banking International deXact Fonder remained the largest player on Bank arranged 140 bond issues for a value of clined by SEK 33 million. the Nordic market for exchange-traded funds, just over EUR 15 billion. Income increased by SEK 432 million, or with a market share of 94 per cent of sales. The Within corporate ﬁnance activity levels rose, 8 per cent, to SEK 5,607 million (5,175). This Morningstar mutual fund research company and the Bank was an advisor for four Nordic increase was attributable mainly to net gains/ gave Handelsbanken’s funds the highest averIPOs and 13 M&A transactions in Sweden. losses on ﬁnancial items rising by SEK 464 milage grade of the 30 largest fund managers in Handelsbanken was thus the Nordic commercial lion to SEK 1,537 million (1,073), on the back of Sweden in its three-year rating of mutual funds bank that was an advisor in most transactions. improved proﬁts in ﬁxed income and currency on the Swedish market. And according to the Cash management business showed a stable trading. annual TNS Sifo Prospera survey, Swedish institrend, and according to the TNS Sifo Prospera Net fee and commission income grew by tutional investors ranked Handelsbanken as the survey, Swedish large corporate customers SEK 33 million, or 1 per cent, to SEK 3,041 best asset manager in 2014. rank Handelsbanken’s cash management offermillion (3,008). Mutual fund commissions inTotal fund volume, including exchange-traded ing as the best on the market. creased, while brokerage income was lower funds, increased during the year by 24 per cent The Bank remains the Nordic region’s most than the previous year. to SEK 337 billion (271) – the highest ever volume. international player, with operations in a total of Expenses fell by 4 per cent to SEK 3,606 milTotal assets under management in the Group 24 countries. The average volume of lending lion (3,737), mainly due to other administrative rose during the same period by 18 per cent to outside the Bank’s home markets decreased by expenses being lower. SEK 533 billion (452). 7 per cent from the previous year to SEK 45.5 Loan losses in Merchant Banking InternaThe Private Banking operation continued to billion (48.9). Deposits went up by 45 per cent tional consisted of net recoveries of SEK 27 milperform well, with a stable increase in assets to SEK 49.4 billion (34.1) lion (-65), with the loan loss ratio being -0.05 per under management as a result. Since 2010, Demand for the Bank’s occupational pencent (0.08). TNS Sifo Prospera has ranked Handelsbanken sion solutions continued to grow, and new sales as number one for Private Banking, and this during the year were up by 40 per cent from the was also the case in 2014. previous year. Total pension and insurance premiums paid in grew by 10 per cent from the previous year to SEK 11.4 billion. Assets under management SEK bn 2014 2013 Mutual funds, excl. PPM and unit-linked insurance 247 199 PPM 18 14 Unit-linked insurance 74 60 of which external funds -2 -2 Total mutual funds 337 271 Structured products 22 25 Portfolio bond insurance 18 17 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -6 -5 Traditional insurance 10 11 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -1 0 Institutional assets 1 182 140 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -82 -59 Handelsbanken's foundations 61 58 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -8 -6 Total assets under management, Handelsbanken Group 533 452 Securities in custody, excl. mutual funds 293 256 1 Including the whole volume managed by Heartwood, of which own funds SEK 16bn. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 41 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Markets & Asset Management offers a full range following areas: Debt Capital Markets, CorpoThe Pension & Life business area comprises of products and services linked to risk managerate Finance, Cash Management, Trade Finance the Handelsbanken Liv subsidiary and offers ment, securities, derivatives, mutual funds and and Export Finance, as well as global banking pension solutions and other insurance solutions research, as well as co-ordinating the Bank’s collaborations. This business area also includes for private and corporate customers. offering in the savings area. Handelsbanken’s operations in 26 locations in The segment also includes business support Merchant Banking International consists of the 18 countries outside the Bank’s home markets. units in these areas. Handelsbanken delsbanken has a nationwide branch netwo network in its ts six home markets: Sweden, the UK, Denma Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. To support customers from the home T me mark markets, Capital Markets has an international onal network of ofﬁces in 18 countries worldwid de. 42 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Quarterly performance Markets & Asset Management Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 7 8 4 4 23 39 -41 Net fee and commission income 403 401 424 442 1 670 1 661 1 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 425 298 434 333 1 490 1 027 45 Other income -6 -3 -9 -13 -31 -37 -16 Total income 829 704 853 766 3 152 2 690 17 Staff costs -268 -260 -263 -278 -1 069 -1 116 -4 Other expenses -232 -198 -230 -235 -895 -1 013 -12 Total expenses -500 -458 -493 -513 -1 964 -2 129 -8 Proﬁt before loan losses 329 246 360 253 1 188 561 112 Net loan losses Operating proﬁt 329 246 360 253 1 188 561 112 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 101 32 146 68 347 -146 Average number of employees 507 535 539 559 535 548 -2 Quarterly performance Merchant Banking International Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 179 190 195 213 777 816 -5 Net fee and commission income 200 212 211 196 819 874 -6 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 21 18 20 32 91 100 -9 Other income 10 8 16 11 45 49 -8 Total income 410 428 442 452 1 732 1 839 -6 Staff costs -199 -190 -197 -201 -787 -784 0 Other expenses -140 -117 -116 -130 -503 -488 3 Total expenses -339 -307 -313 -331 -1 290 -1 272 1 Proﬁt before loan losses 71 121 129 121 442 567 -22 Net loan losses -21 15 34 -1 27 -65 Operating proﬁt 50 136 163 120 469 502 -7 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation -16 102 126 86 298 298 Average number of employees 601 603 617 642 616 658 -6 Quarterly performance Pension & Life Total Total SEK m Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014 2014 2013 Change % Net interest income 1 16 17 19 53 86 -38 Net fee and commission income 144 145 153 145 587 510 15 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions -15 -10 -12 -11 -48 -48 0 Other income 35 45 44 42 166 142 17 Total income 165 196 202 195 758 690 10 Staff costs -42 -43 -42 -41 -168 -162 4 Other expenses -64 -46 -51 -58 -219 -218 0 Total expenses -106 -89 -93 -99 -387 -380 2 Proﬁt before loan losses 59 107 109 96 371 310 20 Net loan losses Operating proﬁt 59 107 109 96 371 310 20 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 23 51 64 59 197 151 -30 Average number of employees 166 170 175 174 171 180 -5 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 43 HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken’s shares and shareholders Handelsbanken’s share was first listed on the Stockholm stock exchange in 1873, making it the oldest listed share on the exchange. In 2014, the share was noted at an all time high on 26 trading days (31). During the year, the share price grew by 16 per cent and including dividends paid, total return was 21 per cent. There are two classes of Handelsbanken’s DIVIDEND needed to ask its shareholders for new capital share: class A and class B. Class A shares are One of the purposes of Handelsbanken’s corpoduring this period. by far the most common and represent more rate goal is to offer shareholders long-term high During the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsthan 98 per cent of all shares, both in terms of growth in value, expressed in increasing earnbanken has generated a positive shareholder the number of shares and the turnover. Class A ings per share over a business cycle. The Bank value of SEK 140 billion. Market capitalisation shares each carry one vote while class B shares aims for the ordinary dividend to show long has grown by SEK 106 billion, while Handelshave one-tenth of a vote. The share capital is term, stable growth which reﬂects the value crebanken has paid out SEK 34 billion in dividends. SEK 2,956 million, distributed over 635,675,719 ation. But the dividend level must not lead to the shares. Each share thus represents SEK 4.65 of authorities’ capital requirements not being met. SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE the share capital. The Board is proposing to the 2015 AGM For 26 (31) of the trading days during the year, to decide on a total dividend of SEK 17.50 per the Handelsbanken share was listed at an STOCK EXCHANGE TRADE share (16.50), with the ordinary dividend being all time high. The highest listing for the year – Handelsbanken’s shares are traded on several SEK 12.50 per share (11.50). The complete SEK 372.80 – was on 11 December. Handelsdifferent market places. Turnover is largest on proposal on share dividends is presented on banken’s market capitalisation increased during Nasdaq Stockholm, but for the past couple of page 191. the year by SEK 32 billion and was SEK 233 years, the shares have also been traded on billion (201) as at 31 December 2014. The other venues, such as Chi-X/BATS. In 2014, an CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE Swedish stock market went up by 10 per average of 1.1 million Handelsbanken shares Handelsbanken is one of few banks in Europe cent during the year and the Stockholm stock were traded each day on Nasdaq Stockholm. which has created a positive shareholder value exchange bank index rose by 10 per cent. The Handelsbanken share is in the group of during the years of the ﬁnancial and debt crisis. Handelsbanken’s class A share ended the year at the most traded shares on the Stockholm stock Handelsbanken is the only commercial bank on SEK 366.60, an increase of 16 per cent. Includexchange. the Stockholm stock exchange which has not ing dividends, the total return was 21 per cent. Handelsbanken’s shares 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 23.89 22.52 22.34 19.78 17.72 after dilution 23.51 22.26 21.85 19.39 17.44 1 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 12.50 11.50 10.75 9.75 9.00 Total dividend per share, SEK 17.501 16.50 Dividend growth, ordinary dividend, % 91 7 10 8 13 Price of class A share, 31 December, SEK 366.60 316.00 232.40 181.00 214.90 Highest share price during year, SEK 372.80 319.60 249.90 226.00 229.00 Lowest share price during year, SEK 305.10 234.30 181.00 147.40 180.50 Share price performance, % 16 36 28 -16 5 Total return, % 21 41 34 -12 9 Dividend yield, % 3.41 3.6 4.6 5.4 4.2 Adjusted equity per share, SEK 192.40 177.71 162.63 152.71 143.14 Stock exchange price/equity, % 191 178 143 119 151 Average daily turnover on Nasdaq OMX (no. of shares) Class A 1 083 603 1 240 755 1 542 761 2 056 789 1 927 262 Class B 19 567 17 007 16 111 23 754 25 798 P/E ratio 15.3 14.0 10.4 9.2 12.1 Market capitalisation, SEK bn 233 201 147 113 134 No. of converted shares from the convertible subordinated loan issued in 2008, millions 0 2.8 8.7 0.6 No. of shares as at 31 December, millions 635.7 635.6 632.8 624.1 623.5 Holding of repurchased shares, millions Holding of own shares in trading book, millions 0.1 Number of outstanding shares, as at 31 December, millions 635.7 635.6 632.8 624.0 623.5 Dilution effect, end of period, millions 21.6 12.0 15.4 26.3 12.2 Number of outstanding shares after dilution, millions 657.3 647.6 648.2 650.3 635.7 Average number of outstanding shares (millions) 635.7 634.8 628.5 623.1 622.1 after dilution 653.0 647.5 649.9 642.4 634.3 1 Dividend as recommended by the Board. 44 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT REPURCHASE OF SHARES of these owned fewer than 501 shares. Four Two shareholders own more than 10 per cent At the AGM in March 2014, the Board received per cent of the shareholders owned more of the shares: the Oktogonen Foundation and a mandate to repurchase a maximum of 40 milthan 5,000 shares each, and together they Industrivärden. lion shares during the period until the AGM in held almost 92 per cent of the share capital. March 2015. This mandate was not used in 2014. Since 2000, the Bank has repurchased 91.2 million shares (net), which has led to a Share dividends in the past 10 years Total return since the beginning of the financial crisis transfer of capital totalling SEK 15.5 billion to 30 June 2007 – 31 December 2014 Handelsbanken’s shareholders. % SEK per share 18 200 CONVERTIBLE LOAN 16 In spring 2011, the Bank issued a subordinated 150 14 convertible loan for SEK 2.5 billion on market 100 12 terms directed at the Group’s employees. Hold10 50 ers can convert to class A shares in Handels8 banken between 1 May 2016 and 30 November 6 0 2016. The original ordinary conversion price 4 was SEK 256.52. The convertible is fully divi-50 2 dend-protected which means that the ordinary 0 -100 conversion price is adjusted downwards by an Handelsbanken DNB 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Nordea HSBC SEB Swedbank Standard Chartered amount corresponding in percentage terms to Danske Bank BNP Paribas BBVA Ordinary dividend Total dividend Intesa-Sanpaolo KBC Group Barclays Credit Agricole the dividend paid on a class A share. Following Erste Group Euro STOXX Banks Credit Suisse Deutsche Bank 2014 According to Board’s proposal. Lloyds Societe GeneraleUBS the dividend paid in spring 2014, the conversion Unicredit RBS Commerzbank Bank of Ireland Allied Irish Banks price was therefore recalculated at SEK 224.52. Source: SNL, as at 31 December 2014 The Bank can also demand conversion. (dividends reinvested) In spring 2014, the Bank issued another subordinated convertible loan for SEK 3.2 billion on market terms directed at the Group’s employees. Holders can convert to class A shares in The largest Swedish shareholders Number of % of % of as at 31 December 2014 shares capital votes Handelsbanken between 1 May 2019 and 30 Industrivärden 64 661 679 10.17 10.34 November 2019. The original ordinary converOktogonen Foundation 64 451 572 10.14 10.31 sion price was SEK 379.19. The convertible is Lundbergs 14 932 000 2.35 2.39 fully dividend-protected which means that the Swedbank Robur funds 13 159 493 2.07 2.11 ordinary conversion price is adjusted downAlecta 12 882 000 2.03 2.06 wards by an amount corresponding in percentAMF and funds 10 771 804 1.69 1.72 age terms to the dividend paid on a class A Handelsbanken funds 7 800 695 1.23 1.25 share. The Bank can also demand conversion. SEB funds 6 467 816 1.02 1.03 4th National Swedish Pension Fund 5 264 392 0.83 0.84 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE The J. Wallander & T. Hedelius Foundation, The T. Browaldh Foundation 4 100 000 0.64 0.66 During the past few years the proportion of 3rd National Swedish Pension Fund 3 980 314 0.63 0.64 non-Swedish shareholders has increased from SPP Fonder 3 693 879 0.58 0.59 30 per cent at the end of 2008 to 48 per cent Didner & Gerge Fonder 3 519 098 0.55 0.56 (47) as at 31 December 2014. Handelsbanken Skandia 3 484 228 0.55 0.56 has almost 100,000 shareholders. Two thirds Folksam 3 307 232 0.52 0.53 Shareholdings per shareholder Shareholdings 31 December 2014 Shareholders Number of Number of % of % of Number of shares Number class A shares class B shares share capital votes 1–500 shares 66 681 8 074 888 2 397 396 1.7 1.3 501–1,000 shares 13 107 8 541 452 1 499 198 1.6 1.4 1,001–5,000 shares 14 890 28 730 225 3 447 506 5.1 4.7 5,001–20,000 shares 2 598 21 244 099 1 942 651 3.6 3.4 20,001– shares 947 557 334 612 2 463 692 88.0 89.2 Total 98 223 623 925 276 11 750 443 100.0 100.0 Shares divided into share classes Average prices/ 31 December 2014 repurchased Share class Number % of capital % of votes amount Share capital Class A 623 925 276 98.15 99.81 2 901 252 533 Class B 11 750 443 1.85 0.19 54 639 560 Total 635 675 719 100.00 100.00 2 955 892 093 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 45 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Sustainability, employees and the environment Handelsbanken’s business opportunities and successes depend upon the confidence that customers, investors, the public and public authorities have in us and our employees. A condition for this confidence is that the Bank’s operations are subject to high ethical standards and responsible actions, and that employees of the Bank conduct themselves in a manner that upholds confidence. The following is a summary of the Bank’s sustainability work. The complete Sustainability Report is on pages 196–223 of this Annual Report. SUSTAINABILITY RESPONSIBLE LENDING EMPLOYEES HANDELSBANKEN IN THE COMMUNITY Handelsbanken has a very low risk tolerance. This In 2014, Handelsbanken had 11,692 employees, Handelsbanken is a bank that is stable over the low risk tolerance is maintained through a strong working in 24 countries, nearly 37 per cent of long term – a bank which, regardless of the situarisk culture that is sustainable in the long term and whom were employed outside Sweden. tion in the world around us, is there for our customapplies to all areas of the Group. ers. By being a bank with stable ﬁnances and a staHandelsbanken considers it very important HANDELSBANKEN RECRUITS PEOPLE ble presence, Handelsbanken aims to fulﬁl its role that the Bank’s lending is responsible, and that WHO SHARE THE BANK’S BASIC VALUES as a responsible institution. Handelsbanken also it is based on a careful assessment of the cusAbove all, working at Handelsbanken is about takes responsibility in this role by managing risks so tomer’s repayment capacity. A weak repayment relationships with other people. So when we that as few customers as possible have payment capacity can never be accepted with the argurecruit new employees, we always seek people difﬁculties, and the Bank can continue to be a bank ment that the customer is prepared to pay a high who share the Bank’s basic values. We want our with stable ﬁnances, making a positive contribution interest rate. The aim of short-term proﬁts for the employees to be driven by putting the customer to customers, shareholders, and the community. Bank must take second place to what can be ﬁrst, to enjoy taking a large amount of individual considered sustainable in the long term. responsibility, and to want to take their own HANDELSBANKEN IN THE LOCAL Handelsbanken’s credit policy states that the initiatives. COMMUNITY Bank must maintain sound ethical standards in its Handelsbanken is convinced of the need for a local lending operations. This means that in its credit CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT presence. The basic concept of our way of operatrisk assessment, the Bank takes into account the Handelsbanken’s strength is derived from the ing is that business decisions are made as close customer’s attitude to human rights, fundamental combined expertise of our employees. The most to the customer as possible. This is why Handelsprinciples of working conditions and environmenimportant source of increased professionalism is banken offers a nationwide branch network in the tal considerations and also ﬁghting corruption. learning in our daily work, where all employees countries the Bank sees as its home markets. Our are responsible for constant development – their decentralised organisation, where the local branch RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS own and that of the operations. manager is responsible for all the Bank’s business Handelsbanken integrates sustainability matTherefore, all employees participate in drawin its local operating area, means that Handelsters with the investment decisions that the Bank ing up their own unit’s business plan. This forms banken is ﬁrmly established in the local community. makes on behalf of customers. Our approach to the basis of the PLUS performance dialogue, In recent years, most banks have decided this is based on the UN Principles for Responsible which every employee has with their line manager to signiﬁcantly reduce the number of branches. Investment, PRI, which Handelsbanken signed in at least once a year. After this, each employee Handelsbanken has instead elected to retain 2009. This means that we are committed to inteputs together an action plan setting out the goals its local branches and thus continues to ﬁll an grating sustainability matters into research and into be attained and the conditions necessary for important function in the local community. In vestment decisions, and to be involved in greater this. The employee has a salary dialogue review 2014, Handelsbanken opened 24 new branches transparency relating to environmental, social and with the line manager, based on a follow-up of the in its home markets. We are currently the only corporate governance matters in the companies action plan carried out. bank in 59 locations. that Handelsbanken Fonder invests in. The Wheel – the relationship between the Bank’s OUR ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT ETHICAL GUIDELINES operations and the employee’s development. OF OUR OPERATIONS Handelsbanken’s ethical guidelines are adopted Companies can affect their environment in ﬁnanby the Bank’s Board and formulate the basic cial, social and environmental terms. Different guidelines for every employee’s actions. A selfBusiness plan process sectors have varying impact within the various evident rule is that Handelsbanken and its areas of responsibility. For example, a bank’s employees must comply with the laws and reguBusiness planning direct environmental impact is fairly limited. In terms lations that govern the Bank’s operations. The Salary of its indirect environmental impact, Handelsguidelines are reviewed every year by the Board. dialogue PLUS review CUSTOMER banken’s assessment is that it normally has relatively little opportunity to affect customers’ behavHUMAN RIGHTS iour and that customers are fully responsible for Handelsbanken endorses the principles set how their operations are run. However, a fundaout in the United Nations Universal Declaration Individual Action mental condition for the Bank’s lending is that the of Human Rights. Handelsbanken adheres to follow-up planning operation is legally compliant and that it fulﬁls all UN’s Global Compact, cementing the Bank’s requirements from public authorities in terms of expressed support for universal human rights. environmental and other sustainability matters. 46 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT INTERNAL LABOUR MARKET AND Group as a whole, 37 per cent (38) of managers collective bargaining agreement has fallen slightly. MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION were women. The proportion of women among There is an ongoing dialogue between union Handelsbanken’s strong corporate culture and the total number of employees in the Group was representatives and managers concerning operavalues are vital to the Bank’s success. Due to the 51 per cent (52). tions – such as when changes and new services Bank’s decentralised working methods, employees The Bank’s work with gender equality is conare to be launched – where valuable information take a large amount of personal responsibility, are tinuing, with various measures aimed at making is exchanged at the very early stages. As well as given a mandate to take their own decisions and Handelsbanken an even more gender-equal matters which are dealt with in a dialogue with the are driven by putting the customer in focus. Internal company. Training is carried out within the organunion organisations in each country, Handelsmobility contributes to the working method and culisation in order to increase awareness of how banken’s European Work Council (EWC) functure being spread to all parts of the Bank, through social and cultural norms affect attitudes and tions as a forum for joint and cross-border questransfer of the skills and experience acquired to the behaviour in everyday life. tions within the Handelsbanken Group. The EWC employee’s new tasks. This means that internal reIn 2014, the Bank, together with union repreconsists of representatives from nine countries: cruitment and long-term employment are important. sentatives, carried out a separate survey to idenDenmark, Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, To retain an employee, the right conditions must extify any remaining differentials. The survey was Norway, Poland, the UK, Sweden and Germany. ist for development in their work, as well as a variety carried out with the aid of tools that indicate staof career opportunities – and consideration must be tistical and structural differences, and is separate OKTOGONEN – THE BANK’S taken of the stage of life that she or he is in. Employfrom the previous review in conjunction with indiPROFIT-SHARING SCHEME ees who are secure and happy with long experience vidual salary dialogues. The result of the past few A condition for achieving the Bank’s ﬁnancial goal and broad knowledge of the whole Bank, give good years’ work has been that pay differentials have of better proﬁtability than the average of peer service and create long-term customer relationdecreased, and there is a strong basis for the efbanks in its home markets is that employees outships. This makes a vital contribution to the Bank fect to be a lasting one. perform their peers in the rest of the sector. The having satisﬁed customers. The Handelsbanken Incidents of discrimination concerning the Board thus considers it reasonable that employees Group continues to have very low external staff turnBank’s employees are normally managed in the should receive a share of any extra proﬁts. Every over. In 2014, the ﬁgure was 3.2 per cent (2.9). operations through the local personnel functions, year but two since 1973, the Board has decided to Managers at Handelsbanken must be exemplary but cases reported to the national discrimination allocate part of the Bank’s proﬁts to a proﬁt-sharing ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate culture, ombudsman or corresponding ofﬁcial body are scheme for its employees. The funds are managed which explains why most managers are recruited followed up at Group level. No such cases were by the Oktogonen Foundation. internally. In 2014, 100 per cent (98) of all managreported in 2014. All employees receive an equal part of the alloers in Sweden were recruited internally. For the cated amount, regardless of their position and work Group as a whole, the corresponding ﬁgure is 93 WORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH tasks, and the scheme includes all employees in the per cent (90), including those markets where the Handelsbanken’s overall goal with its work enBank’s home markets. In recent years, employees Bank established operations relatively recently. vironment work focuses on employees enjoying in Hong Kong, Luxembourg, Poland, Singapore One of the most vital tasks for managers at the good health, developing on a personal level and and Taipei have also been included in Oktogonen. Bank is to identify, encourage and develop new functioning in an optimal way. This is a long-term managers. goal that includes factors such as clear and honENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE est communication, having the skills and compeHANDELSBANKEN’S DIRECT FOR GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY tence and the right conditions to perform tasks ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The work towards equality at Handelsbanken conand deal with work-related situations, having A bank’s direct environmental impact is fairly limittinues, and this year the Bank began the work of pride and conﬁdence in one’s work, respecting ed. Handelsbanken’s direct impact derives mainly increasing the focus on diversity in a wider perspecothers, and being respected oneself. from consumption of energy, materials, equiptive. The Bank aims to broaden its recruitment base, In co-operation with staff and employee reprement, travel and transport. to become, to an even greater extent, a bank that sentatives, managers must develop a healthy and For all the Bank’s regional banks in the Nordic reﬂects the community in which it operates. Initiasafe workplace in accordance with the Bank’s countries, the UK and the Netherlands and also tives have been taken in several parts of the Group work environment goal. central units, carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) to increase knowledge and awareness of diversity. In Sweden, managers with delegated work enfrom the operations’ total electricity consumption Gender equality and diversity at Handelsvironment responsibility must, together with work totalled 3,663 tonnes for 2014. banken are about making the most of all of the environment representatives and employees, For the Swedish operations, we measure CO2 Bank’s potential. compile a work environment status report at least emissions for electricity consumption, transport, Diversity encompasses various individuals’ once a year. This includes the employees’ physibusiness travel and heating/cooling and diesel different skills and work experience, different cal and psychosocial environment. The results for properties owned by the Bank in Sweden, ways of thinking and solving problems, and are discussed within each unit at the Bank, and which totalled 3,702 tonnes of CO2 (excluding different characteristics, appearance, behaviour any measures decided upon must be integrated paper consumption) for 2014. Emissions of CO2 and life situations. Diversity also encompasses into the business plan. in Sweden have gone down by 10 per cent comdifferences such as gender, transgender identity pared with 2013. or expression, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation, RELATIONS WITH THE UNION Handelsbanken strives to minimise the CO2 disability, religion, or any other grounds for All employees of Handelsbanken have the right to emissions generated in its operations. discrimination. organise and join a union or employee organisaThe proportion of green electricity is 99 per Handelsbanken’s gender equality goal is to tion. Handelsbanken’s traditional good relationcent for Sweden and 89 per cent for the Nordic be a company where men and women have ship with unions is a valuable component of the countries as a whole. the same opportunities, chances and power to Bank’s culture. All employees in Denmark, Finland, This year, a new environmental policy for the shape the Bank and their own career. In all counFrance, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden and AusHandelsbanken Group has been adopted. tries where Handelsbanken operates, a gender tria, comprising almost 82 per cent of the Bank’s equality plan must be produced to support the employees, are covered by collective bargaining HANDELSBANKEN’S INDIRECT Group’s equality goals. The plan is to be based agreements. In these countries, employees who ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT on Handelsbanken’s fundamental values and the are not members of a union are also covered by By joining the UN’s Global Compact, Handelslaws and guidelines applying in the country. the terms of the collective agreement. The numbanken undertakes to describe how it works At the year-end, 45 per cent (44) of the Bank’s ber of employees has increased in countries which with environmental matters, etc. In addition to managers in Sweden were women. The proportraditionally have a low rate of membership of colthe Bank’s own consumption of resources, tion of women among the total number of emlective bargaining agreements. For this reason, this mainly concerns the indirect environmental ployees in Sweden was 54 per cent (54). In the the proportion of employees who are covered by a impact via lending and asset management. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 47 Corporate Governance Report Handelsbanken is a Swedish public limited company, whose shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Here the Board submits its Corporate Governance Report for 2014. Handelsbanken applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. CONTENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK FOR CONTROL 56 STRUCTURE 50 Internal control for operations 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal Audit 57 AT HANDELSBANKEN 52 Compliance 57 The Bank’s culture and long-term goal 52 Independent risk control 57 Application of the Swedish Code POLICY DOCUMENTS 58 of Corporate Governance 52 PRINCIPLES FOR General information about REMUNERATION AT corporate governance in banks 52 HANDELSBANKEN 59 SHAREHOLDERS AND Fundamental remuneration principles 60 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGS 52 Principles for remuneration Rights of shareholders 52 to executive ofﬁcers – referred to as Executive Directors at Major shareholders 53 Handelsbanken 60 Annual general meeting 2014 53 Variable remuneration 60 Auditors 53 THE BOARD’S REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE 53 ON INTERNAL CONTROL REGARDING FINANCIAL Recruitment and REPORTING 61 diversity-related work 54 Control environment 61 THE BOARD 54 Risk assessment 61 Composition of the Board 54 Control activities 61 Independence of Board members 54 Information and communication 61 Regulations governing the Board’s work 54 Follow-up 61 Chairman of the Board 54 BOARD MEMBERS 62 The Board’s work in 2014 55 SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND Committee work 55 AUDIT AND WHISTLEBLOWING FUNCTION 64 THE BANK’S MANAGEMENT 56 Group Chief Executive 56 Senior Management and management structure 56 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance structure Corporate Governance at Handelsbanken – an overview 1. Shareholders and 2. Nomination committee 3. External auditors shareholders’ meetings 4. Board 5. Credit committee 6. Remuneration committee 7. Audit committee 8. Risk committee 10. Group Chief Executive 9. Internal Audit 11. Central Credit 12. CFO, 13. Corporate 15. Independent 14. Compliance Department Group Finance Governance risk control Elects/appoints/initiates Informs/reports The diagram provides a summary of corporate governance at Handelsbanken. The shareholders take decisions at the AGM. For certain questions, the shareholders’ decisions are prepared by the nomination committee. The shareholders appoint a board which in turn appoints a CEO to manage the operating activities. The Board organises itself into various committees. To support the work of governing the Bank, the CEO has the Group Finance unit, the Central Credit Department and the Corporate Governance unit. There are also a number of control functions at the Bank. The shareholders also exercise control via the external auditors. 1. SHAREHOLDERS AND submits to the committee. The committee also behalf of its shareholders. The Board is to conSHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGS proposes the appointment of the auditors, and tinuously assess the Bank’s ﬁnancial situation Shareholders exercise their right to decide their fees. The AGM decides how the nominaand ensure that the Bank is organised such on matters concerning Handelsbanken at tion committee will be appointed. that the accounting records, management of shareholders’ meetings, which are the Bank’s funds and other aspects of the Bank’s ﬁnancial highest decision-making body. For example, a 3. EXTERNAL AUDITORS circumstances are satisfactorily controlled. The shareholders’ meeting decides on any changes The auditors are appointed by the AGM for Board establishes policies and instructions on to the most fundamental governing document the period until the end of the following year’s how this should be executed, and establishes for the Bank – the articles of association. Every AGM. The auditors are accountable to the a work procedure for the Board and also year an annual general meeting is held which shareholders at the AGM. They carry out instructions for the CEO. among other things appoints the Board, the an audit and submit an audit report coverThese central policy documents state how Chairman of the Board and auditors. It can ing matters such as the Annual Report and responsibility and authority are distributed also decide how the nomination committee is the Board’s administration. In addition, the among the Board as a whole and the committo be appointed. See also page 52. auditors report orally and in writing to the tees, and also between the Chairman of the Board’s audit committee concerning how their Board and the CEO. The Board appoints the 2. NOMINATION COMMITTEE audit was conducted and their assessment of CEO, Executive Vice Presidents and the Head The nomination committee’s task is to prepare the Bank’s administrative order and internal of Internal Audit and stipulates the employand submit proposals to the AGM regarding control. The auditors also submit a summary ment terms for inter alia these persons. The the appointment of the Chairman and other report of their audit to the Board as a whole. Board also decides the employment terms for members of the Board and fees to the Chairthe Heads of Compliance and Risk Control. man and other members of the Board. The 4. THE BOARD The Chairman is responsible for evaluating nomination committee is also informed of the The Board is responsible for the Bank’s orthe Board’s work and informs the nomination Board’s evaluation of its work, primarily based ganisation and manages the Bank’s affairs on committee of the results of the evaluation. on the report that the Chairman of the Board 50 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Read more More information about Handelsbanken’s corporate governance is available at handelsbanken.se/ireng. This includes the following information: • Previous corporate governance reports from 2007 onwards • Articles of association • Information about the nomination committee • Information from shareholders’ meetings from 2008 onwards. 5. CREDIT COMMITTEE decisions regarding the Bank’s risk strategy, 13. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board’s credit committee decides on risk tolerance, etc., and examines reports from The Corporate Governance unit ensures that credit cases where the amount exceeds the the compliance and risk control functions. The decisions made at shareholders’ meetings and decision limit which the Central Board has risk committee comprises the Chairman of the by the Board, as well as changes in legislation, delegated to another unit. Cases of special Board and two other members appointed by regulations and corporate governance code, importance are decided by the whole Board. the Board. are implemented in policy documents from the The credit committee comprises the Chairman Board and guidelines and instructions from the of the Board, the Vice Chairmen, the chair9. INTERNAL AUDIT CEO, with the aim of stipulating responsibilities man of the audit committee, the CEO, three Internal Audit performs an independent, and authorities internally at the Bank. Board members appointed by the Board and impartial audit of the operations and ﬁnancial the Head of the Central Credit Department. reporting of the Handelsbanken Group. A 14. COMPLIANCE A representative from the unit within the Bank central task for Internal Audit is to assess and The Compliance function is responsible for to which the credit case applies presents the verify processes for risk management, internal ensuring that laws, regulations and internal case to the credit committee. control and corporate governance. Auditrules, as well as accepted business practices ing is performed according to internationally or norms, are complied with in the operations 6. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE accepted norms. The Head of Internal Audit is conducted by the Handelsbanken Group. The The Board’s remuneration committee evaluappointed by the Board and reports regularly function must act as a support to business ates the employment conditions for the Bank’s to the audit committee, orally and in writing, operations and follow up the application of Executive Directors in the light of prevailing and also submits an annual summary report to the applicable regulations, check internal market terms for their peers in other compathe whole Board. regulations and inform the units concerned nies. The committee’s tasks include preparing about risks that may arise in the operations as the Board’s proposals to the AGM concerning 10. PRESIDENT AND GROUP CHIEF a result of inadequate compliance, assist in guidelines for remuneration to executive ofﬁcers, EXECUTIVE (CEO) identifying and assessing such risks and assist monitoring and evaluating the application of The CEO is appointed by the Board to lead in drafting internal regulations. Compliance these guidelines, and preparing the Board’s Handelsbanken’s day-to-day operations. In ofﬁcers have been appointed for all business decisions on remuneration principles, remuaddition to instructions from the Board, the areas, regional banks and central units, as well neration and other terms of employment for CEO is obliged to comply with the provias for all countries where the Bank operates. Executive Directors, as well as for the heads sions of the Swedish Companies Act and The Central Compliance unit has functional of Compliance, Internal Audit and Risk Control. a number of other statutes concerning the responsibility for compliance. The Head of The committee also makes an independent Bank’s accounting, management of funds and Central Compliance reports regularly to the assessment of Handelsbanken’s remuneration operational control. CEO, the risk committee and the remuneration policy and remuneration system. The remucommittee in matters regarding compliance. neration committee consists of the Chairman 11. CENTRAL CREDIT DEPARTMENT of the Board and two members appointed by The Central Credit Department is responsible 15. INDEPENDENT RISK CONTROL the Board. for formulating and maintaining the Bank’s The centrally located independent Risk Control credit policy, credit process and for preparfunction is responsible for monitoring and 7. AUDIT COMMITTEE ing every major credit case that the Board’s reporting all the Group’s material risks at an The Board’s audit committee monitors the credit committee or the whole Board decides aggregate level. This responsibility comprises Bank’s ﬁnancial reporting by examining crucial on. The Head of Credits presents all cases to credit, counterparty and market risks (interest accounting matters and other factors that may the CEO and Chairman of the Board before rate, exchange rate, equity price and commodaffect the qualitative content of the ﬁnancial they are presented for a decision by the credit ity price risk), operational risks, liquidity risks reports. The committee also monitors the efcommittee or the Board. The Head of Credits and insurance risks, as well as risks associfectiveness of the Bank’s and Group’s internal reports to the CEO and is a member of the ated with the Group’s remuneration system. control and internal audit, as well as the exterBoard’s credit committee. The Head of Credits Risk Control identiﬁes, measures and analyses nal auditors’ impartiality and independence. It also reports to the Board about loan losses Group risk. It reports continually to the CEO evaluates the audit work and assists the nomiand risks in the credit portfolio. and on a regular basis to the risk committee nation committee in appointing auditors. The and the remuneration committee. The Board is audit committee comprises the Chairman of 12. CFO, GROUP FINANCE also informed of the material risks in the operathe Board and two other members appointed Group Finance is responsible for control tions. The Head of Risk Control also provides by the Board. One of these two members is systems, reporting, book-keeping, accounting regular information to the CFO. The managethe committee’s chairman. and taxes. It is also responsible for the Group’s ment of the individual risks is the task of the liquidity, funding and capital, and for the operating unit that is responsible for the cus8. RISK COMMITTEE Group’s overall risk management for all risks tomer or counterparty (account manager) or The Board’s risk committee monitors risk except credit risk and compliance risk. For a responsible for conducting a certain transaccontrol and risk management in the Handelsdetailed description of this risk management, tion (business manager). Risk Control reports banken Group. The committee prepares see note G2 on pages 81–105. directly to the CEO and acts independently and is separate from the controlled operations. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT banken’s proﬁtability is better than the average of very extensive, and are not described in deHANDELSBANKEN peer banks. The proﬁt-sharing scheme contribtail in this report. A list of the key regulations is Corporate governance concerns how rights utes to the employees’ interests being in agreeavailable on the Swedish Financial Supervisory and obligations are allocated among the Bank’s ment with the Bank’s corporate goals. In this Authority’s website. Handelsbanken’s main entities, in accordance with prevailing laws and way, cost-awareness and caution will become principle is that operations outside Sweden are regulations. Corporate governance also enpart of Handelsbanken’s corporate culture. subject both to Swedish regulations and to the compasses systems for decision-making, and Handelsbanken wishes to recruit young host country’s regulations, if these are stricter or the structure through which shareholders conemployees for long-term employment at the require deviations from Swedish rules. trol the Bank, directly and indirectly. The followBank by offering development opportunities The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authoring are fundamental to corporate governance that make the Bank self-sufﬁcient in terms of ity extensively supervises the Bank’s operaat Handelsbanken: on the one hand the docuskilled employees and managers. tions in Sweden and in all countries where the ments adopted by the Board, for example the This long-term approach also applies to the Bank runs branches, in other words, when the Board’s rules of procedure, instructions to the way in which the Bank relates to its customers. foreign operation is part of the Swedish legal CEO and the Head of Central Audit, and credit It is manifested in, for example, the ambition of entity Svenska Handelsbanken AB. Equivalent instructions and policy documents regarding the always giving the customer the best possible authorities in other countries exercise limited Bank’s operations (see also pages 57–59), and advice – without looking at what is most proﬁtsupervision over the branches’ operations, but on the other hand the instructions and guideable for the Bank in the short term. This enables have full supervision over the Bank’s subsidiarlines issued by the CEO. These documents are the Bank to build long-term relationships with ies outside Sweden. The supervisory authorities revised every year but can be adjusted more ofboth customers and employees. in the Nordic countries, the UK and Germany ten when necessary. However, the foundation are co-ordinated in a supervisory group for of functioning corporate governance is not only Application of the Swedish Code of Handelsbanken, led by the Swedish Financial formal documents but also the Bank’s corporate Corporate Governance Supervisory Authority. culture, corporate goal, working methods, and Handelsbanken applies the Swedish Code of In addition to laws and ordinances, the remuneration system. The Bank’s work with susCorporate Governance, with only two deviaSwedish supervision is also based on regulatainability matters is also part of the corporate tions. Remuneration committee member Jan tions and general guidelines from the Swedish governance since it is an integral part of manageJohansson is not independent of the Bank and Financial Supervisory Authority. The Supervirial responsibility at all levels of the organisation. its management but the Board’s assessment is sory Authority requires extensive reporting on that Jan Johansson’s skills and experience in the various matters such as the Bank’s organisaThe Bank’s culture and long-term goal ﬁeld of remuneration matters should be utilised tion, decision-making structure, internal control, Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher proﬁtaby the Bank and this justiﬁes the deviation from terms and conditions for the Bank’s customers bility than the average of peer banks in its home the provisions of the Code. In addition, a majority and information to private customers. markets. This is mainly to be achieved by having of the members of the Board are not independThe Supervisory Authority’s work also includes more satisﬁed customers and lower costs than ent of the Bank and its management, according systematically visiting various parts of the Bank. those of competitors. One of the purposes of to the criteria of the Code. The reason for this The purpose of this is to follow up the Bank’s this goal is to offer shareholders long-term high deviation is that one Board member declined reactual compliance with the terms and condigrowth in value. election such a short time before the 2014 AGM tions of granted licenses and other detailed Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a that the nomination committee did not have regulations. decentralised working method, a strong local time to take the requisite action to recruit a new presence due to nationwide branch networks Board member. SHAREHOLDERS AND SHAREHOLDERS’ and a long-term approach to customer relaAccording to the Code, information must be MEETINGS tions. The Bank’s decentralised working model submitted regarding the material shareholdings Rights of shareholders involves strong trust in employees’ willingness of the CEO and his close relatives, or other partHandelsbanken has more than 98,000 shareand ability to take responsibility. This working ownership in companies with which the Bank has holders. They have the right to decide on model has been consistently applied for many signiﬁcant business relations. Pär Boman has no matters related to the company at the AGM decades and has resulted in the Bank’s very material shareholdings. Regardless of this, it is or extraordinary meetings of shareholders. strong corporate culture. A central part of Handelsbanken’s view that the provisions of the Handelsbanken has two classes of shares: class governance of Handelsbanken comprises Code are not applicable to the Bank, since regulaA and class B. Class A shares are by far the managing the risks that arise in operations. Risk tions on banking conﬁdentiality prevent Handelsmost common and represent more than 98 per management is described in detail in a separate banken from naming corporate customers. cent of all outstanding shares. Class A shares risk section in the Annual Report, note G2 on each carry one vote, while class B shares carry pages 81–105, and also brieﬂy in this Corporate General information about corporate one-tenth of a vote each. Handelsbanken’s arGovernance Report. governance in banks ticles of association state that at shareholders’ The salary and pension systems, combined The operations of Swedish banks are regulated meetings, no shareholder is allowed to exercise with the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing scheme, are by law, and banking operations may only be voting rights representing more than ten per other ways of boosting the corporate culture by run with a licence from the Swedish Financial cent of the total number of votes in the Bank. promoting long-term employment. Allocations Supervisory Authority. Shareholders who wish to have a matter to the Oktogonen scheme are made if HandelsThe regulations for banking operations are considered by the AGM must submit a written 52 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT request to the Board sufﬁciently far in advance Major shareholders • the executive ofﬁcers are included in the so that the matter can be included in the notice At the end of 2014, two shareholders had more Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing scheme on the of the meeting. The Bank’s website contains than 10 per cent of the votes: AB Industrivärden same terms as all employees of the Bank information as to when this request must have with 10.3 per cent and the Oktogonen Founda• the retirement age is normally 65. Retirement reached the Board. tion with 10.3 per cent. Detailed information on beneﬁts are deﬁned beneﬁt or deﬁned contriAt the AGM, the Bank’s shareholders make varthe Bank’s largest Swedish shareholders can be bution, or a combination of the two ious decisions of major importance to the Bank’s found on page 45. • the period of notice on the part of a senior governance. Shareholders’ decisions include: manager is six months and on the part • how many members should be on the Board Annual general meeting 2014 of Handelsbanken, a maximum of twelve of the Bank, who these members should be, The annual general meeting took place on 26 months. If the Bank terminates the conand who should be the Bank’s auditors March 2014. tract later than ﬁve years after the person’s • determining fees to Board members and Over 1,620 shareholders were represented at appointment as one of the Bank’s executive auditors the meeting. They represented 58.63 per cent ofﬁcers, the maximum period of notice is 24 • adopting the income statement and balance of all votes in the Bank. The whole Board was months. No severance payment is made in sheet present at the AGM. Also participating were the excess of these amounts • appropriation of proﬁts chairman of the nomination committee Anders • the Board shall have the right to deviate from • whether to discharge the Board and the CEO Nyberg, as well as Stefan Holmström and Erik the established guidelines if there are special from liability for the past ﬁnancial year Åström, principal auditors from the auditing reasons in an individual case. • principles for remuneration to executive companies elected by the AGM. The chairman ofﬁcers. of the meeting was Sven Unger, a lawyer. The guidelines do not affect remuneration previThe decisions made by the shareholders at ously decided for executive ofﬁcers. The senior The shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting the meeting included: management positions to which the guidelines can also make decisions on the Bank’s articles • a dividend of SEK 16.50 per share, of which apply are the CEO and Executive Vice Presidents. of association. The articles of association conSEK 11.50 comprised the ordinary dividend stitute the fundamental governing document • authorisation for the Board to resolve on Auditors for the Bank. They specify which operations the acquisition of not more than 40 million shares Stefan Holmström is principal auditor for KPMG Bank is to conduct, the limits on the amount of in the Bank, as well as divestment of shares AB at Handelsbanken and has been chairman share capital, the right of shareholders to par• the Board is to consist of ten members of the auditing team since 2008. He has been ticipate at shareholders’ meetings and the items • the re-election of all Board members for the an authorised public accountant since 1975. He to be presented at the AGM. period until the end of the next AGM, with the is also an auditor for Länsförsäkringar AB and The articles of association state that the numexception of Lone Fønss Schrøder, who had Svenska Rymdaktiebolaget. Mr Holmström was ber of board members must be at least 8 and at declined re-election born in 1949. most 15. They are elected for one year at a time. • election of Anders Nyrén as Chairman of the Erik Åström has been an authorised public Handelsbanken’s articles of association contain Board accountant since 1989 and has been principal no stipulation regarding the appointment and • fees to be paid to the Board members as auditor for Ernst & Young AB at Handelsbanken discharging of board members nor concerning follows: SEK 3,150,000 to the Chairman of since 2008. He is also auditor for ICA Gruppen amendments to the articles of association. the Board, SEK 900,000 to each of the Vice AB, Intrum Justitia AB, Kommuninvest co-operInformation in preparation for meetings is Chairmen and SEK 625,000 to the other ative association, Nasdaq OMX, Skistar AB, AB published at handelsbanken.se/ireng. Minutes Board members, as well as remuneration for Svensk Exportkredit, Södra Skogsägarna coof previous meetings are also available there in committee work operative association, and Transcom Worldwide English. • the issue on market terms of a convertible AB. Mr Åström was born in 1957. bond to employees. Attendance at AGMs 2010–2014 NOMINATION COMMITTEE No. % The shareholders at the meeting also adopted The shareholders at the 2010 AGM resolved 1 800 100 the following guidelines for remuneration and to establish instructions for how the nominaother terms of employment for executive ofﬁcers, tion committee is to be appointed. According to 1 500 80 as proposed by the Board: the decision, the instruction will apply until it is 1 200 • the aggregated total remuneration shall be on changed by a later AGM. The instruction states 60 market terms that the nomination committee shall comprise 900 • remuneration is paid only in the form of a ﬁve members: the Chairman of the Board and 40 600 ﬁxed salary, pension provision and customary one representative from each of the Bank’s four beneﬁts largest shareholders as at 31 August the year 20 300 • by special decision of the Board, the Bank before the AGM is held. 0 0 can provide housing However, the nomination committee must 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 • variable remuneration beneﬁts, such as bonot include representatives of companies which No. of shareholders Proportion of votes nuses or commission on proﬁts, are not paid are signiﬁcant competitors of the Bank in any present/represented H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT of its main areas of operations. It is the ChairLöf were appointed as Vice Chairmen at the ﬁrst man of the Board’s task to contact the largest Board meeting immediately after the AGM. At Independent of the Bank Independent owners, so that they appoint one representative the same time, the Board appointed members and its of major each to sit on the nomination committee togethof the credit committee, audit committee, Name management shareholders er with the Chairman. This has taken place and risk committee and remuneration committee. Anders Nyrén after AMF declined its position on the nominaInformation about the Board is shown on pages Fredrik Lundberg • tion committee, the 2015 nomination commit62–63. Sverker Martin-Löf • tee comprised: Jon Fredrik Baksaas • • Composition of the Board Jan Johansson • Voting power The Board consists of ten members. When the Ole Johansson • • in % as at Board is elected, the nomination committee Bente Rathe • • Representative Shareholders 29 Aug 2014 proposes members. The nomination committee Pär Boman Anders Nyberg, includes the Oktogonen Foundation which also Tommy Bylund Chairman Industrivärden 10.34 Charlotte Skog proposes two of the members in the nomination Jan-Erik Höög Oktogonen Foundation 10.31 committee’s proposal. Lundberg Mats Guldbrand ownership group 2.39 The Board members have broad and extenRegulations governing the Board’s work Bo Selling Alecta 1.66 sive experience from the business world. Most The fundamental rules regarding the distriAnders Nyrén, are, or have been, chief executives of major bution of tasks among the Board, the Board Chairman of the companies, and most of them are also board committees, the Chairman, the CEO and Board members of major companies. See also pages Internal Audit are expressed in the Board’s rules 62–63. Several members have worked on the of procedure, as well as in its instructions to Information on the composition of the nominaBank’s Board for a long time and are very familthe CEO and to the Head of the Central Audit tion committee has been available on the Bank’s iar with the Bank’s operations. department. website since 24 September 2014. In advance of the AGM on 25 March 2015, Independence of Board members Chairman of the Board the nomination committee has the task of The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance The Board’s rules of procedure state that the studying the Board’s evaluation of its work. The stipulates that the majority of Board members Chairman shall ensure that the Board carries committee also submits proposals for the election elected by the AGM must be independent of the out its work efﬁciently and that it fulﬁls its duof a chairman of the AGM, the Chairman of the Bank and the Bank’s management, and that at ties. This involves organising and managing the Board and other members of the Board, the least two of the independent Board members Board’s work and creating the best possible fees to the Chairman and other Board members, must also be independent of those of the comconditions for this work. The Chairman must remuneration for committee work, and the pany’s shareholders that control ten per cent also ensure that the Board members continuelection of and fees to auditors. or more of the shares and votes in the Bank. ally update and expand their knowledge of the Three members are employees of the Bank; Bank, and that new members receive approRecruitment and diversity-related work hence, they are dependent in relation to the priate introduction and training. The Chairman In its work, the nomination committee takes into Bank. Two of the employed members (Tommy must be available to the CEO as an advisor account matters relating to diversity, including Bylund and Charlotte Skog) are also dependand discussion partner, but must also prepare gender distribution, on the Board. Handelsent in relation to the Oktogonen Foundation, the Board’s evaluation of the CEO’s work. The banken’s Board has adopted a policy to prowhich is a major shareholder. The third of the Chairman’s duties include being chairman of mote diversity in the Board. The policy states employed members, Pär Boman, works for the the credit, remuneration and risk committees, that to promote independent opinions and critiBank as CEO and is also dependent in relation as well as being a member of the audit comcal questioning, it is desirable that the Board to AB Industrivärden, a major shareholder of mittee. The Chairman is responsible for ensurshould be characterised by sufﬁcient diversity in the Bank, where Mr Boman is a board member. ing that the Board’s work is evaluated annually. terms of age, gender, geographical origin, and Jan Johansson and Anders Nyrén are also conThe evaluation is performed by means of diseducational and professional background. The sidered to be dependent in relation to the Bank cussions with each member; certain years, the proportion of women on the Board of the Bank since they are CEOs of Svenska Cellulosa AB members answer a special survey. The Chairis 20 per cent and the proportion of members of SCA and AB Industrivärden respectively, while man informs the nomination committee about another nationality than where Handelsbanken the Bank’s CEO Pär Boman is a member of the the evaluation of the Board. The Chairman is is domiciled is 30 per cent. In compiling its proboard of both companies. The above circumalso responsible for maintaining contact with posal for the AGM, the nomination committee stances mean that the Board’s composition the major shareholders concerning ownership will also consider the evaluation of the Board does not fulﬁl the requirements for independence matters. As chairman of the Bank’s pension carried out by the Chairman of the Board. in relation to the Bank and its management acfoundation, pension fund and staff foundation, cording to the Swedish Corporate Governance he has overall responsibility for ownership issues THE BOARD Code as stated in the section on Application of associated with shareholdings of these three After the shareholders at the 2014 AGM had the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance on entities. There is no other division of work for the appointed Anders Nyrén to be Chairman of the page 52. Anders Nyrén is also dependent in relaBoard except as concerns the committees. Board, Fredrik Lundberg and Sverker Martintion to a major shareholder (AB Industrivärden). 54 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Board’s work in 2014 would cause inconvenience to the Bank or the CFO, the Head of the Central Audit Department During the year, the Board had ten meetings, borrower, the credit instructions allow the CEO and the persons with main responsibility from including an extended strategy meeting. and the Head of the Central Credit Department the audit companies appointed by the AGM. The ﬁgure below gives an overview of some to decide on credit cases during the interval In 2014, the audit committee had ﬁve meetings. of the matters discussed regularly by the Board. between meetings. In addition, matters discussed at each comIn 2014, the credit committee had 13 meetings. Risk committee mittee meeting are reported at the next Board The risk committee comprised the Chairman meeting. Audit committee of the Board (Anders Nyrén, who is also the The audit committee consisted of the Chaircommittee chairman) and two Board members Committee work man of the Board (Anders Nyrén) and two Board appointed by the Board (Ole Johansson and Credit committee members appointed by the Board (Sverker Bente Rathe). The two latter members are The credit committee consisted of eight memMartin-Löf and Ole Johansson). The two latter independent of the Bank, its management, and bers: the Chairman of the Board (Anders Nyrén, members are independent of the Bank and its major shareholders. who is also chairman of the committee), the two management. Ole Johansson is also independThe work of the risk committee includes the Vice Chairmen (Fredrik Lundberg and Sverker ent in relation to the major shareholders. Sverker following: Martin-Löf, also chairman of the audit comMartin-Löf is the committee chairman. • examining reports from the Heads of Risk mittee), the CEO (Pär Boman), the Head of the The work of the audit committee includes the Control and Compliance Central Credit Department (Lars Kahnlund and following: • preparing the Board’s decisions regarding the then his successor Per Beckman), and three • monitoring the ﬁnancial reporting and effecestablishment of the internal capital adequacy Board members appointed by the Board (Tommy tiveness of the Bank’s internal control and assessment Bylund, Ole Johansson and Bente Rathe). internal audit • examining the validation and evaluation of the The credit committee normally holds one • establishing an audit plan for the work of internal risk classiﬁcation system meeting every month to take decisions on credit Internal Audit • preparing the Board’s decisions regarding cases that exceed a set limit and that are not • regular contact with the external auditors. risk tolerance and risk strategy decided on by the whole Board due to the These auditors report to the committee on • examining the evaluation of the risk calculation importance of these cases. The heads of the signiﬁcant matters that have emerged from methods that are used for limiting ﬁnancial regional banks and the Head of Merchant the statutory audit, especially regarding risks, calculating capital requirements for Banking International present cases from their shortcomings in the internal control of the market risks, and calculating economic capital own units and listen when other cases are ﬁnancial reporting • scrutinising the quarterly presentation of the presented, which provides them with a good • considering reports from Internal Audit. risk control report picture of the Board’s approach to risks. Credit • scrutinising the biannual presentations of the cases that are decided upon by the whole Board The committee generally meets ﬁve times a year, compliance function’s six-month and full-year are presented by the Head of the Central Credit normally in connection with quarterly and annual reports. Department. If a delay in the credit decision reports. Items are presented by the CEO, the The Board’s work in 2014 • Interim report • Annual Report • Interim report • Interim report • Loan losses and credit risks • Loan losses and credit risks • Loan losses and credit risks • Total capital assessment • Risk report • Risk classification system • Risk report Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 • Internal capital evaluation • Recovery plan • Strategy meeting • Remuneration and • External audit report remuneration policy • CEO’s instructions and guidelines • Internal audit report • Loan losses and credit risks • Provision to Oktogonen • Risk report • Limits for financial risks and • Risk strategy and risk standard level of risk tolerance • Staff development and management succession • Evaluation of CEO and Board Inaugural Board meeting • Vice Chairmen, members of committees and secretary are appointed • Corporate Governance documents H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Head of Independent Risk Control, who is the 2014 convertible totals SEK 9.80 million at a E-services develops services for e-commerce also the Bank’s CRO, and the Head of Compliconversion price of SEK 379.19, corresponding and traditional retailing under its own brand. ance themselves present their reports to the risk to 25,828 shares. Each business area has Groupwide responsibility committee. The Bank’s CFO also attends meetfor its products and services. ings of the risk committee. The risk committee Senior Management and management The heads of the regional banks in Denmark, was ﬁrst formed in 2014, and during the year it structure Finland, Norway and the Netherlands, and had three meetings. Operations are pursued to a large extent within the general managers for each country within the parent company, but also in subsidiaries, Merchant Banking International, as well as the Remuneration committee both in Sweden and in other countries. Head of UK operations, are responsible to the The remuneration committee comprised the Handelsbanken has long had a decentralpublic authorities in their respective countries for Chairman of the Board (Anders Nyrén, who is ised working method, where almost all major all operations that the Bank and its subsidiaries also the committee chairman) and two Board business decisions are taken at the local bank pursue in those countries. members appointed by the Board (Jan Johansson branches, close to customers. Branch operaThe Bank’s management comprises and Bente Rathe). Bente Rathe is independent tions are geographically organised into regional Handelsbanken Corporate Committee whose of the Bank and its management, although banks: six in Sweden, ﬁve in the UK, and one main task is to prepare proposals to the Board. Jan Johansson is not. This composition entails each in Denmark, Finland, Norway and the In addition to the CEO, the Corporate Commita deviation from the Swedish Code of CorpoNetherlands. Together, these countries comtee consists of the CFO and the Heads of Inderate Governance. The justiﬁcation for this deprise the Bank’s home markets. Each regional pendent Risk Control, Personnel, Credits, IT, viation is given on page 52, under the heading bank is led by a head. Branch operations in Infrastructure and Sustainability. Since the Head “Application of the Swedish Code of Corporate Sweden (SE) and Great Britain (UK) are co-ordiof Independent Risk Control is a member of the Governance.” nated under the Head of Sweden and the Head Corporate Committee, it is ensured that risk One of the tasks of the remuneration comof UK respectively. The organisation in Sweden aspects can be taken into consideration when mittee is to prepare matters regarding remualso includes the ﬁnance company operation, evaluating the risk of material decisions. neration to be decided on by the Board and the which is run within the Handelsbanken Finans As of the end of 2014, the group of employAGM. After the shareholders at the AGM have AB subsidiary. ees who according to the Swedish Companies decided on guidelines for the terms and condiThere are six business areas within HandelsAct are designated executive ofﬁcers include tions of remuneration to the CEO and executive banken. Three of these business areas are part the members of the Corporate Committee toofﬁcers, the Board decides in accordance with of the Handelsbanken Capital Markets segment: gether with certain heads of business areas and the regulations of the Swedish Financial SuperPension & Life, Markets & Asset Management the heads of Handelsbanken’s home markets. At visory Authority on remuneration to executive and Merchant Banking International. These three Handelsbanken, these persons are designated management and the heads of the control funcbusiness areas are co-ordinated under the Head Executive Directors. See also pages 64–65. tions: Internal Audit, Independent Risk Control of Handelsbanken Capital Markets. The remainMembers of the Corporate Committee, all and Compliance. ing three business areas are Stadshypotek, heads of business areas, heads of regional In 2014, the remuneration committee had Retail & E-services, and Forestry & Farming. banks and heads of Handelsbanken’s home nine meetings. The Pension & Life business area includes markets are members of the Senior Managethe Bank’s entire pensions-related offering, as ment group. Senior Management also includes THE BANK’S MANAGEMENT well as the Handelsbanken Liv subsidiary. The the heads of the Bank’s central departments Group Chief Executive Markets & Asset Management business area and administrative functions. Senior ManagePär Boman has been President and Group includes trading in ﬁnancial instruments and ment and the group of Executive Directors are a Chief Executive since April 2006. Pär Boman asset management, with the Handelsbanken consultative body, not a decision-making body. was born in 1961 and he has worked at Fonder subsidiary. In the Merchant Banking To a large extent, responsibilities and powers Handelsbanken since 1991. In 1998, Pär International business area, the Bank’s business of authority at Handelsbanken have been asBoman became a member of what was then with its largest international corporate customers signed to individual members of staff, rather called the Group management as Executive is co-ordinated. This business area also includes than groups or committees. However, there are Vice President and Head of Regional Bank Denthe Bank’s Corporate Finance department, as collective decisions regarding credit decisions mark, and thereafter Head of Handelsbanken well as all the Bank’s international operations made in credit committees and the boards of Markets. Pär Boman has an engineering degree outside its home markets. For every country regional banks. It is also required that the memand a business degree. His shareholdings in the outside the home markets in which Handelsbers are unanimous regarding these decisions. Bank and those of close relatives are 12,335, banken pursues operations there is a General Further information about Senior Management, of which 6,335 are held indirectly via the OktoManager who reports to the Head of Merchant Executive Directors and the Corporate Commitgonen proﬁt-sharing scheme. In addition, Pär Banking International. tee can be found on pages 64–65. Boman has a holding of staff convertible notes The Stadshypotek business area comprises in Handelsbanken, issued on market terms to the Stadshypotek AB subsidiary, which pursues FRAMEWORK FOR CONTROL the Bank’s employees in 2011 and 2014. His mortgage loan operations and other property Internal control for operations holding in the 2011 convertible totals SEK 8.32 ﬁnancing. The Forestry & Farming business area Responsibility for internal control has been delmillion at a conversion price of SEK 224.52, is responsible for the Bank’s customer offering egated from the CEO to managers who report corresponding to 37,048 shares. His holding in for forestry and agricultural services. Retail & directly to the CEO and who are in charge of 56 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Control at Handelsbanken Shareholders External auditors Central Board Risk committee Credit committee Remuneration committee Audit committee CEO Internal Audit Central Risk Control Central Compliance Regional banks, business areas and central units Local risk control Internal control is delegated so that all managers Local compliance are responsible for internal control. Functionally subordinate to Reports internal control within their respective units. In accepted standards issued by the Institute of Inthe Head of Central Compliance. The Head of turn, these managers have delegated to branch ternal Auditors. The planned auditing tasks are Central Compliance reports quarterly to the managers and heads of units the responsibildocumented every year in an audit plan which is CEO on compliance in the Group. Twice a year, ity for internal control at their branches or units. established by the Board’s audit committee on the Head of Central Compliance reports directly This responsibility means that ﬁt-for-purpose behalf of the Board. The conclusions of internal to the Board’s risk committee. In addition, instructions and procedures for the operation audits, the actions to be taken, and their status material observations are reported regularly to must be in place, and compliance with these are reported regularly to the audit committee the CEO. procedures must be monitored regularly. Thus, and every year to the Board as a whole. the responsibility for internal control and compliInternal Audit is regularly subject to indeIndependent risk control ance is an integral part of managers’ responsipendent external quality reviews. In addition, The Bank is characterised by a clear division bility at all levels in the Bank. the Bank’s external auditors perform an annual of responsibility where each part of the busiquality review of the work of Internal Audit. ness operations bears full responsibility for risk Internal Audit management. There is local risk control at each Long before external requirements on internal Compliance regional bank and within the various business auditing were introduced, the Bank had an interCompliance is the responsibility of all employees areas, which check, for example, that risks are nal audit function that was independent of the line in the Group. Establishing compliance functions within the limits and are correctly valued. The loorganisation. The organisation has centrally and centrally, for regional banks, business areas and cal risk control carries out risk analyses and veriregionally placed internal auditors. The regional central departments, as well as for each counﬁes that transactions are conducted in a manner Internal Audit departments are part of the Central try where the Bank has operations, does not that does not entail undesirable risks. The local Audit Department, which constitutes an integrated release any employee from the responsibility of risk control reports to the business operations’ internal audit function. The Audit Department complying with the external and internal regulamanagement and to the central risk control. comprises some 100 employees. The Head of tions applying to the operations. However, the The central risk control identiﬁes, measures, the Central Audit Department is appointed by and regulations are often complex and in some casanalyses and reports all the Group’s matereports to the Board. Thus the internal audit funces the individual employee may have limited exrial risks. It also monitors that the risks and risk tion is the Board’s controlling body. The elected perience. It is thus vital that guidance is availamanagement comply with the Bank’s risk stratorganisation and long tradition give Internal Audit ble, to avoid mistakes. The compliance function egy and risk tolerance. The independent risk the authority and integrity required to enable the must follow up and actively ensure that laws, control is also responsible for correct valuation auditors elected by the AGM to rely on measures regulations and internal rules, as well as acceptof ﬁnancial instruments. This responsibility inand data from Internal Audit. ed business practices and standards, are comcludes ensuring that senior management has Internal Audit is tasked with performing an plied with in the operations conducted by the reliable information regarding risks to use in critiindependent, impartial audit of the operations Handelsbanken Group. In its supporting role, cal situations. The central risk control also has and ﬁnancial reporting of the Handelsbanken the function must provide advice and support to functional responsibility for local risk control. Group. This includes assessing and verifying business operations, and also assist in drawing The head of the central risk control reports processes for risk management, internal control up internal rules and provide information about directly to the CEO. Information is also providand corporate governance. Their assignment new and amended rules for operations. ed to the CFO on a regular basis. The head of is based on a policy established by the Board Central Compliance is an independent unit the central risk control reports regularly to the and is performed on the basis of a risk-based with the functional responsibility for compliBoard’s risk committee and remuneration commethodology in accordance with internationally ance matters in the Group. The CEO appoints mittee. The Board is kept continuously informed H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Production and follow-up of corporate governance documents New regulations or other Internally identiﬁed external effects requirements The Corporate Governance unit prepares proposals Proposals for the CEO Proposals for CEO delegates decisions Senior Management to the relevant CEO The Board person in Senior Management Decisions, assignments for Report the CEO Report Compliance advises and checks This chart shows an overview of the process of producing and following up corporate governance documents, such as policy documents from the board. It may be external factors – such as new regulations – or internal requirements that mean that a policy needs to be drawn up or amended. The Corporate Governance unit ensures that the policy is drawn up, and then submits a proposal to the CEO, who proposes to the Board that it adopts the policy. The CEO ensures that the established policy is implemented, and can delegate this task to a member of Senior Management. The Central Compliance department has the task of monitoring compliance with these policy documents within the organisation. of material risks at the Bank. The central risk risk tolerance decided upon by the Bank. The Financial risks should normally only occur as control is also in charge of the Bank’s extensive central risk control function reports to the CEO. a natural part of customer business, in connecrisk reporting to the supervisory authorities. tion with the Bank’s funding and liquidity manageA more detailed description of the Bank’s risk Policy for operational risks ment, and in its role as a market maker. The management is contained in note G2 on pages The Bank’s tolerance of operational risks is very Board establishes measurement methods and 81–105, as well as in the Bank’s Pillar 3 Report. low. Operational risks must be managed so that overall limits for ﬁnancial risks. It also describes the role which Handelsbanken’s the Group’s operational losses remain small, both credit process plays in the Bank’s credit risk in comparison with previous losses incurred, and Information policy management, particularly the Central Credit with other banks’ losses. The responsibility for The Bank’s information must be correct, objecDepartment. Handelsbanken also has a risk operational risks is an integral part of managerial tive and easy to understand. It must respect the management framework that describes the responsibility throughout the Group. recipient of the information and be provided at overall risk strategy and risk tolerance, as well the right time and in the right manner. The inforas processes for risk management. Capital policy mation should strengthen the Bank’s brand and The purpose of the capital policy is to ensure the trust of the Bank’s customers, the capital POLICY DOCUMENTS that the Group’s supply of capital is secured. market and society in general. Information proThe following is a brief summary of the policy The Group must at all times be well capitalised vided to the stock market must be correct, reledocuments which the Board of Handelsbanken in relation to risk, and fulﬁl the goals established vant, reliable and in compliance with stock marhas decided on. by the Board and the capital adequacy requireket regulations. Information is to be made public ments established by supervisory authorities, as soon as possible and simultaneously to the Credit policy even in situations of ﬁnancial stress (see the stock market, investors, analysts, news services Credits may only be granted if there are good section on risk in note G2 on pages 81–105). and other media. Normally, analysts and the grounds for expecting the borrower to meet The Bank’s capital situation must also justify a media are simultaneously invited to attend press his/her commitments. Credits must normally continued high rating from the most important conferences and capital market seminars. have collateral. The Bank strives to maintain its rating agencies. historically low level of loan losses compared Ethical guidelines to other banks, thus contributing to the Bank’s Financial policy Employees of the Bank must conduct themproﬁtability target and retaining its sound ﬁnanThe Group’s funding must be well-diversiﬁed selves in a manner that upholds conﬁdence in cial position. in terms of markets, currencies and maturities. the Bank. All operations at the Bank must be During stressed market conditions, the Bank characterised by high ethical standards. FinanPolicy for independent risk control must have an adequate liquidity reserve to be cial advice must be based on the customer’s Handelsbanken must have a risk control funcable to continue its operations for a predeterrequirements. Conﬂicts of interest must be idention that is independent of the functions that mined period of time, without new funding in tiﬁed and handled in a manner that is fair to all are to be monitored. Risk control must identify, the ﬁnancial markets. parties involved. In case of doubt as to what is monitor and report the risks to which business ethically acceptable, the matter must be disoperations are exposed, or may be exposed in Policy for ﬁnancial risks cussed with the employee’s immediate superior. the future. This also entails monitoring that the Financial risks here refer to market risks and There must be no discrimination on grounds units concerned manage the risks, and that this liquidity risks. Market risks are in turn divided such as gender or religion. The ethical guideis carried out effectively. Risk control must also into interest rate risks, equity price risks, lines also describe how employees who suspect monitor compliance with the risk strategy and currency risks and commodity price risks. internal fraud or other irregularities should act, 58 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT for example with the aid of Handelsbanken’s Pension policy Policy for employees’ private securities and whistleblowing system. Pension beneﬁts are part of the total remuneracurrency transactions The Bank’s ethical guidelines are publicly tion to the Bank’s employees. The total remuThis policy applies to all Handelsbanken Group available at handelsbanken.se/csreng. neration is to be on market terms. The pension employees – temporary as well as permanent terms in the countries where the Bank pursues – closely-related persons and service providPolicy for conﬂicts of interest and measures its operations must be competitive and adapted ers. Its purpose is to prevent any person who is against bribery and improper inﬂuence to legislation and regulations, in accordance covered by the policy from carrying out his/her Conﬂicts of interest are a natural part of a busiwith the conditions prevailing in each country. own securities transactions that involve market ness operation, which means that these types of abuse, misuse or improper disclosure of conconﬂicts may arise within the Bank’s operations. It Policy for internal audit operations ﬁdential information under the regulations that is the responsibility of all heads of units within the Internal Audit is to evaluate the efﬁciency and apply to the Bank and its employees, in accordBank to continuously identify possible conﬂicts appropriateness of the Group’s processes for ance with prevailing legislation, directives from of interest. If a conﬂict of interest is identiﬁed, the risk management, internal steering and control. public authorities and voluntary agreements. head of the unit responsible must ﬁrst ensure The audit function must impartially and indepenthat the customer’s interests are not adversely dently examine the Group’s operations and acAccounting policy affected. If this is not possible, the customer counts, ensure that material risks are identiﬁed This policy applies to the Bank’s accounting must be informed of the conﬂict of interest. and managed in a satisfactory manner, and that function. The Bank’s accounts and ﬁnancial reEmployees of the Bank must carry out their rematerial ﬁnancial information is reliable, correct ports must be prepared in accordance with the sponsibilities in all their activities at the Bank and and delivered on time. Internal Audit is to report provisions of the Swedish Accounting Act and their external assignments in a manner that upto the Board and its audit committee. generally accepted auditing standards in Sweholds conﬁdence in the Bank, and must therefore den, and also applicable laws and international not participate in actions that may involve bribery Policy for managing and reporting events standards for ﬁnancial reports. International or any other improper inﬂuence. The Code of Busiof material importance units must prepare accounts in accordance not ness Conduct from the Swedish Anti-Corruption Incidents of material importance must be reonly with the Group’s rules, but with the regulaInstitute is also observed in the daily operations. ported to the Swedish Financial Supervisory tions that apply in the country where they are reAuthority. This refers to incidents that may jeopquired to maintain accounting records. Policy for remuneration and suitability ardise the Bank’s stability or protection of cusassessment tomers’ assets. No such incidents occurred Policy on measures against money In some countries, Handelsbanken is a party to during the year. laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism collective agreements concerning general employThis policy is based on the Swedish law on ment conditions during the period of employPolicy for the Bank’s use of the external measures against money laundering and ﬁnancment, and on pension terms after reaching the auditors’ services ing of terrorism. In the actions that the Bank age of retirement. Remuneration for work perIf the auditors that have been elected at the AGM takes, one key element is to ensure that the formed is set individually for each employee, and are engaged for assignments other than auditing Bank is not used as a conduit for money launis normally paid in the form of ﬁxed salary, cusand related tasks, special instructions from the dering or ﬁnancing of terrorism. Nor shall the tomary beneﬁts and pension provisions. Variable CEO must be complied with. Furthermore, this Bank participate in transactions which may be remuneration is applied with great caution so as must be reported to the audit committee. suspected of being linked to criminal activities, not to affect the Bank’s risk proﬁle. Salaries are or transactions of which the employees do not established locally in accordance with the Bank’s Policy for compliance understand the implications. decentralised method of working and revisions Compliance means the observance of laws, take into account the collective agreements that regulations, directives from public authorities PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION AT are binding upon the Bank. The Bank’s remuand internal rules, as well as accepted business HANDELSBANKEN neration policy is reviewed annually, or when repractices or accepted standards. Using a riskThe Bank’s principles for remuneration to emquired, and is characterised by the Bank’s low based approach, the compliance function is to ployees are long established. In general, Handelsrisk tolerance. The remuneration system is assupport and verify compliance. It reports to the banken has low tolerance of risk and considers sessed annually by compliance, independent risk Board’s risk committee and the CEO. The comthat ﬁxed remuneration contributes to healthy control and the personnel department. pliance function must be independent of the operations. This is, therefore, the main principle. A more detailed description of Handelsfunctions that are monitored. Variable remuneration is to be applied with caubanken’s remuneration principles is shown on tion, and is only paid to a very limited extent. The page 59 and details about remuneration are Policy for handling customer complaints Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regushown in note G8 on pages 108–111. The branch responsible for the customer is lations governing remuneration policies in credit The Central Personnel Department performs responsible for receiving and handling a cusinstitutions, investment ﬁrms and fund managesuitability assessments when board members tomer complaint. Complaints must be dealt with ment companies with a licence for discretionary are elected for the Bank’s subsidiaries, and also promptly and professionally, while maintaining portfolio management include special rules for performs suitability assessments ahead of decia dialogue with the customer, taking into conemployees who receive variable remuneration sions on appointment of members to the Senior sideration the current regulations in the area to and who are deemed to have a signiﬁcant bearing Management. which the complaint relates. on the institution’s risk proﬁle. The regulations also H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT contain provisions on deferred remuneration. The Principles for remuneration to executive ﬁxed remuneration. However, the policy allows heads of the areas concerned, as well as those ofﬁcers – referred to as Executive Directors for variable remuneration, but for this a special responsible for Risk Control and Compliance, at Handelsbanken decision is required by the CEO and the Board take part in the remuneration committee’s prepaThe shareholders at the AGM decide on guidedecides on the size of the ﬁnal amount. ration and assessment of the Board’s remuneralines for remuneration to the CEO and other exVariable remuneration occurs to a very limited tion policy and the Bank’s remuneration system. ecutive ofﬁcers, who at Handelsbanken are now extent, and only within Handelsbanken Capital Below is an overall presentation of the Bank’s designated Executive Directors. For the AGM Markets and the British subsidiary, Heartwood. fundamental principles for ﬁxed and variable reguidelines from 2014, see the Annual general Nor is variable remuneration paid to the Bank’s muneration. Other information concerning remumeeting 2014 section on page 53. management or to any employee who makes neration paid by the Bank in accordance with the The Board decides on remuneration to the decisions on credits or limits. Employees who, current regulations is presented in note G8 on ofﬁcers who are subject to the AGM’s remualone or together with others, are entitled to pages 108–111. This note also provides inforneration guidelines, as stated in the previous decide on credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, mation about amounts for salaries, pensions and paragraph, a total of 21 individuals (as at 31 commodity risk, currency risk or interest rate other beneﬁts, and loans to Executive Directors. December 2014). The Board also determines risk limits, as well as employees who, by decidremuneration for ofﬁcers with main responsibility ing on credits or product terms and conditions, Fundamental remuneration principles for the control functions: Compliance, Internal can affect the Bank’s risk proﬁle, can have only In Sweden and certain other countries, the Bank Audit and Risk Control. ﬁxed remuneration. is party to collective agreements on general Remuneration to the CEO and other ExecuVariable remuneration is based on Handelsterms and conditions of employment during the tive Directors is paid only in the form of ﬁxed salbanken’s model for setting salaries and it must employment period and on terms and condiary and pension provisions, and also customary be designed so that it does not encourage untions of pensions after employees have reached beneﬁts such as a company car. Following a healthy risk-taking and is within the limits of retirement age. special decision by the Board, Handelsbanken the Bank’s risk tolerance. The ﬁnancial result The aim of the Bank’s policy on salaries is to can provide housing as part of the remuneraon which the variable remuneration is based is increase the Bank’s competitiveness and proﬁttion. No variable remuneration is paid, nor are charged with the actual cost of the capital and ability, to enable the Bank to attract, retain and there any agreements on severance pay. The liquidity required by the operations. There must develop skilled staff, and to ensure good skills period of notice on the part of the ofﬁcer is a also be a reasonable balance between ﬁxed and development and management succession planmaximum of six months, and on the part of variable remuneration. ning. Good proﬁtability and productivity perforHandelsbanken a maximum of twelve months Only employees within units whose proﬁts mance at the Bank create the necessary condior, if the Bank terminates the contract later than derive from commissions or intermediary transtions for salary growth for the Bank’s employees. ﬁve years after the person becomes a member actions that take place without the Bank being The Bank takes a long-term view of its staff’s of the group of Executive Directors, the period subject to risk, are entitled to receive variable employment. Remuneration for work performed of notice is a maximum of 24 months. remuneration. Variable remuneration is only paid is set individually for each employee, and is paid According to the AGM guidelines, the retirein cash, and the disbursement of at least 40 per in the form of a ﬁxed salary, customary salary ment age for new executive ofﬁcers is 65 years cent of variable remuneration of SEK 100,000 or beneﬁts and a pension provision. At Handelsof age. For ofﬁcers who remain in their positions more must be deferred by at least three years. banken, salary-setting takes place at local level. after reaching standard retirement age, a muFor variable remuneration where the employee’s The main principle is that salaries are set locally tual period of notice of no more than six months variable remuneration exceeds the remunerain salary reviews between the employee and his/ applies. tion of any member of Senior Management, her line manager. These principles have been Executive Directors receive an allocation in 60 per cent is deferred for four years. Deferred applied for many years with great success. They Handelsbanken’s proﬁt-sharing scheme Oktovariable remuneration can be removed or remean that managers at all levels participate reggonen on the same conditions as all other emduced if losses, increased risks or increased ularly in the salary process, and take responsiployees of the Bank and are also entitled to conexpenses arise during the deferment period or if bility for the Bank’s salary policy and the growth vert salary to pension on the same conditions as payment is deemed to be unjustiﬁable in view of in their own unit’s staff costs. other employees. Note G8 on pages 108–111 the Bank’s ﬁnancial situation. Payment and the Salaries are based on factors known in adprovides further information about remuneration right of ownership to the variable remuneration vance: the nature and level of difﬁculty of the to executive ofﬁcers. External fees such as fees do not accrue to the person with the entitlement work, skills, performance and results achieved, for serving on the boards of other companies on until after the end of the deferment period. No leadership (for managers who are responsible for behalf of the Bank must be paid in to the Bank. employee may receive variable remuneration of the career development of employees), supply Ahead of the 2015 AGM, guidelines will be more than 100 per cent of his/her ﬁxed remuand demand on the market, and performance as proposed for remuneration and other terms of neration. Variable remuneration for 2014 was an ambassador for the Bank’s corporate culture. employment for executive ofﬁcers of Handelsless than two per cent of the Group’s total salary The principle of only having a ﬁxed salary banken that are essentially unchanged. costs and fees. applies to more than 97 per cent of the Group’s employees, and is applied without exception to Variable remuneration executive ofﬁcers, all staff who decide on the At Handelsbanken, the Board decides on the Bank’s granting of credits, and employees in the remuneration policy. The main principle of the Bank’s control functions. policy is that remuneration is paid in the form of 60 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Board’s report on internal control regarding financial reporting The presentation of Handelsbanken’s internal Group Finance is responsible for consolidated High information security is a precondition for control process for ﬁnancial reporting is based accounts, consolidated ﬁnancial reports and good internal control of ﬁnancial reporting, thus on the framework developed by the Commitfor ﬁnancial and administrative control systems. there are regulations and guidelines to ensure tee of Sponsoring Organizations of the TreadThe unit’s responsibilities also include the availability, accuracy, conﬁdentiality and traceway Commission (COSO). The process was Group’s liquidity, the internal bank, own funds, ability of information in the business systems. designed to ensure compliance with the Bank’s tax analysis and Groupwide reporting to public As part of the quality control work for ﬁnanprinciples for ﬁnancial reporting and internal authorities. The capital requirement is, however, cial reporting, the Board has set up an audit control, and to ensure that the ﬁnancial reportcalculated by the independent risk control. committee consisting of the Chairman of the ing has been prepared pursuant to the law, Group Finance must also ensure that the staff Board and two Board members. The commitapplicable accounting standards, and other concerned are aware of and have access to tee processes crucial accounting matters and requirements related to listed companies. instructions of signiﬁcance to the ﬁnancial reportthe ﬁnancial reports produced by the Bank. The ing. The independent risk control identiﬁes, committee also supervises the efﬁciency of the Control environment checks and reports risks of errors in the Bank’s internal control, internal auditing and risk manThe control environment described above in this assumptions and assessments that form the agement systems for ﬁnancial reporting. See the Corporate Governance Report is fundamental basis of the Bank’s ﬁnancial reporting. section under the Committee work heading on to Handelsbanken’s internal control of ﬁnancial Reported amounts are regularly reconciled and page 55 for more details. reporting: organisational structure, division of rechecked and income statements and balance sponsibilities, guidelines and steering documents. sheets analysed within the accounting and conInformation and communication Risk assessment is another part of the intertrol organisation. The Bank has information and communication nal control process and comprises identiﬁcation Heads of accounting and control at regional paths with the aim of achieving completeness and management of the risks that may affect banks, subsidiaries, central departments and and correctness in its ﬁnancial reports. The ﬁnancial reporting, as well as the control activiinternational units are responsible for ensuring Group’s general accounting instructions ties aimed at preventing, detecting and correctthat the control activities in the ﬁnancial reporting and special procedures for producing ﬁnancial ing errors and deviations. for their respective units are ﬁt-for-purpose – i.e. reports are communicated to the staff conthat they are designed to prevent, detect and cerned via the Group’s intranet. The system Risk assessment correct errors and deviations, and are in compliused for ﬁnancial reporting encompasses the The annual self-evaluations carried out at ance with internal guidelines and instructions. entire Group. regional banks, subsidiaries and central departAt each quarterly closing of accounts, the units ments are an essential part of the Bank’s risk certify that the prescribed periodic checks and Follow-up assessment. Risks related to ﬁnancial reporting reconciliation of accounts have been carried out. Internal Audit, Compliance and the centrally are part of this total analysis. The head of the independent risk control is located independent risk control function, and In a self-evaluation, the events that constitute responsible for setting up and maintaining a also the accounting/control units, monitor compotential risks to the operation are evaluared valuation committee. The committee’s role is pliance with internal policies, instructions and and then the probability and consequences to support the independent risk control, Group other policy documents. Monitoring takes place of each risk are estimated. Particular focus is Finance and the local risk and treasury functions at central level, but also locally in regional banks, placed on the risk of fraud and the risk of loss or in the decision-making processes for valuation subsidiaries, central departments and internaembezzlement of assets. A plan of action is then and reporting matters. The committee deals tional units. The instructions established by the drawn up, based on the self-evaluation. Other with the valuation of ﬁnancial assets and liabiliBoard for Internal Audit state that it must examine aspects of Handelsbanken’s risk management ties, including derivatives at fair value and also internal governance and control. Internal Audit are detailed in note G2 on pages 81–105. ﬁnancial guarantees, both own holdings and is described in more detail on page 57. The holdings on behalf of others. The committee Group’s information and communication paths Control activities must ensure that the valuation complies with are monitored continually to ensure that they are Various control activities are incorporated in the external regulations, internal guidelines and ﬁt-for-purpose for the ﬁnancial reporting. entire ﬁnancial reporting process. current market practices. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Board members Name Anders Nyrén, Fredrik Lundberg, Sverker Martin-Löf, Jon Fredrik Baksaas, Pär Boman, Chairman Vice Chairman Vice Chairman Board Member Board Member Position President and CEO of President and CEO of Director President and CEO of Telenor President and CEO of AB Industrivärden L E Lundbergföretagen AB ASA Handelsbanken Education Graduate in Business Graduate in Business Lic. Tech, PhD (h.c.) Graduate in Business Engineering and Business/ Administration and MBA, Administration and Master of Administration and MBA Economics degree PhD (Econ) h.c. Engineering, PhD (Econ) h.c. and PhD (Tech) h.c. Year elected 2001 2002 2002 2003 2006 Year of birth 1954 1951 1943 1954 1961 Nationality Swedish Swedish Swedish Norwegian Swedish Other assignments Chairman of Sandvik AB Chairman of Holmen AB, Chairman of AB Industrivärden, Chairman GSM Association Board member AB Industriy Board member Stockholm Hufvudstaden AB, Svenska Cellulosa AB SCA, y Board Member of Doorstep värden, Svenska Cellulosa School of Economics Indutrade AB y Board member SSAB AB y Vice Chairman AS y Member of Det Norske AB SCA. and Stockholm School of L E Lundbergföretagen AB, Telefonaktiebolaget L M Veritas (council). Economics Association, AB Industrivärden, Skanska AB. Ericsson y Board member AB Industrivärden, Svenska Skanska AB. Cellulosa AB SCA, AB Volvo y Vice Preses IVA. Background 1997–2001 Deputy CEO, Active at Lundbergs since 1977–2002 Active at Svenska 1994–2002 CFO, EVP, 2002–2005 EVP, Head of CFO, Skanska y 1996–1997 1977 y CEO L E LundbergCellulosa AB SCA in various Senior EVP Telenor ASA Handelsbanken Markets Dir Markets and Corporate företagen AB since 1981. management positions. y 1997–1998 Managing y 1998–2002 EVP, Head of Finance Nordbanken y Director Telenor Bedrift AS Regional Bank Denmark, 1992–1996 Deputy CEO, y 1989–1994 CFO, CEO Handelsbanken y Employed CFO Securum y 1987–1992 TBK AS y 1988–1989 Chief at Handelsbanken since 1991. CEO OM International AB y Finance Director Aker AS y 1986–1987 CEO STC Venture 1985–1988 Chief Finance AB y 1982–1987 Deputy Director Stolt Nielsen Seaway CEO, CFO, STC y 1979–1982 AS, Oslo and Haugesund y Director AB Wilhelm Becker. 1979–1985 System consultant, Controller, Contract Coordinator Det Norske Veritas. Remuneration 2014 1 SEK 3,937,500 SEK 1,218,750 SEK 1,418,750 SEK 618,750 SEK 0 Credit committee Chairman Attendance 12/13 13/13 13/13 – 13/13 Audit committee Chairman Attendance 5/5 – 5/5 – – Remuneration Chairman committee 9/9 – – – – Attendance Risk committee Chairman Attendance 3/3 – – – – Board meetings Chairman Attendance 10/10 10/10 10/10 9/10 10/10 Own shareholdings 2,000 2,525,000 and 12,500,000 4,000 0 12,335, of which 6,335 in and those of via L E Lundbergföretagen AB indirect holdings 3. Staff immediate family convertible at nominal amount: 2011: SEK 8,318,142 2014: SEK 9,793,942 Dependent/ Not independent Independent of the Bank Independent of the Bank Independent of the Bank, Not independent independent (President and CEO of and its management. Not and its management. Not its management and (President and CEO). AB Industrivärden). independent of major shareindependent of major sharemajor shareholders. holders (Board member holders (Board member AB Industrivärden). AB Industrivärden). 1 2 During the period January 2014 until the AGM in March 2014, Member of remuneration committee from March 2014. 3 Lone Fønss Schrøder was a member of the Board. Her remuIndirect holding of shares in Handelsbanken via the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing foundation. neration for this and for her work in the audit committee was SEK 187,500. Total remuneration to the Board in 2014 was SEK 10,625,000. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Name Tommy Bylund, Jan Johansson, Ole Johansson, Bente Rathe, Charlotte Skog, Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Position Senior Vice President President and CEO of Svenska Director Director Bank employee Cellulosa AB SCA Education Upper Secondary School Bachelor of Laws Diploma in Economics and Graduate in Business Economics Programme Upper Business Administration Administration and MBA Secondary School Year elected 2000 2009 2012 2004 2012 Year of birth 1959 1954 1951 1954 1964 Nationality Swedish Swedish Finnish Norwegian Swedish Other assignments Chairman of the Oktogonen Board member SSAB AB, Chairman of EQ Oyj Abp, Chair of Ecohz AS and Board member Financial Sector Foundation y Board member Svenska Cellulosa AB SCA. Aker Arctic Technology Inc Cenium AS (both companies Union of Sweden, Oktogonen of Ljusdal Municipality’s y Vice Chair of Hartwall are subsidiaries of Home Foundation y Deputy board business policy foundation, Capital Oy Ab. Invest AS) y Board member member Finansliv Sverige AB. Närljus. Polaris Media ASA, Home Invest AS and its subsidiary Nordic Choice Hospitality Group AS, Aker Kvaerner Holding AS. Background Employed at Handelsbanken 2001–2007 President and 1975–2011 various positions 1999–2002 Deputy CEO Employed at Handelsbanken since 1980 y Branch manager CEO Boliden AB y 2001 Head within Wärtsilä (Metra) Gjensidige NOR (CEO of life since 1989. at Handelsbanken since 1992. of network operations Telia AB Group except for a period insurance company, Chair y 1994–2001 Deputy CEO at Valmet 1979–1981 of Mutual Fund and Asset Vattenfall y 1990–1994 Head y CEO 2000–2011. Management Company) of Division at Svenska Shell y 1996–1999 CEO Gjensidige y 1985–1990 Corporate Bank AS y 1993–1996 CEO lawyer at Shell y 1984–1985 Elcon Finans AS y 1991–1993 Trainee lawyer y 1981–1983 Deputy CEO Forenede District court clerk. Forsikring y 1989–1991 CFO Forenede Forsikring y 1977–1989 Head of Credits and CFO E.A. Smith AS. Remuneration 2014 1 SEK 0 SEK 743,750 SEK 1,243,750 SEK 1,256,250 SEK 0 Credit committee Deputy member Deputy member Attendance 13/13 13/13 13/13 2/13 Audit committee Attendance – – 3/5 2 – – Remuneration committee – 9/9 – 9/9 – Attendance Risk committee Attendance – – 3/3 3/3 – Board meetings Attendance 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 Own shareholdings 19,492, of which 19,492 in 5,000 12,165 1,330 6,781, of which 6,781 in and those of indirect holdings 3. Staff indirect holdings 3. Staff immediate family convertible at nominal amount: convertible at nominal amount: 2011: SEK 1,131,799 2011: SEK 242,722 2014: SEK 1,188,742 2014: SEK 251,744 Dependent/ Not independent Not independent of the Bank Independent of the Bank, Independent of the Bank, Not independent (employee). independent (employee). and its management (Handelsits management and major its management and major banken’s CEO is a member of shareholders. shareholders. the board of SCA). Independent of major shareholders. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Senior Management and Audit and Whistleblowing Function Group Functions Executives Per Beckman 1, 2 Olof Lindstrand Credits y Year of birth 1962 y Employed 1993 y Shareholdings 3,265, of which 3,265 in Central Head Ofﬁce y Year of birth 1949 y Employed 1985 y Shareholdings 1,071, of which indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 1,071 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 Yonnie Bergqvist 1 Claes Norlén 1, 2 Central Head Ofﬁce y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 1979 y Shareholdings 18,484, of which Central Head Ofﬁce y Year of birth 1955 y Employed 1978 y Shareholdings 24,710, of which 18,347 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,000,000, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 24,129 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,654,514, 2014: SEK 5,441,079 Katarina Berner Frösdal 1, 2 Anders Ohlner 1 HR and Sustainability y Year of birth 1956 y Employed 1979 y Shareholdings 21,027, of which Central Head Ofﬁce y Year of birth 1955 y Employed 1985 y Shareholdings 10,875, of which 21,027 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 10,375 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Pär Boman 1, 2 Ulf Riese 1, 2 President and Group Chief Executive y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 1991 y Shareholdings CFO y Year of birth 1959 y Employed 1983 y Shareholdings 46,074, of which 15,336 in 12,335, of which 6,335 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 8,318,142, 2014: indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 SEK 9,793,942 Michael Green 1 Håkan Sandberg 1, 2 Capital Markets y Year of birth 1966 y Employed 1994 y Shareholdings 4,392, of which Central Head Ofﬁce y Year of birth 1948 y Employed 1969 y Shareholdings 5,552, of which 4,392 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 462 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,654,514, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Maria Hedin 1, 2 Klas Tollstadius CRO y Year of birth 1964 y Employed 2010 y Shareholdings 847, of which 765 in indirect Company Secretary and Corporate Governance y Year of birth 1954 y Employed 1991 holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 155,454, 2014: SEK 5,176,431 y Shareholdings 6,366, of which 6,366 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,327,257, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Jan Häggström Economic Research y Year of birth 1949 y Employed 1988 y Shareholdings 7,852, of which 7,852 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Compliance Anders H Johansson 1, 2 Luciana Pacor Hygrell IT y Year of birth 1955 y Employed 1999 y Shareholdings 2,753, of which 2,753 in indirect Compliance y Year of birth 1954 y Employed 1979 y Shareholdings 20,200, of which holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 20,197 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 750,000, 2014: SEK 5,441,079 Ulf Köping-Höggård Legal y Year of birth 1949 y Employed 1990 y Shareholdings 6,750, of which 6,750 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: SEK 5,000,000 Johan Lagerström 1, 2 Communications y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 2002 y Shareholdings 2,566, of which Independent of Senior Management 2,170 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 – Audit and Whistleblowing Function Agneta Lilja 1, 2 Tord Jonerot Infrastructure y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 1985 y Shareholdings 12,126, of which Audit y Year of birth 1958 y Employed 1990 y Shareholdings 6,664, of which 6,664 in 12,126 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: 5,617,510 indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,654,514, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 64 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Group Business Executives Jan Amethier 1 Stefan Nilsson Merchant Banking International y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 2010 y Shareholdings 765, Eastern Sweden y Year of birth 1957 y Employed 1980 y Shareholdings 19,454, of which of which 765 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 777,271, 2014: SEK 1,012,310 19,454 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Nina Arkilahti 1 John Parker Finland y Year of birth 1967 y Employed 1995 y Shareholdings 5,667, of which 3,268 in Northern Great Britain y Year of birth 1955 y Employed 2006 y Shareholdings 469, of which indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,000,000, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 469 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,769,607 Anders Bouvin 1 Louise Sander UK y Year of birth 1958 y Employed 1985 y Shareholdings 12,369, of which 12,369 in Pension & Life y Year of birth 1969 y Employed 2013 y Shareholdings 112, of which 62 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: –, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 Michael Broom Göran Stille South West Great Britain y Year of birth 1959 y Employed 2009 y Shareholdings 168, of which Southern Sweden y Year of birth 1966 y Employed 1987 y Shareholdings 3,162, of which 168 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,769,602 3,162 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,654,514, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Per Elcar 1 Ulrica Stolt Kirkegaard Markets & Asset Management y Year of birth 1962 y Employed 2002 y Shareholdings Stadshypotek y Year of birth 1968 y Employed 1994 y Shareholdings 3,993, of which 3,993 2,052, of which 2,052 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,000,000 SEK 1,188,742 Magnus Ericson Mikael Sørensen 1 Northern Sweden y Year of birth 1968 y Employed 1988 y Shareholdings 5,975, of which Netherlands y Year of birth 1966 y Employed 1994 y Shareholdings 1,751, of which 1,751 5,875 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 John Hodson Dag Tjernsmo 1 Southern Great Britain y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 2007 y Shareholdings 354, of which Norway y Year of birth 1962 y Employed 1988 y Shareholdings 4,032, of which 4,032 in 354 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 1,340,957 indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,000,000, 2014: SEK 5,441,079 Katarina Ljungqvist Frank Vang-Jensen 1 Western Sweden y Year of birth 1965 y Employed 1989 y Shareholdings 6,953, of which Sweden y Year of birth 1967 y Employed 1998 y Shareholdings 1,780, of which 1,780 in 6,953 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,000,000, 2014: SEK 5,000,000 Simon Lodge Åsa Willén North East Great Britain y Year of birth 1958 y Employed 2004 y Shareholdings 806, of which Forestry & Farming y Year of birth 1971 y Employed 2009 y Shareholdings 1,169, of which 806 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,654,514, 2014: SEK 5,769,602 1,169 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 242,722, 2014: SEK 5,176,431 Nick Lowe Pontus Åhlund Central Great Britain y Year of birth 1966 y Employed 2007 y Shareholdings 336, of which Central Sweden y Year of birth 1963 y Employed 1983 y Shareholdings 11,243, of which 336 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,152,092 10,243 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Lars Moesgaard 1 Carina Åkerström Denmark y Year of birth 1968 y Employed 1988 y Shareholdings 2,109, of which 1,628 in Stockholm Sweden y Year of birth 1962 y Employed 1986 y Shareholdings 7,031, of which indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 7,031 in indirect holdings* y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 1 Executive Directors: Covered by the remuneration guidelines in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. 2 Corporate Committee: Individuals who prepare cases to be presented to the Board. * Indirect holding of shares in Handelsbanken via the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing foundation. 3 See note G38. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 65 Financial reports Group CONTENTS Income statement 67 G23 Offsetting of ﬁnancial instruments 121 Statement of comprehensive income 68 G24 Intangible assets 122 Balance sheet 69 G25 Property and equipment 123 Statement of changes in equity 70 G26 Other assets 123 Cash ﬂow statement 71 G27 Prepaid expenses and Notes Group 72 accrued income 123 G1 Accounting policies and other G28 Due to credit institutions 124 basis for preparing the ﬁnancial reports 72 G29 Deposits and borrowing from the public 124 G2 Risk and capital management 81 G30 Liabilities where the customer G3 Net interest income 106 bears the value change risk 124 G4 Net fee and commission income 106 G31 Issued securities 125 G5 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial G32 Short positions 125 transactions 107 G33 Insurance liabilities 125 G6 Risk result – insurance 107 G34 Taxes 126 G7 Other income 107 G35 Provisions 127 G8 Staff costs 108 G36 Other liabilities 127 G9 Other expenses 112 G37 Accrued expenses and G10 Loan losses 112 deferred income 127 G11 Gains/losses on disposal G38 Subordinated liabilities 127 of property, equipment and intangible assets 115 G39 Classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 128 G12 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations 115 G40 Fair value measurement of ﬁnancial instruments 130 G13 Earnings per share 115 G41 Pledged assets, collateral G14 Other loans to central banks 115 received and transferred ﬁnancial assets 133 G15 Loans to other credit institutions 116 G42 Contingent liabilities 134 G16 Loans to the public 116 G43 Other commitments 134 G17 Interest-bearing securities 117 G44 Leases 135 G18 Shares 117 G45 Segment reporting 136 G19 Investments in associates 118 G46 Geographical information 138 G20 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 119 G47 Assets and liabilities in currencies 138 G21 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities 119 G48 Related-party disclosures 139 G22 Derivative instruments 120 G49 Capital adequacy 140 66 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 INCOME STATEMENT | GROUP Income statement Group Group SEK m 2014 2013 Interest income Note G3 50 899 54 463 Interest expense Note G3 -23 655 -27 794 Net interest income 27 244 26 669 Fee and commission income Note G4 10 143 9 294 Fee and commission expense Note G4 -1 587 -1 490 Net fee and commission income 8 556 7 804 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions Note G5 1 777 1 357 Risk result, insurance Note G6 165 142 Other dividend income 251 161 Share of proﬁt of associates Note G19 18 9 Other income Note G7 303 185 Total income 38 314 36 327 Staff costs Note G8 -11 766 -11 404 Other expenses Note G9 -5 099 -5 181 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets Note G24, G25 -462 -476 Total expenses -17 327 -17 061 Proﬁt before loan losses 20 987 19 266 Net loan losses Note G10 -1 781 -1 195 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets Note G11 6 17 Operating proﬁt 19 212 18 088 Taxes Note G34 -4 069 -3 915 Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 15 143 14 173 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax Note G12 41 122 Proﬁt for the year 15 184 14 295 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 15 183 14 295 Minority interest 1 0 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK Note G13 23.82 22.33 after dilution Note G13 23.45 22.07 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK Note G13 0.06 0.19 after dilution Note G13 0.06 0.19 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK Note G13 23.89 22.52 after dilution Note G13 23.51 22.26 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 67 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME | GROUP Statement of comprehensive income Group Group SEK m 2014 2013 Proﬁt for the year 15 184 14 295 Other comprehensive income Items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss Deﬁned beneﬁt plans -2 699 1 402 Taxes on items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss 592 -307 Total items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss -2 107 1 095 Items that can be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss Cash ﬂow hedges 8 772 -3 410 Available-for-sale instruments 295 535 Translation difference for the year 5 924 763 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations 2 558 767 Tax on items that can be related into proﬁt and loss -2 501 514 of which cash ﬂow hedges -1 924 744 of which available-for-sale instruments -14 -61 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations -563 -169 Total items that can be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss 12 490 -1 598 Total other comprehensive income 10 383 -503 Total comprehensive income for the year 25 567 13 792 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 25 566 13 792 Minority interest 1 0 The period’s reclassiﬁcations to the income statement are presented in Statement of changes in equity. Discontinued operations only affects Translation difference for the year in Other comprehensive income. 68 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BALANCE SHEET | GROUP Balance sheet Group Group SEK m 2014 2013 ASSETS Cash and balances with central banks 454 532 334 794 Other loans to central banks Note G14 51 047 35 160 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Note G17 78 219 57 451 Loans to other credit institutions Note G15 70 339 62 898 Loans to the public Note G16 1 807 836 1 696 339 Value change of interest hedged item in portfolio hedge 70 96 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Note G17 63 725 64 125 Shares Note G18 46 546 48 595 Investments in associates Note G19 286 272 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk Note G20 94 763 80 930 Derivative instruments Note G22 116 124 69 961 Reinsurance assets 6 4 Intangible assets Note G24 8 132 7 835 Property and equipment Note G25 2 239 2 205 Current tax assets 115 405 Deferred tax assets Note G34 389 269 Net pension assets Note G8 1 733 Assets held for sale 1 196 1 247 Other assets Note G26 14 321 13 262 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Note G27 6 791 7 140 Total assets Note G39 2 816 676 2 484 721 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Due to credit institutions Note G28 200 074 171 624 Deposits and borrowing from the public Note G29 1 022 267 825 205 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk Note G30 94 864 80 977 Issued securities Note G31 1 212 613 1 150 641 Derivative instruments Note G22 62 878 61 529 Short positions Note G32 20 648 22 845 Insurance liabilities Note G33 663 622 Current tax liabilities 957 831 Deferred tax liabilities Note G34 9 209 7 413 Provisions Note G35 68 141 Net pension liabilities Note G8 1 480 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 580 539 Other liabilities Note G36 14 578 13 189 Accrued expenses and deferred income Note G37 18 681 21 861 Subordinated liabilities Note G38 30 289 15 965 Total liabilities Note G39 2 689 849 2 373 382 Minority interest 3 2 Share capital 2 956 2 956 Share premium 3 203 2 843 Reserves 12 220 1 837 Retained earnings 93 262 89 406 Proﬁt for the year, attributable to shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 15 183 14 295 Total equity 126 827 111 339 Total liabilities and equity 2 816 676 2 484 721 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 69 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY | GROUP Statement of changes in equity Group Group 2014 Deﬁned Fair Share Share beneﬁt Hedge value Translation Retained Minority SEK m capital premium plans reserve reserve reserve earnings interest Total Opening equity 2014 2 956 2 843 3 110 -1 517 1 043 -799 103 701 2 111 339 Proﬁt for the year 15 183 1 15 184 Other comprehensive income -2 107 6 848 281 5 361 0 10 383 Total comprehensive income for the year -2 107 6 848 281 5 361 15 183 1 25 567 Dividend -10 488 -10 488 Effects of convertible subordinated loans1 0 360 49 409 Changes in minority interests 0 0 0 Closing equity 2014 2 956 3 203 1 003 5 331 1 324 4 562 108 445 3 126 827 Group 2013 Deﬁned Fair Share Share beneﬁt Hedge value Translation Retained Minority SEK m capital premium plans reserve reserve reserve earnings interest Total Opening equity 2013 2 943 2 337 1 149 569 -1 393 101 290 2 106 897 Effects of implementing revised IAS 19 2 015 -5 062 -3 047 Opening equity after adjustment 2 943 2 337 2 015 1 149 569 -1 393 96 228 2 103 850 Proﬁt for the year 14 295 0 14 295 Other comprehensive income 1 095 -2 666 474 594 -503 Total comprehensive income for the year 1 095 -2 666 474 594 14 295 0 13 792 Dividend -6 822 -6 822 Effects of convertible subordinated loans 13 506 519 Changes in minority interests 0 Closing equity 2013 2 956 2 843 3 110 -1 517 1 043 -799 103 701 2 111 339 1 The inherent value of the option to convert in issued convertible debt instruments is recognised in the share premium reserve. The net effect of the 2014 convertible instrument of debt amounted to SEK 466m. During the third quarter, the share premium reserve was adjusted by SEK 243m for deferred tax on the convertible instrument of debt. This amount is recognised in the income statement over the remaining maturity. During the period January to December 2014, convertibles for a nominal value of SEK 6m (533) relating to the 2008 subordinated convertible bond had been converted into 29,924 class A shares (2,838,683). At the end of the ﬁnancial year the number of Handelsbanken shares in the trading book was 0 (0). Speciﬁcation of changes in equity Change in hedge reserve SEK m 2014 2013 Hedge reserve at beginning of year -1 517 1 149 Unrealised value changes during the year 14 631 -772 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement1 -7 783 -1 894 Hedge reserve at end of year 5 331 -1 517 Change in fair value reserve SEK m 2014 2013 Fair value reserve at beginning of year 1 043 569 Unrealised market value change during the year for remaining and new holdings 240 509 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement2 41 -35 Fair value reserve at end of year 1 324 1 043 Change in translation reserve SEK m 2014 2013 Translation reserve at beginning of year -799 -1 393 Change in translation difference pertaining to branches 5 136 687 Change in translation difference pertaining to subsidiaries 230 -107 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement3 -5 14 Translation reserve at end of year 4 562 -799 1 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 2,195m (535). 2 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK -10m (16). 3 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 1m (-17). 70 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CASH FLOW STATEMENT | GROUP Cash flow statement Group Group SEK m 2014 2013 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating proﬁt, total operations 19 304 18 233 of which paid-in interest 51 568 55 030 of which paid-out interest -27 175 -27 923 of which paid-in dividends 929 1 044 Adjustment for non-cash items in proﬁt/loss Loan losses 2 066 1 392 Unrealised changes in value 1 158 -250 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 462 476 Paid income tax -4 011 -4 973 Changes in the assets and liabilities of operating activities Other loans to central banks -15 887 -22 790 Loans to other credit institutions -7 285 26 605 Loans to the public -113 608 -12 152 Interest-bearing securities and shares -20 983 -23 393 Due to credit institutions 28 450 -12 321 Deposits and borrowing from the public 197 189 142 810 Issued securities 61 972 -785 Derivative instruments, net positions -44 123 -3 323 Short-term positions -2 197 6 644 Claims and liabilities on investment banking settlements -1 033 -782 Other -48 676 -7 607 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 52 798 107 784 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisition of subsidiary 0 -446 Change in shares -1 969 -85 Change in interest-bearing securities 3 405 594 Change in property and equipment -391 -320 Change in intangible non-current assets -258 -335 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 787 -592 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repayment of subordinated loans -2 905 -4 048 Issued subordinated loans 16 612 Dividend paid -10 488 -6 822 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 3 219 -10 870 Cash ﬂow for the year 56 804 96 322 Liquid funds at beginning of year 334 794 236 545 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 52 798 107 784 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 787 -592 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 3 219 -10 870 Exchange rate difference on liquid funds 62 934 1 927 Liquid funds at end of year 454 532 334 794 Liquid funds are deﬁned as Cash and balances with central banks. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 71 NOTES | GROUP Notes Group G1 Accounting policies and amending the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations and general guidelines to have a material impact on Handelsbanken’s ﬁnancial reports, capital adequacy, large expoother basis for preparing the (FFFS 2008:25) concerning annual reports in sures or other circumstances according to the financial reports credit institutions and securities companies. The applicable regulatory requirements. amendments will be implemented for the ﬁnancial 1. STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE year starting on 1 January 2014. The changes 3. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated accounts have been prepared have led to increased demands for disclosures AND PRESENTATION in accordance with international ﬁnancial regarding income etc. divided by country. These Subsidiaries reporting standards (IFRSs) and interpretations disclosures are shown in note G46. All companies directly or indirectly controlled of these standards as adopted by the EU. In In other respects, the accounting policies, by Handelsbanken (subsidiaries) have been addition, the accounting policies also follow the classiﬁcations and calculation methods applied fully consolidated. The Bank is deemed to have Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and by the Group during the ﬁnancial year agree direct control of a company when it is exposed Securities Companies (1995:1559), and the in all essentials with the policies applied in the to, or is entitled to, variable returns from its holdregulations and general guidelines issued by the 2013 annual report. ings in the company and can affect the return by Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, FFFS means of its inﬂuence over the company. Control 2008:25, Annual reports in credit institutions Future regulatory changes is normally presumed to exist if Handelsbanken and securities companies. RFR 1 SupplemenIFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is to replace owns more than 50 per cent of the voting power tary accounting rules for groups as well as IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and at shareholders’ meetings or the equivalent. statements from the Swedish Financial ReportMeasurement, was adopted by the IASB in July Subsidiaries are consolidated according ing Board are also applied in the consolidated 2014. Assuming that IFRS 9 is adopted by the to the acquisition method. This means that accounts. EU, and the date of implementation proposed the acquisition of a subsidiary is regarded as The parent company’s accounting policies by the IASB is not changed, this standard will a transaction where the Group acquires the are shown in note P1. be applied as of the 2018 ﬁnancial year. The company’s identiﬁable assets and assumes its standard comprises three areas: classiﬁcation liabilities and obligations. In the case of business Issuing and adoption of annual report and measurement, impairment of ﬁnancial combinations, an acquisition balance sheet is The annual report and consolidated accounts instruments and general hedge accounting. The prepared, where identiﬁable assets and liabilities were approved for issue by the Board on 3 new regulations for classiﬁcation and measureare valued at fair value at the time of acquisition. February 2015 and will be adopted by the AGM ment of ﬁnancial instruments are based on the The cost of the business combination comon 25 March 2015. company’s business model and the purpose of prises the fair value of all assets, liabilities and the holding. As a result of the new regulations issued equity instruments provided as payment 2. CHANGED ACCOUNTING POLICIES ETC. on impairment, a model is being introduced for the net assets in the subsidiary. Any surplus On 1 January 2014, IFRS 10 Consolidated which is based on expected loan losses and due to the cost of the business combination Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangenot on incurred loan losses as in the existing exceeding the identiﬁable net assets on ments, and IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interest in model in IAS 39. The new general regulations the acquisition balance sheet is recognised Other Entities came into effect for application of hedge accounting allow the company’s own as goodwill in the Group’s balance sheet. in the EU. The new regulations mean that the risk management to be better reﬂected in the Acquisition-related costs are recognised when previous stipulations in IAS 27 and SIC 12 ﬁnancial reports. The Bank is currently analysing they arise. The subsidiary’s ﬁnancial reports are concerning when a company is to be consolithe ﬁnancial effects of the new standard in more included in the consolidated accounts starting dated in the consolidated accounts are being detail. on the acquisition date until the date on which replaced by a number of assessment criteria IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with control ceases. Intra-group transactions and for when an entity controls another entity. The customers has also been adopted by the IASB. balances are eliminated when preparing the new regulations imply that fund units owned Assuming that IFRS 15 is adopted by the EU, Group’s ﬁnancial reports. by the Bank through unit-linked insurance and the date of implementation proposed by Where the accounting policies applied for an contracts will not be included in the assessment the IASB is not changed, this standard will be individual subsidiary do not correspond to the of whether controlling inﬂuence of a mutual fund applied as of the 2017 ﬁnancial year. The Bank policies applied in the Group, an adjustment company applies. This leads to adjustments in is currently analysing the ﬁnancial effects of the is made to the consolidated accounts when the balance sheet as shown in note G20 and new standard. consolidating the subsidiary. note G30. The application of the new regulations The IFRIC 21 Levies interpretative commuMutual funds in which the Bank owns more does not affect the income statement, and has nication has been adopted for application by than 50 per cent of the shares are consolidated no effect on the Bank’s capital adequacy. The the EU. IFRIC 21 will be applied as of the 2015 in their entirety in the balance sheet under new regulations also involve new disclosure ﬁnancial year. The interpretation clariﬁes that Assets/Liabilities where the customer bears the requirements regarding holdings in nonif the obligating event of a levy is that banking value change risk. Ownership of between 20 consolidated structured entities. These disclooperations are carried out at the end of the and 50 per cent is consolidated in certain cases sures are described in note G21. It also involves accounting period, no liability is to be recogif the circumstances indicate that the Bank has small changes in the disclosure requirements nised before this date. This regulatory change is a controlling interest, for example if the fund has regarding subsidiaries and associated companot expected to have a material impact on the a broad management mandate and generates a nies, see note G19. Group’s ﬁnancial position and earnings, nor will high proportion of variable return. Funds which FFFS 2008:25 Annual reports in credit it have an impact on the capital adequacy. the Bank owns through unit-linked insurance institutions and securities companies has been None of the other changes in the accounting contracts are not consolidated. amended through FFFS 2014:18 Regulations regulations issued for application are assessed 72 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Associated companies 4. SEGMENT REPORTING on the settlement date. Financial assets are Companies in which Handelsbanken has a The segment reporting presents income and removed from the balance sheet when the consigniﬁcant inﬂuence are reported as associates. expenses split into business segments. A tractual rights to the cash ﬂows originating from A signiﬁcant inﬂuence normally exists when the business segment is a part of the Group that the asset expire or when all risks and rewards share of voting power in the company is at least runs operations which generate external or related to the asset are transferred to another 20 per cent and at most 50 per cent. Associates internal income and expenses and of which the party. A ﬁnancial liability is removed from the are reported in the consolidated accounts in proﬁt/loss is regularly assessed and followed up balance sheet when the obligation ceases or accordance with the equity method. This means by the company management as part of coris cancelled. that the holding is initially reported at cost. The porate governance. The principles for segment When accounting for business combinations, carrying amount is increased or decreased to reporting are described further in note G45. the acquired operations are recognised in the recognise the Group’s share of the associated Group’s accounts from the acquisition date. company’s proﬁts or losses after the date of 5. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES IN FOREIGN The acquisition date is the date when controlacquisition. Any dividends from associates CURRENCIES ling inﬂuence of the acquired entity starts. The are deducted from the carrying amount of the The Group’s presentation currency is Swedish acquisition date may differ from the date when holding. Shares of the proﬁt of associates are kronor. The functional currency for the Group’s the transaction is legally established. reported as Share of proﬁt of associates on a operations outside Sweden usually differs Financial assets and liabilities are set off in separate line in the Group’s income statement. from the Group’s presentation currency. The the balance sheet if the Bank has a contractual currency used in the economic environment right and intention to settle with a net amount. Discontinued operations and where the operations are primarily conducted is Further information about set-off of ﬁnancial held-for-sale assets regarded as the functional currency. assets and liabilities is provided in note G23. Non-current assets or a group of assets Transactions in foreign currency are transThe policies for recognising assets and (disposal group) are classiﬁed as held for lated to the functional currency on the transacliabilities in the balance sheet are of special sale when the carrying amount will be mainly tion date. Monetary items and assets and importance when accounting for repurchase recovered through sale and when the sale is liabilities at fair value are valued at the functional transactions, securities loans and leases. See highly probable. After classiﬁcation as an asset currency’s spot price at the end of the balance the separate sections on these issues below. held for sale, special valuation principles are sheet date. Translation differences arising from applied. These principles essentially mean that, non-monetary items classiﬁed as available7. CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS with the exception of items such as ﬁnancial for-sale ﬁnancial assets are recognised as a AND LIABILITIES assets and liabilities, assets held for sale and component of Other comprehensive income For the purposes of measurement, in compliance disposal groups are measured at the lower of and accumulated in equity. Exchange rate with IAS 39, all ﬁnancial assets are placed in the the carrying amount and fair value less costs differences arising when translating monetary following valuation categories: to sell. Thus, property, plant and equipment or items comprising part of a net investment in a 1. loans and receivables intangible assets held for sale are not depreciforeign operation are recognised in the same 2. assets held to maturity ated or amortised. Any impairment losses way. Other exchange rate differences are 3. assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss and subsequent revaluations are recognised recognised in the income statement. • held for trading directly in the income statement. Gains are not • assets which upon initial recognition were recognised if they exceed accumulated impairTranslation of foreign operations to the designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss ment loss. Assets and liabilities held for sale are Group’s presentation currency 4. available-for-sale assets. reported as a separate line item in the Group’s When translating the foreign units’ (including balance sheet until the time of sale. branches’) balance sheets and income stateFinancial liabilities are classiﬁed as follows: Independent operations of a material nature ments from the functional currency, the current 1. liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss which can be clearly differentiated from the method has been used. This means that assets • liabilities held for trading Group’s other operations and which are clasand liabilities are translated at the closing day • liabilities which upon initial recognition were siﬁed as held for sale using the above policies rate. Equity is translated at the rate applicable at designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss are recognised as discontinued operations. the time of investment or earning. The income 2. other ﬁnancial liabilities. Subsidiaries acquired solely for resale are also statement has been translated at the average recognised as discontinued operations. In annual rate. Exchange differences are recogThe classiﬁcation in the balance sheet is recognition as a discontinued operation, the nised as a component of Other comprehensive independent of the measurement category. operation’s proﬁt is reported on a separate line income and are included in the translation Thus, different measurement principles may be in the income statement, separate from other reserve in equity. applied for assets and liabilities carried on the proﬁt/loss items. Proﬁt or loss from discontinued same line in the balance sheet. A classiﬁcation operations comprises the after-tax proﬁt or loss 6. RECOGNITION OF ASSETS into measurement categories of the ﬁnancial of discontinued operations, the proﬁt or loss AND LIABILITIES assets and liabilities which are recognised on after tax that arises when valuing the assets Purchases and sales of equities and money the balance sheet is shown in note G39. held for sale/disposal groups that are included market and capital market instruments on the Upon initial recognition, all ﬁnancial assets in discontinued operations at fair value less spot market are recognised on the trade date. and liabilities are designated at fair value. For costs to sell, and realised proﬁt or loss from the The same applies to derivatives. Other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities at fair value through proﬁt disposal of discontinued operations. assets and liabilities are normally recognised H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 73 NOTES | GROUP or loss, the transaction costs are recognised and liabilities at fair value in proﬁt or loss has sheet during the life of the transaction. The directly in proﬁt or loss at the time of acquisition. been applied for ﬁnancial instruments that are sold instrument is also reported off the balance For other ﬁnancial instruments, the transaction reported in the balance sheet under Interestsheet as collateral pledged. Depending on the costs are included in the acquisition value. bearing securities eligible as collateral with counterparty, payment received is recognised central banks, Loans to the public, Bonds and under Due to credit institutions or as Deposits Loans and receivables other interest-bearing securities, Shares and and borrowing from the public. Securities Unlisted interest-bearing assets are classiﬁed as Assets/liabilities where the customer bears the bought in a repo transaction are accounted Loans and receivables. Loans and receivables value change risk. for in the corresponding way, i.e. they are not are carried at amortised cost, i.e. the disChanges in the fair value of ﬁnancial instrurecognised in the balance sheet during the life of counted present value of all future cash ﬂows ments that are measured at fair value are the transaction. Depending on the counterparty, relating to the instrument where the discount reported in the income statement under Net the payment made is recognised under Other rate is the asset’s effective interest rate at the gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. Interest loans to central banks, Loans to other credit time of acquisition. Loans and receivables are related to lending which upon initial recognition institutions or Loans to the public. Collateral subject to impairment testing when indicawas categorised at fair value in the income received which are sold on under repurchase tions of an impairment loss are present. See statement is recognised in Net interest income. agreements are reported as off-balance sheet section 9 for more details. The impairment loss commitments. is recognised in the income statement. Thus, Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets loans and receivables are recognised at their net The majority of the Group’s holdings of ﬁnancial Securities loans amount, after deduction for probable and actual instruments for which there is an active market Lent securities remain in the balance sheet loan losses. Early redemption fees for loans and but which are not held for trading are classiﬁed and are also reported off balance as Pledged receivables which are repaid before maturity as available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. assets. Borrowed securities are not recognised are recognised immediately in the income Financial assets which have been classiﬁed in the balance sheet unless they are sold, statement under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial as available for sale are recognised at fair value in which case a value corresponding to the transactions. in the balance sheet. Changes in market value sold instrument’s fair value is recognised as a of the assets are recognised as a component of liability. Borrowed securities which are lent to Assets held to maturity Other comprehensive income and are included a third party are reported as off-balance sheet Interest-bearing assets which the Group intends in the fair value reserve in equity. Changes in commitments. and has the capacity to hold to maturity are fair value are not recognised in the income reported in the Assets held to maturity category. statement until the asset has been realised or an Financial guarantees and loan commitments Assets that are classiﬁed to be held to maturity impairment loss has occurred. Interest related Financial guarantees are contracts that require are carried at amortised cost. Assets held to to this category of assets is recognised directly the issuer to make speciﬁed payments to maturity are subject to impairment testing when in net interest income in the income statement. reimburse the holder for a loss incurred because there are indications of an impairment loss. See Exchange rate effects relating to monetary a speciﬁed debtor fails to make payment when section 9 for more details. assets which are available for sale are reported due in accordance with the terms of a debt in Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. instrument, for example a credit guarantee. The Assets and liabilities held for trading Impairment testing of available-for-sale ﬁnancial fair value of an issued guarantee is the same Assets and liabilities held for trading consist assets is performed when there is an indication as the premium received when it was issued. of listed ﬁnancial instruments and derivatives. of impairment; see section 9 concerning impairUpon initial recognition, the premium received Financial instruments held for trading are recogment losses for ﬁnancial assets. Dividends on for the guarantee is recognised as deferred nised at fair value in the balance sheet. Interest, shares designated as available for sale are conincome in the balance sheet. The guarantee dividends and other value changes related to tinuously recognised in proﬁt or loss as Other is subsequently measured at the higher of the these instruments are recognised in the income dividend income. amortised premium or the amount that represents statement under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial the expected cost of settling the obligation to transactions. Reclassiﬁcation of ﬁnancial instruments which the guarantee gives rise. In addition, the During the ﬁnancial year 2008, Handelsbanken total guaranteed amount relating to guarantees Financial assets and liabilities which upon reclassiﬁed some portfolios of interest-bearing issued is reported off balance as a contingent initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value securities. The regulations in IAS 39 only allow liability. A utilised guarantee is reported as a in the income statement for reclassiﬁcation of certain ﬁnancial assets and probable or actual loan loss, depending on the The option of classifying ﬁnancial instruments only under exceptional circumstances. No furcircumstances. at fair value through the income statement has ther reclassiﬁcation has been performed since Premiums for purchased ﬁnancial guarantees been applied for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities the reclassiﬁcation in 2008. The impact of the are accrued and recognised as decreased that are not held for trading but for which the reclassiﬁcation is described in note G38. interest income in net interest income if the internal management and valuation is based debt instrument to which the guarantee refers on fair values (for example, assets and liabilities Repurchase transactions is recognised there. Other premiums for resulting from unit-linked insurance contracts). Repurchase transactions, or repo transacpurchased guarantees are recognised in Net This valuation principle has also been applied tions, refer to agreements where the parties fee and commission income. Loan comto avoid inconsistencies when valuing assets simultaneously agree on the sale of speciﬁc mitments are reported off-balance until the and liabilities which are counter-positions securities and the repurchase of these securisettlement date of the loan. Fees received for of each other and which are managed on a ties at a pre-determined price. Securities sold loan commitments are accrued in net fee and portfolio basis. The option of recognising assets in a repo transaction remain on the balance commission income over the maturity of the 74 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP commitment unless it is highly probable that the For ﬁnancial instruments where there is no company, and the value of the investment is commitment will be fulﬁlled, in which case the reliable information about market prices, fair then determined on the basis of proﬁt multiples fee received is included in the effective interest value is established using valuation models. The such as P/E and EV/EBITA. Value changes rate of the loan. valuation models used are based on input data and capital gains on holdings in private equity which essentially can be veriﬁed using market funds which comprise part of the investment Combined ﬁnancial instruments observations such as market interest rates and assets in the insurance operations are not Clearly separable ﬁnancial components of share prices. If necessary, an adjustment is reported directly in the income statement but assets and liabilities (such as derivatives) are made for other variables which a market particiare included in the basis for calculating the yield normally accounted for separately in the balance pant would be expected to take into considerasplit in the insurance operations. See section 12 sheet. This is the case, for example, for issues tion when setting a price. The assumptions for more information. of equity-linked bonds and other structured used in the valuation are based on internally products where the derivative is reported sepagenerated experience and are continuously Derivatives rately from the host contract at fair value in the examined by the risk organisation. The result Derivatives which are traded on an active income statement. is compared with the actual outcome so as to market are valued at market price. Most of the Combined ﬁnancial instruments held for tradidentify any need for adaptations of assumpGroup’s derivative contracts, including interest ing and combined ﬁnancial instruments where tions and forecasting models. rate swaps and various types of linear currency the economic characteristics and risks of the derivatives, are valued using valuation models instrument’s various components are similar Interest-bearing securities based on market rates and other market prices. (such as variable rate lending with an interest Interest-bearing securities issued by governThe valuation of non-linear derivative contracts rate cap) are not accounted for separately. The ments and Swedish mortgage bonds are valued that are not actively traded is also based on a inherent value of the option to convert in issued using current market prices. Corporate bonds reasonable assumption of market-based input convertible debt instruments is recognised are valued using valuation techniques based data such as volatility. separately in equity. The value of the equity on market yields for the corresponding maturity When performing model valuation for component is determined at the time of issue as adjusted for credit and liquidity risk. The values derivatives, in some cases there are differences the difference between the fair value of the conare regularly examined in order to ensure that between the transaction price and the value vertible instrument in its entirety reduced by the the valuation reﬂects the current market price. measured by a valuation model upon initial fair value of the liability component. The carrying The examinations are mainly performed by recognition. Such differences occur when the amount of the equity component is not adjusted obtaining prices from several independent price applied valuation model does not fully capture during the life of the convertible instrument. The sources and by reconciliation with recently perall the components that affect the value of the liability component is recognised at fair value formed transactions in the same or equivalent derivative. Material unrealised results due to in the balance sheet at the time of issue. After instruments. positive differences between the transaction initial recognition, the liability component is price and the value measured by a valuation carried at amortised cost at the original effective Shares model (day 1 effect) are not recognised in proﬁt/ interest rate. Shares listed on an active market are valued loss upon initial recognition, but are amortised at market price. When valuing listed shares, over the life of the derivative. In addition, the 8. PRINCIPLES FOR FAIR VALUE the choice of model is determined by what is Bank makes an independent valuation of the MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS deemed appropriate for the individual instrument. total credit risk component (own credit risk as AND LIABILITIES Holdings of unlisted securities mainly consist well as counterparty risk) in outstanding modelFair value is deﬁned as the price that would of various types of jointly owned operations valued derivatives. Changes in fair value due be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer related to the Bank’s core business. In general, to changed credit risk are recognised in proﬁt/ a liability in an orderly transaction between such holdings are valued at the Bank’s share loss to the extent that the overall effect exceeds independent market participants. of the company’s net asset value. For unlisted non-recognised day 1 effects. For ﬁnancial instruments traded on an active shares for which the company agreement market, the fair value is the same as the quoted regulates the price at which the shares can be Lending classiﬁed to be measured market price. An active market is one where divested, the holdings are valued at the divestat fair value quoted prices are readily and regularly available ment price determined in advance. In all mateLending that is classiﬁed to be measured at fair from a regulated market, execution venue, rial respects, unlisted shares are classiﬁed as value through the income statement is valued reliable news service or equivalent, and where available for sale. Value changes for these holdat the present value of expected future cash the price information received can be veriﬁed ings are thus reported in other comprehensive ﬂows. When performing the calculation the by means of regularly occurring transactions. income. market rate is adjusted for credit risk. The credit The current market price is generally the same When valuing unlisted shares in private risk premium is assumed to be the same as as the current bid price for ﬁnancial assets or equity funds, valuation principles adopted by the original margin as long as there is no proof the current ask price for ﬁnancial liabilities. For the European Venture Capital & Private Equity that the counterparty’s repayment capacity has groups of ﬁnancial instruments which are manAssociation (EVCA) are used. In these models, signiﬁcantly deteriorated. Information about aged on the basis of the Bank’s net exposure the market value of the investments is derived repayment capacity is obtained from the Bank’s to market risk, the current market price is from a relative valuation of comparable listed internal rating system. Value changes of loans presumed to be the same as the price which companies in the same sector. Adjustments are at fair value are reported in net gains/losses on would be received or paid if the net position made for proﬁt/loss items that prevent compariﬁnancial transactions. were divested. son between the investment and the compared H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 75 NOTES | GROUP Assets and liabilities where the customer ment losses for individual loans as soon as there Impairment losses on available-for-sale bears the value change risk is available information about the impairment in ﬁnancial assets Assets where the customer bears the value value at an individual level. A group impairment Impairment losses on available-for-sale ﬁnancial change risk mainly comprise shares in unittest is also performed for homogeneous groups assets are recognised when there is objective linked insurance contracts and mutual funds of smaller loans with a similar risk proﬁle. evidence that one or more events of default which are consolidated in the Group accounts. Loan losses for the period comprise actual have occurred with an impact on the expected These shares are valued using the fund’s current losses and probable losses on credits granted, future cash ﬂows for the asset. For interestmarket value (NAV). Each asset corresponds to minus recoveries and reversals of previous bearing ﬁnancial assets, examples of events of a liability where the customer bears the value impairment losses recognised for probable loan default that may indicate an impairment loss change risk. The valuation of these liabilities losses. Actual loan losses may refer to entire are a probable future bankruptcy, evidence of reﬂects the valuation of the assets. Since the loans or parts of loans and are recognised when considerable ﬁnancial difﬁculties on the part of policyholders/shareholders have prior rights there is no realistic possibility of recovery. This is the issuer, or evidence of permanent changes in to the assets, there is no motive to adjust the the case, for example, when a trustee in bankthe market where the asset is traded. For equity valuation for credit risk. ruptcy has estimated bankruptcy dividends, instruments, a permanent or considerable when a scheme of arrangement has been decline in the fair value is an indication of the 9. LOAN LOSSES AND IMPAIRMENT OF accepted, or a concession has been extended need to recognise an impairment loss. When FINANCIAL ASSETS in some other way. An amount forgiven in conrecognising an impairment loss, the part of the Loans and receivables recognised at nection with reconstruction of a loan or group of cumulative loss that was previously recognised amortised cost loans is always classiﬁed as an actual loss. If the in the fair value reserve in equity is recognised in All units with customer and credit responsicustomer is following a payment plan for a loan the income statement. bility in the Handelsbanken Group regularly which was previously classiﬁed as an actual Previously recognised impairment losses perform individual assessments of the need for loan loss, the amount of the loss is subject to on interest-bearing securities classiﬁed as recognising impairment losses for loans and new testing. Recoveries comprise reversed available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are reversed receivables that are recognised at amortised amounts on loan losses previously reported as in the income statement if the fair value of the cost. Impairment testing is performed where actual losses. Information about probable and asset has increased since the impairment there are objective circumstances indicating actual losses is contained in note G10. loss was recognised and the increase can be that the recoverable amount of the loan is less Interest rate effects arising due to discountobjectively related to an event occurring after than its carrying amount. Objective evidence ing effects when the period until the expected the impairment loss was recognised. Previous could, according to the circumstances, be late payment is decreasing result in a reversal of impairment losses on equity instruments clasor non-payment, changed credit rating, or a previously provisioned amounts which are siﬁed as available-for-sale ﬁnancial instruments decline in the market value of the collateral. recognised as interest income in accordance are not reversed. When performing impairment testing, the with the effective interest method. recoverable value of the loan is calculated by 10. HEDGE ACCOUNTING discounting the estimated future cash ﬂows Disclosures concerning impaired loans The Group applies different methods for hedge related to the loan and any collateral (includInformation concerning impaired loans is proaccounting, depending on the purpose of the ing guarantees) by the effective interest rate vided gross, before a provision for probable loan hedge. Derivatives – mainly interest rate swaps of the loan. If the collateral is a listed asset, losses, and net, after a provision for probable and cross-currency interest rate swaps – are the valuation of the collateral is based on the loan losses. Loans are deﬁned as impaired if it used as hedging instruments. In addition, when quoted price; otherwise the valuation is based is not probable that all contracted cash ﬂows hedging currency risks related to net investon the yield value or the market value estimated will be fulﬁlled. The full amount of all loans which ments in foreign operations, liabilities in the in some other manner. Collateral in the form of have been classiﬁed as impaired are carried functional currency of the respective foreign property mortgages is valued in the same way as impaired loans even if parts of the loan are operation are used as a hedging instrument. As as repossessed real property. An impairment covered by collateral. Loans which have been part of the Group’s hedging strategies, the value loss is recognised if the estimated recoverable written off as actual loan losses are not included changes of a hedging instrument are sometimes value is less than the carrying amount and is in impaired loans. divided into separate components and included recognised as a Loan loss in the income statein more than one hedge relationship. Therement. A reported loan loss reduces the carrying Valuation of repossessed property and fore, one and the same hedging instrument amount of the loan in the balance sheet, either equipment to protect claims can hedge different risks. Division of hedging directly (actual loss) or by a provision account Upon initial recognition, repossessed property instruments is only done if the hedged risks for loan losses (probable loss). and equipment is recognised at fair value in can clearly be identiﬁed, the efﬁciency can be In addition to this individual assessment of the balance sheet. Repossessed property reliably measured, and the total value change of loans, a collective assessment is made with the and equipment (including repossessed lease the hedging instrument is included in any hedge purpose of identifying the need to recognise an assets) which is expected to be divested in relationship. impairment loss that cannot yet be allocated to the near future is valued at the lower of the Fair value hedges are used to protect the individual loans. The analysis is based on a discarrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Group against undesirable impact on proﬁt/loss tribution of individually valued loans in terms of Repossessed property which is not expected due to changes in the market prices of reported the risk class. An impairment loss is recognised to be divested in the near future is reported as assets or liabilities. Hedged risks in hedging if this is justiﬁable taking into account changes investment properties at fair value in proﬁt/loss. packages at fair value comprise the interest in the risk classiﬁcation and expected loss. Unlisted shareholdings taken over to protect rate and currency risk on lending and funding at Impairment losses which have been recognised claims are recognised as available-for-sale ﬁxed interest rates. The hedging instruments in for a group of loans are transferred to impairﬁnancial assets. these hedging relationships consist of interest 76 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate is made up of net investments in the form of savings (ﬁnancial components) are split and swaps. In the case of fair value hedges, the direct investments, as well as claims on foreign recognised separately in accordance with the hedge instrument and hedged risk are both operations that are not expected to be settled in principles described below. recognised at fair value. Changes in value are the foreseeable future. Loans in foreign currency recognised directly in the income statement that hedge net investments in foreign operations Accounting for insurance components under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transacare recognised in the Group at the exchange in insurance contracts tions. When fair value hedges are prematurely rate on the balance sheet date. The effective Premium income and insurance claims paid terminated, the accrued value change on the part of the exchange rate differences for such for insurance contracts are recognised in the hedged item is amortised in Net gains/losses loans is recognised as a component of Other income statement as a net amount under the on ﬁnancial transactions. comprehensive income and in the translation item Risk result – insurance. The change in Fair value hedges are applied for individual reserve in equity. The effective part of changes the Group’s insurance liability is also reported assets and liabilities and for portfolios of in value in cross-currency interest rate swaps under this item. ﬁnancial instruments. The hedged risk in these that hedge exchange rate risk in claims on Premiums received which have not yet been portfolio hedges is the interest rate risk for foreign operations is recognised in the same recognised as income are carried as a liability lending where the original interest rate was manner. The ineffective components of hedges for paid-in premiums under Insurance liabilities ﬁxed for three months and interest rate caps of net investments in foreign operations are in the balance sheet. The balance-sheet item for lending with an original ﬁxed-interest period recognised in the income statement under Net Insurance liabilities also includes liabilities for of three months. The hedging instruments for gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. sickness annuities, life annuities and other these portfolio hedges are interest rate swaps outstanding claims. The insurance liability is and interest rate options (caps). In portfolio 11. LEASES valued by discounting the expected future cash hedges at fair value, the part of the portfolio’s The Group’s leases are deﬁned as either ﬁnance ﬂows relating to insurance contracts entered value that is exposed to the hedged risk is or operating leases. A ﬁnance lease substantialinto. The valuation is based on assumptions measured at market value. The value of the ly transfers all the risks and rewards incidental concerning interest, longevity, health and hedged item in hedged portfolios is reported to legal ownership of the leased asset from the future charges. The assumptions concerning as a separate line item in the balance sheet in lessor to the lessee. Other leases are operating longevity vary depending on when the policy conjunction with Loans to the public. Accumuleases. All leases where the Group is the lessor was taken out and takes into account expected lated value changes on portfolio hedges which have been deﬁned as ﬁnancial leases. Lease future increases in longevity. The assumptions have been terminated prematurely are reported agreements of this kind are accounted for as concerning fees also depend on when the in the balance sheet under Other assets and loans in the balance sheet, initially for an amount policy was taken out. Principally, this means a are amortised in Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial corresponding to the net investment. Lease fees fee that is proportional to the premium and a fee transactions over the remaining time to maturity received are recognised on a continual basis as that is proportional to the life insurance proviof the portfolio. interest income/repayments. Impairment testing sions. Applied assumptions on the insured’s Cash ﬂow hedges are applied to manage on ﬁnancial lease agreements is performed future health are based on internally acquired exposures to variations in cash ﬂows relating to according to the same principles as for other experience and vary depending on the product. changes in the ﬂoating interest rates on lending lending which is reported at amortised cost. Interest rate assumptions are based on current and funding. The expected maturity for this type Operating lease contracts are not reported market rates and depend on the maturity of of lending and funding is normally much longer in the balance sheet. Expenses relating to the liability. The Group’s insurance liabilities than the ﬁxing period, which is very short. Cash operating leases where the Group is the lessee are subject to regular review, at least annually, ﬂow hedging is also used to hedge currency risk are recognised on a straight-line basis as other to ensure that the reported insurance liability in future cash ﬂows deriving from lending and expenses. is sufﬁcient to cover expected future claims. funding. Currency risks deriving from intragroup If necessary, an additional provision is made. monetary items can also be subject to this 12. INSURANCE OPERATIONS The difference is recognised in the income type of hedging, if they give rise to currency The Group’s insurance operations are run statement. exposures which are not fully eliminated on through the subsidiary Handelsbanken Liv. consolidation. Derivatives which are hedging Products consist mainly of legal life insurance in Accounting for investment contracts and instruments in cash ﬂow hedges are measured the form of traditional life insurance, unit-linked ﬁnancial components of insurance contracts at fair value. If the derivative’s value change is insurance and risk insurance in the form of In-payments and out-payments referring to effective – that is, it corresponds to future cash health insurance and waiver of premium. customers’ savings capital originating in investﬂows related to the hedged item – it is recogment contracts and ﬁnancial components of nised as a component of Other comprehensive Classiﬁcation and unbundling of insurance insurance contracts are recognised directly over income and in the hedge reserve in equity. contracts the balance sheet as deposits and withdrawals. Ineffective components of the derivative’s value Contracts that include signiﬁcant insurance The ﬁnancial components of traditional life change are recognised in the income statement risk are classiﬁed in the consolidated accounts insurance policies that are separated from under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transacas insurance contracts. Contracts that do not the insurance contract are recognised in the tions. transfer signiﬁcant insurance risk are classiﬁed balance sheet as borrowing from the public. Hedging of net investments in foreign units in their entirety as investment contracts. GenerThese liabilities are valued at the higher of the is applied to protect the Group from exchange ally, this means that insurance policies with guaranteed amount and the current value of the rate differences due to operations abroad. repayment cover are classiﬁed as investment insurance contract. The guaranteed amount Cross-currency interest rate swaps and loans contracts and other contracts are classiﬁed earns interest at the guarantee rate of interest in foreign currencies are used as hedging as insurance contracts. Insurance contracts and corresponds to the amortised cost of the instruments. The hedged item in these hedges consisting of both insurance components and insurance contract. The current value of the H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 77 NOTES | GROUP insurance contract is equal to the value of the When accounting for business combinations, Intangible assets with a ﬁnite useful life are tested assets managed on behalf of the policyholders, the acquisition price is allocated to the value of for impairment when there is an indication that and earns interest with a return that is based on acquired identiﬁable assets, liabilities and conthe asset may be impaired. The impairment test the total return for the assets with a deduction tingent liabilities in the acquired business. These is performed according to the same principles for any yield split. The yield split implies that the assets may also include intangible assets that as for intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful insurer is allocated a contracted part of the total would not have been recognised in the balance life, i.e. by calculating the recoverable amount of return if this return exceeds the guaranteed sheet if they had been acquired separately or the asset. return during the calendar year. The calculation internally generated. The part of the acquisition is performed annually and is accumulated for price in a business combination that cannot be 14. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT each individual insurance contract. This means allocated to identiﬁable assets and liabilities is The Group’s tangible non-current assets that the conditional bonus is reduced in those recognised as goodwill. consist of property and equipment. With the cases where the yield in an individual year is less exception of real property that constitutes than the guaranteed interest rate and vice versa. Goodwill and intangible assets with an investment assets in the insurance business, The share that accrues to the Group under indeﬁnite useful life and repossessed properties to protect claims, the yield split model is reported as Fee and Goodwill and other intangible assets with an these assets are recorded at cost of acquisition commission income. If the yield is less than the indeﬁnite useful life are recorded at cost less less accumulated depreciation and impairment guaranteed yield per contract, the difference is possible impairment losses. These assets are losses. recognised in the income statement under Net tested annually for impairment when preparing Depreciation is based on the estimated useful gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. the annual report or when there is an indication lives of the assets. A linear depreciation plan is Assets and liabilities arising from unit-linked that the asset is impaired. Impairment testing usually applied. The estimated useful lives are insurance contracts are recognised at fair value is performed by calculating the recoverable tested annually. The tangible assets that consist in the balance sheet as Assets and Liabilities amount of the assets, i.e. the higher of the value of components with different estimated useful where the customer bears the value change risk. in use and the fair value less costs to sell. As lives are sub-divided into different categories Premium fees and administrative charges for long as the recoverable amount exceeds the with separate depreciation plans. Such depreinvestment contracts and ﬁnancial compocarrying amount, no impairment loss needs to ciation of components is normally only applied nents of insurance contracts are accrued and be recognised. Impairment losses are recogfor real property. Only components of the recognised in the income statement under Fee nised directly in the income statement. property whose acquisition costs are substanand commission income. Acquisition costs are Since it is not possible to differentiate cash tial in relation to the total acquisition cost are recognised directly in the income statement. ﬂows arising from goodwill from cash ﬂows separately depreciated. The remaining parts of arising from other assets, impairment testing the real property (building structure) are depreciReinsurance of goodwill takes place at the level of cashated as a whole over their expected useful life. The reinsurer’s share of the Group’s insurance generating unit. A cash-generating unit is the Currently, the useful life for the building structure liabilities is recognised as Reinsurance assets in smallest identiﬁable group of assets that generis 100 years, for water and drains 35 years, for the balance sheet. ates cash inﬂows that are largely independent of roofs 30 years, for frontage, heating, ventilation the cash inﬂows from other assets or groups of and electricity 25 years, for lifts 20 years and for 13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS assets. Goodwill which is followed up internally building ﬁxtures and ﬁttings ten years. Personal Recognition in the balance sheet at a lower level than the cash-generating unit computers and other IT equipment are usually An intangible asset is an identiﬁable non-monetary is tested at the lower level but never lower than depreciated over three years and investments in asset without physical form. An intangible asset the business segment level. Material assessbank vaults and similar investments in premises is only recognised in the balance sheet if the ments and assumptions in impairment testing of over ten years. Other equipment is normally probable future economic beneﬁts attributable goodwill are described in note G23. Previously depreciated over ﬁve years. to the asset will ﬂow to the Group and the cost recognised goodwill impairment losses are not Impairment testing of property and equipcan be reliably measured. This means that interreversed. ment is carried out when there is an indication nally generated values in the form of goodwill, that the value of the asset has decreased. trademarks, customer databases and similar Intangible assets with a ﬁnite useful life Impairment loss is recognised in cases where are not recognised as assets in the balance Intangible assets for which it is possible to the recoverable amount is less than the carrying sheet. establish an estimated useful life are amortised. amount. Any impairment losses are recognised Investments in software developed by the The amortisation is on a straight-line basis over immediately in the income statement. An impairBank are carried as an expense on a current the useful life of the asset. Currently this means ment charge is reversed if there is an indication basis to the extent that the expenditure refers that customer contracts are amortised over 20 that there is no longer any impairment loss and to maintenance of existing business operayears and that internally developed software there has been a change in the assumptions tions or software. In the case of development of is normally amortised over 5 years. In certain underlying the estimated recoverable amount. new software, or developing existing software infrastructure projects, the useful life is assessed for new business operations, the expenditure to be up to 15 years, and thus the depreciation 15. PROVISIONS incurred is capitalised from the time when it is period is set at up to 15 years in these cases. Provisions consist of recognised expected probable that economic beneﬁt that can be Brand names which are subject to amortisation negative outﬂows of resources from the Group reliably measured will arise. Expenditure arising are amortised over ﬁve years. The amortisation and which are uncertain in terms of timing or from borrowing costs is capitalised from the period is tested on an individual basis at the time amount. Provisions are reported when the date on which the decision was made to capiof new acquisition and also continually if there are Group, as a consequence of past events, talise expenditure for development of intangible indications that the useful life may have changed. has a legal or constructive obligation, and it is assets. 78 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP probable that an outﬂow of resources will be 17. INCOME are comparable to interest and such fees that required to settle the obligation. For recognition Income is recognised in the income statement constitute integrated components of ﬁnancial it must be possible to estimate the amount when it is probable that future economic instruments and therefore included when reliably. The amount recognised as a provision beneﬁts will be gained and these beneﬁts can calculating the effective interest, are recognised corresponds to the best estimate of the exbe reliably measured. The following general as interest income and not commission. penditure required to settle the obligation at the principles apply to recognition of income for balance sheet date. The expected future date various types of fees and charges: Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions of the settlement is taken into account in the • Fees that are earned gradually as the serNet gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions estimate. vices are performed, such as management include all items with an impact on proﬁt or loss fees in asset management, are recognised which arise when measuring ﬁnancial assets 16. EQUITY as income at the rate these services are and liabilities at fair value in the income stateEquity comprises the following components. delivered. In practice, these are on a straightment and when ﬁnancial assets and liabilities line basis. are realised. Speciﬁcally, the items reported Share premium reserve • Fees attributable to a speciﬁc service or here are: The share premium reserve comprises the action are recognised as income when the • capital gains or losses from the disposal and options component of issued convertible notes service has been performed. Examples settlement of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities and the amount that in the issue of shares of such fees are brokerage and payment • unrealised changes in value of the assets and and conversion of convertible debt securities commission. liabilities which upon initial recognition were exceeds the quotient value of the shares issued. • Fees that constitute part of the effective classiﬁed as Assets at fair value, through the interest of a ﬁnancial instrument are accrued income statement, excluding the component Hedge reserve in cases where the instrument is valued of change in value recognised as interest Unrealised changes in value on derivative at amortised cost in accordance with the • realised and unrealised changes in value on instruments which comprise hedge instruments effective interest method. For ﬁnancial instruﬁnancial assets and liabilities classiﬁed as in cash ﬂow hedges are reported in the hedge ments at fair value, such fees are recognised held for trading reserve. as income immediately. • interest from ﬁnancial instruments held for trading, with the exception of interest Fair value reserve Net interest income originating from derivatives that are hedging The fair value reserve comprises unrealised Interest income and interest expense are instruments whose interest ﬂows are reporchanges in value on ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed recognised as Net interest income in the income ted in net interest income as available for sale. statement, with the exception of interest ﬂows • dividend income on ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed deriving from ﬁnancial instruments held for tradas held for trading Translation reserve ing. Net interest income also includes interest • unrealised changes in fair value of the The translation reserve comprises unrealised deriving from derivative instruments that hedge hedged risk in assets and liabilities which foreign exchange effects arising due to translaitems whose interest ﬂows are recognised in Net are hedged items in fair value hedges, and tion of foreign units to the currency of the interest income. In addition to interest income amortisation of unrealised value changes consolidated accounts. and interest expense, net interest income for hedges which have been prematurely includes fees for state guarantees, such as terminated Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans deposit guarantees and the stability fee. • unrealised value changes on derivatives Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans comprises actuIn order to arrive at a net interest income which comprise hedging instruments in fair arial gains and losses on the pension obligation ﬁgure which is free from interest deriving from value hedges and return which exceeds the calculated return ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held for trading • ineffective component of value changes on on the plan assets. and to gain an overall view of the activity in hedging instruments which are hedging cash the trading book, interest income and interest ﬂow hedges and hedging of net investments Retained earnings expense relating to ﬁnancial assets and liabilities in foreign operations Retained earnings comprise the proﬁts generheld for trading are recognised under Net gains/ • negative yield split in the insurance operaated from the current and previous ﬁnancial losses on ﬁnancial transactions. tions, i.e. the losses arising when the yield on years. Dividends and repurchase of own shares ﬁnancial assets in the insurance business is are reported as deductions from Retained Net fee and commission income less than the change in guaranteed yield. earnings. Income and expense for various kinds of services are recognised in the income stateDividend received Minority interest ment under Fee and commission income and Dividends on shares classiﬁed as available for The minority interest consists of the portion of Fee and commission expense, respectively. sale are recognised in proﬁt and loss as Other the Group’s net assets that is not directly or This means that brokerage income and various dividend income. Dividends on shares classiﬁed indirectly owned by holders of the parent comtypes of management fees are recognised as as ﬁnancial assets held for trading are recogpany’s ordinary shares. The minority interest is commissions. Other forms of income recognised in the income statement as Net gains/ recorded as a separate component of equity. nised as commission are payment commissions losses on ﬁnancial transactions. Dividends on and card fees, premiums referring to ﬁnancial shares in associates are not included in the Accounting for own shares guarantees issued, as well as commissions Dividends item in the income statement. The Repurchased own shares are not carried as from insurance operations. Positive yield split accounting for shares in the proﬁts of associassets but are offset against Retained earnings in the insurance operations is also recognised ates is described in section 3. under equity. as commission. Guarantee commissions that H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 79 NOTES | GROUP 18. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Estimated yield (interest) on the plan assets. Actuarial calculation of deﬁned Staff cost Interest on the plan assets is reported in beneﬁt pension plans Staff costs consist of salaries, pension costs proﬁt/loss using the same interest rate Calculation of the Group’s expense and obligaand other forms of direct staff costs including as when establishing the year’s interest tions for deﬁned beneﬁt pensions is based on a social security costs, special payroll tax on penexpense. number of actuarial, demographic and ﬁnancial sion costs and other forms of payroll overheads. + The estimated cost of special payroll tax assumptions that have a signiﬁcant impact on Any remuneration in connection with terminated is accrued using the same principles as for the recognised amounts. Note G8 contains a employment is recognised as a liability when the the underlying pension cost. list of the assumptions used when calculating agreement is reached and amortised over the Calculation of costs and obligations resulting this year’s provision. The calculation of deﬁned remaining employment period. from the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt plans depend beneﬁt obligations for employees in Sweden on several assessments and assumptions is based on DUS14, which are assumptions Accounting for pensions which may have a considerable impact on the on longevity that are generally accepted in Post-employment beneﬁts consist of deﬁned amounts reported. A more detailed description the market, based on statistics produced by contribution plans and deﬁned beneﬁt plans. of these assumptions and assessments is Insurance Sweden. The assumptions on future Beneﬁt plans under which the Group pays provided in section 20 and in note G8. salary increases and inﬂation are based on the ﬁxed contributions into a separate legal entity, anticipated long-term trend. The discount rate and subsequently has no legal or constructive 19. TAXES is based on ﬁrst-class corporate bonds. In this obligation to pay further contributions if the legal The tax expense for the period consists of context, covered mortgage bonds are considentity does not hold sufﬁcient assets to fulﬁl its current tax and deferred tax. Current tax refers ered to be corporate bonds. The maturity is the obligations to the employee, are accounted for to taxes relating to the period’s taxable result. same as the remaining period to payment. as deﬁned contribution plans. Premiums paid Deferred tax is tax referring to temporary differNote G8 provides a sensitivity analysis of the for deﬁned contribution plans are recognised ences between the carrying amount of an asset Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt obligation for all major in the income statement as staff costs as they or liability and its taxable value. Deferred taxes actuarial assumptions. This shows how the obliarise. are valued at the tax rate which is deemed to be gation would have been affected by reasonable Other post-employment beneﬁt plans are applicable when the item is realised. Deferred possible changes in these assumptions. accounted for as deﬁned beneﬁt plans. tax claims related to deductible temporary For deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, the differences and loss carry forwards are only Assessment of need to recognise an pension payable is based on the salary and recognised if it is probable that they will be impairment loss for loans and receivables period of employment, implying that the utilised. Deferred tax liabilities are carried at The value of the Group’s loans is tested regularly employer bears all the material risks for fulﬁlling nominal value. Tax is recognised in the income and individually for each loan. If necessary, the the pension commitment. For the majority of statement, in other comprehensive income or loan is written down to the assessed recovdeﬁned beneﬁt plans, the Group has kept plan directly in equity depending on where the undererable amount. The estimated recoverable assets separate in pension foundations and a lying transaction is reported. amount is based on an assessment of the pension fund. For deﬁned beneﬁt plans, the plan counterparty’s ﬁnancial repayment capacity assets minus the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are 20. ESTIMATES AND KEY ASSUMPTIONS and assumptions on the realisable value of any reported as a net liability in the balance sheet. In certain cases, the application of the Group’s collateral. The ﬁnal outcome may deviate from Actuarial gains and losses on the pension obliaccounting policies means that assessments the original provisions for loan losses. The asgation and return which exceeds the calculated must be made that have a material impact sessments and assumptions used are subject return on the plan assets are reported in other on amounts reported. The amounts reported to regular examinations by the internal credit comprehensive income. are also affected in a number of cases by organisation. See also note G2 for a detailed The pension cost recognised for deﬁned assumptions about the future. Such assumpdescription of internal risk control and how the beneﬁt plans is the net of the following items, tions always imply a risk for adjustment of the Bank manages credit risk. which are included in staff costs: reported value of assets and liabilities. The + Accrued pension rights for the year, i.e. the assessments and assumptions applied always year’s proportion of the calculated ﬁnal total reﬂect the management’s best and fairest pension payment. The calculation of accrued assessments and are continually subject to pension rights is based on an estimated ﬁnal examination and validation. Below follows a salary and is subject to actuarial assumpreport of the assessments and assumptions tions. that have had a material impact on the ﬁnancial + Interest expense for the year due to the reports. Information on key assumptions is also increase in the present value of the pension described in the relevant notes. liability during the year since the period up to payment has decreased. The interest rate applied in calculating interest expense for the year is the current corporate bond rate (the rate at the start of the year) for maturities corresponding to the period remaining until the pension liability is due to be disbursed. 80 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G2 Risk and capital management Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1999–2014 Risks at Handelsbanken % 1,2 Description 1,0 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of the Bank facing economic loss because the Bank’s counterparties cannot fulﬁl their contractual obligations. 0,8 Market risk Market risks arise from changes in prices and volatilities in the ﬁnancial markets. Market risks are divided into interest rate risks, equity price risks, exchange rate risks and commodity price risks. 0,6 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will not be able to meet its payment obligations when they fall due, 0,4 without being affected by unacceptable costs or losses. Operational risk Operational risk refers to the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, human error, 0,2 erroneous systems or external events. The deﬁnition includes legal risk. Insurance risk The risk in the outcome of an insurance that depends on the insured party’s longevity or health. 0,0 Property risk The risk of changes in prices of the Bank’s property holdings. -0,2 Business risk The risk of unexpected changes in earnings that are not attributable to the risk categories described above. 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 Remuneration risk Remuneration risk is the risk of loss or other damage arising due to the compensation system. Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* Compliance risk Compliance risk is the risk that the Bank does not comply with laws, regulations and internal rules, or * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish accepted business practices or standards. banks are included. Handelsbanken works on the basis of a low funding costs and low loan losses. Well the Bank is a stable and long-term business well-tested business model which has been unfunctioning risk management has contributed to partner for its customers, regardless of the changed for more than 40 years. This business the fact that Handelsbanken’s business model business cycle or market situation. It contributes model means that the Bank has very low risk has stayed intact over the years, during ﬁnancial to good risk management and sustaining a high tolerance. As a consequence of this, the Bank crises and recessions, and it has proved very service level even when operations and the has reported very stable proﬁtability levels for resistant to external strains. markets where the Bank operates are subject a long period of time and its ﬁnancial goal has Handelsbanken’s strict approach to risk means to strain. The same principles for the Bank’s been achieved for more than 40 years running. that the Bank deliberately avoids high-risk approach to risks apply in all countries where the The Bank focuses on credit risks in its branch transactions, even if the remuneration may Bank operates and they are guiding principles in operations, and the model means that the Bank be high at that time. This low risk tolerance is the Bank’s continued international expansion. only takes credit risks which are in line with its maintained through a strong risk culture that is Since the turbulence in the ﬁnancial markets very restrictive view of risk. The Bank aims to sustainable in the long term and applies to all started in 2007, Handelsbanken has had good restrict as far as possible all other risks such as areas of the Group. The risk culture is an integral access to liquidity in all currencies of impormarket and liquidity risks. For the past few decpart of the Bank’s work and is deeply rooted tance to the Bank. The Bank has broadened ades, the loan loss ratio has been signiﬁcantly among the Bank’s employees. The Bank is its investor base and increased the number lower than the average of other Nordic banks. characterised by a clear division of responsibilof funding programmes for both covered and The Bank’s stated goal is always that no indiity where each part of the business operations senior funding. The fact that this has taken place vidual credit will lead to a loss. This approach bears full responsibility for its business and for in the prevailing market conditions is a clear sign completely determines the branches’ granting risk management. As a consequence, there of the market’s conﬁdence in the Bank’s risk of credit and work with their credit portfolios. are strong incentives for high risk awareness work and business model. The Bank has had By building up liquidity reserves and matchand for prudence in business operations. The and continues to have access to the ﬁnancial ing cash ﬂows, the Bank has worked on limiting low risk tolerance is also reﬂected in the view of markets via its short-term and long-term funding its liquidity risks for a long period of time. This is remuneration. The main principle is that remuprogrammes. Central Treasury’s liquidity portfoalso a natural consequence of the Bank’s low neration must be ﬁxed since this contributes lio, which is part of the Bank’s liquidity reserve, risk tolerance and this work started before the to the long-term perspective which is a central has a low risk proﬁle and consists mainly of new liquidity regulations were formulated. Hanfeature of Handelsbanken’s business model. government bonds and covered bonds. At the delsbanken is the only Swedish bank which has Employees with the authority to make business year-end, the Bank’s liquidity reserve exceeded managed completely on its own for its funding, decisions which imply a risk for the Bank can SEK 800 billion, which provides a high degree of with no support from central banks or public only receive ﬁxed remuneration with no variable resistance to possible disruptions in the ﬁnancial authorities, both throughout the latest ﬁnancial components. markets. Of the reserve, balances with central crisis and also in the crisis of the early 1990s. Lending has a strong local involvement, where banks and banks, as well as securities that are Market risks at Handelsbanken have also dethe close customer relationship promotes low eligible as collateral with central banks, totalled creased further during the past few years from credit risks. Market risks in the Bank’s business SEK 648 billion. The remainder was mainly an already low levels to very low at present. This operations are only taken as part of meeting unutilised issue amount for covered bonds at work has also continued for a long period of customers’ investment and risk management Stadshypotek. Liquidity reserves are kept in all time and started before the ﬁnancial crisis broke needs and in conjunction with the Bank’s fundcurrencies that are important to the Bank. The out and long before the regulations started to ing, and also in long-term holdings in shares and total liquidity reserve covers the Bank’s liquidassign such importance to market risks as they the pension system. One result of this is that a ity requirements for more than two years in a do today. much lower proportion of the Bank’s earnings stressed scenario with an outﬂow of deposits Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher come from net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transacand entirely without access to new market proﬁtability than the average of peer banks in tions. The Bank’s liquidity situation is planned so funding. Operations can also be maintained for its home markets and for the Bank to generthat business operations are not restricted if the a considerable period of time even in an extreme ate good, stable value growth, regardless of ﬁnancial markets are disrupted. situation when the foreign exchange markets are the business cycle. High proﬁtability assumes This strict approach to risk also means that closed. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 81 NOTES | GROUP The Bank’s capital situation continued to grow even though all proposed capital buffer requireyears. The Bank’s liquidity situation is described stronger during the year and its earnings have ments have been set at maximum level by the in more detail under the heading Funding and been stable. Coupled with low loan losses, authorities. liquidity risk. this has contributed to the strong position. The The Bank’s historically low tolerance of risk, Handelsbanken is a full-service bank, offering strong capital situation provides good protecsound capitalisation and strong liquidity situation a wide range of various banking and insurance tion in the current fragile macro-economic mean that the Bank is well equipped to operate products. These entail a variety of risks that are situation, and should also be viewed in light of under the new, stricter regulations and also systematically identiﬁed, measured and manfuture regulatory amendments. Handelsbanken under substantially more difﬁcult market condiaged in all parts of the Group. already meets all future capital requirements, tions than those experienced during the last few Handelsbanken’s risk control Business operations Local risk control Central risk control Capital planning The Bank’s total view of risk and capital manLocal risk control that the Bank’s management and Board receive agement comprises the following components: The accountability of the person taking a busiregular reports and analyses of the current risk ness decision is supplemented by local control situation. Business operations of the ﬁnancial and operational risks in the The Bank is characterised by a clear division of regional banks and within the various busiCapital planning responsibility where each part of the business ness areas. In the UK, the risks are controlled If – despite the work in the three components operations bears full responsibility for its busicentrally in the national organisation. The local described above – Handelsbanken were to ness and for risk management. Those with the risk control assesses risk, checks limits, etc., suffer serious losses, it holds capital to ensure greatest knowledge of the customer and market and veriﬁes that individual business transactions its survival both during and after extreme conditions are best equipped to assess the risk are conducted in a manner that is in line with events. Capital planning is based on an assessand can also act at an early stage in the event of the Bank’s risk tolerance. Local risk control is ment of the capital situation in terms of the legal problems. Each branch and each proﬁt centre also responsible for analysing the risk in new capital requirement, combined with calculation bears the responsibility for dealing with any products and services and for evaluating the of economic capital and stress tests. Stress problems that arise. This creates strong incenoperations’ work with operational risks. The lotests identify the future-oriented measures that tives for high risk awareness and for prudence in cal risk control reports to central risk control and need to be prepared or implemented to ensure business operations. also to the management of the operations. satisfactory capitalisation at any given time. In However, the decentralised credit decisions addition, operations are reviewed by compliare conditional on a joint credit process, for Central risk control ance, at central, business area and subsidiary which the Central Credit Department is responAs business decisions become more decenlevel, and also the internal and external auditors. sible. tralised, the need for central monitoring of the Handelsbanken’s risk management and risk The Central Credit Department prepares risk and capital situation increases. Central risk control have stood the test of time and their credit decisions made by the Board or by the control is therefore a natural and vital compoeffectiveness is illustrated by the fact that for a Board’s credit committee. The Central Credit nent of the Bank’s business model. long time the Bank has had lower loan losses Department also ensures that credit assessCentral risk control has the task of identifythan its competitors and has shown a very ments are consistent and that loans are granted ing, measuring, analysing and reporting all the stable ﬁnancial performance. in accordance with the credit policy decided by Group’s material risks at an aggregate level. It the Board. The Central Credit Department also monitors that the risks and risk management assesses risks in all major individual commitcomply with the Bank’s low tolerance of risks ments and offers support and advice to other and that senior management has reliable inforareas of the credit organisation. For information mation material concerning how risks are to be on the Bank’s management of credit risks, as managed in critical situations. Central risk conwell as a full description of the credit process, trol also has functional responsibility for local risk please see the Credit risk section (page 11) control in the business areas and subsidiaries, in the publication Risk and Capital Management – for ensuring that risks are measured effectively Information according to Pillar 3. and consistently in the Group, and ensuring 82 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP The credit process and decision levels at Handelsbanken BRANCH LEVEL REGIONAL LEVEL CENTRAL LEVEL Central Account Branch Regional Regional Regional Central Board Central Proposal credit credit board Credit credit comBoard Decision manager manager specialist committee Department mittee Distribution of limit decisions Proportion of number of limits 67% 31% 2% Proportion of limit amount 7% 23% 70% CREDIT RISK Board’s credit committee, or by the entire Board, the regional credit departments examine the where cases are prepared by the Central Credit quality of decisions made by branch managers. Department. However, no credit application may The purpose of the quality review is to be processed in the Bank without the recomensure that the Bank’s credit policy and internal Credit risk is the risk of the Bank mendation of the branch manager. instructions are complied with, that credit facing economic loss because The decision procedure for credits is illustquality is maintained, and that credit decisions the Bank’s counterparties cannot rated in the diagram above. It also shows the show that there is good credit judgement and percentage of decisions and amounts at the a sound business approach. A corresponding fulfil their contractual obligations. various decision levels. examination of the quality is also made for credit In Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisadecisions made at higher levels in the Bank. tion, the documentation that forms the basis Credits granted by regional credit committees At Handelsbanken, the credit process is based for credit decisions is always prepared by the and regional bank boards are examined by the on a conviction that a decentralised organisabranch responsible for the credit, regardless of Central Credit Department, which also prepares tion with local presence ensures high quality whether the ﬁnal decision is to be made at the and examines credits decided by the Bank’s in credit decisions. The Bank is a relationship branch, at regional level, in the Board’s credit Board or its credit committee. bank where the branches maintain regular committee or by the Board. Credit decision Rather than being a mass market bank, contact with the customer, which gives them an documentation includes general and ﬁnancial Handelsbanken is selective in its choice of in-depth knowledge of each individual customer information regarding the borrower, and an customers, which means it seeks customers and a continually updated picture of the cusassessment of their repayment capacity, loans with a high credit quality. The quality requiretomer’s ﬁnancial situation. and credit terms, as well as a valuation of colment is never neglected in favour of higher In the Bank’s decentralised organisation, lateral. For borrowers whose total loans exceed credit volumes or to achieve higher returns. each branch responsible for the customer has SEK 3 million, the credit decision is made in the The Bank also avoids participating in ﬁnancing total credit responsibility. Customer and credit form of a credit limit. where there are complex customer constellaresponsibility lies with the branch manager In the case of loans to private individuals tions or complex transactions which are difﬁcult or with those employees at the local branch against collateral in the residential property, a to understand. appointed by the manager. Branch managlimit requirement comes into play for amounts The local branch’s close contact with its cusers and most staff at branches have personal exceeding SEK 6 million. For loans to housing tomers also enables the branch to quickly identify decision limits allowing them to decide on credits co-operative associations against collateral in the any problems and take action. In many cases, to the customers they are responsible for. residential property, a limit is required for amounts this means that the Bank can take action more For decisions on larger credits, there are reexceeding SEK 12 million. rapidly than would have been possible with a gional and central decision levels. Each additionCredit limits granted are valid for a maximum more centralised management of problem loans. al level of decision adds credit expertise. Each of one year. When extending limits, the decision The branch also has full ﬁnancial responsibility decision level has the right to reject credits both documentation and decision procedure are the for granting credits, and therefore addresses within their own decision level and also credits same as for a new credit. problems that arise when a customer has which would otherwise have been decided at In Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisarepayment difﬁculties and also bears any loan a higher level. All participants throughout the tion, where a large proportion of the credit and losses. If necessary, the local branch obtains decision process, regardless of level, must be in limit decisions are made by individual branches, support from the regional head ofﬁce and central agreement in order for a positive credit decision it is important that there is a well-functioning departments. The Bank’s method of working to be made. If there is the slightest doubt among re-examination process to ensure that the credit means that all employees whose work involves any of the participants, the credit application is decision is of high quality. The branch manager transactions linked to credit risk acquire a solid rejected. The largest credits are decided by the examines the quality of the staff’s decisions and and well-founded approach to this type of risk. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 83 NOTES | GROUP This approach forms an important part of the value that may be used is determined by the niﬁcantly longer horizon than a year, that effect is Bank’s culture. The work method and approach collateral provided for each exposure. expected to be very limited during normal ﬂucdescribed are important reasons for the Bank For retail exposures, the risk class is also tuations of the business cycle. Handelsbanken reporting very low loan losses over a long period. based on the internal rating assigned to all applies the conservative principle that the busicredit customers. The rating is not transness cycle adjustment factor can cause PD to Risk rating system lated directly into a risk class as for corporate be adjusted upwards, but not downwards. Handelsbanken’s risk rating system comprises exposures; instead, the different exposures are When establishing LGD, the risk measure a number of different systems, methods, prosorted into a number of smaller groups on the must reﬂect the loss rates during economicesses and procedures to support the Bank’s basis of certain factors. Such factors include the cally unfavourable circumstances, known as classiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of credit risk. type of credit, the counterparty’s debt-servicing downturn LGD. For collateral in property, the Handelsbanken’s internal rating system is record and whether there are one or more borProportion of exposure amount per product used to measure the credit risk in all operations rowers. An average default rate is calculated type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits reliably and consistently. The risk rating builds for each of the smaller groups, and on the basis – Corporate exposures on the Bank’s internal rating, which is based on of this, the groups are sorted into one of the an assessment of each counterparty’s repayten risk classes. Different models are used for Proportion of exposure amount, % ment capacity. The rating is determined by exposures to private individuals and to small 35 the risk of ﬁnancial strain and by the assessed companies respectively (that are also classed as 30 resistance to this strain. The method and clasretail exposures), but the principle is the same. 25 siﬁcation are based on the rating model that the For retail exposures and exposures to Bank has applied for several decades. medium-sized companies, property companies 20 The internal rating is the most important and housing co-operative associations, the 15 component of the Bank’s model for calculating LGD is determined using the Bank’s own loss 10 the capital requirement in accordance with the history. For exposures to Large corporates that IRB Approach. The rating is dynamic; it is reasare subject to a capital requirement using the 5 sessed if there are signs that the counterparty’s IRB Approach with own estimates of LGD and 0 –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– PD,% repayment capacity has changed. The rating is CCF, the LGD is determined on the basis of also reviewed periodically as stipulated in the internal losses and external observations. For Derivatives Loans regulations. The rating is made by the person retail exposures secured by property in Sweden Interest-bearing securities Other products responsible for granting the credit and it is suband for property exposures to medium-sized sequently checked by independent bodies. companies, property companies and housing co-operative associations, different LGD values Proportion of exposure amount per product Risk classiﬁcation methods are applied depending on the loan-to-value ratio type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits To quantify its credit risks, the Bank calculates of the collateral. For other exposures, the LGD – Institutional exposures the probability of default (PD), the exposure the value is determined by factors that may depend Bank is expected to have if a default occurs (exon the existence and valuation of collateral, the Proportion of exposure amount, % posure amount), and the proportion of the loan product and similar factors. 25 that the Bank would lose in the case of default For each class of exposure, the PD is calcu(loss given default – LGD). Default is deﬁned as lated for each of the risk classes that refer to 20 when the counterparty is either 90 days late in non-defaulted counterparties or agreements. 15 making payment, or when an assessment has PD is based on calculations of the historical been made that the counterparty will not be percentage of defaults for different types of 10 able to pay as contractually agreed, for examexposure. The average default rate is then ple, if declared bankrupt. adjusted by a margin of conservatism and a 5 The PD value is expressed as a percentage business cycle adjustment factor. The margin is where, for example, a PD value of 0.5 per cent intended to ensure that the long-term probability 0 –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– PD,% means that one borrower of 200 with the same of default is not underestimated. PD value is expected to default within one year. A The business cycle adjustment factor Derivatives Loans Interest-bearing securities Other products credit in default does not necessarily mean that adjusts, where necessary, the average default the Bank will incur a loss since in most cases rates observed during the period determined as there is collateral for the exposure. Nor does a the basis for estimating the PD for an expected Proportion of exposure amount per product default mean that it is out of the question that the long-term level. The long-term level is based type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits counterparty will pay at some time in the future, on information at portfolio level since 1985. – Retail exposures since the payment problems may be temporary. The method takes into consideration expected For corporate and institutional exposures, the migration between risk classes during a busiProportion of exposure amount, % internal rating set for each counterparty is diness cycle. As the period of time that can be 35 rectly converted into a risk class on a scale from used for estimating the PD is increasing, the 30 1 to 10 (where risk class 10 refers to defaulted need for business cycle adjustment is gradually 25 counterparties). Corporate exposures are direduced over time. vided into four counterparty types based on the The adjustment evens out part of the vari20 business evaluation template used for the counation in PD by risk class that arises due to the 15 terparty. PD is calculated individually for each limitations of the material used for estimates 10 risk class and counterparty type. For institutional when the risk measure is updated annually. exposures and the corporate exposures that are PD at agreement level, counterparty level and 5 subject to a capital requirement according to the portfolio level will, however, vary over time due 0 –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– PD,% IRB Approach without own estimates of LGD to migration between risk classes. Since one of and CCF, prescribed values are applied for the the most important parts of the risk classiﬁcaDerivatives Loans loss rates given default (LGD). The prescribed tion, Handelsbanken’s internal rating, has a sigInterest-bearing securities Other products 84 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP downturn LGD is based on observed loss rates In addition to the capital adequacy calculation, offered to the Bank. Collateral may, however, from the property crisis in the early 1990s. For measures of risk (PD, exposure amounts, LGD) substantially reduce the Bank’s loss if the borother collateral relating to retail exposures, are used to calculate the cost of capital in each rower cannot fulﬁl his or her obligations. Credits observed LGD is adjusted for downturns by a individual transaction and to calculate economic must therefore normally be adequately secured. factor which depends on the PD and type of capital (EC). This means that margins in the form Unsecured credit is mainly granted to cusproduct. For corporate exposures in the IRB of business cycle adjustments and conservatomers with very good repayment capacity. For Approach with own estimates of LGD and CCF, tism adjustments in the risk measurements are unsecured credits, special loan conditions are the LGD is adjusted for downturns so that the also included in the cost of capital in individual drawn up that entitle the Bank to renegotiate or Bank’s observed losses in the crisis years of transactions and in calculations of economic terminate the agreement if the borrower’s repay1991–92 can be explained by the risk weights capital, which means that the loss levels that the ment capacity deteriorates or if the conditions with a good margin. risk measurements imply are conservative. The are otherwise breached. When the exposure amount (EAD) is to be method used means that the Bank’s historical Since collateral is not generally utilised until calculated, certain adjustments are made to the losses have a direct impact on risk calculations a borrower faces serious repayment difﬁculcarried exposure. Examples of this are comand capital requirement. ties, the valuation of collateral focuses on the mitted loan offers or revolving credits, where For corporate, institutional and retail exexpected value in the case of a rapid sale in the Bank agrees with the customer that the posures, the adjoining ﬁgures show how the unfavourable circumstances in connection with customer may borrow up to a certain amount in exposure is distributed between bonds and insolvency. The value of certain assets may the future. This type of commitment constiother interest-bearing securities, and loans, change considerably in an insolvency situation tutes a credit risk that must also be covered by derivatives and other products respectively. leading to a forced sale. adequate capital. Normally this means that the Other products are, for example, guarantees A large part of lending to credit institutions credit granted is adjusted using a certain conand committed loan offers. The diagrams show consists of reverse repos. A reverse repo is a version factor (CF) for the part of the credit that how the exposure amounts, excluding credits repurchase transaction in which the Bank buys is unutilised at the time of reporting. For certain in default, are distributed between different PD interest-bearing securities or equities with a product categories for corporate exposures ranges in each exposure class. The PD values special agreement that the security will be reand institutional exposures, the conversion used are those applied when calculating the sold to the seller at a speciﬁc price on a speciﬁc factors are determined by the regulatory code, capital requirement. date. Handelsbanken regards reverse repos as while for retail exposures and certain product secured lending. categories for Large corporates, medium-sized COLLATERAL In special circumstances, the Bank may buy companies, property companies and housing When Handelsbanken assesses the credit risk credit derivatives or ﬁnancial guarantees to co-operative associations, the Bank uses its of a speciﬁc customer, the assessment must hedge the credit risk in claims, but this is not own calculated conversion factors. Here, it is start with the borrower’s repayment capacity. part of the Bank’s normal lending process. the product referred to that mainly governs the According to the Bank’s credit policy, weak conversion factor, but the utilisation level may repayment capacity can never be accepted also be of relevance. on the grounds that good collateral has been Credit risk exposure on balance, broken down by collateral SEK m 2014 2013 1 Residential property 1 114 011 1 030 392 of which private individuals 782 821 726 190 Other property 271 041 245 196 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils2 603 319 452 502 Guarantees3 18 876 19 338 Financial collateral 63 493 54 286 Collateral in assets 18 256 19 360 Other collateral 68 138 55 671 Unsecured 211 790 272 851 Total credit risk exposure on balance 2 368 924 2 149 596 Loans to the public, broken down by collateral SEK m 2014 2013 Residential property1 1 114 011 1 030 392 of which private individuals 782 821 726 190 Other property 271 041 245 196 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils2 98 076 59 869 Guarantees3 18 305 19 327 Financial collateral 22 035 13 773 Collateral in assets 18 256 19 360 Other collateral 68 138 55 671 Unsecured 197 974 252 751 Total loans to the public 1 807 836 1 696 339 ¹ Including housing co-operatives. 2 Refers to direct sovereign exposures and government guarantees. 3 Does not include government guarantees. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 85 NOTES | GROUP CREDIT PORTFOLIO Based on the balance sheet, credits are categoclasses speciﬁed by the regulations for each Breakdown of the portfolio rised as loans to the public and loans to credit calculation method. Exposure means the sum The Bank’s credit portfolio is presented in institutions and off-balance sheet items divided of items on and off the balance sheet. this section based on the balance sheet item into the type of product. In a capital adequacy categories. context, they are categorised as exposure Credit risk exposures SEK m 2014 2013 Loans to the public1 1 807 836 1 696 339 of which reverse repos 23 858 15 711 Loans to other credit institutions 70 339 62 898 of which reverse repos 42 138 33 874 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 2 102 778 99 660 Committed loan offers 271 001 246 518 Other commitments 14 134 9 046 Guarantees, credits 10 335 8 371 Guarantees, other 60 033 58 568 Letters of credit 5 369 7 190 Derivatives 3 116 124 69 961 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 78 219 57 451 Bonds and other ﬁxed-income securities 63 725 64 125 Total 2 599 893 2 380 127 Cash and balances with central banks 454 532 334 794 Other loans to central banks 51 047 35 160 Total 3 105 472 2 750 081 The amounts do not include holdings with central banks. 1 SEK 2,181m (2,580) of this amount is loans which upon initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in the income statement. 2 As of 2014, unutilised overdraft facilities which the counterpart does not have at its disposal at the time of the recognition are not included and therefore do not give rise to a capital requirement. The comparative ﬁgures have been adjusted. 3 Refers to the total positive market values. Including legally viable netting agreements, the exposure, excluding potential future exposure, is SEK 70,478 m (25,775). Geographical distribution 2014 Loans Off-balance-sheet commitments Unutilised Credit Cash and part of institutions balances Committed granted excl. central with central Central Derivative loan offers overdraft Letters SEK m Public banks banks banks instruments Investments Guarantees etc. fac. of credit Other Total Sweden 1 194 402 18 368 253 6 926 115 104 112 376 25 033 124 761 72 334 2 483 14 134 1 686 174 UK 169 596 575 55 779 342 88 5 986 31 077 5 659 48 269 150 Denmark 79 030 85 111 28 021 66 5 3 531 28 443 220 139 512 Finland 115 087 163 69 176 108 4 912 18 817 6 494 216 214 973 Norway 204 067 428 2 353 15 758 6 748 37 219 15 729 92 282 394 Netherlands 18 504 11 971 0 823 6 536 160 37 994 Germany 5 228 227 87 3 570 3 776 711 53 13 652 Poland 2 255 6 35 1 204 1 83 3 584 USA 2 716 43 323 312 770 496 28 570 14 024 14 451 339 1 723 418 412 Other countries 16 951 7 164 1 997 262 993 4 537 5 920 1 269 534 39 627 Total 1 807 836 70 339 454 532 51 047 116 124 141 944 70 368 271 001 102 778 5 369 14 134 3 105 472 Geographical distribution 2013 Loans Off-balance-sheet commitments Unutilised Credit Cash and part of institutions balances Committed granted excl. central with central Central Derivative loan offers overdraft Letters SEK m Public banks banks banks instruments Investments Guarantees etc. fac. of credit Other Total Sweden 1 153 930 21 598 380 3 028 69 957 98 399 26 896 122 115 69 522 4 294 9 046 1 579 165 UK 131 424 546 46 581 229 -552 0 5 390 23 474 4 323 77 211 492 Denmark 70 725 73 92 21 158 57 5 2 890 26 363 0 256 121 619 Finland 100 119 186 38 814 0 70 0 3 791 18 637 5 699 392 167 708 Norway 196 596 110 4 275 10 745 0 0 7 299 33 832 15 694 32 268 583 Netherlands 17 869 3 8 564 0 0 0 678 4 192 118 0 31 424 Germany 4 778 39 243 0 9 0 3 368 2 268 2 630 447 13 782 Poland 2 297 74 29 0 0 0 1 043 1 80 0 3 524 USA 2 827 33 555 235 114 0 406 21 619 10 726 11 804 479 1 447 317 977 Other countries 15 774 6 714 702 0 14 1 553 4 858 3 832 1 115 245 34 807 Total 1 696 339 62 898 334 794 35 160 69 961 121 576 66 939 246 518 99 660 7 190 9 046 2 750 081 86 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Loans to the public, breakdown by sector and counterparty type 2014 2013 Loans before Provisions Loans after Loans before Provisions Loans after deduction of for probable deduction of deduction of for probable deduction of SEK m provisions loan losses provisions provisions loan losses provisions Private individuals 852 466 -813 851 653 788 495 -790 787 705 of which mortgage loans 683 991 -30 683 961 642 459 -54 642 405 of which other loans with property mortgages 99 063 -101 98 962 77 461 -111 77 350 of which other loans, private individuals 69 412 -682 68 730 68 575 -625 67 950 Housing co-operative associations 153 058 -21 153 037 140 320 -33 140 287 of which mortgage loans 136 748 -9 136 739 128 524 -9 128 515 Property management 485 377 -589 484 788 461 726 -394 461 332 Manufacturing 38 508 -726 37 782 39 051 -517 38 534 Retail 27 736 -343 27 393 31 570 -362 31 208 Hotel and restaurant 8 299 -25 8 274 7 396 -24 7 372 Passenger and goods transport by sea 12 221 -405 11 816 14 733 -423 14 310 Other transport and communication 20 184 -39 20 145 26 972 -80 26 892 Construction 15 225 -114 15 111 12 295 -116 12 179 Electricity, gas and water 24 888 -24 24 864 23 620 -44 23 576 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 10 703 -16 10 687 8 365 -25 8 340 Other services 20 241 -42 20 199 22 996 -101 22 895 Holding, investment, insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 71 945 -187 71 758 73 272 -569 72 703 Sovereigns and municipalities 35 627 0 35 627 20 935 20 935 Other corporate lending 35 469 -483 34 986 28 496 -68 28 428 Total loans to the public, before collective provisions 1 811 947 -3 827 1 808 120 1 700 242 -3 546 1 696 696 Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -284 -357 Total loans to the public 1 811 947 1 807 836 1 700 242 1 696 339 Loans to the public after deduction of provisions, geographical breakdown, by sector and counterparty type 2014 Other SEK m Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands countries Total Private individuals 634 587 46 696 43 649 35 258 83 170 4 431 3 862 851 653 of which mortgage loans 586 689 0 24 628 22 617 50 027 0 0 683 961 of which other loans with property mortgages 14 801 37 227 14 409 8 075 17 160 4 108 3 182 98 962 of which other loans, private individuals 33 097 9 469 4 612 4 566 15 983 323 680 68 730 Housing co-operative associations 124 890 0 539 14 277 13 331 0 0 153 037 Property management 241 993 101 897 14 318 27 456 79 816 11 423 7 885 484 788 Manufacturing 19 795 2 888 2 079 3 740 3 395 484 5 401 37 782 Retail 13 626 3 748 4 336 2 069 2 841 0 773 27 393 Hotel and restaurant 2 641 2 922 1 123 359 181 0 1 048 8 274 Passenger and goods transport by sea 3 887 39 1 048 3 072 3 637 0 133 11 816 Other transport and communication 9 221 773 1 832 3 354 3 645 1 318 2 20 145 Construction 6 259 2 174 303 1 073 4 974 0 328 15 111 Electricity, gas and water 11 162 271 122 9 108 3 582 0 619 24 864 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 9 083 1 360 106 118 17 0 3 10 687 Other services 11 660 4 333 1 528 1 446 1 224 0 8 20 199 Holding, investment, insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 59 227 1 003 5 286 1 096 1 278 114 3 754 71 758 Sovereigns and municipalities 23 675 0 2 11 747 203 0 0 35 627 Other corporate lending 22 830 1 542 2 776 952 2 813 736 3 337 34 986 Total loans to the public, before collective provisions 1 194 536 169 646 79 047 115 125 204 107 18 506 27 153 1 808 120 Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -134 -50 -17 -38 -40 -2 -3 -284 Total loans to the public 1 194 402 169 596 79 030 115 087 204 067 18 504 27 150 1 807 836 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 87 NOTES | GROUP Credit risk concentrations various risk mitigation measures. counterparties with a poorer rating than the Handelsbanken’s branches focus strongly on In addition to mortgage loans and lendBank’s risk class 5 (normal risk) is very low. 98 establishing long-term relationships with cusing to housing co-operative associations, (98) per cent of total property lending in Sweden tomers of sound creditworthiness. If a branch Handelsbanken has considerable lending is in risk class 5 or better. The corresponding identiﬁes a good customer, it should be able to operations for property management (SEK 485 ﬁgures for property lending in the UK are 93 (96) do business with this customer, irrespective of billion). Property management refers here to per cent, Denmark, 94 (99) per cent, Finland, 99 whether the Bank as a whole has major expoall companies assessed for credit purposes as (92) per cent, Norway 96 (93) per cent and the sure to the business sector that the customer “property companies”. It is common for groups Netherlands, 98 (100) per cent. For counterrepresents. In granting credit the Bank thus has of companies operating in other industries to parties in poorer risk classes than normal, the no built-in restrictions to having relatively extenhave subsidiaries managing the properties in majority are in risk classes 6 or 7 with only small sive exposures in individual sectors. The Bank which the group conducts business, and such volumes in the higher risk classes 8 and 9. monitors and calculates concentration risks property companies are also considered here to In the past few years, Handelsbanken has continually for various business sectors, geobelong to the property management. However, seen major credit growth in the UK as a result of graphic areas and individual major exposures. the underlying credit risk in such cases is not an expansion of the branch network. A relatively Concentration risks are identiﬁed in the Bank’s only property-related. large part of the growth has been in propertycalculation of economic capital for credit risks A large proportion of property lending is related credits. In its expansion, Handelsbanken and in the stress tests conducted in the internal to government-owned property companies, has had the same strict requirements on capital adequacy assessment. The Swedish municipal housing companies and other repayment capacity and collateral quality as in Financial Supervisory Authority also calculates housing-related operations where the borrowits other home markets. The result of this is a a separate capital adequacy supplement under ers consistently have strong, stable cash ﬂows high concentration of customers in good risk Pillar 2 for concentration risks in the credit and thus very high creditworthiness. A large part classes and a loan loss ratio in line with other portfolio. This ensures that Handelsbanken of lending to the property sector is therefore to home markets. has sufﬁcient capital, also taking into account companies with a very low probability of default concentration risks. If the concentration risks and low LTVs. The Bank’s exposure to the propare judged to be excessive, the Bank has the erty sector is speciﬁed in the tables below. opportunity and capacity to reduce them using The proportion of exposures to property Speciﬁcation Loans to the public 2014 2013 – Property management Loans before Provisions Loans after Loans before Provisions Loans after deduction of for probable deduction of deduction of for probable deduction of SEK m provisions loan losses provisions provisions loan losses provisions Loans in Sweden State-owned property companies 5 684 5 684 7 798 7 798 Municipal-owned property companies 16 926 16 926 15 430 15 430 Residential property companies 87 797 -19 87 778 73 571 -15 73 556 of which mortgage loans 70 370 -3 70 367 57 726 -1 57 725 Other property management 131 710 -105 131 605 151 410 -110 151 300 of which mortgage loans 64 392 -5 64 387 75 969 -3 75 966 Total loans in Sweden 242 117 -124 241 993 248 209 -125 248 084 Loans outside Sweden UK 102 152 -255 101 897 81 129 -69 81 060 Denmark 14 446 -127 14 319 12 108 -117 11 991 Finland 27 483 -28 27 455 23 612 23 612 Norway 79 859 -43 79 816 76 457 -60 76 397 Netherlands 11 423 11 423 12 633 12 633 Other countries 7 897 -12 7 885 7 578 -23 7 555 Total loans outside Sweden 243 260 -465 242 795 213 517 -269 213 248 Total loans property management 485 377 -589 484 788 461 726 -394 461 332 Speciﬁcation – Loans 2014 2013 to the public – Property Companies Companies management owned by owned by goType of collateral and government and vernment and country municipality/ municipality/ property lending Multi-family property lending Multi-family guaranteed by dwellings/ Commercial guaranteed by dwellings/ Commercial government and residential properties and government and residential properties and SEK m Total municipality property other collateral Unsecured Total municipality property other collateral Unsecured Sweden 242 117 24 669 92 972 111 558 12 918 248 209 24 744 89 037 111 582 22 846 UK 102 152 0 45 577 53 320 3 255 81 129 0 34 724 41 475 4 930 Denmark 14 446 0 7 113 5 563 1 770 12 108 0 6 290 3 813 2 005 Finland 27 483 9 827 3 902 12 959 795 23 612 8 549 2 974 10 452 1 637 Norway 79 859 0 12 350 56 996 10 513 76 457 964 13 626 52 671 9 196 Netherlands 11 423 0 4 451 6 943 29 12 633 0 3 682 8 046 905 Other countries 7 897 557 579 5 542 1 219 7 578 532 828 5 645 573 Total 485 377 35 053 166 944 252 881 30 499 461 726 34 789 151 161 233 684 42 092 88 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Speciﬁcation – Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and country 2014 SEK m Other Accum. Risk class Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands countries Total % % of total 1 20 614 984 73 3 263 1 390 164 1 047 27 535 5.67 6 2 74 952 22 468 850 10 904 16 038 1 751 3 762 130 725 26.93 33 3 88 932 46 474 7 088 10 274 40 298 8 157 2 523 203 746 41.98 75 4 39 221 18 286 3 738 1 854 14 648 1 059 176 78 982 16.27 91 5 14 602 7 090 1 821 794 4 089 16 308 28 720 5.92 97 6 1 962 3 198 209 236 2 186 26 42 7 859 1.62 98 7 1 130 1 689 166 54 851 250 0 4 140 0.85 99 8 294 669 144 37 116 0 0 1 260 0.26 100 9 111 102 60 7 12 0 0 292 0.06 100 Defaults 299 1 192 297 60 231 0 39 2 118 0.44 100 Total 242 117 102 152 14 446 27 483 79 859 11 423 7 897 485 377 100 Speciﬁcation – Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and country 2013 SEK m Other Accum. Risk class Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands countries Total % % of total 1 20 341 746 2 3 143 1 234 62 930 26 458 5.73 6 2 69 224 14 996 440 10 899 13 566 4 474 3 641 117 240 25.39 31 3 91 645 36 764 5 881 7 484 36 291 5 979 2 290 186 334 40.36 71 4 45 804 15 657 2 965 1 341 16 312 1 575 196 83 850 18.17 90 5 15 851 7 461 1 844 487 5 678 487 390 32 198 6.97 97 6 2 492 1 917 225 155 1 762 0 105 6 656 1.44 98 7 1 643 1 855 187 33 1 165 56 0 4 939 1.07 99 8 327 401 163 16 38 0 0 944 0.20 99 9 139 112 33 0 56 0 0 340 0.07 99 Defaults 743 1 220 368 54 356 0 25 2 766 0.60 100 Total 248 209 81 129 12 108 23 612 76 458 12 633 7 577 461 726 100 Speciﬁcation – Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and type of collateral 2014 SEK m Loans Collateral Multi-family dwellings/ Commercial Guarantee from governRisk class residential property property ment or municipality Other collateral Unsecured 1 27 535 15 403 5 616 4 558 139 1 819 2 130 725 45 759 60 303 10 956 3 195 10 512 3 203 746 72 906 109 122 5 210 4 926 11 582 4 78 982 26 337 43 371 920 4 588 3 766 5 28 720 9 553 14 612 619 2 402 1 534 6 7 859 1 807 5 221 12 533 286 7 4 140 1 022 2 680 0 234 204 8 1 260 257 672 0 12 319 9 292 110 138 6 2 36 Defaults 2 118 758 813 0 45 502 Total 485 377 173 912 242 548 22 281 16 076 30 560 Speciﬁcation – Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and type of collateral 2013 SEK m Loans Collateral Multi-family dwellings/ Commercial Guarantee from governRisk class residential property property ment or municipality Other collateral Unsecured 1 26 458 14 253 5 282 4 186 1 186 1 551 2 117 240 41 572 54 975 8 894 977 10 822 3 186 334 63 910 94 792 3 822 6 216 17 594 4 83 850 23 497 46 212 473 5 988 7 680 5 32 198 10 249 14 940 540 3 630 2 839 6 6 656 2 281 3 710 11 332 322 7 4 940 1 683 2 520 9 211 517 8 944 357 366 0 9 212 9 340 182 120 0 3 35 Defaults 2 766 1 134 808 8 75 741 Total 461 726 159 118 223 725 17 943 18 627 42 313 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 89 NOTES | GROUP COUNTERPARTY RISK ments with all counterparties. Netting agreements for all transactions. In addition to collateral, the cenCounterparty risks arise when the Bank has enare supplemented with agreements for issuing tral counterparty also has access to other ﬁnancial tered into derivative contracts with a counterparty collateral for the net exposure, which further reresources, both their own and contributions from for instruments such as futures, swaps or opduces the credit risk. No transactions with material their members. In most cases the risk weight for tions, or contracts regarding loans of securities. speciﬁc correlation risk have been identiﬁed. centrally cleared derivatives is considerably lower Counterparty risk is regarded as a credit risk The collateral for these transactions is mainly than for other types of derivatives. where the market value of the contract detercash, but government securities are also used. mines the size of the exposure. If the contract has Due to the high proportion of cash, the concenPayment risks arise in transactions where the a positive value, the default of the counterparty tration risks in the collateral are limited. A very Bank has fulﬁlled its commitments in the form means a potential loss for the Bank – in the same small number of the collateral agreements enof foreign exchange conversion, payments or way as for a loan. tered into by the Bank include terms and condidelivery of securities, but cannot at the same In calculating both the capital requirement and tions concerning rating-based threshold amounts time ensure that the counterparty has fulﬁlled economic capital (EC), counterparty exposures for Handelsbanken. These conditions mean its commitments to the Bank. The risk amount are taken into account based on the exposure that the Bank must provide further collateral for equals the amount of the payment transacamounts stipulated by the capital adequacy reguthe counterparty in question, in the event of the tion. The payment risks are not included in the lations. These credit exposures are then treated in Bank’s rating from external parties being lowered. credit limit of each customer; instead, they are the same way as other credit exposures. At the year-end, a downgrading from AA-/Aa3 covered by a separate limit. At Handelsbanken, In addition to derivatives, the capital adequacy to A+/A1 would have meant the Bank having to the risk of value changes in spot transactions regulations treat both repurchase transactions issue further collateral of SEK 76 million (30). is categorised as payment risk, while the risk and equity loans as counterparty risks. When calThe Bank holds a portfolio of credit derivatives of value changes in derivative transactions is culating EC, these transaction types are treated in (credit default swaps, CDS) which is classed as categorised as credit risk. the same way. The Bank applies the mark to martrading book. The value of purchased protection Setting a limit for the payment risk is a vital ket method to calculate the exposure amount for is SEK 521 million (783), and the value of sold part of Handelsbanken’s constant aim to limit counterparty risks for capital adequacy purposes. protection is SEK 474 million (757). risks. This includes developing technical solutions The size of counterparty exposures is restricted New capital requirements have been applied which reduce the period of time during which by setting credit limits in the regular credit process. to counterparty risk exposures as of 1 January there is a payment risk. In these efforts, HandelsThe size of the exposures may vary substantially 2014, through the implementation of CRR. One of banken co-operates with various banking sector due to ﬂuctuations in the price of the underlying the new capital requirements is based on the risk clearing institutions. The Bank has also estabasset. In order to take account of the risk that the of a value change due to the counterparty’s credit lished co-operation with the banks considered to exposure may increase, supplements are added quality (credit valuation adjustment, CVA) in the be the strongest and the most creditworthy. to the value of the exposure when setting credit counterparty risk exposures. The implementation Handelsbanken also participates in clearing limits. These add-ons are calculated using standof CVA risk in 2014 resulted in additional capital recollaborations such as CLS (Continuous Linked ard amounts that depend on the type of contract quirements of SEK 534 million. Another new capital Settlement) for currency trading. CLS is a global and the time to maturity. The exposures are requirement has been introduced for derivatives organisation which aims at securing currency calculated and followed up daily. The counterparty which are cleared via central counterparties. Cenexchange settlement by limiting the counterparty risk in derivatives is reduced through so-called tral counterparties are clearing houses which act as risk. Handelsbanken is one of approximately netting agreements, which involve setting off posicounterparty for both the buyer and seller in various 60 owners which are the largest international tive values against negative values in all derivative transactions, and thus take over the responsibility FX banks. Handelsbanken is also a partner and transactions with the same counterparty. Handelsfor fulﬁlling the parties’ obligations. All parties which direct member of EBA (Euro Banking Association) banken’s policy is to aim to have netting agreeuse a central counterparty must provide collateral and its euro payment system. Counterparty risks in derivative contracts excluding standard add-ons for potential future exposure SEK m 2014 2013 Positive gross market value for derivative contracts 128 764 72 8441 Netting gains 58 286 47 069 Current set-off exposure 70 478 25 775 Collateral 38 191 15 405 Net credit exposure for derivatives 32 287 10 370 1 The gross market value is stated for the banking group, excluding cleared derivatives which are not subject to capital adequacy in 2013. Counterparty risks in derivative contracts including potential future exposure 2014 Total credit exposure/expoCurrent set-off Potential future sure value for Risk-weighted Capital SEK m exposure exposure derivatives/EAD amount requirement Sovereign exposures 7 766 1 824 9 590 19 2 Institutional exposures 41 726 21 611 63 338 9 683 775 Corporate exposures 20 799 7 107 27 905 7 215 577 Other 187 302 489 153 12 Total 70 478 30 844 101 322 17 070 1 366 Counterparty risks in derivative contracts including potential future exposure 2013 Total credit exposure/expoCurrent set-off Potential future sure value for Risk-weighted Capital SEK m exposure exposure derivatives/EAD amount requirement Sovereign exposures 1 249 1 174 2 423 14 1 Institutional exposures 14 174 20 440 34 613 6 082 487 Corporate exposures 10 321 4 247 14 568 4 392 351 Other 31 36 67 48 4 Total 25 775 25 897 51 671 10 536 843 90 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP MARKET RISKS that can be converted into liquidity at short CEO and Board continually receive reports on notice in conjunction with possible disruptions the market risks and utilisation of the limits. in the markets where the Bank conducts its Market risks in the Bank’s business operaoperations. The portfolio secures the Group’s tions mainly arise at Central Treasury, HandelsMarket risks arise from price and payments in the daily clearing operations and banken Capital Markets and Handelsbanken volatility changes in the financial forms part of the Bank’s liquidity reserve. Liv, and are managed there. The market risks at markets. Market risks are divided Market risks also arise to meet customers’ the insurance company, Handelsbanken Liv, are demand for ﬁnancial instruments with exposure described in a separate section. Consequently, into interest rate risks, equity to the ﬁxed income, currency, equity or comthe information on market risks given in this secprice risks, exchange rate risks modities markets. To meet this demand, it may tion refers to risks excluding Handelsbanken Liv. and commodity price risks. be necessary for the Bank to have certain holdings. This situation arises for example when the Risk measurement Bank has undertaken to set prices in its function Market risk is measured using several different as a market maker. Finally, the Bank has major methods. Various sensitivity measures are Handelsbanken has a restrictive view of market business ﬂows, making it reasonable for it to used, showing the changes in value arising from risks. Market risks at Handelsbanken have take advantage of possible economies of scale. pre-deﬁned changes in prices and volatilities. decreased further during the past few years The Bank’s limit system restricts the size of Position-related risk measures and probabilityfrom already low levels to very low at present. the exposure to market risks. Measurement based Value at Risk models (VaR) are also used. This work has continued for a long period of methods and limits are established by the VaR expresses the losses in Swedish kronor time and started before the ﬁnancial crisis broke Board. The limits for interest rate, currency and that may arise in risk positions due to moveout and long before the regulations started liquidity risk are allocated by the CEO and the ments in the underlying markets over a speciﬁed to assign such importance to market risks as CFO to the Head of Central Treasury, who in holding period and for a given conﬁdence level. they do today. One result of this is that a much turn allocates these to the business-operating The VaR method means that different risk smaller part of the earnings come from net units. The Head of Central Treasury has operaclasses can be handled in a uniform way so that gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. tional responsibility under the CFO for managing they can be compared and aggregated into a At a full-service bank like Handelsbanken, interest rate, currency and liquidity risks. total market risk. Handelsbanken has, however, market risks arise when the Bank’s customers The CEO and the CFO also decide on supbeen, and will continue to be, very restrictive in demand services where the Bank must have plementary risk measures, limits and detailed basing the limit system on VaR risk measureﬂexible funding. The Bank can also obtain fundguidelines. The supplementary limit measures ments, since by deﬁnition VaR stipulates a given ing on other markets than those where it has aim to reduce the Bank’s total sensitivity to loss level. The risk in that case would be that its lending so that it can diversify its sources of volatility changes in the ﬁnancial markets, and to this loss level would become accepted as a funding. The funding can also have a different limit the risks of speciﬁc holdings and the liquidnorm in the operations. maturity than the assets which are to be funded. ity risk per currency. These measures also limit Central Treasury manages a liquidity portfolio the risks from a maturity perspective. The CFO, Decision levels and monitoring of market risk Board CEO CFO Central Treasury Handelsbanken Liv Other business units Handelsbanken Capital Markets H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 91 NOTES | GROUP VaR for trading book, Handelsbanken Capital Markets and Central Treasury Total Equities Fixed income Currency Commodities SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Average 14 18 1 3 14 18 2 2 1 1 Maximum 24 42 3 6 24 40 6 5 3 4 Minimum 8 9 1 1 9 9 0 0 0 0 Year-end 12 14 1 1 13 14 4 1 1 2 Risk at Handelsbanken measured as VaR when the loss exceeded the estimated VaR. than the VaR. This is an acceptable deviation For the portfolios at Handelsbanken Capital Back testing is performed on both the actual from the expected situation and in line with that Markets and Central Treasury which are clasoutcome and on the hypothetical outcome. The which a VaR model with a conﬁdence level of 99 siﬁed as trading book, VaR is calculated for latter measures the outcome if the portfolio had per cent implies. individual classes of risk and at portfolio level been unchanged during the holding period. The VaR model does not identify risks aswith a 99-per cent conﬁdence level and a oneA VaR model with a 99 per cent conﬁdence sociated with extreme market ﬂuctuations. The day holding period. level implies that the average outcome is calculations are therefore supplemented with Since VaR is based on model assumptions, expected to be worse than measured VaR on regular stress tests where the portfolios are the model is continually veriﬁed to check that it one to four occasions every year. If the number tested against scenarios based on all events in is up-to-date. For that reason, VaR is regularly of observed occasions exceeds the expected the ﬁnancial markets since 1994. The results of evaluated using back testing. The result is number, there is a risk that the model will unthese stress tests are also reported to the CEO, reported quarterly to the CFO, the CEO and the derestimate the actual risk. On four occasions CFO and the Board on a regular basis. Board. These tests verify the number of days in 2014, the hypothetical outcome was worse VaR and hypothetical outcome for trading book 2014, Handelsbanken Capital Markets and Central Treasury 50 40 30 20 10 0 -10 -20 -30 -40 -50 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Hypothetical outcome Value at Risk Worst outcome in stress test for trading book – Handelsbanken Capital Markets and Central Treasury SEK m 2014 2013 Average 27 26 Maximum 46 69 Minimum 13 12 Year-end 37 28 INTEREST RATE RISK includes both interest-bearing items at market total. The total speciﬁc interest rate risk at the Interest rate risk mainly arises at Handelsvalue and not at market value, and it is therefore year-end was SEK 9 million (7). banken Capital Markets, Central Treasury and not appropriate to assess the effects on the balin the lending operations. Interest rate risk is ance sheet and income statement. Interest rate risk in the trading book measured at the Bank in several ways. General Speciﬁc interest rate risk is measured and The trading book at Handelsbanken cominterest rate risk is measured and limited as limits set are using sensitivity to changes in prises Capital Markets’ and Central Treasury’s the sum of the least favourable changes in fair credit spreads. This risk mainly arises within portfolios which are classiﬁed as trading book. value per currency in the case of substantial Handelsbanken Capital Markets and in the The general interest rate risk in the trading momentaneous upwards or downwards parallel Central Treasury liquidity portfolio. The risk is book was SEK 117 million (34) and the speciﬁc shifts of 1 percentage point for all interest rates. measured and limited on the basis of different interest rate risk was SEK 7 million (7). VaR At the year-end, the Bank’s total general interest rating classes and is calculated as a market and other risk measurements are used for the rate risk was SEK 1,431 million (861). In the value change for the worst outcome in the case trading book, supplemented by various stress calculation of general interest rate risk, deposits of a parallel shift in the credit spreads of +/one scenarios. Yield curve twist risks – which are without an established interest-ﬁxing period are basis point, i.e. the difference between the measured and followed up on a regular basis – assumed to have an interest-ﬁxing period of one interest on the current holding and the yield on a show the development of the risks in the case day. If the interest-ﬁxing period for these degovernment bond with the same maturity. This of hypothetical changes in various yield curves. posits is assumed to be one month, the general is performed for each individual counterparty The non-linear interest rate risk, for examrisk is SEK 908 million (446). This risk measure and the outcomes are summed as an absolute ple, part of the risk in interest rate options, is 92 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP General interest rate risk for positions not included in the trading book (change in fair value as the worst outcome in the case of a one percentage point parallel shift in the yield curve) SEK m 2014 2013 SEK 764 367 DKK 206 118 EUR 103 34 NOK 101 133 USD 91 114 GBP 60 54 Other currencies 17 11 Total 1 342 831 measured and a limit set with pre-deﬁned stress the lending that the bonds are funding. Interest measured as the change in net interest income scenarios expressed in matrices. This means rate risk is mainly managed by means of interest over a 12-month period in the case of a general that the risk is measured as changes in underlyrate swaps. In general, interest rate risk exposure increase of market rates by 1 percentage point. ing market interest rates and volatilities. is in markets which are characterised by good This effect reﬂects the differences in interestliquidity. The general interest rate risk for posirate ﬁxing periods and volume composition beInterest rate risk in other operations tions not included in the trading book measured tween assets, liabilities and derivatives outside In the lending operations, interest rate risk arises as above was SEK 1,342 million (831) and the the trading book, assuming that the size of the as a result of the lending partly having longer speciﬁc interest rate risk was SEK 2 million (1). balance sheet is constant. In the calculation, it is interest-rate ﬁxing periods than the funding. In To estimate the effect of interest rate changes assumed that deposits without an established bond funding, the reverse may also apply, i.e. on the income statement, the net interest interest-ﬁxing period have an interest-ﬁxing that the interest-rate ﬁxing period on the bonds income effect is also measured. The net interest period of 1 month. The net interest income effect is longer than the interest-rate ﬁxing period for income effect when interest rates change is was SEK 788 million at the year-end (545). Interest rate adjustment periods for assets and liabilities 2014 SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Assets Loans 1 261 702 85 192 94 117 338 804 28 020 1 807 835 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 480 157 1 643 194 169 77 482 240 Bonds etc. 40 039 4 730 15 057 45 553 17 189 122 568 Total assets 1 781 898 91 565 109 368 384 526 45 286 2 412 643 Liabilities Deposits 980 659 31 768 7 292 1 543 1 007 1 022 269 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 185 229 8 208 696 474 5 468 200 075 Issued securities 287 955 94 458 153 569 605 712 101 208 1 242 902 Other liabilities Total liabilities 1 453 843 134 434 161 557 607 729 107 683 2 465 246 Off-balance sheet items -124 028 -12 929 -22 541 138 925 36 792 16 219 Difference between assets and liabilities including off-balance sheet items 204 027 -55 798 -74 730 -84 278 -25 605 -36 384 The table shows the interest rate adjustment periods for interest-rate related assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2014, reported by trade date. Non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities have been excluded. Interest rate adjustment periods for assets and liabilities 2013 SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Assets Loans 1 183 993 79 945 88 320 317 937 26 294 1 696 489 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 431 284 1 351 130 87 0 432 852 Bonds etc. 30 549 11 182 1 218 42 861 7 508 93 318 Total assets 1 645 826 92 478 89 668 360 885 33 802 2 222 659 Liabilities Deposits 804 844 3 499 2 074 2 277 1 624 814 318 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 167 610 6 943 489 125 5 019 180 186 Issued securities 369 497 169 073 24 758 501 699 101 579 1 166 606 Other liabilities Total liabilities 1 341 951 179 515 27 321 504 101 108 222 2 161 110 Off-balance sheet items -200 184 -14 766 5 014 160 395 49 191 -350 Difference between assets and liabilities including off-balance sheet items 103 691 -101 803 67 361 17 179 -25 229 61 199 The table shows the interest rate adjustment periods for interest-rate related assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2013, reported by trade date. Non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities have been excluded. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 93 NOTES | GROUP EQUITY PRICE RISK Group’s accounts are expressed in Swedish group of currencies, because the positions are The Bank’s equity price risk mainly arises kronor. The structural risk is minimised by very short and arise in management of customat Handelsbanken Capital Markets through matching assets and liabilities in the same er-driven ﬂows. The total exchange rate risk was customer trading and in the Bank’s own equity currency as far as possible. The exchange rate SEK -6 million (5), measured as the impact on portfolio. movements that affect the Bank’s equity are the Bank’s earnings of an instantaneous 5 per The equity price risk table shows the risk in shown in the table on page 70 of the Annual cent change of the Swedish krona. the Bank’s total equity positions in the case of Report: Statement of changes in equity – Group. hypothetical changes in underlying prices and The Bank’s direct foreign exchange exposure COMMODITY PRICE RISK volatilities at year-end. arises as a consequence of customer-driven Exposure in commodity-related instruments intra-day trading in the international foreign only occurs as a result of customer-based Equity price risk in the trading book exchange markets. This trading is conducted trading in the international commodity markets The equity price risk at Handelsbanken Capital at Handelsbanken Capital Markets. The Board, and is restricted by limits decided by the Board, Markets arises in customer-generated equityCEO and CFO have set VaR limits for exchange CEO and CFO. Trading in commodities is conrelated transactions. Handelsbanken Capital rate risk. At year-end, VaR was SEK 3 million (0.4). ducted exclusively at Handelsbanken Capital Markets is a market maker for structured prodSome foreign exchange exposure also arises Markets. Commodity price risk, both linear and ucts, which gives rise to equity price risk, both in the normal banking operations as part of non-linear, is measured as the absolute total linear and non-linear. The non-linear equity price managing customer payment ﬂows and in fundof risk for all commodities to which the Bank is risk arises via options included in the structured ing operations at Central Treasury. The Board, exposed. At the year-end, the commodity price products. CEO and CFO have allocated position limits for risk was SEK 6 million (24), measured as the The extent of own position-taking, which aristhese exposures. At year-end, the aggregate maximum loss on price changes up to 20 per es to meet customers’ needs, is restricted by net position amounted to SEK 355 million (186). cent in underlying commodities and changes in the limits decided by the Bank’s Board, the CEO The exchange rate risk in the Bank does not volatility up to 35 per cent. and the CFO. The Bank limits and measures depend on trends for an individual currency or the equity price risk at Handelsbanken Capital Markets using matrices. The advantage of this method is that it effectively identiﬁes equity price Exchange rate sensitivity (worst outcome +/5% change SEK against the respective currency) risk including the non-linear risk. VaR as well as other risk measures and stress scenarios are SEK m 2014 2013 used as a complement when measuring the eqEUR -14 10 uity price risk. The supplementary risk measures NOK -2 -2 include dividend risk, event risk and sensitivity to DKK -1 -2 general volatility changes on the equity market. USD 1 -10 GBP 0 -5 Equity price risk outside the trading book Other currencies -10 -10 The majority of the Group’s shareholdings – 88 per cent – comprises shares listed on an active market valued at market price. Holdings of unEquity exposures outside the trading book listed securities mainly consist of various types of jointly owned operations related to the Bank’s SEK m 2014 2013 core business. In general, such holdings are Classiﬁed as available for sale 8 367 5 725 valued at the Bank’s share of the company’s net of which listed 6 753 4 369 asset value, or alternatively at the price of the of which unlisted 1 614 1 356 last completed transaction. Equity exposures outside the trading book are classiﬁed as availClassiﬁed as available for sale 8 367 5 725 able for sale and are recognised at fair value in of which business-related 6 198 768 of which other holdings 2 169 4 957 the balance sheet. Fair value reserve at beginning of year 1 217 796 EXCHANGE RATE RISK Unrealised market value change during the year for remaining and new holdings 237 420 Handelsbanken has home markets outside Realised due to sale and settlements during the period 6 1 Sweden and also operations in a number of Fair value reserve at end of year 1 460 1 217 other countries. Indirect currency exposure of a Included in tier 2 capital 0 1 216 structural nature therefore arises, because the Equity price risk Change in volatility SEK m 2014 2013 Change in equity price -25% 0% 25% -25% 0% 25% 10% 833 833 834 581 581 581 -10% -825 -822 -820 -577 -570 -565 94 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY RISK can keep its core business intact for a very long described in a stressed scenario where 20 per period of time, even if there is extensive disrupcent of deposits are assumed to disappear tion in the ﬁnancial markets. within one year and all access to new market The starting point of this work is a wellfunding disappears. Despite the stress, shortLiquidity risk is the risk that the matched balance sheet, where illiquid assets term assets are estimated to exceed short term Bank will not be able to meet its are ﬁnanced using stable funding. The illiquid liabilities by SEK 476 billion at year-end. A longpayment obligations when they assets comprise credits to households and term crisis could result in a reduced balance companies; these credits constitute the Bank’s sheet with retained core business, whereby the fall due without being affected core business. The long-term stable funding volume of short-term assets is gradually used to by unacceptable costs or losses. of these assets consists of covered bonds ispay back maturing short-term liabilities. In the sued in Stadshypotek, senior bonds issued by event of an even longer crisis, measures have Handelsbanken, deposits from households and been prepared to create liquidity which will procompanies, subordinated liabilities and equity. vide more support to the business operations. By building up liquidity reserves and matching Part of the core operations are short-term A balance sheet that is structured in this cash ﬂows, the Bank has worked on limiting its lending to households and companies and on manner at all times – on market terms – is how liquidity risks for a long period of time. This is the liabilities side some of the deposits for these Handelsbanken assumes its responsibility in a natural consequence of the Bank’s low risk customers are shorter term. its role as a systemically important bank in the tolerance and this work started before the new The main point is thus that illiquid assets are Swedish ﬁnancial system. liquidity regulations were formulated. Handelsnot funded with short-term liabilities. The rest of The market has great conﬁdence in banken is the only Swedish bank which has the balance sheet comprises liquid assets and Handelsbanken and its assessment is that managed completely on its own for its funding, liabilities that are shorter term. Handelsbanken has a very low credit risk. One with no support from central banks or public The short-term market funding and deposits illustration of this is that the cost of insuring a authorities, both throughout the latest ﬁnancial from ﬁnancial institutions ﬁnance liquid assets credit risk on the Bank, which is known as the crisis and also in the crisis of the early 1990s. and assets with shorter maturities. In addition, CDS spread, is one of the lowest of all among short-term assets and liabilities arise via transEuropean banks, and Handelsbanken has the Funding strategy actions that support customer-driven transaclowest funding cost of all peer banks. Handelsbanken has a low tolerance of liquidity tions, such as derivative and repo transactions Good diversiﬁcation between different types risks and works actively to minimise them in with other banks. of sources of funding in various markets, curtotal and also in each individual currency. The A balance sheet is a snapshot of assets and rencies and forms of funding instruments is a ambition is that this will provide good access to liabilities. To ensure that the Bank’s obligations key component of the funding strategy. This liquidity, a low level of variation in earnings and a towards customers and investors are fulﬁlled, it reduces the signiﬁcance of individual markets considerable capacity to meet customers’ fundis important to adopt a future-oriented perspecor sources of funding. In recent years, the Bank ing needs, even in difﬁcult times. This is achieved tive in funding and liquidity risk management. has considerably broadened its long-term by maintaining a good matching of incoming and The balance sheet is therefore structured in international funding and has issued signiﬁcant outgoing cash ﬂows over time in all currencies of such a way that the real economy players in volumes of bonds in, for example, the eurozone, importance to the Bank and by maintaining large the form of companies and households and the UK, the US, Asia and Australia. The most liquidity reserves of good quality. their needs for credit can be supported even important sources of funding are deposits from Furthermore, the Bank aims for breadth in during lengthy periods of stress in the ﬁnancial households and companies as well as covered its funding programmes and their use so that markets. Short-term assets cover short-term and senior bonds. The short-term funding no type of investor is treated at a disadvantage liabilities by a good margin. In the diagram mainly comprises deposits from ﬁnancial compared to others. This ensures that the Bank on the previous page, the balance sheet is companies and institutions as well as issues Composition of the balance sheet from a maturity perspective, 31 December 2014 SEK bn 3 000 J Cash and balances JLiabilities to banks < 1 year with central banks Short-term assets JIssued covered 2 500 J Bonds and other bonds < 1 year liquid securities including derivatives 1 418 Short-term 942 liabilities J Issued other 2 000 securitites < 1 year J Loans to banks < 1 year J Stress on deposits: J Loans repaid and 20% of deposits leaving amortised within 1 year * 1 500 J Other liabilities J Loans general public 1–5 years < 1 year including derivatives 1 000 J Loans general public > 5 years J Issued securities > 1 year J Other assets J Remaining deposits after stress 500 J Other liabilities J Equity 0 Assets Liabilities * Scheduled amortisations, contractual maturities and estimated additional loan repayments. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 95 NOTES | GROUP of certiﬁcates and CDs. Central Treasury has agreements such as CSA agreements, that The majority of the encumbered assets a number of different funding programmes for stipulate that the Bank, according to certain consist of Stadshypotek’s cover pools, which market funding at its disposal, which in addicriteria, may be forced to provide collateral to comprise mortgage loans provided as collateral tion to the programmes reported in the table another counterparty. In addition to securing the for outstanding covered bonds. The Bank also Funding programmes/limits contain covered Bank’s liquidity, this also contributes to limiting has voluntary OC (over-collateralisation – extra bonds in Swedish kronor. Bonds and certiﬁcates the extent to which the Bank’s senior lenders assets in addition to those which are needed to are issued under these programmes in the could be subordinated to lenders who invest in cover the issued bonds) of 10 per cent which is Bank’s and Stadshypotek’s names. The funding covered bonds, known as subordination. included in the pool. These extra assets are in programmes ensure well-diversiﬁed access to To assess the degree of subordination the pool in case the value of the mortgage loans funding in terms of different currencies, the numbetween investors of non-encumbered funding were to fall to a level such that further assets ber of investors and geographic distribution. and encumbered funding, the volume and credit are needed to match the volume of outstanding quality of the non-encumbered assets are the bonds. When assessing the risk that it will be Encumbered assets and cover pools relevant factors. Handelsbanken’s very restricnecessary to add further assets, the loan to valAn important part of Handelsbanken’s liquidity tive approach to risk-taking means that the ue (LTV) of the mortgage loans in the cover pool management consists of retaining signiﬁcant non-encumbered assets are of very high quality. is of fundamental importance. The lower the LTV, volumes of unutilised collateral that can be Since Handelsbanken wishes to have a balthe lower the risk that more mortgage loans are used in the event of disruptions in the ﬁnancial anced utilisation of covered and senior bonds, required in the pool if prices fall in the property markets. One prerequisite for being able to there is a large volume of mortgage loans which market. Handelsbanken’s average LTVs, LTV pledge additional collateral is for the Bank to are not encumbered. Other non-encumbered Max, were 49 per cent in both the Swedish and have collateral at its disposal from the outset. loans also have a very low risk measured, for Norwegian pools. This shows that the Bank can The Bank therefore retains substantial volumes example, in terms of the Bank’s internal rating. withstand substantial drops in prices of underlyof non-encumbered assets that could be used The table of non-encumbered assets shows ing property assets before further mortgage as collateral in the issue of covered bonds and that the volume of non-encumbered assets for loans have to be added to the pools. highly liquid securities with high credit ratings. Handelsbanken is 237 per cent of the outstandThe Bank is very restrictive about entering into ing volume of non-encumbered funding. Handelsbanken’s 5-year CDS spread compared with ITRAXX Financials 2007–2014 Basis points 400 300 200 100 0 6 7 7 7 7 8 8 8 8 9 9 9 9 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 4 4 4 4 c-0 ar-0 un-0 ep-0 ec-0 ar-0 un-0 ep-0 ec-0 ar-0 un-0 ep-0 ec-0 ar-1 un-1 ep-1 ec-1 ar-1 un-1 ep-1 ec-1 ar-1 un-1 ep-1 ec-1 ar-1 un-1 ep-1 ec-1 ar-1 un-1 ep-1 ec-1 De M J S D M J S D M J S D M J S D M J S D M J S D M J S D M J S D ITRAXX Financials 5-year SHB CDS 5-year Source: Ecowin, Bloomberg ITRAXX Financials is an index of CDS spreads for the 25 largest bond issuers in the European bank and insurance sector. It describes the average premium that an investor requires in order to accept credit risk on the companies. Encumbered assets and other pledged collateral Recognised amount SEK bn 2014 20131 2 Loans to the public 623 619 Government instruments and bonds 29 31 Equities 1 4 Cash 31 10 Other 105 90 Total pledged assets 7893 754 Other pledged assets 364 42 Loans to the public are reported at amortised cost. Other pledged assets are reported at fair value. The reported value of the liabilities related to the collateral was SEK 799bn. 1 The principles for how assets are classiﬁed in the table have been changed since the previous year. The comparative ﬁgures have been adjusted. 2 Of which over-collateralisation in the cover pool (OC) SEK 57bn. 3 Of which SEK 27bn is collateral which can be freely reclaimed by the Bank. 4 Of which SEK 27bn is collateral which can be freely reclaimed by the Bank. 96 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Non-encumbered/non-pledged assets 2014 2013 % of % of non-secured non-secured 1 SEK bn NEA funding2 NEA 1 funding2 Cash and balances with central banks 519 62 370 48 Liquid bonds in liquidity portfolio 129 77 90 60 Loans to households including derivatives 461 385 of which mortgage loans 310 114 255 94 of which loans secured by property mortgage 15 116 16 96 of which other household lending 136 132 114 111 Loans to companies including derivatives 702 679 of which mortgage loans 90 142 85 122 of which loans to housing co-operative associations excl. mortgage loans 32 146 24 125 of which loans to property companies inc./exc. mortgage loans risk category 1–3 221 173 203 152 risk category 4-5 79 182 85 163 of which risk category > 5 14 184 12 164 of which other corporate lending risk category 1-3 169 204 168 186 risk category 4-5 74 212 71 196 risk category > 5 23 215 31 200 Loans to credit institutions including derivatives 64 69 risk category 1-3 63 223 68 209 risk category > 3 1 223 1 209 Other assets 0 223 0 209 Other lending 117 237 101 222 Non-encumbered/non-pledged assets 1 992 237 1 694 222 1 NEA: Non-encumbered assets. 2 Issued short and long non-secured funding and due to credit institutions. Collateral received Fair value of collateral received available Fair value of encumbered for encumbrance collateral received SEK bn 2014 2013 2014 2013 Government instruments and bonds 29 14 1 6 Shares 4 10 4 4 Total 33 24 5 10 The carrying amount of the liabilities and other commitments for which the collateral has been pledged amounts to SEK 5bn. Cover pool data Sweden Norway SEK m 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Stadshypotek total lending, public 878 943 833 614 64 243 60 902 Available assets for cover pool 786 304 745 954 58 311 53 365 Utilised assets in cover pool 600 850 604 316 22 394 14 794 Maximum LTV, weighted average ASCB deﬁnition 49.3 49.6 49.4 54.1 Volume-weighted LTV (LTV-mid) 25 25.1 25.4 28.2 LTV, distribution 0–10% 23.9 24.1 23.1 21.1 10–20% 20.9 20.9 22 20.9 20–30% 18.1 18 18.1 18.4 30–40% 15.2 15.1 15.6 16.6 40–50% 12.3 12.3 12.4 13.5 50–60% 9.5 9.4 8.8 9.5 60–70% 0 0.1 0 0 70–75% 0 0.1 0 0 Loan amount, weighted average, SEK 638 600 614 400 3 004 800 2 698 600 Loan term, weighted average, no. of months 41 39 22 20 Interest ﬁxing periods, distribution Floating rate % 50 42 100 100 Fixed rate % 50 58 0 0 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 4 97 NOTES | GROUP Organisation tion of long-term funding, internal prices that rePricing of liquidity risk Handelsbanken has a highly decentralised ﬂect the market price, liquidity risk and maturity. An important part of liquidity risk management business model, but all funding and liquidity risk In addition, the transparency related to funding, is that deposits and lending are priced internally, management in the Group are centralised to liquidity risk and the proportion of pledged astaking into account the liquidity risks that they Central Treasury. Funding and liquidity risk mansets has been considerably increased. give rise to. For example, when the Bank grants agement is governed by policies established Central Treasury is also responsible for the a loan with a long maturity this creates the need by the Board which also decides on limits. Bank’s clearing operation and monitors liquidity to obtain additional long-term funding – which is Guidelines from the CEO and CFO make these ﬂows during the day to ensure that the Bank has more expensive than shorter-term funding. This policies concrete. The guidelines stipulate limits, sufﬁcient collateral in its payment systems at is because investors who purchase the Bank’s the composition of the funding and guides in the any given time to meet the Bank’s payment oblong-term bonds, in addition to yield, normally case of disruptions in the funding markets. ligations. The Bank’s liquidity monitoring takes also demand higher compensation for the The basic condition for the funding operaplace locally, near the transactions, and is supmaturity. This must be taken into account in the tion is that it must promote long-term stable plemented by central management of collateral Bank’s internal pricing by ensuring that the price growth in proﬁts by limiting market and liquidity and the liquidity reserve for the whole Group. which internal units in the Bank have to pay for risks. This is achieved by matching cash ﬂows The Bank participates in Continuous Linked the loans they obtain from the Bank’s treasury between funding and lending. The Bank thus Settlement (CLS) and other local payment function varies according to the maturity at the minimises the economic risks in funding and systems required to support the core operation same time as no liquidity risks can be taken can thereby decide on stable and long-term and thereby ensure payments and settlements locally. The internal pricing is important in order internal interest rates to the business-operating by providing liquidity or collateral. to create the right incentive and thereby avoid units. Furthermore, all liquidity risk limits are The size of collateral in the clearing systems unsound risk-taking. The Bank has worked channelled via Central Treasury out into the is determined on the basis of what the Bank with maturity-based internal prices for a long operations. deems is required to fulﬁl its obligations, both time. They ensure that the price at contract In the wake of the ﬁnancial crisis of recent in normal circumstances and in case of larger level takes into account the liquidity risk that the years, a number of new regulations have been ﬂows. If the ﬂow changes, the size of collateral agreement has given rise to. This system was introduced. In good time before these regulaand liquidity are adjusted, and in times of crisis, already fully implemented at the Bank in 2010. tions, at its own initiative, the Bank implemented collateral can also be redistributed and the a number of measures. It has therefore fulﬁlled liquidity reserve can be activated. The Bank these regulations for a long period of time. The secures liquidity in its nostro accounts for measures include a centralised treasury funcexpected payment and settlement undertakings tion with overall responsibility for all funding and through active liquidity planning and monitoring liquidity risk management, an increased proporin all currencies. Funding programmes/limits as of 31 December 2014 Unutilised amount, Programme Programme size Currency current programme Countervalue SEK m ECP1 5 000 EUR 3 095 29 342 ECP (Stadshypotek)1 4 000 EUR 3 117 29 550 EMTCN (Stadshypotek)1 20 000 EUR 8 552 81 075 French Certiﬁcates of Deposit 7 500 EUR 6 693 63 452 MTN1 100 000 SEK 82 375 82 375 Swedish Commercial Paper 25 000 SEK 25 000 25 000 Swedish Commercial Paper (Stadshypotek) 90 000 SEK 90 000 90 000 EMTN1 50 000 USD 26 068 203 324 Extendible Notes 15 000 USD 7 924 61 805 Stadshypotek US 144A 15 000 USD 12 250 95 547 US 144A / 3(a)(2) 20 000 USD 10 600 82 677 USCP 15 000 USD 8 314 64 847 Other funding > 1 yr1 15 000 USD 14 200 110 756 AUD MTN 5 000 AUD 4 350 27 783 Stadshypotek AUD Covered Bond Programme 5 000 AUD 4 250 27 144 Samurai 400 000 JPY 274 500 17 881 Total 1 092 558 Total programme or limited amounts, SEK m 1 664 922 Unutilised amount, SEK m 1 092 558 Remaining to utilise, % 66% 1 It is possible to issue in other currencies than the original programme currency under these programmes, where currency conversion takes place at the time of issue. 98 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Maturity profile long-term funding Composition of funding SEK bn During the year, Handelsbanken issued long200 term bonds in all currencies that are important to the Bank. Short-term funding mainly takes 150 place through issues of certiﬁcates of deposit under the various loan programmes in Sweden, 100 Europe and the US. These loan programmes are supplemented by funding in the international interbank market. Central Treasury ensures that 50 the maturity structure and currency composition in the balance sheet are in keeping with the 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 >2026 Bank’s risk tolerance. In total, SEK 189 billion (281) in long-term funding was issued during Covered bonds Subordinated debt the year. Senior bonds and extendible notes Refers to issued securities as at 31 December 2014 with an original maturity exceeding one year. Short-term funding per currency Long-term funding per currency Long-term funding per instrument 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 SEK 3% (20) SEK 49% (54) EUR 14% (17) EUR 23% (21) Covered bonds 57% USD 67% (50) USD 18% (17) Senior bonds 39% Other 16% (13) Other 10% (8) Subordinated debt 4% Refers to the currency distribution as at 31 December 2014 Refers to the currency distribution as at 31 December 2014 Refers to distribution per instrument as at 31 December for issued securities and ﬁnancing from credit institutions for issued securities and ﬁnancing from credit institutions 2014 for issued securities with residual time to maturity of with a residual maturity of less than one year. with a residual maturity of more than one year. more than one year. Holdings with central banks and banks, and securities holdings in the liquidity reserve 31 December 2014, market value SEK m SEK EUR USD Other Total Cash and balances with and other lending to central banks 5 797 81 766 312 770 103 509 503 842 Balances with other banks and National Debt Ofﬁce, overnight 13 697 254 343 1 173 15 467 Government-issued securities 38 470 7 743 15 946 3 785 65 944 Securities issued by municipalities and other public entities 158 171 329 Covered bonds 36 765 2 710 11 263 50 738 Own covered bonds 8 398 86 1 401 9 885 Securities issued by non-ﬁnancial companies 1 423 432 1 855 Securities issued by ﬁnancial companies (excl. covered bonds) 124 96 49 269 Other securities Total 104 832 93 087 329 059 121 351 648 329 Holdings with central banks and banks, and securities holdings in the liquidity reserve 31 December 2013, market value SEK m SEK EUR USD Other Total Cash and balances with and other lending to central banks 2 034 48 127 235 115 83 075 368 351 Balances with other banks and National Debt Ofﬁce, overnight 3 487 539 1 153 2 182 Government-issued securities 20 609 7 690 12 979 1 462 42 740 Securities issued by municipalities and other public entities 6 6 Covered bonds 26 097 2 329 0 8 267 36 693 Own covered bonds 6 499 73 53 6 625 Securities issued by non-ﬁnancial companies 0 2 974 0 976 Securities issued by ﬁnancial companies (excl. covered bonds) 1 130 788 417 170 2 505 Other securities Total 56 378 59 496 250 024 94 180 460 078 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 99 NOTES | GROUP Liquidity reserve position must be maintained – even in stressed companies disappear gradually in the ﬁrst month. As at the year-end, Handelsbanken’s total conditions. This kind of gap analysis is suppleIt is further assumed that the Bank will continue liquidity reserve exceeded SEK 800 billion and mented by scenario tests, in which the effect on to conduct its core activities, i.e. that ﬁxed-term it covers the Bank’s liquidity requirement in liquidity is stressed and analysed using various deposits from and loans to households and stressed conditions for over two years. assumptions. These stress tests are performed companies will be renewed at maturity and that To ensure sufﬁcient liquidity to support its at Group level and individually for the currencies issued commitments and credit facilities will be core operations in stressed ﬁnancial condithat are important to the Bank. The internal govpartly utilised by customers. The Bank also takes tions, the Bank holds large liquidity reserves. ernance of the Bank’s liquidity situation is based into account that balances with central banks Liquidity reserves are kept in all currencies that on these stressed liquidity ﬁgures. and banks will be utilised and that Central Treasare relevant to the Bank and are accessible As a measure of short-term disruptions in the ury’s securities can immediately supply liquidity if from Central Treasury. The liquidity reserve is funding market, both the Basel Committee and provided as collateral in central banks. independent of funding and foreign exchange the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority Measures to create liquidity are also used to markets and can provide liquidity to the Bank have proposed the Liquidity Coverage Ratio gradually provide the Bank with liquidity. With at any time – some parts immediately and other (LCR). It is not deﬁned in the same way by the these conditions, the Bank will be liquid for parts gradually over a period of time. Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the over two years. Thus, the Bank also has major The liquidity reserve comprises several difBasel Committee. powers of resistance to very serious long-term ferent parts. Cash, balances and other lending Since 2013, LCR has been a binding requiredisruptions in the funding markets. to central banks are components which can ment for Swedish banks, and Handelsbanken A condition for the Bank to be able to mainprovide the Bank with immediate liquidity. The reports it according to the Swedish Financial tain such substantial resistance to disruptions in reserve also comprises government bonds, Supervisory Authority’s deﬁnition. The requirethe ﬁnancial markets as stated above is that the covered bonds and other high-quality securities ment applies to LCR at aggregate level and balance sheet is well balanced. The diagram on which are liquid and eligible as collateral with separately for US dollars and euros. The ﬁgure page 95 shows that the volume of current ascentral banks. These can also provide the Bank states the ratio between the Bank’s liquidity sets signiﬁcantly exceeds the volume of current with immediate liquidity. The remainder of the buffer and net cash ﬂows in a very stressed liabilities in a stressed scenario where 20 per liquidity reserve comprises an unutilised issue scenario during a 30-day period. The ratio must cent of the deposits are assumed to disappear amount for covered bonds and other liquiditybe more than 100 per cent. within one year. Furthermore, the volume and creating measures. A short-term liquidity ratio may display a quality of unutilised collateral must be able to degree of volatility over time, for example when give the Bank the liquidity it needs in times of Liquidity risk funding that was originally long term and that crisis. Consistently steering the Bank towards The Bank handles a large number of incoming ﬁnances mortgage loans is replaced by new positive future net cash ﬂows, instead of pointand outgoing cash ﬂows every day. The gap long-term funding, or when the composition of in-time ratios, also secures this over time. between incoming and outgoing cash ﬂows is counterparty categories varies in the short-term The maturity analysis table shows cash ﬂows restricted by means of limits. Central risk control funding. At the year-end, the Group’s aggregated for the contracted payment commitments, includreports risk utilisation daily to the CFO, weekly LCR according to the Swedish Financial Superviing interest ﬂows, that are due for payment at the to the CEO and on a regular basis to the Board. sory Authority’s deﬁnition was 140 per cent (128), latest within the stated time intervals. The table Liquidity planning is based on an analysis which shows that the Bank has great resistance shows holdings of bonds and other interest-bearof cash ﬂows for the respective currency. As a to short-term disruptions in the funding markets. ing securities in the time intervals in which they general rule, a larger exposure is permitted in This also applies in US dollars and euros. can be converted to liquidity if they are pledged currencies with high liquidity than in currencies Daily stress testing of cash ﬂows based on as collateral or sold. Assets, liabilities and interest where the liquidity is low. The strategy is that certain assumptions is used to test resistance to ﬂows are also shown that mature in the time inexpected outgoing cash ﬂows from the Bank long-term disruptions in the market. For example, tervals corresponding to the contractual maturity must always be matched with incoming cash it is assumed that the Bank cannot obtain funddates. Interest ﬂows for lending in the mortgage ﬂows into the Bank that are at least of the same ing in the ﬁnancial markets at the same time as operations are matched in time with the liabilities amount, and that a positive cash ﬂow and cash 10 per cent of deposits from households and that funded the lending. Financial guarantees, committed loan offers and unutilised overdraft Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), facilities are reported in their entirety in 0-1-month. % 2014 2013 The total outstanding amount of these commitEUR 154 110 ments does not necessarily represent future fundUSD 137 170 ing requirements. For derivative instruments, cash Total 140 128 ﬂows are reported net for interest rate swaps and Calculated according to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s directive 2013:6 which came into force on 1 January 2013. gross for instruments where gross cash ﬂows are paid or received, such as currency swaps. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) – decomposition SEK m 2014 2013 Liquidity stress test including liquidity-creating Liquid assets 312 480 162 346 measures – cumulative liquidity position Liquid assets level 1 270 364 130 591 SEK bn Liquid assets level 2 42 116 31 755 700 Cash outﬂows 595 043 507 882 600 Deposits from customers 205 068 165 295 Market funding 351 164 265 572 500 Other cash outﬂows 38 811 77 016 400 Cash inﬂows 372 482 380 912 300 Inﬂows from maturing lending to non-ﬁnancial customers 25 437 22 080 200 Other cash inﬂows 347 045 358 832 The components are deﬁned in line with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s directives and requirements for the liquidity 100 coverage ratio and reporting of liquid assets and cash ﬂows, FFFS 2012:6. Liquid assets level 1 corresponds to Chapter 3, Section 6. Liquid assets level 2 corresponds to Chapter 3, Section 7. Customer Deposits corresponds to Chapter 4, Sections 4–9. 0 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 Oct-15 Jan-16 Apr-16 Jul-16 Oct-16 Jan-17 Apr-17 Jun-17 Market funding corresponds to Chapter 4, Sections 10–13. Other cash ﬂows corresponds to Chapter 4, Sections 14–25. Loans to non-ﬁnancial customers corresponds to Chapter 5, Section 4. Other cash inﬂows corresponds to Chapter 5, Sections 6–12. 100 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2014 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 505 579 505 579 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 78 618 78 618 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 64 389 64 389 Loans to credit institutions 27 920 37 022 812 333 706 4 204 70 997 of which reverse repos 9 576 32 589 42 165 Loans to the public 96 163 226 110 157 476 180 500 350 694 898 017 1 908 960 of which reverse repos 23 859 23 859 Other 55 897 235 081 290 978 of which shares and participating interests 46 546 46 546 of which claims on investment banking settlements 9 351 9 351 Total assets 828 566 263 132 158 288 180 833 351 400 902 221 235 081 2 919 521 Due to credit institutions 108 169 58 681 982 5 467 1 096 7 993 22 555 204 943 of which repos 88 88 of which central banks 45 647 47 374 116 3 948 97 085 Deposits and borrowing from the public 237 220 54 865 14 723 1 709 2 893 8 595 703 632 1 023 637 of which repos 168 168 Issued securities3 80 155 312 655 163 892 189 492 439 450 105 760 1 291 404 of which covered bonds 3 255 63 108 89 216 118 756 295 715 43 644 613 694 of which certiﬁcates and other securities with original maturity of less than one year 72 171 239 067 46 845 358 083 of which senior bonds and other securities with original maturity of more than one year 4 729 10 480 27 831 70 736 143 735 62 116 319 627 Subordinated liabilities 388 341 4 931 3 245 24 323 955 34 183 Other 28 608 322 825 351 433 of which short positions 20 648 20 648 of which investment banking settlement debts 7 960 7 960 Total liabilities 454 540 426 542 184 528 199 913 467 762 123 303 1 049 012 2 905 600 Off-balance-sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 387 913 Derivatives 2014 SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 362 607 459 377 82 332 134 595 293 242 136 415 1 468 568 Total derivatives outﬂow 355 952 448 422 78 481 126 537 273 046 132 743 1 415 181 Net 6 655 10 955 3 851 8 058 20 196 3 672 53 387 1 SEK 21,927m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 2 SEK 6,023m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 3 SEK 529,498m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. For deposit volumes the column ”Unspecified maturity” refers to deposits payable on demand. The table contains interest flows which means that the balance sheet rows are not reconcilable with the Group’s balance sheet. Maturity tables without interest flows including maturity tables in foreign currencies can be found in the Fact Book. Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2013 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 369 957 369 957 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 58 112 58 112 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 64 863 64 863 Loans to credit institutions 36 091 22 547 206 1 878 2 441 291 63 454 of which reverse repos 14 966 18 926 33 892 Loans to the public 64 580 140 906 131 868 125 351 287 368 1 063 934 3 859 1 817 866 of which reverse repos 15 714 15 714 Other 55 730 183 309 239 039 of which shares and participating interests 48 595 48 595 of which claims on investment banking settlements 7 135 7 135 Total assets 649 333 163 453 132 074 127 229 287 368 1 066 375 187 459 2 613 291 Due to credit institutions 103 699 39 168 500 107 1 917 14 511 17 197 177 099 of which repos 748 748 of which central banks 41 759 28 189 1 634 71 582 Deposits and borrowing from the public 164 285 44 456 10 864 2 556 2 518 10 145 591 646 826 470 of which repos 7 606 7 606 Issued securities3 82 109 318 265 54 469 282 719 390 887 113 676 1 242 125 of which covered bonds 1 087 83 197 29 789 204 441 255 514 37 863 611 891 of which certiﬁcates and other securities with original maturity of less than one year 74 954 196 335 4 394 38 822 314 505 of which senior bonds and other securities with original maturity of more than one year 6 068 38 733 20 286 39 456 135 373 75 813 315 729 Subordinated liabilities 13 4 357 1 139 4 524 5 599 3 245 18 877 Other 29 947 296 749 326 696 of which short positions 23 170 23 170 of which investment banking settlement debts 6 777 6 777 Total liabilities 380 053 406 246 66 972 289 906 400 921 141 577 905 592 2 591 267 Off-balance-sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 378 136 Derivatives 2013 SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 204 160 401 774 143 837 160 135 277 560 133 681 1 321 147 Total derivatives outﬂow 220 546 384 702 144 406 154 531 269 870 127 844 1 301 899 Net -16 386 17 072 -569 5 604 7 690 5 837 19 248 1 SEK 26,098m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 2 SEK 11,192m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 3 SEK 424,710m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. For deposit volumes the column ”Unspecified maturity” refers to deposits payable on demand. The table contains interest flows which means that the balance sheet rows are not reconcilable with the Group’s balance sheet. Maturity tables without interest flows including maturity tables in foreign currencies can be found in the Fact Book. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 101 NOTES | GROUP RISKS IN THE INSURANCE OPERATIONS are interest rate risk, equity risk, credit risk, relation to the assumptions applied. Sickness/ property risk and exchange rate risk. The main disability insurance products are generally derisk at Handelsbanken Liv is interest rate risk. At signed in such a way that the premium can be year-end, VaR was SEK 754 million (893). changed annually, thus allowing the company to The risks in the insurance Liquidity risk in the insurance operations is compensate for changes in morbidity. The sickbusiness mainly comprise the risk that the company will not be able to ness/disability result for 2014 is SEK 72 million, market risks and insurance risks. meet its payment obligations when they fall due, where SEK 59 million is attributable to sickness or that the company will not be able to sell secucases reported during the year, SEK -28 million rities at acceptable prices. This risk is limited by to existing sickness cases which are being most of the investment assets being invested in closed, and the remaining SEK 41 million to Market risk listed securities with good liquidity. sickness cases which have occurred but not yet Handelsbanken Liv conducts life insurance been reported. operations with traditional management, unitInsurance risk The insurance operations report their market, linked insurance and portfolio bond insurance. Insurance companies set their premiums based insurance and operational risks to the insurFor unit-linked and portfolio bond insurance, the on assumptions regarding the size of costs for ance company’s board and chief executive, to customer chooses the investment option and future insurance events. Insurance risk is the Handelsbanken’s central risk control and to the bears the market risk. In traditional insurance risk that the actual and assumed insurance Bank’s CFO and CEO. The risk situation is also with guaranteed interest, Handelsbanken Liv costs differ. The ultimate governing document is reported regularly to the Board of the Bank. bears the risk of fulﬁlling the ﬁnancial guarantees Handelsbanken Liv’s risk policy, established by entailed by the insurance terms. the board of the insurance company, specifying Solvency II The ﬁnancial guarantee means that the comthe amounts within which insurance policies During the past few years, Handelsbanken Liv pany makes a capital contribution at the value may be issued. A supplementary steering docuhas worked actively on adapting its operations of the insurance contract at speciﬁc points in ment, adopted by the board of the insurance to future new regulatory demands and this will time if the value is less than the guaranteed company, states the limits within which riskcontinue during 2015. The full introduction of value of the insurance. Any capital contributions taking insurance may be entered into. the Solvency II regulations is expected in 2016 are realised at the year-end or when there is an Insurance risk at Handelsbanken Liv is related to when the directive will also be implemented in insurance event. the following events: Swedish law. As of January 2014 parts of the Handelsbanken Liv’s board establishes the • mortality – payment to beneﬁciaries in the regulations were introduced into the supervisory annual investment guidelines for the company, event of the death of the insured person authorities’ practical supervision work. For exwhich is ultimately the controlling document for • longevity – payment that is dependent on the ample, new stipulations on calculating discountallocation of the company’s investment assets insured person living, e.g. pension disburseing curves for solvency, a trafﬁc-light model and relating to traditionally managed insurance. ments liability coverage came into force. The purpose of the investment guidelines is • morbidity – payment in the event of illness or One overall purpose of the regulations is to to provide instructions on how the assets are work incapacity strengthen protection for insurance policyholdto be invested given the undertakings to the • accident – payment in the event of accident. ers by linking the solvency requirement and policyholders and the statutory requirements thereby the capital requirement more clearly to of the Swedish Insurance Business Act and the An insurance policy may contain combinations how the insurance companies identify, measure applicable regulations of the Swedish Financial of protection for these four events. and manage all risks. Supervisory Authority. Most of Handelsbanken Liv’s policies are Handelsbanken Liv has a low risk tolerance. taken out by small companies and private indiOPERATIONAL RISK The goal of the asset management is to secure viduals. There is no risk concentration in terms the company’s obligations to the policyholders. of insurance risk, other than that most of the Market risk at Handelsbanken Liv arises in policies are taken out in Sweden. the management of investment assets for the Increased life expectancy in Sweden affects Operational risk refers to the traditional insurance and from the fact that valuthe insurance company’s future obligations. risk of loss due to inadequate ation of the company’s obligations is sensitive to The effect is positive for mortality insurance but or failed internal processes, interest rate changes. negative for life insurance since life expectancy The total market risk at Handelsbanken Liv is is rising and pension disbursements must then human error, erroneous calculated using Value at Risk (VaR) with a 99.5 be made over a longer period. Since 2009, systems or external events. per cent conﬁdence level and a holding period Handelsbanken Liv has used life expectancy asThe definition includes legal risk. of three months. In addition, the company’s sumptions according to DUS06, which is the insolvency ratio, the so-called trafﬁc-light model dustry standard. If mortality continued to decline and liability coverage are checked according and in general were to be 10 per cent lower than to statutory requirements. The market risk the company’s assumptions, the present value Handelsbanken has a low tolerance of operamanagement model used by Handelsbanken of the expected increased cost would be SEK tional risks and works actively to identify and Liv weights the risk of a capital contribution at 81 million, for the older section of the group who manage operational risks. This work is supinsurance contract level together with the risk of have lifelong payouts. Most of Handelsbanken ported by the Bank’s strict attitude to risk, but a capital contribution at company level due to Liv’s insurance policies with mortality risk are, also by the strong focus on cost-effectiveness, the increased present value of future guaranhowever, priced annually. This means that the since deﬁciencies in processes or administrative teed amounts. Market risk is measured in terms company can unilaterally change the premium order can easily lead to unnecessary costs. of the overall sensitivity of the capital contribufrom year to year. Thus, an incorrect mortality Operational errors and deﬁciencies are theretions to market disruptions. The risk exposure assumption can be changed with rapid effect. fore reduced as far as possible. This applies is checked daily against a limit stipulated by Changes in morbidity occur much more to minor but frequent events and major events the Board of Handelsbanken. The larger of rapidly than changes in mortality, which may which could cause major unexpected losses. the value of contributions to policyholders or contribute to variations in the risk result. The The Bank’s management performs frequent, contributions due to solvency constitutes the result therefore depends both on how many active follow-ups of operational risk through the risk utilisation. Sub-categories of ﬁnancial risk insured persons fall ill and how many recover in organisation for risk control. Operational risks 102 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP which may lead to the most serious consedepartments, subsidiaries and units outside procedure into several sessions. Normally, quences are the subject of special attention. the Bank’s home markets. This is achieved by between ﬁve and eight experienced employInternal Audit’s examination of the operations means of regular quality assurance and evaluees who have a good overview of the unit’s also focuses on operational risk. ation. operations and risks participate in the sessions. Operational risk exists in all operations Central risk control has the overall responsiThe aim is to assess the consequence and within Handelsbanken, and the responsibility bility for the methods and procedures used to likelihood of an event. The assessment of the for the day-to-day identiﬁcation, management identify, steer, control and report operational impact includes both ﬁnancial losses and lost and control of risk is a clear, integrated part risks, and for follow-up at overall Group level. To reputation. Important input includes facts and of managerial responsibility at all levels of the achieve and maintain good quality in this manstatistics from incidents reported during the operations. The Bank’s decentralised method of agement, central risk control has close, regular previous year together with incidents that have work promotes cost-consciousness that results co-operation with the local co-ordinators for affected other parts of the Group or other banks in vigilance against potential loss risk in daily operational risk and the local risk control funcand companies. The self-assessment proceprocedures and events. By focusing on good tions. Central risk control is also responsible for dure results in an action plan stating the risks administrative order and possible proactive analysing and reporting the Group’s operational to be reduced, how this will be done, who is measures, all parts of the operations keep their risks to the management and Board. responsible and time limits for when measures risks at an acceptable level. As an aid to continual identiﬁcation, handling are to be taken. The action plan is a working Operational risks are included in internal inand management of operational risks, the Bank document that is regularly followed up during structions issued by managers with function rehas a reporting and case management system the year by the business operations with the sponsibility, where account is taken of whether for incidents and a self-assessment procedure. support of the local co-ordinator for operational the division of work and responsibilities, the All employees throughout the Group must risk. The local risk control is informed about the control structure of procedures, and information collect facts about incidents which have affectcompleted OPRA analysis, including the action and reporting systems are ﬁt for purpose. Rules ed their unit and which result in a loss in excess plan, so that it can evaluate the procedure. and procedures are assessed annually and the of SEK 25,000. To further promote the unit’s Central risk control provides regular support to internal control of procedures and business proactive work with risks, all employees are the co-ordinators for operational risk in planﬂows is documented. The manager of each encouraged to also collect facts about incidents ning, implementation and follow-up and also unit also conducts annual security reviews with which lead to smaller losses or no loss at all. performs an annual aggregate assessment of their staff, including internal control, information Incidents reported are reviewed and categothe evaluations from all local risk control units. security, bank conﬁdentiality and other security rised on a regular basis by the local co-ordinator The Bank pays great care when processing measures. for operational risk. The Bank categorises new products and services and major changes Apart from the responsibility for operational operational risk according to Basel’s seven to existing products and services. Each busirisk borne by the managers, there are ofﬁctypes of event: ness area, subsidiary and regional bank with ers with special responsibility for information • deﬁciencies in processing and processes product responsibility processes new products security and Group security who report directly • business disruptions and system failures in accordance with central guidelines, which to the CEO. • customers, products and business practice are minimum requirements. This includes an Operational risks are managed in the busi• external crime established process for deciding how products ness operations, by risk control and Internal • damage to property, plant or equipment are to be introduced. A risk analysis led by the Audit. • employment practices and workplace safety local risk control is always performed before a The responsibility for the management of • internal fraud. product is launched. The analysis takes account operational risks is distributed between the of the risks for the Bank and for the customer, business operations, local co-ordinators for The work also includes following up proactive including operational risks. Central risk control operational risk, local risk control and central measures in collaboration with the units and is informed of the results of the analysis and is risk control. branches affected. Local compliance also has involved in complex cases when this is justiﬁed. The business operations are responsible for access to and can monitor incidents reported There are emergency and continuity plans the regular identiﬁcation and management of in their part of the business operations. Local in place in all parts of the Group for dealing risks and for implementing proactive measures. risk control performs an annual evaluation of the with serious disruptions. The emergency plans Local co-ordinators for operational risk are procedure. Central risk control then performs an help the crisis team to quickly and systematiin place at regional banks, main departments, aggregated evaluation at Group level. cally start to deal with a crisis situation and its subsidiaries and units outside the Bank’s home OPRA Risk Analysis is a self-assessment effects. There is a central crisis team for the markets. These co-ordinators are responsiprocedure to document and assess operational whole Group, and a local crisis team within each ble for ensuring that existing methods and risks which may have an impact on the Bank. regional bank, subsidiary and international unit procedures for managing operational risks are These are carried out at least once a year at all outside the Bank’s home markets and also at used in the business operations. They are also units. The respective head of all regional banks, the Central IT Department and Handelsbanken responsible for monitoring that the business main units, subsidiaries and international units Capital Markets. operations take and implement appropriate outside the Bank’s home markets is responsible The central crisis team has permanent staff proactive measures. for this being performed. The local co-ordinator consisting of members of management and/ There are also local risk control functions to for operational risk provides support for the or those close to them. The central crisis team check that management of operational risk is planning and implementation. Units with more functions as a liaison crisis team in the event of correctly performed at regional banks, main complex operations divide the self-assessment a major crisis in the Group, supports any local Operational risk management at Handelsbanken 1a. Business 1b. Operational Risk 2a. Local 2b. Central 3. Internal operations Coordinator Risk Control Risk Control Audit Exchange of experience H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 103 NOTES | GROUP crisis team(s) working with an acute crisis and The Bank’s principles for remuneration to The Bank’s model for economic capital (EC) is functions as a crisis team for the main central employees are long established. The princian instrument in this monitoring. It is also the departments. Continuity planning focuses on ples for the Bank’s remuneration system are foundation of the Bank’s assessment of the taking preventive measures to minimise the stipulated in the remuneration policy which is internal capital requirement. This assessment consequences of a serious disruption of busidecided by the Board. More detailed impleis intended to ensure that the Group has sufness operations. Local risk control performs an mentation directives are decided by the CEO. ﬁcient capital at all times in relation to all risks annual evaluation of the procedure. Central risk The responsibility for identifying and managing in the Group. The Group perspective means control then performs an aggregated evaluation remuneration risks rests with every responsithat economic capital also includes risks in the at Group level. ble manager in the operations and is maninsurance operations and risks in the Bank’s Handelsbanken uses the standardised apaged according to internal policy documents, pension obligations. proach to calculate the capital requirement for guidelines and instructions. Local risk control Economic capital is calculated with a time operational risks. According to the standardised regularly monitors that the remuneration system horizon of one year and a conﬁdence level that approach, the capital requirement is calculated is applied as intended. The Bank’s central risk reﬂects an acceptable level of risk and desired by multiplying a factor speciﬁed in the regulacontrol is responsible for analysing the risks rating. The Board has determined that the tions by the average operating income during associated with the remuneration policy and calculation of economic capital must be made the last three years of operation. Different facthe remuneration system before the remunerawith a 99.97 per cent conﬁdence level, which tors are applied in different business segments. tion policy is processed and established by the captures an event which is extremely unfavourThe total capital requirement for operational Board. This is done at least once a year. The able for the Bank. EC is the difference between risks for the whole of the Handelsbanken Group report analyses elements such as the incenthe outcome in an average year – with positive was SEK 4,439 million (4,246) at the end of 2014. tive structure, the balance between ﬁxed and results and good growth in the value of the Bank’s variable remuneration, deferral rules, and effects assets – and the outcome at a 99.97 per cent RISKS IN THE REMUNERATION SYSTEM on own funds. In addition, central risk control conﬁdence level.. evaluates the application of the remuneration Diversiﬁcation effects between the different system. Based on this risk analysis and evaluarisk classes are taken into account when calcution, an assessment is made as to whether the lating EC. The capital requirement for all risks is Remuneration risk is the risk of remuneration system is designed in a way that therefore lower than the sum of the economic loss or other damage arising due could threaten the Bank’s ﬁnancial position. The capital for each individual risk, because the risks to the remuneration system. responsibility also includes ensuring that risk are partly independent of each other. costs are calculated correctly in the context of The capital and other ﬁnancial resources remuneration. which form a buffer that can absorb negaHandelsbanken’s remuneration policy and tive outcomes are called available ﬁnancial The aim of Handelsbanken’s policy on salaries remuneration system are deemed to generate resources (AFR). AFR is Handelsbanken’s equity is to increase the Bank’s competitiveness and low risks and promote sound and effective risk with the addition of other ﬁnancial values on and proﬁtability, to enable the Bank to attract, retain management, counteract excessive risk-taking, off the balance sheet, available to cover losses and develop skilled staff, and to ensure good ﬁt in with the Bank’s low tolerance of risks and with a one-year time horizon. skills development and management successupport the Bank’s long-term interests. The In risk and capital management, the Group sion planning. Good long-term proﬁtability and remuneration system is designed in such a way applies a shareholder perspective. The ecoproductivity performance at the Bank create the that there is no risk that the Bank’s own funds nomic capital model provides an overall view of conditions for stable and positive salary develare undermined as a result of mandatory paythe Group which makes it possible to optimise opment for the Bank’s employees. ment of variable remuneration. It is possible to the risk and capital situation from the shareholdRemuneration for work performed is set reduce or remove variable remuneration, wholly er’s perspective. The outcome of the calculaindividually for each employee, and is paid in the or partly – this applies both to allocations for tions plays an important role when new transacform of a ﬁxed salary, customary salary beneﬁts variable remuneration and to deferred variable tions or structural changes are considered. and a pension provision. At Handelsbanken, remuneration which has not yet been paid. Credit risk is calculated using simulated salaries are set at local level. Salaries are set For more detailed information and statistics outcomes of default for all the Group’s counterin salary reviews between the employee and about the Bank’s remuneration system, see the parties and exposures. their line manager. These principles have been Corporate Governance Report and note G8 in Market risks comprise the risk in the assets applied for many years with great success. They the Annual Report. mean that managers at all levels participate regularly in salary processes, and take responsiECONOMIC CAPITAL bility for the Bank’s salary policy and the growth Total of AFR and EC including diversification, in their own unit’s staff costs. Salaries are based 31 December 2014 on salary-setting factors deﬁned in advance: the nature and level of difﬁculty of the work, skills, Handelsbanken’s model for SEK bn 150 performance and results achieved, leadercalculating economic capital ship (for managers who are responsible for the identifies in one measurement 120 career development of employees), supply and demand in the market, and the task of ambasthe Group’s overall risks and 90 sador for the Bank’s corporate culture. indicates the capital which, with Handelsbanken has low tolerance of remuvery high probability, will cover 60 neration risks and actively strives to keep them at unexpected losses or decreases a low level. This is achieved in part by only using 30 variable remuneration to a very limited extent and in value. only in the areas where this is market practice 0 AFR EC and is necessary in order to achieve the goals for Credit risk Market risk the unit’s operations. Where variable remuneraCentral risk control is responsible for compreNon-ﬁnancial risk Risk in pension obligations tion exists, it is subject to deferred payment. hensive monitoring of the Group’s various risks. 104 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP classiﬁed as the trading book, the interest rate ensure that there is a warning system that business cycle and crisis scenarios. The stress risk in the banking operations, market risks in identiﬁes potential threats at an early stage and scenarios have been established following the insurance operations and the risk of value that the Group is prepared to take rapid action, analysis of the historical links between the imlosses in the Bank’s own share portfolio. if necessary. pacts of different macroeconomic variables on The risk in the pension obligations mainly A long-term capital plan is drawn up annually, the ﬁnancial markets and have been selected by consists of the risk of a decrease in the values which is designed to give a comprehensive using the scenarios expected to have the most that exist for securing the Bank’s pension overview of the Group’s current capital situation, severe impact on Handelsbanken. obligations. Most of the pension obligations are a forecast of expected capital performance, The result of the internal capital adequacy asin Sweden and are secured there in a pension and the outcome in various scenarios. These sessment is reported quarterly to the Board. foundation and insured in an occupational penscenarios are designed to substantially differ At the end of 2014, the common equity tier 1 sion fund. from expected events and thus harmonise with ratio was 20.4 per cent. The ratio between AFR The non-ﬁnancial risks are operational risk, the Group’s low risk tolerance. The capital plan and EC was 214 per cent at the same date. business risk, property risk and insurance risk. also contains proposals for how to maintain Thus, AFR exceeds the assessed internal capiBusiness risk is related to unexpected variations the capital situation at a satisfactory level in a tal requirement (EC) by a very good margin. in earnings in the business area in question. For strongly negative business environment, from The Bank’s strong position is further emexample, this may arise if demand or competiboth a regulatory and shareholder perspective. phasised by the result of the various forwardtion changes unexpectedly, thus resulting in The capital planning is divided into short-term looking stress scenarios which are carried out, lower volumes and squeezed margins. Property and midto long-term forecasting. The part of showing that Handelsbanken’s long-term capirisk captures the risk of a fall in the value of the capital planning that comprises short-term foretal situation is very stable from both a ﬁnancial properties which the Bank owns. casts up to two years ahead principally focuses and regulatory perspective. At year-end, EC was SEK 57 billion (61), of on assessing existing performance and the develwhich credit risks accounted for the main part opment of the capital requirement. This forecastThe Group’s targets for regulatory capital of the total risks. The Board stipulates that the ing is necessary to enable continual adaptation of The Board continuously sets the targets for AFR/EC ratio should be at least 120 per cent. the size and composition of own funds. the Bank’s capitalisation. A cornerstone of the The AFR/EC ratio was 214 per cent (197) at Capital planning is performed through an internal capital requirement assessment of year-end, which illustrates that the Bank is ongoing analysis of changes in volume, risk the regulatory capital situation are stress and well-capitalised in relation to its overall risks. and performance, and by monitoring events scenario analyses of the Bank’s situation, both The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority that may affect capital requirements and long-term and short-term. The scenarios used has come to the same conclusion in its overall capital level. Short-term forecasting includes are principally based on the Bank’s internal risk capital assessment of the Bank. all sub-components that make up the Group’s tolerance and the direct requirements resulting The risk and capital situation reported is a own funds. This work also includes conducting from the regulations and other requirements snapshot picture, even though the risk calvarious sensitivity analyses, with a short-term from public authorities. In addition to the internal culations include margins of conservatism for perspective, of the expected change in the assessment of the capital requirement, when business cycle ﬂuctuations. To perform a ﬁnal capital adequacy requirement and own funds. the new capital adequacy regulations were assessment of the Group’s capital adequacy The Bank can thus be prepared to alter the size implemented, the Swedish Financial Superrequirements, account must also be taken of and composition of the capital base if required – visory Authority communicated that Swedish the stress and scenario analysis carried out as for example, through market operations. banks’ target ﬁgures must not be lower than part of the Bank’s capital planning. The result of the short-term analysis forms the total capital requirement calculated by the the basis of any capital operations performed Supervisory Authority, regardless of the banks’ CAPITAL PLANNING and is continually reported to the CFO and internal calculations. The Bank has taken this the CEO, and if necessary to the Board. The into account when setting the target ﬁgures for analysis is based on a cautious basic scenario, the regulatory capitalisation. with decision points in the near future for how The Board has decided that the common Handelsbanken’s capital existing earnings capacity can cope with variequity tier 1 ratio, which is the most relevant planning aims to ensure that ous changes in volume, as well as what effects measure for the governance of the Bank under the Group has adequate financial arise from potential capital operations. the current regulatory framework, under normal The part of capital planning that comprises circumstances must amount to between 1 and resources available at all times midto long-term forecasts aims to ensure 3 percentage points above the total capital and that the capital is of optimal compliance with statutory capital adequacy assessment communicated to the Bank by the composition. requirements and that the Group’s AFR at all Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The times covers by a good margin all risks calcuother capital tiers (the tier 1 ratio and the total lated according to the economic capital model. capital ratio) must amount to at least 1 percentThe objective is to forecast the expected age point above the total capital assessment The capital planning unit is responsible for performance and judge whether the Bank’s communicated to the Bank by the Supervisory assessment of the Bank’s total capital requireresistance is satisfactory in various scenarios. Authority for the respective capital tiers. ment. The capital requirement is a function of The planning horizon is at least ﬁve years and the Group’s risks, expected development, the takes account of the Group’s overall business regulations and target ratios, Handelsbanken’s performance trend. model for economic capital and also of stress Scenario and stress tests are also continutests. The Bank’s capital requirement is reously performed. A basic scenario forms the ported weekly to the CFO and the CEO and at foundation of the capital forecast. This scenario least quarterly to the Board. is obtained from expected performance in the As part of proactive capital planning, there next ﬁve years regarding proﬁt, volume growth, is a contingency and action plan with speciﬁc ﬁnancial assumptions such as loan losses, and measures that can be taken if the Bank needs performance of the equity, property and ﬁxed to improve its capital position. The purpose income markets. The basic scenario is then of the contingency and action planning is to compared to the outcomes in a number of H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 105 NOTES | GROUP G3 Net interest income SEK m 2014 2013 Interest income Loans to credit institutions and central banks 1 642 1 575 Loans to the public 49 280 52 614 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 719 2 106 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1 016 1 898 Derivative instruments -2 484 -2 556 Other interest income 1 359 1 459 Total interest income 51 532 57 096 Of which interest income reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 633 2 633 Interest income according to income statement 50 899 54 463 Interest expense Due to credit institutions and central banks -1 033 -1 287 Deposits and borrowing from the public -3 686 -4 608 Issued securities -21 233 -23 137 Derivative instruments 4 838 3 591 Subordinated liabilities -1 283 -1 214 Other interest expense -1 523 -3 294 Total interest expense -23 920 -29 949 Of which interest expense reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions -265 -2 155 -23 655 -27 794 Net interest income 27 244 26 669 Includes interest income on impaired loans SEK 98m (107). Total interest income on assets recognised at amortised cost and available-for-sale assets was SEK 52,407m (55,788). Total interest expense on liabilities recognised at amortised cost was SEK 28,493m (31,385). G4 Net fee and commission income SEK m 2014 2013 Brokerage and other securities commissions 1 104 1 189 Mutual funds 2 475 2 008 Custody and other asset management fees 540 427 Advisory services 235 278 Insurance 637 571 Payments 3 133 2 813 Loans and deposits 1 131 1 124 Guarantees 424 438 Other 464 446 Total fee and commission income 10 143 9 294 Securities -225 -228 Payments -1 278 -1 175 Other -84 -87 Total fee and commission expense -1 587 -1 490 Net fee and commission income 8 556 7 804 106 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G5 Net gains/losses on financial transactions SEK m 2014 2013 Trading, derivatives, FX effect etc. -955 2 049 Other ﬁnancial instruments denominated at fair value in proﬁt/loss 2 277 -785 of which interest-bearing securities 2 259 -707 of which loans 18 -78 Financial instruments at amortised cost 160 126 of which loans 611 416 of which liabilities -451 -290 Financial instruments available for sale 369 24 Hedge accounting Fair value hedges -81 -26 of which hedging instruments 197 -1 575 of which hedged items -278 1 549 Ineffective portion of cash ﬂow hedges 10 28 Hedge ineffectiveness on net investment in foreign operations Gains/losses on unbundled insurance contracts -3 -59 Total 1 777 1 357 Trading, derivatives, FX effect etc. Financial instruments available for sale instruments are recognised in net interest This item mainly contains unrealised and The item contains realised gains/losses on income. Value changes of hedging instrurealised changes in market value and interest ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as available for sale. ments in cash ﬂow hedges which exceed the referring to ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held Interest income from these assets is recognised value changes of hedged future cash ﬂows are for trading. under net interest income and dividends on the reported under “Ineffective portion of cash ﬂow line Other dividend income. Unrealised value hedges”. The impact on earnings of ineffective Other ﬁnancial instruments denominated changes on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets portions of net investment hedges in foreign at fair value in proﬁt/loss are recognised in other comprehensive income operations is recognised in “Hedge ineffectiveThe item contains unrealised and realised value and amounted to SEK 244 million (586) before ness on net investments in foreign operations”. changes on instruments which upon initial tax during the ﬁnancial year. Realised value recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in the changes in available-for-sale ﬁnancial instruGains/losses on unbundled insurance income statement.* Unrealised value changes ments previously recognised in other comprecontracts on these instruments comprise interest rate hensive income and which were reclassiﬁed to “Gains/losses on unbundled insurance conand currency effects and the effects of changed the income statement during the ﬁnancial year tracts” corresponds to the result generated credit risk. The accumulated value change due amounted to SEK 51 million before tax (-51). when calculating the guaranteed yield on the to changes in credit risk from lending which This amount has been partly recognised in net ﬁnancial component in unbundled insurance upon initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair interest income. contracts. value in the income statement is SEK 4 million (-14). Hedge accounting “Fair value hedges” includes the net proﬁt/loss Financial instruments at amortised cost of unrealised and realised fair value changes on * Value changes deriving from ﬁnancial instruments which are The item contains capital gains/losses that arise hedging instruments and the hedged risk cominvestment assets in the Group’s insurance operations are when loans are redeemed ahead of time, and ponent in ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which not included in this item. The principles for reporting results capital gains/losses generated from repurare part of hedging packages. Interest income deriving from insurance operations are reported in note G1. chases of the Bank’s own issued securities. and interest expense deriving from hedging G6 Risk result – insurance SEK m 2014 2013 Premiums written 510 586 Insurance claims paid -377 -433 Change in provisions for unsettled claims 45 25 Other -13 -36 Total 165 142 G7 Other income SEK m 2014 2013 Rental income 34 32 Other operating income 269 153 Total 303 185 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 107 NOTES | GROUP G8 Staff costs Average number SEK m 2014 2013 of employees 2014 Men Women 2013 Men Women Salaries and fees -7 574 -7 107 Sweden 7 383 3 402 3 981 7 537 3 465 4 072 Social security costs -1 851 -1 780 Norway 766 415 351 755 412 343 Pension costs1 -1 091 -974 Finland 613 259 354 615 256 359 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation -795 -1 096 Denmark 702 347 355 699 348 351 Other staff costs -455 -447 UK 1 667 1 000 667 1 351 813 538 Total -11 766 -11 404 Luxembourg 67 39 28 73 42 31 1 Germany 59 32 27 64 36 28 The components in the reported pension costs are shown in the Pension costs table. USA 74 47 27 76 48 28 Netherlands 140 86 54 113 74 39 Salaries and fees Singapore 38 9 29 37 9 28 SEK m 2014 2013 Hong Kong 69 26 43 68 26 42 2 Executive ofﬁcers -144 -134 Poland 43 16 27 45 18 27 Others -7 430 -6 973 Russia 1 1 0 5 2 3 Total -7 574 -7 107 Other countries 70 28 42 65 25 40 2 Executive Directors and Board in the parent company and CEOs, EVPs and boards in Total 11 692 5 707 5 985 11 503 5 574 5 929 subsidiaries. Gender distribution, % 2014 2013 Remuneration3 exceeding EUR one million No. of persons 2014 2013 % Men Women Men Women Range EUR 1.0–1.5m 4 5 Executive ofﬁcers excluding boards 67 33 70 30 Range EUR 1.5–2.0m 1 1 Boards 71 29 69 31 Range EUR 2.0–2.5m 1 Of which in parent company 80 20 73 27 Range EUR exceeding 2.5m Of which in subsidiaries 70 30 69 31 Total 6 6 3 Including pension and other salary beneﬁts. REMUNERATION TO EMPLOYEES salary and pension provisions, and also customof retirement. Between the ages of 60 and 65, a Information about remuneration principles to all ary beneﬁts such as a company car. Following a pension premium is instead received, amounting employees in the Handelsbanken Group is prospecial decision by the Board, Handelsbanken to 35 per cent of the pension-qualifying salary. vided in more detail in the Corporate Governcan provide housing as part of the remuneraThe deﬁned beneﬁt pension earned is vested, ance Report on pages 59–60. Handelsbanken tion. No variable remuneration is paid. Executive and if service ceases before the age of 60, the has deﬁned 7,662 (7,380) employees whose Directors are included in Handelsbanken’s CEO receives a paid-up policy for the deﬁned activities might affect the Group’s risk proﬁle proﬁt-sharing scheme Oktogonen on the same beneﬁt pension rights earned. to a material extent. At Handelsbanken, these conditions as all other employees of the Bank The pension cost** for the CEO was SEK 7.1 employees are designated as “Identiﬁed staff”. and are also entitled to convert salary to pension million (5.8) in 2014. Before conversion to penThe tables report the Group’s remuneration to on the same conditions as other employees. sion, the pension cost was SEK 6.1 million (5.8), its employees according to the Commission Board members in the Handelsbanken Group corresponding to 49.9 per cent of the pensionDelegated Regulation (EU) 604/2014 and acwho are not employees of the Bank only receive qualifying salary (51.4). cording to FFFS 2011:1 most recently changed a fee according to the decision of the AGM. in FFFS 2014:22. Board members who are employees of the Remuneration and pension terms for other In 2014, Handelsbanken allocated SEK Bank or its subsidiaries receive remuneration Executive Directors in the parent company 1,096 million to the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing and pension beneﬁts by reason of their employPension terms scheme. After a deduction for payroll charges, ment. No further remuneration or pension Twelve (12) of the Bank’s other Executive Directhis corresponded to units in Oktogonen with beneﬁts are paid for serving on the Board. tors receive a deﬁned beneﬁt retirement pension a value of SEK 77,888 for a full-time employee Fees to board members in the parent company of a maximum of 65 per cent of the pension(74,892). are shown on pages 62–63 of the Corporate qualifying salary at the time of retirement and Governance Report. also receive a pension premium of a maximum REMUNERATION TO EXECUTIVE OFFICERS of two per cent of the pension-qualifying salary. According to the Swedish Companies Act, the The CEO’s remuneration and pension terms Their minimum retirement age is 60*** and the AGM is to establish guidelines for remuneration In 2014, the CEO of the parent company, Pär deﬁned beneﬁt retirement pension is earned to executive ofﬁcers. The 2014 AGM estabBoman, received a ﬁxed salary after conversuccessively during the period of employment lished such remuneration guidelines stating that sion to pension amounting to SEK 11.2 million and is fully earned for these persons by the time the guidelines are to be applied for the CEO and (11.3). His other salary beneﬁts amounted to they reach the age of retirement. for the Executive Vice Presidents. During 2014, SEK 0.3 million (0.2). External fees for serving One (1) Executive Director with a retirement Handelsbanken has changed the group of on the boards of other companies on behalf of age of 65, has a deﬁned beneﬁt retirement penexecutive ofﬁcers and, in addition to the Board, the Bank have been paid to the Bank. sion which is fully earned at the age of 60 and it now comprises the persons stated on pages The CEO’s retirement age is 65. A deﬁned receives a pension premium which is two per 64–65 of the Corporate Governance Report, beneﬁt pension is earned successively until the cent of the pension-qualifying salary until the age who are designated Executive Directors. The CEO reaches the age of 60, when it is equivalent of 60. Between the ages of 60 and 65, a pension guidelines apply to all Executive Directors and to 60 per cent of the pension-qualifying* salary, premium is instead received, amounting to 35 the persons who are subject to the AGM’s including expected payments from statutory per cent of the pension-qualifying salary. remuneration guidelines. insurance. The deﬁned beneﬁt pension earned Seven (7) Executive Directors receive a Remuneration to the CEO and other Execuis recalculated in accordance with technical deﬁned contribution pension. The premium tive Directors is paid only in the form of ﬁxed insurance principles for disbursement at the time is individual and is a maximum of 50 per cent 108 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Remuneration1 to identiﬁed staff2, business segments 2014 2013 SEK m Remuneration No. of persons Remuneration No. of persons Branch operations in Sweden 1 894 3 184 1 668 3 136 Branch operations in the UK 765 836 506 678 Branch operations in Denmark 428 456 393 452 Branch operations in Finland 171 307 159 320 Branch operations in Norway 513 615 479 626 Branch operations in the Netherlands 39 39 35 40 Capital Markets 2 005 1 803 1 892 1 724 Others 467 422 417 404 Total 6 282 7 662 5 549 7 380 Remuneration1 to identiﬁed staff2 2014 2013 Senior Other Senior Other Management3 Identiﬁed staff Management3 Identiﬁed staff Earned ﬁxed remuneration, SEK m 138 6 029 128 5 314 Earned variable remuneration, SEK m 115 107 Total 138 6 144 128 5 421 No. of persons with ﬁxed remuneration only 21 7 378 19 7 075 No. of persons with both ﬁxed and variable remuneration 263 286 Total number of persons 21 7 641 19 7 361 Allocated variable remuneration, SEK m 115 91 of which deferred 59 45 of which disbursed 56 46 No. of persons to whom variable remuneration has been allocated 216 202 Deferred variable remuneration at beginning of year 102 57 Allocated and deferred variable remuneration during the year 59 45 Disbursed during the year 9 Adjusted during the year -12 Deferred variable remuneration at end of year 158 102 Guaranteed variable remuneration recognised as an expense in connection with new employment, SEK m 2 Contracted guaranteed variable remuneration recognised as an expense in connection with new employment, SEK m Earned remuneration has been recognised as an expense in its entirety. Earned variable remuneration is allocated at individual level during the ﬁnancial year after it has been earned. Allocated variable remuneration for the year was earned in its entirety during 2013. Allocated variable remuneration is disbursed or deferred in accordance with the Bank’s policy for variable remuneration. The right of disposal of the deferred remuneration transfers to the employee at the time of disbursement. All variable remuneration is paid in cash. The amounts are excluding social security costs. During the year, termination beneﬁts for 51 identiﬁed persons (81) have been recognised as an expense for SEK 46m (51), and have been contracted for SEK 47m (46) for 52 identiﬁed persons (77). The largest individual contracted termination beneﬁt is SEK 4.1m (4.5). During the year, guaranteed variable remuneration has been allocated to 0 persons (3). 1 Including pension and other salary beneﬁts. 2 Employees whose duties signiﬁcantly can affect the Bank’s risk proﬁle (Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 604/2014). 3 The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority uses the concept of senior management in its regulations FFFS 2014:22. At Handelsbanken this corresponds to the Executive Directors. of the pension-qualifying salary. Three (3) of Other Executive Directors, 19 individuals, these 23 individuals are included in the group these persons are also covered by the deﬁned have received ﬁxed salary, after conversion to of Executive Directors. contribution pension in the collective agreement pension, amounting to SEK 77.9 million. Other Fees for serving on the boards of other comBTP and BTPK schemes where the retirement salary beneﬁts are SEK 6.4 million and the penpanies on behalf of the Bank have been paid to age is 65. sion cost was SEK 28.5 million. Before converthe Bank. An accrued deﬁned beneﬁt pension is vested sion to pension, the pension cost was SEK 28.0 and secured in the Bank’s pension foundation million, corresponding to 40.3 per cent of the Remuneration in subsidiaries or assured in the Bank’s pension fund. If service pension-qualifying salary. Fees paid to the 11 (10) board members of ceases before retirement age, the person The 23 (19) individuals in the parent company subsidiaries who are not employees of the Bank receives a paid-up policy for the deﬁned beneﬁt who are speciﬁed in the remuneration guideor its subsidiaries are SEK 1.2 million (0.8). and deﬁned contribution pension earned. lines from the 2014 AGM, the CEO and the In 2014, the chief executives and Executive Executive Vice Presidents, have received ﬁxed Vice Presidents in the subsidiaries, 22 (17) Remuneration salary, after conversion to pension, amounting In 2014, the Deputy CEO, Anders Ohlner, to SEK 97.9 million (89.2). Other salary beneﬁts * Pension-qualifying salary comprises contractual ﬁxed salary received a ﬁxed salary amounting to SEK 3.7 are SEK 7.3 million (5.8) and the pension cost before any conversion to pension. million (3.5). Other salary beneﬁts are SEK 0.3 was SEK 45.6 million (32.6). Before conversion ** The pension cost includes deﬁned beneﬁt pensions earned, as well as premiums for deﬁned contribution pensions. million (0.2) and the pension cost was SEK 1.6 to pension, the pension cost was SEK 39.4 *** In new pension terms entered into after 1 January 2012, million (1.5), corresponding to 44.0 per cent million (32.6), corresponding to 43.8 per cent the age of retirement is 65. (45.9) of the pension-qualifying salary. of the pension-qualifying salary (41.9). 18 of H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 109 NOTES | GROUP G8 Cont. individuals, received ﬁxed salaries after converobligations for the 23 (19) persons in the SEK 206 million (105) and SEK 61 million (50) in sion to pension amounting to SEK 39.0 million parent company speciﬁed in the remuneration the subsidiaries. Deposits in the parent compa(33.8). Other salary beneﬁts are SEK 1.4 million guidelines from the 2014 AGM, the CEO and ny from these persons totalled SEK 918 million (1.9) and the pension cost was SEK 5.9 million the Executive Vice Presidents, were SEK 1,185 (629). In 2014, the Bank’s interest income from (5.7). Before conversion to pension, the pension million (1,028). 18 of these 23 individuals are these persons for credits in the parent company cost was SEK 5.8 million (5.7), corresponding included in the group of Executive Directors. totalled SEK 2.2 million (3.8) and in the subsidito 19.6 per cent of the pension-qualifying salary As at 31 December 2014, pension obligaaries SEK 1.0 million (1.9). Interest paid to these (24.8). tions in the Handelsbanken Group for all present persons for deposits in the parent company was Remuneration is not paid to chief executives and previous executive ofﬁcers totalled SEK SEK 10.2 million (13.3). and EVPs at subsidiaries who have other main 2,316 million (2,308). As at 31 December 2014, As at 31 December 2014, credits to execuwork tasks at Handelsbanken. pension obligations in the parent company tive ofﬁcers in the subsidiaries in the Handelsfor all present and previous executive ofﬁcers banken Group were SEK 235 million (192). PENSION OBLIGATIONS TO EXECUTIVE totalled SEK 2,192 million (2,124). The number Credit and deposit terms for the aforemenOFFICERS of people covered by these obligations in the tioned persons are in accordance with the As at 31 December 2014, the pension obligaGroup is 78 (75), of whom 47 (44) are pensame principles as for all other employees of the tions**** for the CEO, Pär Boman, were sioners. The corresponding number for the Handelsbanken Group. All credits are subject to SEK 169.6 million (143.3). As at 31 December parent company is 63 (57), of whom 42 (38) a credit assessment. 2014, the pension obligations for Anders are pensioners. Ohlner, Deputy CEO, were SEK 51.2 million (45.6), and for the other 19 Executive Directors CREDITS TO AND DEPOSITS FROM **** Pension obligations are amounts which, in accordance in the parent company, pension obligations EXECUTIVE OFFICERS with IAS 19, the Bank reserves for payment of future deﬁned beneﬁt pensions. The size of the amounts depend were SEK 729.0 million. As at 31 December 2014, credits to execuon ﬁnancial and demographic assumptions which may As at 31 December 2014, pension tive ofﬁcers in the parent company were change from year to year. Net pension obligations Plan assets SEK m 2014 2013 SEK m 2014 2013 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 24 938 21 556 Opening balance 23 289 21 478 Fair value of plan assets 23 458 23 289 Interest on plan assets 781 659 Net pensions -1 480 1 733 Funds contributed by the employer 280 148 Compensation to employer -572 -575 In addition to the deﬁned pension obligations and plan assets in the above table, provisions Funds paid directly to employees -176 -159 have been made in the years 1989-2004 to Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse Actuarial gains (+)/losses (-) -320 1 774 (pension foundation) to a special supplementary pension (SKP). This includes plan assets whose market value amounts to SEK 11,970m (11,042). SKP entails a commitment to the Foreign exchange effect 176 -36 Bank amounting to the same amount as the plan assets. Closing balance 23 458 23 289 A part of the commitment, SEK 9,518 m (8,655), is conditional. Return on plan assets No signiﬁcant plan amendments, curtailments and settlements have been made during the SEK m 2014 2013 year. Interest on plan assets 781 659 Actuarial gains (+)/losses (-) -320 1 774 Pension costs SEK m 2014 2013 Actual return 461 2 433 Service cost -656 -653 Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation -729 -640 Allocation of plan assets Interest on plan assets 781 659 SEK m 2014 2013 Gains and losses from settlements and curtailments -2 46 Shares listed on an active market 21 316 20 825 Social contributions, deﬁned beneﬁt plans -12 -10 Shares not listed on an active market 493 414 Pension costs, deﬁned beneﬁt plans -618 -598 Interest-bearing securities listed on an active market 1 807 1 580 Pension costs, deﬁned contribution plans -478 -392 Interest-bearing securities not listed on an active market 224 165 Social contributions, deﬁned contribution plans 5 16 Other plan assets -382 305 Total pension costs -1 091 -974 Total 23 458 23 289 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation The plan assets include shares in Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) with a market value SEK m 2014 2013 of SEK 0m (0) on the balance sheet date 31 December 2014. Bonds issued by Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) are included with a market value of SEK 570m (561). Other plan Opening balance 21 556 20 712 assets include compensation from the pension foundation that has not yet been paid out. Service cost 656 653 Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 729 640 Paid beneﬁts -684 -650 Gains and losses from settlements and curtailments 2 -46 Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) 2 441 306 Foreign exchange effect 238 -59 Closing balance 24 938 21 556 The calculation of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 2014 for employees in Sweden is based on DUS14, which are assumptions on longevity that are generally accepted in the market, based on statistics produced by Insurance Sweden. The corresponding calculation regarding 2013 is based on DUS06. 110 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+), deﬁned beneﬁt obligation SEK m 2014 2013 Changes in demographic assumptions 762 1 194 Changes in ﬁnancial assumptions 1 679 -888 Total 2 441 306 Future cash ﬂows Outcome Forecast SEK m 2014 2015 Paid beneﬁts -684 -656 Deﬁned beneﬁt pensions are mainly paid to employees in Sweden, Norway and the UK. Of the total net obligation the Swedish plan is SEK 21,311m (19,015), the Norwegian plan is SEK 1,219m (959) and the UK plan is SEK 2,373m (1,559). In addition, there is a small deﬁned beneﬁt plan in Germany which, given its size, is not considered material and therefore is not presented in more detail. In Sweden, a retirement pension is paid from the age of 65 in accordance with the pension agreement between the Employers’ Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions (BAO) and the Swedish Financial Sector Union/Swedish Confederation of Professional Associations. The amount is 10% of the annual salary up to 7.5 income base amounts. On the part of the salary between 7.5 and 20 income base amounts, the retirement pension is 65% and in the interval between 20 and 30 income base amounts, it is 32.5% of the annual salary. No retirement pension is paid on the portion of the salary in excess of 30 income base amounts. In Norway, retirement pensions are paid from the age of 67. The amount of the pension is partly dependent on the period of service and the ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. The retirement pension including the statutory pension is expected to be approximately 70% of the ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. In the UK, deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions are paid to employees who were employed before 1 January 2006. For employees who started after this date, deﬁned contribution pensions are paid. The normal retirement age is 65. The maximum retirement pension is some 67% of the pensionable salary, which is achieved after 40 years of service. The pensionable salary is limited to a maximum amount which is currently GBP 137,400. The pension plans are funded externally, meaning plan assets are held by trusts or similar legal entities. The trust’s (or equivalent) activities are regulated by national laws and practices, as is the relationship between the Group and the trust (or equivalent) managing the plan assets, and provides the framework for how the plan assets shall be composed of different types of assets. In Sweden, the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the Mutual Beneﬁt Societies Act are applied, in Norway the Norwegian National Insurance Act is applied and in the UK, the standard UK pensions and tax law is applied. Main assumptions Sweden Norway UK 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Discount rate, % 3.0 3.3 2.8 4.1 3.4 4.4 Expected salary increase, % 3.5 3.5 3.3 3.8 4.7 5.0 Pension indexing, % 2.0 2.0 3.0 3.5 3.2 3.4 Income base amount, % 3.0 3.0 na na na na Inﬂation, % 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.8 3.4 3.7 Staff turnover, % 3.0 3.0 0-81 0-81 na na Remaining life expectancy at retirement age, years 21.9 21.2 21.6 18.0 25.0 23.4 Average duration, years 16.7 15.6 23.0 21.9 23.0 23.0 1 Age-related interval; 8% for the youngest annually, gradually decreasing to 0% for the oldest. Sensitivity analysis Effects on the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation Increased deﬁned Decreased deﬁned beneﬁt obligation, SEK m beneﬁt obligation, SEK m Changes in assumptions 2014 2013 2014 2013 Discount rate, % 0.5 2 544 2 063 -2 214 -1 808 Expected salary increase, % 1.0 1 508 962 -1 656 -1 287 Pension indexing, % 0.5 1 183 988 -1 451 -1 430 Remaining life expectancy at retirement age, years 1.0 766 -767 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions, the same method has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of ﬁnancial position. The method is described in the accounting principles (see note G1, section 20). Compared with the 2013 Annual Report there have been no changes in the methods used when preparing the sensitivity analyses. Remaining life expectancy at retirement has been added to the sensitivity analysis in comparison with the previous year. Through its deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, the Bank is exposed to a number of risks, the most signiﬁcant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields. If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deﬁcit. The pension plans hold a signiﬁcant proportion of equities which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term while providing volatility and risk in the short term. The Bank believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Bank’s long term strategy to manage the plans efﬁciently. Changes in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. Inﬂation risk: The plans’ beneﬁt obligations are linked to inﬂation, and higher inﬂation will lead to higher liabilities. The plans’ assets are not affected by inﬂation in a material way, meaning that an increase in inﬂation will also increase the deﬁcit. Life expectancy: The plans’ obligations are to provide beneﬁts for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. Asset-Liability matching (ALM): The composition of the plan assets is matched to the pension liabilities composition and expected development. The overall goal is to generate a return, over the medium and long-term, that at least corresponds to the development of the pension liability. The majority of the plan assets are invested in equities, but investments are also made in ﬁxed income instruments and cash. A high proportion of shares is deemed appropriate in order to manage the plans effectively. Funding arrangements: Minimum funding requirements differ between plans but where such requirements are based on collective agreements or internal policies the funding requirement is generally that the pension obligations measured according to local requirements shall be covered in full. Funding levels are monitored regularly. The Bank considers that the current contribution rate is appropriate. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 111 NOTES | GROUP G9 Other expenses Remuneration to auditors KPMG Ernst & Young AB and audit companies SEK m 2014 2013 SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 Property and premises -1 174 -1 118 Audit assignment -14 -12 -2 -3 External IT costs -1 623 -1 704 Audit operations outside Communication -349 -369 the audit assignment -5 -4 Travel and marketing -339 -378 Tax advice -1 -1 Purchased services -995 -1 031 Other services Supplies -207 -202 Internal audit costs were SEK 135m (132) during the year. Other administrative expenses -412 -379 Total -5 099 -5 181 Of which expenses for operating leases Minimum lease fee -754 -687 Variable fee -19 -19 Total -773 -706 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. Rental costs for premises normally have a variable fee related to the inﬂation rate and to property taxes. In 2014, the cost of the largest individual lease contract was approx. SEK 167m (165). None of the major lease contracts has a variable fee. G10 Loan losses SEK m 2014 2013 Speciﬁc provision for individually assessed loans The year's provision -1 982 -1 287 Reversal of previous provisions 305 289 Total -1 677 -998 Collective provision The year's net provision for individually assessed loans 76 -60 The year’s net provision for homogeneous loans 3 15 Total 79 -45 Off-balance sheet items Losses on off-balance sheet items -2 -9 Reversal of previous losses on off-balance sheet items 1 0 Change in collective provision for off-balance sheet items 16 -10 Total 15 -19 Write-offs Actual loan losses for the year -1 998 -1 503 Utilised share of previous provisions 1 515 1 174 Recoveries 285 196 Total -198 -133 Net loan losses -1 781 -1 195 Impaired loans etc. SEK m 2014 2013 Impaired loans 8 702 6 944 Speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans -3 734 -3 454 Provisions for collectively assessed homogeneous groups of loans with limited value -93 -92 Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -284 -357 Net impaired loans 4 591 3 041 Total impaired loans reserve ratio, % 47,2 56,2 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0,25 0,18 Impaired loans reserve ratio excluding collective provisions, % 44,0 51,1 Loans past due > 60 days, which are not impaired 2 133 2 150 Impaired loans reclassiﬁed as normal loans during the year 34 30 Loans are classiﬁed as impaired if it is probable that the contractual cash ﬂows will not be fulﬁlled. The full amount of each receivable that gives rise to a speciﬁc provision is included in impaired loans even if this amount is partly covered by collateral. Received collateral is thus not taken into account when calculating the reserve ratio. Non-performing loans are loans where interest, repayments or overdrafts have been due for payment for more than 60 days. For other deﬁnitions, see page 236. 112 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Change in provision for probable loan losses 2014 Collective Provision for Provision for provision for collectively Total provision individually individually assessed for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans homogeneous loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 454 -357 -92 -3 903 The year's provision -1 982 -57 -2 039 Reversal of previous provisions 305 76 3 384 Utilised for actual loan losses 1 515 57 1 572 Foreign exchange effect etc. -118 -3 -4 -125 Provision at end of year -3 734 -284 -93 -4 111 Change in provision for probable loan losses 2013 Collective Provision for Provision for provision for collectively Total provision individually individually assessed for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans homogeneous loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 725 -288 -115 -4 128 The year's provision -1 287 -60 -55 -1 402 Reversal of previous provisions 289 15 304 Utilised for actual loan losses 1 174 56 1 230 Foreign exchange effect etc. 95 -9 7 93 Provision at end of year -3 454 -357 -92 -3 903 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, by sector 2014 Impaired loans Loans past due Of which past > 60 days, which SEK m Gross Provisions Net1 due > 60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 569 -813 756 575 1 148 Housing co-operative associations 49 -21 28 14 25 Property management 1 759 -589 1 170 885 397 Manufacturing 1 639 -726 913 70 113 Retail 596 -343 253 167 14 Hotel and restaurant 45 -25 20 11 260 Passenger and goods transport by sea 1 615 -405 1 210 Other transport and communication 49 -39 10 9 41 Construction 188 -114 74 42 56 Electricity, gas and water 32 -24 8 8 0 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 23 -16 7 1 2 Other services 73 -42 31 25 56 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 316 -187 129 34 2 Other corporate lending 749 -483 266 266 19 Credit institutions Total 8 702 -3 827 4 875 2 107 2 133 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, by sector 2013 Impaired loans Loans past due Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 634 -790 844 689 1 316 Housing co-operative associations 101 -33 68 45 7 Property management 1 299 -394 905 560 526 Manufacturing 890 -517 373 189 9 Retail 705 -362 343 210 42 Hotel and restaurant 37 -24 13 11 9 Passenger and goods transport by sea 424 -423 1 1 1 Other transport and communication 110 -80 30 28 5 Construction 194 -116 78 71 88 Electricity, gas and water 72 -44 28 28 7 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 33 -25 8 7 2 Other services 153 -101 52 43 33 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 1 138 -569 569 61 4 Other corporate lending 154 -68 86 74 101 Credit institutions Total 6 944 -3 546 3 398 2 017 2 150 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually valued loans and provisions for collectively valued loans but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 113 NOTES | GROUP G10 Cont. Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, geographic distribution 2014 Impaired loans Loans past due Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Sweden 3 455 -1 707 1 748 724 836 Norway 294 -138 156 118 381 Finland 949 -685 264 243 622 Denmark 2 741 -925 1 816 332 26 UK 1 103 -291 812 618 194 Netherlands 21 -8 13 11 Rest of Europe 137 -73 64 61 74 North America Asia 2 0 2 Total 8 702 -3 827 4 875 2 107 2 133 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, geographic distribution 2013 Impaired loans Loans past due Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Sweden 2 605 -1 367 1 238 1 106 1 126 Norway 433 -177 256 214 310 Finland 1 090 -444 646 396 153 Denmark 1 324 -871 453 173 19 UK 320 -106 214 47 459 Netherlands 15 -3 12 12 Rest of Europe 140 -65 75 69 83 North America 1 015 -513 502 Asia 2 0 2 Total 6 944 -3 546 3 398 2 017 2 150 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually valued loans and provisions for collectively valued loans but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2014 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 2 615 2 989 50 5 654 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 312 152 0 464 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 202 383 585 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 609 224 833 Past due > 12 months 508 207 715 Total 4 246 3 955 50 8 251 Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2013 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 3 088 1 174 4 262 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 395 166 561 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 247 117 364 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 614 405 1 019 Past due > 12 months 608 159 767 Total 4 952 2 021 6 973 Assets repossessed for protection of claims SEK m 2014 2013 Property 465 392 Movable property 7 12 Shares 16 73 Carrying amount 488 477 Movable property mainly consists of repossessed leased assets. In addition to repossessed property shown in the table above, repossessed property is also included in discontinued operations, see note G12. The valuation principles for assets and liabilities repossessed for protection of claims are described in note G1. 114 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G11 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets SEK m 2014 2013 Equipment 2 16 Property 4 1 Total 6 17 G12 Profit for the year pertaining to discontinued operations SEK m 2014 2013 Income 2 281 2 160 Expenses -2 132 -2 015 Operating proﬁt from discontinued operations 149 145 Tax -51 -23 Total 98 122 Impairments -57 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations 41 122 Operating proﬁt from discontinued operations comprises return on the Bank’s holdings in the Plastal Group. The Plastal Group’s operations consist of manufacturing of exterior plastic components for the auto industry. The Bank intends to divest operations in the Plastal Group as soon as conditions permit. As the fair value of Plastal, less costs to sell, is lower than the carrying amount, an impairment has been made. The impairment essentially corresponds to the year’s depreciation and does not affect the current year’s tax. The fair value of Plastal has been calculated on the basis of valuation models where different valuation methods, such as peer valuation and discounted cash ﬂow, have been used to obtain a reliable measurement. As far as possible, the material for the assumptions has been taken from external market observations. The valuation is to a material extent based on own assumptions. In the valuation hierarchy described in note G40 it would therefore be classiﬁed as level 3. A description of the Bank’s valuation policy for discountinued operations is provided in note G1. G13 Earnings per share 2014 2013 Proﬁt for the year, continuing operations, SEK m 15 143 14 173 of which interest expense on convertible subordinated loan after tax -170 -119 Proﬁt for the year, discontinued operations, SEK m 41 122 of which interest expense on convertible subordinated loan after tax Proﬁt for the year, total operations, SEK m 15 184 14 295 of which interest expense on convertible subordinated loan after tax -170 -119 Average number of shares converted during the year (millions) 0.0 2.1 Average holdings of own shares in trading book (millions) 0.2 Average number of outstanding shares (millions) 635.7 634.8 Average dilution effect, number of shares (millions) 17.3 12.7 Average number of outstanding shares after dilution (millions) 653.0 647.5 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 23.82 22.33 after dilution 23.45 22.07 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.06 0.19 after dilution 0.06 0.19 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 23.89 22.52 after dilution 23.51 22.26 Earnings per share after dilution is measured by taking the effects of conversion of outstanding convertible shares into account. The implication of this is that the number of potential converted shares are added to the average number of outstanding shares and that proﬁt for the year is adjusted for the year’s interest expense on outstanding convertible subordinated loans after tax. G14 Other loans to central banks SEK m 2014 2013 Other loans to central banks in Swedish kronor 7 042 2 540 Other loans to central banks in foreign currency 44 005 32 620 Total 51 047 35 160 Of which reverse repos 1 245 360 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Other loans to central banks in Swedish kronor 15 483 14 999 Other loans to central banks in foreign currency 34 901 27 218 Total 50 384 42 217 Of which reverse repos 1 003 1 969 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 115 NOTES | GROUP G15 Loans to other credit institutions SEK m 2014 2013 Loans in Swedish kronor Banks 1 311 2 902 Other credit institutions 409 1 218 Total 1 720 4 120 Loans in foreign currency Banks 23 422 23 492 Other credit institutions 45 197 35 286 Total 68 619 58 778 Probable loan losses Total loans to other credit institutions 70 339 62 898 Of which reverse repos 42 138 33 874 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Loans to other credit institutions in Swedish kronor 13 021 17 140 Loans to other credit institutions in Swedish kronor, insurance operations 30 37 Loans to other credit institutions in foreign currency 71 681 86 277 Loans to other credit institutions in foreign currency, insurance operations 11 13 Total 84 743 103 467 Of which reverse repos 38 420 33 560 G16 Loans to the public SEK m 2014 2013 Loans in Swedish kronor Households 664 333 627 212 Companies 483 207 491 036 National Debt Ofﬁce 19 044 5 180 Total 1 166 584 1 123 428 Loans in foreign currency Households 231 566 200 098 Companies 413 797 376 716 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 645 363 576 814 Probable loan losses -4 111 -3 903 Total loans to the public 1 807 836 1 696 339 Of which reverse repos 23 858 15 711 Average volumes, excl. National Debt Ofﬁce SEK m 2014 2013 Loans to the public in Swedish kronor 1 136 043 1 116 418 Loans to the public in foreign currency 609 717 557 638 Total 1 745 760 1 674 056 Of which reverse repos 16 565 22 665 116 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G17 Interest-bearing securities 2014 2013 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 76 239 78 223 78 219 56 402 57 471 57 451 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 61 357 63 722 63 725 61 936 64 123 64 125 Total 137 596 141 945 141 944 118 338 121 594 121 576 Of which unlisted securities 4 569 4 569 3 240 3 240 Interest-bearing securities distributed by issuer 2014 2013 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Government 66 097 68 008 68 005 48 878 49 857 49 837 Credit institutions 10 828 11 164 11 166 11 044 11 453 11 455 Mortgage institutions 39 776 41 760 41 760 41 987 43 671 43 671 Other 20 895 21 013 21 013 16 429 16 613 16 613 Total 137 596 141 945 141 944 118 338 121 594 121 576 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Interest-bearing securities 120 245 124 215 Interest-bearing securities, insurance operations 8 260 9 139 Total 128 505 133 354 G18 Shares SEK m 2014 2013 Holdings at fair value over the income statement Listed 34 338 41 019 Non-listed 3 841 1 851 Total 38 179 42 870 Classiﬁed as available-for-sale Listed 6 753 4 369 Non-listed 1 614 1 356 Total 8 367 5 725 Total shares 46 546 48 595 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 117 NOTES | GROUP G19 Investments in associates There are no individually signiﬁcant investments in associates held by Handelsbanken. There are certain entities that are considered strategic to the banking operation of the Group supporting, amoung others, payment services. During the year Festival AS has been divested. No other signiﬁcant changes in ownership or agreements with the associates’ other investors has occurred during the year. All investments are non-listed. Investments in associates SEK m 2014 2013 Carrying amount at beginning of year 272 203 Share of proﬁt for the year 21 8 Tax -3 -2 Shareholders' contribution 2 Dividend -7 -11 Acquisitions 73 Divestments 0 0 Recoveries 0 Translation difference 1 1 Carrying amount at end of year 286 272 Income from associates SEK m 2014 2013 Proﬁt for the year 18 6 Total other comprehensive income 1 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 19 7 Corporate Carrying amount SEK m identity Number of Voting Associates number Domicile shares power % 2014 2013 Bankomat AB 556817-9716 Stockholm 150 20.00 50 48 Bankomatcentralen AB 556197-2265 Stockholm 1 100 21.90 0 0 BDB Bankernas Depå AB 556695-3567 Stockholm 13 000 20.00 10 9 BGC Holding AB 556607-0933 Stockholm 25 382 25.40 69 68 Dyson Group plc 163096 Shefﬁeld 122 387 481 29.99 41 29 Festival AS 993 798 304 Kristiansand 7 Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 556630-4928 Stockholm 12 735 28.30 24 20 Flisekompaniet Holding AS 992 999 136 Oslo 2 400 47.00 52 53 Getswish AB 556913-7382 Stockholm 10 000 20.00 2 2 Upplysningscentralen UC AB1 556137-5113 Stockholm 2 448 24.48 38 36 Total 286 272 1 Information concerning the Group. 118 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G20 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk SEK m 2014 2013 Unit-linked and portfolio bond insurance assets 91 739 76 817 Other fund assets 3 024 4 064 Share of consolidated funds not owned 49 Total 94 763 80 930 The comparative year 2013, Share of consolidated funds not owned, has been adjusted with SEK -5,085m due to new accounting rules regarding consolidation, IFRS 10, which came into effect on 1 January 2014. The changes are described in further detail in note G1. G21 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities 2014 Asset SEK m management Assets Shares 1 172 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 79 735 Total ﬁnancial assets 80 907 A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements. Handelsbanken’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities are limited and consist of fund holdings. Funds are owned primarily through unit-linked contracts at Handelsbanken Liv. Investments in funds through unit-linked contracts are never consolidated, see note G1 for the Bank’s accounting principle regarding consolidation of funds, and these are thus unconsolidated structured entities. Handelsbanken also owns some fund holdings in its role as market maker. The maximum exposure to loss on all interests in unconsolidated structured entities is the current carrying amount of the interest. The total assets for these entities are not considered meaningful for the purpose of understanding the related risks and so have not been presented. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 119 NOTES | GROUP G22 Derivative instruments Nominal amount/maturity Nominal amount Positive market values Negative market values Over 1 yr SEK m Up to 1 yr up to 5 yrs Over 5 yrs 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Derivatives held for trading Interest rate-related contracts Options 122 095 149 935 5 628 277 658 268 514 3 502 4 179 3 698 4 318 FRA/futures 1 555 336 778 881 2 334 217 2 972 228 1 137 421 1 549 143 Swaps 375 806 1 075 335 428 575 1 879 716 2 073 292 45 277 30 661 46 382 30 713 Other instruments 3 058 3 058 0 0 50 Currency-related contracts Options 60 623 1 668 29 62 320 44 634 663 311 953 234 Futures 105 516 9 463 271 115 250 111 213 3 050 1 085 1 709 1 313 Swaps 599 270 125 884 23 645 748 799 785 621 17 074 10 318 6 577 7 740 Other instruments 61 0 15 120 Equity-related contracts Options 10 845 24 158 949 35 952 42 699 2 537 3 019 2 371 5 112 Futures 10 306 10 306 4 416 8 9 36 35 Swaps 28 324 7 409 128 35 861 34 688 736 691 1 999 2 486 Other instruments 2 362 2 362 677 3 39 494 Commodity-related contracts Options 2 155 2 253 122 4 530 5 067 183 105 528 992 Futures 26 074 2 446 148 28 668 21 047 1 002 375 1 079 377 Swaps 12 12 313 8 49 Other instruments 457 132 420 Credit-related contracts Options 0 Swaps 1 195 7 640 729 9 564 10 049 620 544 91 Other instruments 0 45 Other derivative contracts Total 2 902 977 2 185 072 460 224 5 548 273 6 374 976 75 789 51 868 67 069 54 591 Derivatives for fair value hedges Interest rate-related contracts Options 5 750 4 745 10 495 12 545 6 21 Swaps 11 011 11 011 50 218 196 762 Other instruments Currency-related contracts Swaps 965 965 817 63 177 Total 16 761 4 745 965 22 471 63 580 69 198 196 762 Derivatives for cash ﬂow hedges Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 96 392 323 683 85 878 505 953 454 746 25 976 17 995 3 598 4 313 Currency-related contracts Swaps 31 449 201 132 56 518 289 099 248 714 26 919 5 935 4 644 7 898 Total 127 841 524 815 142 396 795 052 703 460 52 895 23 930 8 242 12 211 Total derivative instruments 3 047 579 2 714 632 603 585 6 365 796 7 142 016 128 753 75 996 75 507 67 564 Of which exchange traded derivatives 1 314 691 1 692 917 676 319 1 804 867 Of which OTC derivatives settled by CCP 716 067 736 270 12 009 2 834 11 140 2 479 Amounts set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -6 035 -12 629 -6 035 Net amount in the balance sheet 116 124 69 961 62 878 61 529 Currency breakdown of market values SEK -253 325 32 046 17 138 209 182 USD 396 046 44 929 98 084 -204 134 EUR 121 792 98 651 -60 771 15 845 Other -135 760 -99 630 21 056 46 671 Derivative contracts are presented gross in the table. Offsetted amounts consist of the offsetted market value of contracts for which the Bank has the legal right and intention to settle contractual cash ﬂows net (including cleared contracts). These contracts are presented on a net basis in the balance sheet per counterparty and currency. The Bank amortises positive differences between the value measured by a valuation model upon initial recognition and the transaction price (day 1 proﬁt), over the life of the derivative. Such not yet recognised day 1 proﬁt amounted to SEK 465m (396) at year-end. 120 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G23 Offsetting of financial instruments 2014 Repurchase agreements, securities borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 128 753 68 887 197 640 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -12 629 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 116 124 68 887 185 011 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -45 652 -45 652 Collateral received -38 191 -68 857 -107 048 Net amount 32 281 30 32 311 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 75 507 256 75 763 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -12 629 Net amounts of ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the balance sheet 62 878 256 63 134 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -45 652 -45 652 Assets pledged -9 674 -256 -9 930 Net amount 7 552 0 7 552 2013 Repurchase agreements, securities borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 75 996 53 586 129 582 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -6 035 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 69 961 53 586 123 547 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -41 036 -41 036 Collateral received -10 540 -53 569 -64 109 Net amount 18 385 17 18 402 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 67 564 8 352 75 916 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -6 035 Net amounts of ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the balance sheet 61 529 8 352 69 881 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -41 036 -41 036 Assets pledged -4 793 -7 889 -12 682 Net amount 15 700 463 16 163 Derivative instruments are set off in the balance through netting agreements, i.e. netting positive for the net exposure. The collateral used is sheet when the settlement of two or more derivvalues against negative values in all derivative mainly cash, but government securities are also atives reﬂects the Bank’s anticipated cash ﬂows. transactions with the same counterparty in a used. Collateral for repurchase agreements and This occurs when the Bank has both a conbankruptcy situation. Handelsbanken’s policy borrowing and lending of securities is normally tractual right and intention to settle the agreed is to sign netting agreements with all bank in the form of cash or other securities. cash ﬂows with a net amount. The remaining counterparties. Netting agreements are supplecounterparty risk in derivatives is reduced mented with agreements for issuing collateral H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 121 NOTES | GROUP G24 Intangible assets 2014 Trademarks Internally and other Customer developed Total SEK m Goodwill rights contracts software 2014 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 6 431 57 367 1476 8 331 Cost of acquisition of additional intangible assets 257 257 Disposals and retirements -153 -153 Foreign exchange effect 166 7 41 1 215 Cost of acquisition at end of year 6 597 64 408 1 581 8 650 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -6 -45 -445 -496 Disposals and retirements 153 153 Amortisation for the year -11 -19 -128 -158 Impairments for the year -9 -9 Foreign exchange effect -2 -6 0 -8 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at end of year -19 -70 -429 -518 Carrying amount 6 597 45 338 1 152 8 132 2013 Trademarks Internally and other Customer developed Total SEK m Goodwill rights contracts software 2014 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 6 273 3 143 1220 7 639 Cost of acquisition of additional intangible assets 144 51 209 336 740 Disposals and retirements -82 -82 Foreign exchange effect 14 3 15 2 34 Cost of acquisition at end of year 6 431 57 367 1 476 8 331 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -31 -402 -433 Disposals and retirements 82 82 Amortisation for the year -6 -13 -121 -140 Impairments for the year -2 -2 Foreign exchange effect 0 -1 -2 -3 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at end of year -6 -45 -445 -496 Carrying amount 6 431 51 322 1 031 7 835 Intangible assets with an Goodwill indeﬁnite useful SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 Branch operations in Sweden 3 331 3 331 Branch operations in the UK 173 152 Branch operations in Finland 16 15 Branch operations in Denmark 2 373 2 224 Branch operations in Norway 694 699 Capital Markets 10 10 3 3 Total 6 597 6 431 3 3 Impairment testing of goodwill and volumes, income, expenses and loan losses. requirement. In the annual impairment testing, intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful life The forecasts are mainly based on an internal the discount rate was 7.3 per cent after tax Recognised goodwill mainly derives from tradiassessment of the future income and cost (7.6). The corresponding rate before tax was tional banking operations on Handelsbanken’s development, economic climate, expected 10.6 per cent (10.8). home markets. Goodwill and intangible assets interest rates and the expected impact of future The difference between the recoverable with an indeﬁnite useful life are tested for impairregulations. After the ﬁrst ﬁve-year period, a amounts and the carrying amounts in the ment annually in connection with the closing of forecast is made based on the assumption of annual impairment test of goodwill was deemed the annual accounts. When performing impaira long-term growth rate. The estimated cash to be satisfactory. The calculated value in use ment testing, the value in use of the units to ﬂows are based on historical real GDP growth, of goodwill is sensitive to a number of different which goodwill has been allocated is calculated as well as the Riksbank’s long-term inﬂation variables, which are signiﬁcant for expected by discounting estimated future cash ﬂows and target. The year’s impairment test is based on cash ﬂows and the discount rate. The varithe terminal value. In the above table goodan assumption of a long-term growth rate of two ables that are of greatest signiﬁcance to the will has been allocated among the business per cent. The total forecast period is 20 years. calculation are assumptions for interest rates, segments. Goodwill which is followed up interThe terminal value used is the forecast value of the business cycle, future margins and costnally at a lower level than business segments is the net assets of the tested unit. Estimated cash effectiveness. No reasonably possible change tested at the lower level. ﬂows have been discounted at a rate based on in important assumptions would affect the For the ﬁrst ﬁve years, estimated future cash a risk-free interest rate and a risk adjustment reported value of goodwill. ﬂows are based on forecasts of risk-weighted corresponding to the market’s average return 122 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G25 Property and equipment Property and equipment SEK m 2014 2013 Equipment 468 492 Property 1 299 1 309 Property repossessed for protection of claims 472 404 Total 2 239 2 205 Property repossessed for protection of claims contains properties which are regularly measured at fair value in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for assets repossessed to protect claims. See note G1. The fair value of properties which are regularly measured at fair value is SEK 465m (392). Unrealised value changes on these properties had an impact of SEK 6m (-10) on the year’s proﬁt. The valuation of private housing is essentially based on market observations of comparable property purchases in the location in question. The valuation of commercial properties is based on discounting future cash ﬂows using assumptions such as rents, vacancy levels, operating and maintenance costs, yield requirement and calculation interest rates. The valuation is also based on the condition of the property, its location and alternative areas of use. The Bank’s principle is always to use an authorised valuer for valuing commercial and ofﬁce buildings, and industrial properties. Valuations which are only based on market observations (SEK 119m) are classiﬁed as level 2 in the valuation hierarchy described in note G40. Valuations where own assumptions are used to a material extent (SEK 346m) are classiﬁed as level 3 in the valuation hierarchy. Unrealised value changes in level 3 relating to properties which are regularly measured at fair value have affected the year’s proﬁt by SEK 0m (-17). The year’s sale of properties which are regularly measured at fair value amounts to SEK 108m (81) of which SEK 80m (64) was classiﬁed as level 3 before the sale. The value of new properties added during the year is SEK 112m (50), with SEK 20m (48) of this classiﬁed as level 3. Equipment SEK m 2014 2013 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 1 627 1 617 Cost of additional acquisition for the year 208 265 Changes due to business combinations during the year 22 Disposals and retirements -481 -256 Foreign exchange effect 45 -21 Cost of acquisition at end of year 1 399 1 627 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -1 135 -1 142 Accumulated depreciation due to business combinations during the year -15 Amortisation for the year according to plan -244 -260 Disposals and retirements 478 261 Foreign exchange effect -30 21 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -931 -1 135 Carrying amount 468 492 Property SEK m 2014 2013 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 2 120 2 092 Cost of additional acquisition for the year 0 New construction and rebuilding 23 20 Disposals and retirements -3 Foreign exchange effect 15 8 Cost of acquisition at end of year 2 155 2 120 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -811 -766 Amortisation for the year according to plan -44 -45 Impairments for the year Disposals and retirements 0 Foreign exchange effect -1 0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -856 -811 Carrying amount 1 299 1 309 G26 Other assets SEK m 2014 2013 Claims on investment banking settlements 9 351 7 135 Other 4 970 6 127 Total 14 321 13 262 G27 Prepaid expenses and accrued income SEK m 2014 2013 Accrued interest income 4 612 5 278 Other accrued income 1 864 1 649 Prepaid expenses 315 213 Total 6 791 7 140 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 123 NOTES | GROUP G28 Due to credit institutions SEK m 2014 2013 Due in Swedish kronor Banks 23 252 19 870 Other credit institutions 9 188 9 825 Total 32 440 29 695 Due in foreign currency Banks 166 458 135 895 Other credit institutions 1 176 6 034 Total 167 634 141 929 Total due to credit institutions 200 074 171 624 Of which repos 88 748 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Due to credit institutions in Swedish kronor 27 566 31 074 Due to credit institutions in foreign currency 205 444 189 546 Total 233 010 220 620 Of which repos 1 625 3 961 G29 Deposits and borrowing from the public Deposits from the public Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 SEK m 2014 2013 Deposits in Swedish kronor Deposits from the public Households 224 905 208 147 Deposits from the public in Swedish kronor 364 833 344 238 Companies 177 175 159 615 Deposits from the public in foreign currency 281 508 181 335 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 646 341 525 573 Total 402 080 367 762 Borrowing from the public Deposits in foreign currency Borrowing in Swedish kronor 49 330 55 329 Households 65 758 49 045 Borrowing in Swedish kronor, insurance operations 10 373 11 060 Companies 235 794 174 840 Borrowing in foreign currency 186 526 149 135 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 246 229 215 524 Total 301 552 223 885 Of which repos 8 685 10 551 Total deposits from the public 703 632 591 647 Borrowing from the public SEK m 2014 2013 Borrowing in Swedish kronor 41 954 61 378 Borrowing in foreign currency 276 681 172 180 Total 318 635 233 558 Of which repos 168 7 604 Of which insurance operations 10 010 10 759 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 1 022 267 825 205 G30 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk SEK m 2014 2013 Unit-linked and portfolio bond insurance liabilities 91 739 76 817 Other fund liabilities 3 125 4 111 Share of consolidated funds not owned 49 Total 94 864 80 977 The comparative year 2013, Share of consolidated funds not owned, has been adjusted with SEK -5,085m due to new accounting rules regarding consolidation, IFRS 10, which came into effect on 1 January 2014. The changes are described in further detail in note G1. 124 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G31 Issued securities 2014 2013 Nominal Carrying Nominal Carrying SEK m amount amount amount amount Commercial paper Commercial paper in Swedish kronor 9 816 10 621 15 613 17 299 Of which at amortised cost 101 101 for trading 9 816 10 621 15 512 17 198 Commercial paper in foreign currency 308 656 318 468 286 346 286 329 Of which at amortised cost 307 283 316 666 286 159 286 107 for trading 1 373 1 802 187 222 Total 318 472 329 089 301 959 303 628 Bonds Bonds in Swedish kronor 459 884 448 643 437 977 460 093 Of which at amortised cost 459 884 448 643 437 977 459 801 for fair value hedges 292 Bonds in foreign currency 432 965 434 881 382 621 386 920 Of which at amortised cost 431 995 434 764 380 077 385 983 for fair value hedges 970 117 2 544 937 Total 892 849 883 524 820 598 847 013 Total issued securities 1 211 321 1 212 613 1 122 557 1 150 641 SEK m 2014 2013 Issued securities at beginning of year 1 150 641 1 151 426 Issued 950 171 1 204 858 Repurchased 107 726 106 361 Matured 851 680 1 087 539 Foreign exchange effect etc. 71 207 -11 743 Issued securities at end of year 1 212 613 1 150 641 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Swedish kronor 470 359 475 734 Foreign currency 695 565 705 123 Total 1 165 924 1 180 857 G32 Short positions Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 SEK m 2014 2013 Short positions at fair value Swedish kronor 18 878 22 832 Equities 1 273 3 430 Foreign currency 809 1 214 Interest-bearing securities 19 375 19 415 Total 19 687 24 046 Of which other issuers 16 667 19 279 own issued 2 708 136 Total 20 648 22 845 G33 Insurance liabilities SEK m 2014 2013 Liability for sickness annuities 229 194 Liability for life annuities 177 146 Liability for other unsettled claims 219 273 Liability for prepaid premiums 38 9 Total 663 622 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 125 NOTES | GROUP G34 Taxes Deferred tax assets SEK m 2014 2013 Hedging instruments 270 213 Intangible assets 9 Property and equipment 31 37 Pensions 75 Other 4 19 Total 389 269 Deferred tax liabilities SEK m 2014 2013 Loans to the public1 6 471 6 616 Hedging instruments 2 663 117 Intangible assets 77 93 Property and equipment 89 86 Pensions -295 464 Other 204 37 Total 9 209 7 413 Net deferred tax liabilities 8 820 7 144 Change in deferred taxes 2014 Recognised in Foreign Opening Recognised in other compreexchange Closing SEK m balance income statement hensive income effect balance Loans to the public1 6 616 -145 6 471 Hedging instruments -96 3 2 486 2 393 Intangible assets 93 -35 10 68 Property and equipment 49 9 58 Pensions 464 -228 -592 -14 -370 Other 18 -12 194 200 Total 7 144 -408 2 098 -14 8 820 Change in deferred taxes 2013 Recognised in Foreign Opening Recognised in other compreexchange Closing SEK m balance income statement hensive income effect balance Loans to the public1 6 649 -33 6 616 Hedging instruments 473 6 -575 -96 Intangible assets 32 -2 63 93 Property and equipment 50 -1 49 Pensions 198 -41 307 464 Tax allocation reserve 926 -926 Other 35 -17 18 Total 8 363 -1 014 -205 7 144 Tax expenses recognised in the income statement SEK m 2014 2013 Current tax Tax expense for the year -4 426 -4 995 Adjustment of tax relating to prior years -51 66 Deferred tax Changes in temporary differences 408 1 014 Total -4 069 -3 915 Nominal tax rate in Sweden, % 22.0 22.0 Deviations Different tax rate in insurance operations -0.7 -0.5 Non-taxable income/non-deductible expenses -0.1 0.2 Changes Swedish tax rate 0.0 0.0 Tax relating to prior years 0.0 -0.1 Effective tax rate, % 21.2 21.6 1 Of which leases SEK 6,467m (6,612). 126 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G35 Provisions Provision Provision for for guarantee Other Total Total SEK m restructuring commitments provisions 2014 2013 Provisions at beginning of year 51 59 31 141 120 Provisions during the year 30 30 61 Utilised -39 -52 -91 -40 Written back -12 -12 Provisions at end of year 7 61 68 141 The provision for restructuring relates to additional costs as a result of the decision to terminate rental contracts for premises. All of the provision has been settled during 2014. Provision for guarantee commitments consists of provisions for a number of off-balance sheet items. The Group is the subject of claims in a number of civil actions which are being pursued in general courts of law. The Group’s assessment is that the actions will essentially be settled in favour of the Bank. The assessment is that the amounts in dispute would not have a material effect on the Bank’s ﬁnancial position or proﬁt/loss. The amounts allocated for future settlement of the claims towards the Bank are presented under other provisions. G36 Other liabilities SEK m 2014 2013 Liabilities on investment banking settlements 7 960 6 777 Other 6 618 6 412 Total 14 578 13 189 G37 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEK m 2014 2013 Accrued interest expenses 13 334 16 865 Other accrued expenses 4 210 4 434 Deferred income 1 137 562 Total 18 681 21 861 G38 Subordinated liabilities 1 Swedish subordinated loans are individually less than 10% of the total subordinated liSEK m 2014 2013 abilities. The total includes one perpetual subordinated loan at a ﬂoating rate. The loan is a Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 308 10 472 subordinated convertible loan of nominally SEK 3.2bn issued to the Group’s employees on market terms. The loan does not have the status of regulatory capital but can be converted Subordinated loans in foreign currency 19 981 5 493 into Handelsbanken shares. The Bank has the right to demand conversion at any time and Total 30 289 15 965 the holder has the right to demand conversion between 1 May and 30 November 2019, at the initial conversion price of SEK 379.19, corresponding to 117% of the average share price during the period 2–14 May 2014. The initial conversion price is adjusted for dividends Average volumes during the term of the loan. If the common equity tier 1 ratio for the Bank or calculated SEK m 2014 2013 according to the consolidated situation falls below 7%, there will be automatic conversion. Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 9 831 10 764 For information regarding other Swedish subordinated loans, see note G49. 2 Subordinated loans in foreign currency 18 852 7 824 For further information about subordinated loans in EUR, see note G49. 3 Total 28 683 18 588 Other foreign subordinated loans are issued in the form of perpetual subordinated loans. Speciﬁcation, subordinated loans Original nominal amount in Issue/conv./ﬁnal payment each Interest Outstanding year Currency currency rate % amount IN SWEDISH KRONOR Swedish subordinated liabilities1 13 337 10 308 Total 10 308 IN FOREIGN CURRENCY 2005/perpetual2 EUR 500 4.194 4 713 2014/ﬁxed-term2 EUR 1 500 2.656 14 174 Other foreign3 1 094 Total 19 981 Total subordinated liabilitites 30 289 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 127 NOTES | GROUP G39 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 2014 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedge held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 454 040 492 454 532 454 532 Other loans to central banks 51 047 51 047 51 047 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 42 095 34 377 749 998 78 219 78 223 Loans to other credit institutions 70 339 70 339 70 061 Loans to the public 2 181 1 805 655 1 807 836 1 823 256 Value change of interest hedged item in portfolio hedge 70 70 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 26 235 34 915 253 2 322 63 725 63 722 Shares 36 628 1 551 8 367 46 546 46 546 Investments in associates 286 286 286 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 94 674 89 94 763 94 763 Derivative instruments 63 450 52 674 116 124 116 124 Other assets 35 13 892 394 14 321 14 321 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 408 654 1 3 546 2 2 180 6 791 6 791 Total ﬁnancial assets 168 851 168 352 52 674 1 003 2 398 678 11 689 3 352 2 804 599 2 819 672 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 12 077 Total assets 2 816 676 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 200 074 200 074 202 411 Deposits and borrowing from the public 1 022 267 1 022 267 1 022 274 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 94 775 89 94 864 94 864 Issued securities 12 423 1 200 190 1 212 613 1 243 804 Derivative instruments 54 780 8 098 62 878 62 878 Short positions 20 648 20 648 20 648 Other liabilities 16 14 562 14 578 14 578 Accrued expenses and deferred income 315 18 366 18 681 18 681 Subordinated liabilities 30 289 30 289 34 411 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 88 182 94 775 8 098 2 485 837 2 676 892 2 714 549 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 12 957 Total liabilities 2 689 849 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. 128 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP 2013 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedge held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 334 185 609 334 794 334 794 Other loans to central banks 35 160 35 160 35 160 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 32 611 19 819 3 463 1 558 57 451 57 471 Loans to other credit institutions 62 898 62 898 62 413 Loans to the public 2 580 1 693 759 1 696 339 1 701 517 Value change of interest hedged item in portfolio hedge 96 96 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 26 959 35 331 933 902 64 125 64 123 Shares 41 542 1 328 5 725 48 595 48 595 Investments in associates 272 272 272 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 80 234 696 80 930 80 930 Derivative instruments 46 692 23 269 69 961 69 961 Other assets 68 12 846 348 13 262 13 262 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 480 791 117 3 848 1 904 7 140 7 140 Total ﬁnancial assets 148 352 140 083 23 269 4 513 2 143 488 8 185 3 133 2 471 023 2 475 638 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 13 698 Total assets 2 484 721 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 171 624 171 624 173 128 Deposits and borrowing from the public 825 205 825 205 824 904 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 80 281 696 80 977 80 977 Issued securities 17 420 1 133 221 1 150 641 1 167 147 Derivative instruments 48 790 12 739 61 529 61 529 Short positions 22 845 22 845 22 845 Other liabilities 19 13 170 13 189 13 189 Accrued expenses and deferred income 357 21 504 21 861 21 861 Subordinated liabilities 15 965 15 965 17 710 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 89 431 80 281 12 739 2 181 385 2 363 836 2 383 290 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 9 546 Total liabilities 2 373 382 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. Reclassiﬁed ﬁnancial assets 2014 2013 Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed from held for from available from held for from available SEK m trading for sale trading for sale Carrying amount 12 4 469 74 5 375 Fair value 13 4 535 74 5 464 Value change recognised in the income statement 209 170 Value change recognised in other comprehensive income 2 318 0 -3 Value change that would have been recognised in income statement if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 1 209 1 170 Value change that would have been recognised in other comprehensive income if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 54 -25 Interest recognised as income 0 82 69 137 All holdings presented above were reclassiﬁed to loans and receivables on 1 July 2008. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 129 NOTES | GROUP G40 Fair value measurement of financial instruments Financial instruments at fair value 2014 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 42 095 42 095 Denominated at fair value 32 721 1 656 34 377 Available for sale 998 998 Loans to the public 2 168 13 2 181 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 21 643 4 592 26 235 Denominated at fair value 33 586 1 329 34 915 Available for sale 2 091 231 2 322 Shares Held for trading 33 175 3 359 94 36 628 Denominated at fair value 1 037 514 1 551 Available for sale 6 753 817 797 8 367 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 93 976 698 94 674 Derivative instruments 630 115 494 116 124 Total 268 705 129 646 2 116 400 467 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 94 077 698 94 775 Issued securities 12 329 94 12 423 Derivative instruments 1 566 61 312 62 878 Short positions 20 560 88 20 648 Total 116 203 73 729 792 190 724 Financial instruments at fair value 2013 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 32 611 32 611 Denominated at fair value 19 819 19 819 Available for sale 1 558 1 558 Loans to the public 2 562 18 2 580 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 21 881 5 078 26 959 Denominated at fair value 30 149 5 182 35 331 Available for sale 582 320 902 Shares Held for trading 40 283 1 183 76 41 542 Denominated at fair value 733 595 1 328 Available for sale 4 368 640 717 5 725 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 79 744 490 80 234 Derivative instruments 1 333 68 628 69 961 Total 233 061 83 593 1 896 318 550 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 79 791 490 80 281 Issued securities 4 17 332 84 17 420 Derivative instruments 2 158 59 371 61 529 Short positions 21 951 894 22 845 Total 103 904 77 597 574 182 075 130 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Valuation hierarchy been moved between level 1 and level 2, as a on Handelsbanken’s home markets. In general, In the tables, ﬁnancial instruments at fair value result of a new assessment of market activity. such holdings are valued at the Bank’s share of have been categorised in terms of how the Interest-bearing securities worth SEK 134 the company’s net asset value, or alternatively valuations have been carried out and the extent million have been moved from level 1 to level 2, at the price of the last completed transaction. of market data used in the valuation. The catand interest-bearing securities worth SEK 733 In all material respects, unlisted shares are egorisation is shown as levels 1–3 in the tables. million have been moved from level 2 to level 1. classiﬁed as available for sale. Value changes Financial instruments which are valued at the Changes in level 3 holdings during the year are for these holdings are thus reported in other current market price are categorised as level 1. shown in a separate table. comprehensive income. These ﬁnancial instruments mainly comprise The holdings in level 3 mainly comprise unlistThe year’s realised value changes on ﬁnancial government instruments and other interested shares and holdings in private equity funds. instruments in level 3 is SEK 75 million, of which bearing securities that are traded actively, listed Holdings in private equity funds are valued using SEK 20 million is included for calculation of equities, and short positions in corresponding valuation models mainly based on a relative the yield split in the insurance operations. The assets. Level 1 also includes the majority of valuation of comparable listed companies in remaining amount has been recognised in net shares in mutual funds and other assets which the same sector. The performance measuregains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. are related to unit-linked insurance contracts ments used in the comparison are adjusted for and similar agreements and the corresponding factors which distort the comparison between Differences between the transaction price liabilities. Financial instruments which are valued the investment and the company used for comand the value produced using a valuation using valuation models which substantially are parison. Subsequently, the valuation is based model based on market data are categorised as level on earnings multiples, e.g. P/E ratios. Most of As stated in the accounting policies in note G1, 2. Level 2 mainly includes interestand currenthese holdings represent investment assets when performing model valuation of derivatives, cy-related derivatives. Financial instruments, the in the Group’s insurance operations. Value material positive differences between the valuvalue of which to a material extent is affected by changes on the investment assets are included ation at initial recognition and the transaction input data that cannot be veriﬁed using external in the basis for calculating the yield split in the price (so-called day 1 gains) are amortised over market information, are categorised as level 3. insurance operations and are therefore not the life of the derivative. As a consequence of The categorisation is based on the valuareported directly in the income statement. the application of this principle, SEK 88 million tion method used on the balance sheet date. The Group’s holdings of unlisted securities (81) has been recognised in net gains/losses If the category for a speciﬁc instrument has mainly consist of the Bank’s participating interon ﬁnancial transactions during the year. At the changed since the previous balance sheet date ests in various types of joint operations which end of the year, non-recognised day 1 gains (31 December 2013), the instrument has been are related to the Bank’s business. For example, amounted to SEK 465 million (396). moved between the levels in the table. During these may be participating interests in clearing the ﬁnancial year, some of the volumes have organisations and infrastructure collaboration Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2014 Assets where the Liabilities where the Derivatives Loans to customer bears the customer bears the Issued SEK m Shares net position the public value change risk value change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 1 388 18 490 -490 -84 Acquisitions 56 -10 Repurchases/sales -56 Matured -7 Unrealised value change in income statement -62 208 -208 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 79 1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 1 Transfer to level 1 or 2 Carrying amount at end of year 1 405 13 698 -698 -94 Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2013 Assets where the Liabilities where the Derivatives Loans to customer bears the customer bears the Issued SEK m Shares net position the public value change risk value change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 1 560 24 -77 Acquisitions 107 -1 Repurchases/sales -304 Matured -1 -2 Unrealised value change in income statement -12 0 -6 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 38 1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 3 490 -490 Transfer to level 1 or 2 -8 Carrying amount at end of year 1 388 18 490 -490 -84 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 131 NOTES | GROUP G40 Cont. Principles for information about the fair The valuation of ﬁxed-rate lending is based on the information about the fair value of ﬁnancial values of ﬁnancial instruments which are the current market rate with an adjustment for instruments reported at cost or amortised carried at cost or amortised cost an assumed credit and liquidity risk premium on cost is categorised in the valuation hierarchy Information about the fair values of ﬁnancial market terms. The premium is assumed to be described above. Means of payment and instruments which are carried at cost or amorthe same as the average margin for new lending deposits are considered to be equivalent to tised cost is given in note G39 and in the below at the time of the measurement. Interest-bearcash and have been categorised as level 1. table. These instruments essentially comprise ing securities have been valued at the current Level 1 also contains interest-bearing securities lending, deposits and funding. For means of market price where this has been available. (assets and liabilities) for which there is a current payment and short-term receivables and liabiliFunding and interest-bearing securities where market price. Lending where the assumption ties, the carrying amount is considered to be an market price information has not been found about credit and liquidity premium has materiacceptable estimate of the fair value. Receivahave been valued using a valuation model ally affected the information about fair value has bles and liabilities with the maturity date or the based on market data in the form of prices or been categorised as level 3. Other instruments date for next interest rate ﬁxing falling within 30 interest for similar instruments. are categorised as level 2. days are deﬁned as short-term. In the table below, the valuation used for Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments recognised at cost or amortised cost 2014 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 454 532 454 532 Other loans to central banks 27 905 23 142 51 047 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 753 753 Loans to other credit institutions 14 816 54 753 492 70 061 Loans to the public 6 817 50 992 1 763 266 1 821 075 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 250 250 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 89 89 Total 505 073 128 976 1 763 758 2 397 807 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 60 442 141 969 202 411 Deposits and borrowing from the public 708 364 313 910 1 022 274 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 89 89 Issued securities 674 330 557 051 1 231 381 Subordinated liabilities 34 411 34 411 Total 1 443 136 1 047 430 2 490 566 Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments recognised at cost or amortised cost 2013 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 334 794 334 794 Other loans to central banks 2 668 32 492 35 160 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 3 483 3 483 Loans to other credit institutions 15 228 46 248 937 62 413 Loans to the public 5 779 29 246 1 663 912 1 698 937 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 931 931 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 313 383 696 Total 362 883 108 299 1 665 232 2 136 414 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 33 487 139 641 173 128 Deposits and borrowing from the public 684 914 139 990 824 904 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 696 696 Issued securities 644 538 505 189 1 149 727 Subordinated liabilities 17 710 17 710 Total 1 362 939 803 226 2 166 165 132 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G41 Pledged assets, collateral received and transferred financial assets Assets pledged for own debt SEK m 2014 2013 Cash 31 427 9 803 Government instruments and bonds 28 552 30 695 Loans to the public 623 244 619 110 Shares 1 323 3 835 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk1 92 386 77 619 Other 12 720 13 203 Total 789 652 754 265 Of which pledged assets that may be freely withdrawn by the Bank 27 497 1 The comparison ﬁgures for 2013 have been adjusted as assets registered or behalf of insurance policyholders from 2014 are divided into the items Government instruments and bonds, Shares and Assets where the customer bears the value change risk. Other pledged assets SEK m 2014 2013 Cash 2 101 702 Government instruments and bonds 25 185 30 483 Loans to the public 3 702 Shares 4 751 6 482 Other 18 4 012 Total 35 757 41 679 Of which pledged assets that may be freely withdrawn by the Bank 26 788 Other pledged assets refers to collateral pledged for obligations not reported in the balance sheet. Assets pledged Collateral received the life of the agreement. The purchase price Assets pledged in the form of interest-bearing For reverse repurchase agreements and equity received is reported as a liability to the counsecurities mainly comprise securities pledged loans, securities are received that can be sold terparty. According to the standard terms of a as collateral to central banks and other credit or repledged to a third party. Such securities repurchase agreement, the right of ownership institutions, for payment systems, securities are not reported in the balance sheet. The of the sold securities is transferred in its entirety trading and clearing and also securities sold fair value of received securities under reverse from the seller to the buyer. This means that the under binding repurchase agreements (repos). repurchase agreements and agreements on buyer has the right to sell on, repledge or otherAssets pledged in the form of equities mainly equity loans was SEK 38,562 million (34,306) wise dispose of the purchased securities. comprise lent equities and equities in the at the end of the ﬁnancial year, where collateral According to the standard agreements for insurance operations. worth SEK 5,295 million (1,050) had been sold equity loans, the exposure to the value change Loans to the public pledged as security or repledged to a third party. Information about in the lent equity remains with the lender. Lent mainly comprise collateral registered for the received pledges for lending and other received equities thus remain in the balance sheet beneﬁt of holders of covered bonds issued by collateral is shown in note G2. throughout the life of the loan. Collateral for lent Stadshypotek. The collateral mainly comprises securities is normally in the form of cash or other loans granted against mortgages in singleTransferred ﬁnancial assets reported in securities. Cash collateral received is carried as family homes, second homes, multi-family the balance sheet a liability in the balance sheet. In the same way dwellings or housing co-operatives with a Transferred ﬁnancial assets are assets where as for repurchase agreements, the standard loan-to-value ratio within 75 per cent of the the rights to future cash ﬂows are directly or inagreement used for equity loans means that market value. In the event of the company’s directly transferred to an external counterparty. during the life of the loan, the borrower has the insolvency, pursuant to the Covered Bonds Act Most of the transferred ﬁnancial assets carried right to sell on, repledge or otherwise dispose of and the Right of Priority Act, the holders of the in the balance sheet comprise interest-bearing the borrowed securities. covered bonds have prior rights to the pledged securities which have been sold under binding Government instruments, bonds and equities assets. If, at the time of a bankruptcy decision, repurchase agreements and lent equities. Norprovided as collateral for securities trading, the assets in the total collateral fulﬁl the terms mally the terms for the binding repurchases and clearing etc. where the title to the instrument of the Act, these must be kept separate from equity loans are stipulated in framework agreehas been transferred to the counterparty are the bankruptcy estate’s other assets and liabiliments between the Bank and the respective reported as other transferred ﬁnancial assets. ties. The holders of the bonds will then receive counterparty. Transferred ﬁnancial assets also includes certain contractual payments under the terms of the Binding repurchase agreements imply selling assets where the customer bears the value bond until maturity. securities with an undertaking to repurchase change risk. This item comprises portfolios of Assets where the customer bears the value them at a ﬁxed price at a pre-determined time ﬁnancial instruments where the Bank has the change risk mainly comprise units in unit-linked in the future. The seller of the securities thus formal right of ownership but where the risks insurance contracts in Handelsbanken Liv continues to be exposed to the risk of value related to the assets and also the right to future where the policyholders have priority rights. changes during the life of the agreement. Secucash ﬂows have been transferred to a third rities sold under repurchase agreements remain party. The valuation of these assets reﬂects the at market value in the balance sheet throughout valuation of the corresponding liability item. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 133 NOTES | GROUP G42 Cont. Transferred ﬁnancial assets recognised in the balance sheet 2014 2013 Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying associated Carrying associated SEK m amount liability amount liability Shares, securities lending 1 646 2061 3 641 3 0861 Shares, other 3 337 5 927 Government instruments and bonds, repurchase agreements 196 201 6 685 6 689 Government instruments and bonds, other 57 1 184 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 008 1 008 2 203 2 203 Total 6 244 1 415 19 640 11 978 1 Received cash collateral. G42 Contingent liabilities SEK m 2014 2013 Guarantees, loans 10 335 8 371 Guarantees, other 60 033 58 568 Letters of credit 3 733 4 842 Other 1 636 2 348 Total 75 737 74 129 Contingent liabilities mainly consisted of various types of guarantees. The nominal amounts of the guarantees are shown in the table. G43 Other commitments SEK m 2014 2013 Loan commitments 271 001 246 518 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities1 102 778 99 660 Other 14 134 9 046 Total 387 913 355 224 1 As of 2014, unutilised overdraft facilities which the counterparty does not have at its disposal at the time of recognition are not included and therefore do not give rise to a capital requirement. The comparative ﬁgures have been restated. Contracted irrevocable, future operating lease charges distributed by the year they fall due for payment SEK m 2014 2013 2015 710 701 2016–2019 1 673 1 781 2020 and later 456 564 Total 2 839 3 046 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. 134 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP G44 Leases Disclosures on gross investment and present value of future minimum lease payments SEK m 2014 2013 Gross investment 39 537 43 308 The present value of future minimum lease payments at balance sheet date 37 802 40 375 Distribution of gross investment and minimum lease payments by maturity Between Over SEK m Within 1 yr 1 and 5 yrs 5 yrs Total 2014 Distribution of gross investment 4 543 15 886 19 107 39 537 Distribution of the present value of future minimum lease payments 4 516 15 591 17 695 37 802 2013 Distribution of gross investment 4 181 15 847 23 280 43 308 Distribution of the present value of future minimum lease payments 4 157 15 368 20 850 40 375 Unearned ﬁnance income SEK m 2014 2013 Unearned ﬁnance income 1 735 2 932 Companies within the Group are lessors in all ﬁnance leases. All leases have guaranteed residual values. The book value of the provision for impaired loans with respect to minimum lease payments is SEK 4m (22). The variable part of the lease fee included in this year’s proﬁt is SEK 197m (431). The decrease is partly due to the lower interest rates in 2014 compared with 2013 but also to lower volumes. At the end of the year in the Group there were six lease exposures each with an individual carrying amount exceeding SEK 1bn. The total carrying amount of these exposures was SEK 18.0bn (18.9) which is equivalent to 0.9% of the Group’s total credit volume as at 31 December 2014. The carrying amount of the largest individual exposure was SEK 7.8bn (8.3). The average remaining maturity for this exposure was 5.2 years (6.2). These exposures are in the transport and energy sectors. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 135 NOTES | GROUP G45 Segment reporting Segment reporting 2014 Home markets Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch operations Adjustments operations operations operations operations operations in the Capital and Continuing SEK m in Sweden in the UK in Denmark in Finland in Norway Netherlands Markets Other eliminations operations Net interest income 15 734 3 497 1 610 1 389 3 439 283 847 495 -50 27 244 Net fee and commission income 3 908 344 385 440 390 26 3 041 22 8 556 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 400 158 116 76 102 7 1 537 -619 1 777 Risk result, insurance 165 165 Share of proﬁt of associates 18 18 Other income 92 18 21 11 20 0 17 375 554 Total income 20 134 4 017 2 132 1 916 3 951 316 5 607 291 -50 38 314 Staff costs -3 421 -1 471 -584 -351 -711 -127 -2 542 -2 587 28 -11 766 Other administrative expenses -1 221 -333 -181 -158 -219 -28 -859 -2 100 -5 099 Internal purchased and sold services -2 770 -379 -273 -232 -390 -68 -126 4 188 50 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -85 -18 -19 -8 -11 -1 -79 -241 -462 Total expenses -7 497 -2 201 -1 057 -749 -1 331 -224 -3 606 -740 78 -17 327 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 637 1 816 1 075 1 167 2 620 92 2 001 -449 28 20 987 Net loan losses -657 -203 -529 -277 -141 -1 27 0 -1 781 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 4 1 0 0 0 0 1 6 Operating proﬁt 11 980 1 617 547 890 2 479 91 2 028 -448 28 19 212 Proﬁt allocation 930 35 62 85 66 8 -1 186 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 12 910 1 652 609 975 2 545 99 842 -448 28 19 212 Internal income 1 -492 -1 230 -468 -429 -3 430 -154 -1 858 8 061 C/I ratio, % 35.6 54.3 48.2 37.4 33.1 69.1 81.6 45.2 Loan loss ratio, % 0.06 0.15 0.73 0.25 0.07 0.01 -0.05 0.10 Assets 1 402 774 263 459 88 395 177 009 206 536 38 651 423 265 1 919 427 -1 702 840 2 816 676 Liabilities 1 335 671 254 029 82 387 170 464 193 355 37 754 415 817 1 919 427 -1 719 055 2 689 849 Allocated capital 67 103 9 430 6 008 6 545 13 181 897 7 448 0 16 215 126 827 Return on allocated capital, % 15.7 15.2 8.5 12.4 15.9 9.2 8.1 13.3 The year's investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 53 41 13 12 14 11 144 186 474 The year's investments in associated companies 2 2 Average number of employees 4 381 1 567 631 494 672 131 1 885 1 931 11 692 1 Internal income which is included in total income comprises income from transactions with other operating segments. Since interest income and interest expense are reported net as income, this means that internal income includes the net amount of the internal funding cost among segements. The business segments are recognised in head of regional bank, and is monitored as an the transaction was performed. Furthermore, compliance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, independent proﬁt centre. The Capital Markets income and expenses for services performed which means that the segment information is segment is Handelsbanken’s investment bank, internally are reported net on the separate presented in a similar manner to that which is including securities trading and investment line Internal purchased and sold services. applied internally as part of company govadvisory services. Its operations also include Transactions among the segments are reported ernance. Handelsbanken’s operations are asset management, insurance operations and primarily according to the cost price principle. presented in the following segments: Branch the Bank’s international operations outside its The Other and Adjustments and eliminations operations in Sweden, the UK, Denmark, home markets. columns show items which do not belong to Finland, Norway, the Netherlands and Capital Proﬁt/loss for the segments is reported bea speciﬁc segment or which are eliminated Markets. Handelsbanken’s branch operations, fore and after internal proﬁt allocation. Internal at Group level. Other includes Treasury and which provide universal banking services, were proﬁt allocation means that the unit which is central departments and also the cost of the divided into 14 regional banks in 2014. Six responsible for the customer is allocated all the allocation to Oktogonen which is SEK 795 milof these are Swedish, and eight are located proﬁts deriving from its customers’ transactions lion (1,096). The Adjustments and eliminations outside Sweden. Each regional bank is led by a with the Bank, regardless of the segment where column includes adjustments for staff costs. 136 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Segment reporting 2013 Home markets Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch operations Adjustments operations operations operations operations operations in the Capital and Continuing SEK m in Sweden in the UK in Denmark in Finland in Norway Netherlands Markets Other eliminations operations Net interest income 16 299 2 624 1 519 1 219 3 574 230 936 313 -45 26 669 Net fee and commission income 3 486 213 329 412 364 23 3 008 -31 7 804 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 445 120 97 40 83 1 1 073 -502 1 357 Risk result, insurance 142 142 Share of proﬁt of associates 9 9 Other income 27 13 18 5 12 16 255 346 Total income 20 257 2 970 1 963 1 676 4 033 254 5 175 44 -45 36 327 Staff costs -3 283 -1 059 -546 -331 -662 -96 -2 560 -2 858 -9 -11 404 Other administrative expenses -1 187 -243 -175 -145 -232 -21 -969 -2 209 -5 181 Internal purchased and sold services -3 002 -317 -252 -239 -368 -56 -147 4 336 45 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -87 -41 -17 -10 -10 -1 -61 -249 -476 Total expenses -7 559 -1 660 -990 -725 -1 272 -174 -3 737 -980 36 -17 061 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 698 1 310 973 951 2 761 80 1 438 -936 -9 19 266 Net loan losses -357 -168 -161 -268 -169 -7 -65 -1 195 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 9 1 0 0 0 7 17 Operating proﬁt 12 350 1 143 812 683 2 592 73 1 373 -929 -9 18 088 Proﬁt allocation 876 30 47 70 43 4 -1 070 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 13 226 1 173 859 753 2 635 77 303 -929 -9 18 088 Internal income 1 -925 -1 212 -395 -417 -3 606 -140 -1 672 8 367 C/I ratio, % 35.8 55.3 49.3 41.5 31.2 67.4 91.0 47.0 Loan loss ratio, % 0.03 0.14 0.24 0.27 0.08 0.05 0.08 0.07 Assets 1 309 092 194 503 78 830 153 436 202 567 33 039 377 283 1 528 713 -1 392 742 2 484 721 Liabilities 1 248 603 186 859 73 482 147 315 190 444 32 221 368 685 1 528 713 -1 402 940 2 373 382 Allocated capital 60 489 7 644 5 348 6 121 12 123 818 8 598 10 198 111 339 Return on allocated capital, % 17.9 13.2 12.7 9.9 17.0 7.7 2.6 13.8 The year's investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 71 22 37 10 14 8 247 233 642 The year's investments in associated companies 53 53 Average number of employees 4 410 1 260 624 490 650 102 1 985 1 982 11 503 1 Internal income which is included in total income comprises income from transactions with other operating segments. Since interest income and interest expense are reported net as income, this means that internal income includes the net amount of the internal funding cost among segements. Adjustments for staff costs contain the differand liabilities of deposits from the public and Income per product area SEK m 2014 2013 ence between the Group’s pension costs calalso internal borrowing. In the Capital Markets culated in accordance with IAS 19, Employee segment, assets mainly consist of securities Investment bank 4 524 4 272 Beneﬁts, and the standard pension costs, that are managed within the asset management Bank deposits and corporate loans 11 589 11 913 which total SEK -568 million (-564), and also and insurance operations. The assets in the Finance company services 2 001 1 887 compensation from Svenska Handelsbanken’s Other column are mainly internal lending to the Bank deposits and loans to private individuals 4 411 4 541 pension foundation of SEK 540 million (555). various segments while the liabilities are mainly Mortgages 10 236 9 369 Internal income mainly consists of internal external borrowings. The allocated capital for Pensions and insurance 1 152 1 031 interest and commissions. The segment income the segments is the same as the capital allocaCapital market 2 433 1 914 statements also include internal items in the tion according to the internal ﬁnancial control Trade ﬁnance 483 477 form of payment for internal services rendered. model. Return on equity is calculated based Other operations 1 485 923 Internal debiting is primarily according to the on average allocated equity and a tax rate of Total 38 314 36 327 cost price principle. In branch operations, 22 per cent. For the Group, return on equity is assets consist mainly of loans to the public calculated after reported tax. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 137 NOTES | GROUP G46 Geographical information Geographical information 2014 Other SEK m Sweden Denmark Finland Norway UK Netherlands countries Group Income 23 958 2 187 2 243 4 144 4 114 303 1 365 38 314 Operating proﬁt 13 415 369 985 2 466 1 431 73 473 19 212 Tax 2 818 49 209 628 228 19 118 4 069 Assets 1 670 935 89 388 148 176 190 541 216 268 29 986 471 382 2 816 676 Other information Investments in non-ﬁnancial assets 270 13 13 22 17 3 18 356 Income, expenses and assets presented in the Geographic information are composed internal and external income, expenses and assets in the respective country. The geographic distribution of income and expenses is based on the country where the business transaction has been carried out. Tax includes current and deferred taxes. Additional geograpical information is provided in note M16 concerning the domicile of subsidiaries and associates and and in note G8 concerning average number of employees. Geographical information 2013 Other SEK m Sweden Denmark Finland Norway UK Netherlands countries Group Income 23 989 1 839 1 973 3 993 3 027 243 1 263 36 327 Operating proﬁt 13 162 433 732 2 291 971 59 440 18 088 Tax 2 652 36 142 723 234 15 113 3 915 Assets 1 487 103 75 140 108 636 169 746 210 614 24 967 408 515 2 484 721 Other information Investments in non-ﬁnancial assets 229 41 13 21 22 8 23 357 G47 Assets and liabilities in currencies 2014 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 223 81 932 2 342 97 55 782 312 782 1 374 454 532 Other loans to central banks 6 926 15 758 28 021 342 0 51 047 Loans to other credit institutions 1 719 10 075 275 288 874 54 871 2 237 70 339 Loans to the public 1 164 777 178 002 184 912 72 787 167 719 26 642 12 997 1 807 836 of which corporate 500 444 129 197 101 176 28 326 114 555 26 490 11 750 911 938 of which households 664 333 48 805 83 736 44 461 53 164 152 1 247 895 898 Interest-bearing securites eligible as collateral with central banks 40 967 6 576 1 080 6 28 597 993 78 219 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 54 997 3 976 3 890 828 34 63 725 Other items not broken down by currency 290 978 290 978 Total assets 1 560 587 280 561 208 257 101 199 225 545 422 926 17 601 2 816 676 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 32 440 71 353 10 855 13 728 3 804 56 412 11 482 200 074 Deposits and borrowing from the public 444 033 120 068 61 616 30 218 106 728 249 885 9 719 1 022 267 of which corporate 191 628 105 379 44 311 17 550 87 548 247 678 9 423 703 517 of which households 252 405 14 689 17 305 12 668 19 180 2 207 296 318 750 Issued securities 459 264 236 831 22 625 342 89 923 371 593 32 035 1 212 613 Subordinated liabilities 10 308 18 887 117 977 30 289 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 351 433 351 433 Total liabilities and equity 1 297 478 447 139 95 096 44 288 200 455 678 007 54 213 2 816 676 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency, net 166 635 -113 117 -56 885 -24 996 254 804 36 690 Net foreign currency position 57 44 26 94 -277 78 22 138 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP 2013 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 342 48 191 4 263 85 46 585 235 126 202 334 794 Other loans to central banks 2 540 130 11 105 21 156 229 0 35 160 Loans to other credit institutions 4 120 11 124 132 151 583 43 811 2 977 62 898 Loans to the public 1 121 986 164 903 182 613 62 231 129 807 24 378 10 421 1 696 339 of which corporate 494 774 123 076 101 809 24 965 90 892 24 313 9 199 869 028 of which households 627 212 41 827 80 804 37 266 38 915 65 1 222 827 311 Interest-bearing securites eligible as collateral with central banks 26 826 6 727 1 137 6 21 202 1 553 57 451 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 54 921 5 651 2 667 75 734 77 64 125 Other items not broken down by currency 233 954 233 954 Total assets 1 444 689 236 726 201 917 83 704 177 204 325 251 15 230 2 484 721 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 29 695 24 208 5 252 13 315 12 156 75 355 11 643 171 624 Deposits and borrowing from the public 429 266 83 433 52 273 32 072 69 091 153 580 5 490 825 205 of which corporate 192 500 70 681 36 810 20 758 59 905 151 938 5 293 537 885 of which households 236 766 12 752 15 463 11 314 9 186 1 642 197 287 320 Issued securities 477 393 227 389 18 769 226 89 640 317 453 19 771 1 150 641 Subordinated liabilities 10 472 4 427 143 923 15 965 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 321 286 321 286 Total liabilities and equity 1 268 112 339 457 76 294 45 613 170 887 546 531 37 827 2 484 721 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency, net 102 703 -125 629 -38 049 -6 362 221 290 22 683 Net foreign currency position -28 -6 42 -45 10 86 59 G48 Related-party disclosures Claims on and liabilities to related parties Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 Loans to credit institutions Loans to the public 1 186 729 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Other assets 85 85 565 587 Total 1 271 814 565 587 Due to credit institutions Deposits and borrowing from the public 178 186 281 334 Issued securities Subordinated liabilities 701 698 Other liabilities 56 56 Total 178 186 1 038 1 088 Related parties – income and expense Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 Interest income 25 8 0 0 Interest expense -2 -2 -74 -75 Fee and commission income 5 2 Fee and commission expense -238 -99 -37 -29 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 0 0 Other income 0 13 12 Other expenses -1 -2 -55 -45 Total -211 -93 -153 -137 A list of associated companies and information about shareholder contributions to associated companies is presented in note G19. The associated companies’ operations comprise various types of services related to the ﬁnancial markets. The following companies comprise the group of related parties: Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse, Svenska Handelsbankens Personalstiftelse and Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening (pension fund). These companies use Svenska Handelsbanken AB for customary banking and accounting services. On 25 March 2014, Svenska Handelsbanken AB, Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstifelse and Pensionskassan SHB Försäkringsförening made mutual reallocations of their respective shareholdings; the Bank divested several shareholdings and, at the same time, purchased shares in Industrivärden and SCA. Following theses transactions, Svenska Handelsbanken AB controls 10.46% of the votes in Industrivärden (7.5% of the capital) and 10.15% of the votes in SCA (2.1% of the capital). These transactions generated a capital gain of SEK 306m for the Bank. All business transactions with associated companies are made on market terms. The parent company’s Swedish subsidiary has paid pension premiums for deﬁned beneﬁt pensions to the pension fund amounting to SEK 56m (46). The pension fund’s commitments to the employees of subsidiaries are guaranteed by the parent company, so if the pension fund cannot pay its commitments, the parent company is liable to take over and pay the commitment. The pension fund’s obligations are SEK 6,140m (3,557). Svenska Handelsbanken AB has asked for compensation from Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse amounting to SEK 540m (555). During the year a sub-portfolio has been moved from Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse to Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening. This is described in detail in note P38. Information regarding loans to executive ofﬁcers, and conditions and other remuneration to executive ofﬁcers, is given in note G8. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 139 NOTES | GROUP of share capital, retained earnings and other but only with the permission of the supervisory G49 Capital adequacy reserves in the companies that are included in the authority. It must be possible to write down the CAPITAL POLICY consolidation. Remaining tier 1 capital consists nominal value or convert it to shares to create The Bank aims to maintain a robust capital level of additional tier 1 instruments.The tier 2 capital common equity tier 1 capital at a pre-deﬁned level which meets the risk entailed in the Group’s mainly consists of subordinated loans. Certain for the common equity tier 1 capital and it must operations and which exceeds the minimum deductions are subsequently made from own be possible to unconditionally suspend interest requirements prescribed by legislation. A healthy funds. The deductions are made mainly from the payments. capital level is needed to manage situations of common equity tier 1 capital. For the Bank’s risk However, all the Bank’s outstanding additional ﬁnancial strain and also for other events such as management, it is important that in risk terms, tier 1 capital has been issued with permission in acquisitions and major growth in volumes. both the Group and the regulatory consolidation accordance with the previous regulations and is can be viewed as one unit. To enable efﬁcient risk therefore included in the transitional rules in CRR. CAPITAL REQUIREMENT REGULATIONS management in the Group, capital may need to Of the total of the Bank’s issued additional tier 1 According to the new capital adequacy regulabe re-allocated among the various companies in capital – SEK 8 billion – SEK 2.4 billion is enhanced tions, regulation no 575/2013 EU (CRR), which the Group. In general, Handelsbanken is able to capital contributions. Ordinary capital contribucame into force in the EU on 1 January 2014 and re-allocate capital among the Group companies, tions issued by the Bank up to and including 2007 directive 2013/36/EU (CRD IV), which was impleto the extent that is permitted by legislation, for give the Bank the right to write down the instrumented in Sweden on 2 August 2014, the Bank example capital adequacy requirements and ment to avoid being forced to enter into liquidation. must have common equity tier 1 capital, tier 1 caprestrictions in corporate law. The Bank sees no For enhanced capital contributions issued since ital and total own funds which at least correspond other material or legal obstacles to a rapid transfer 2008, the Bank has the right to write down the to the individual requirements relative to the total of funds from own funds, or repayment of liabilities instruments at an earlier stage to avoid breaching risk-weighted exposure amount for credit risks, between the parent company and its subsidiaries. regulatory requirements. In the case of liquidation, market risks and operational risks. In addition to both types of instruments will be classiﬁed as holding capital in accordance with the minimum Tier 1 capital liabilities, including the part that was previously requirement, the Bank must also hold common Tier 1 capital consists of common equity tier 1 converted into equity, and which will then have the equity tier 1 capital to comply with the combined capital and additional tier 1 capital. same residual claim to the assets of the company. buffer requirement which in Sweden comprises This claim is subordinate to the claims of all the sum of a capital conservation buffer, a counterCommon equity tier 1 capital other creditors. Only shareholders have a more cyclical buffer and a systemic risk buffer. The Bank Common equity tier 1 capital consists chieﬂy subordinated claim to the assets of the company. must also perform an internal capital assessment. of share capital, retained earnings and other For enhanced capital contributions, the Bank has Handelsbanken’s capital policy – most recently reserves in the companies that are included in the an unconditional right to suspend coupon payadopted in 2014 – states the guidelines for the regulatory consolidation. Since the Group’s insurments, in other words, payment of interest can be internal capital adequacy assessment. The Bank ance companies are not part of the consolidation, suspended at any time. If there are no distributable must also comply with a capital requirement at the retained earnings in these companies are not funds, coupon payments must be suspended for ﬁnancial conglomerate level in accordance with included in the common equity tier 1 capital. The both types of instrument. the Financial Conglomerates (Special Supervision) items to be excluded from the common equity tier Act (2006:531). See below for more informa1 capital are mainly goodwill and other intangible Tier 2 capital tion about capital adequacy for the ﬁnancial assets, and also capital contributions to the insurThe tier 2 capital consists of subordinated loans conglomerate. In 2014, the Bank met the statutory ance companies in the Group or certain deferred with a maturity of at least ﬁve years. Deductions minimum and buffer levels by a comfortable martax assets which exceed 10 per cent of the are made for subordinated loan contributions to gin. More detailed information about the Bank’s common equity tier 1 capital. The total of capital the insurance companies within the Group. own funds and capital requirement is available in contributions and deferred tax assets must not note G2, Risk and capital management, and in exceed 15 per cent of the common equity tier 1 CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS the document entitled Handelsbanken’s Risk and capital. Since neither the capital contributions to Credit risk Capital Management – Information according to the insurance companies in the Group nor the The capital requirement for credit risk is calculated Pillar 3 (see handelsbanken.se/ireng). deferred tax assets exceed the threshold value, according to the standardised approach and the these do not reduce the common equity tier 1 IRB Approach according to CRR. Two different DESCRIPTION OF capital. Neutrality adjustments are made for the methods are used in the IRB Approach: the IRB CONSOLIDATED SITUATION effect of cash ﬂow hedges on equity. A price Approach without own estimates of LGD and The regulatory consolidation (consolidated situaadjustment must also be calculated and when conversion factors (CF), corresponding to the tion) consists of the parent company, subsidiaries necessary, be made for prudent valuation of foundation approach in the previous regulations, and associated companies that are included in the instruments at fair value. Institutions with permisand the IRB Approach with own estimates of consolidated group accounts, as shown in the tasion to use internal ratings-based models must LGD and CCF, corresponding to the advanced ble on page 141. The companies that are included make a deduction for the difference between approach in the previous regulations. in the consolidated accounts but are excluded expected loan losses according to the IRB In the IRB Approach without own estimates from the consolidated situation are shown in the Approach and the provisions made for probable of LGD and CCF, the Bank uses its own method table on page 141. Just as in the consolidated loan losses if the expected loan losses exceed the to determine the probability of the customer accounts, associated companies are consolidated provisions made. A deduction must also be made defaulting within one year (PD), while the other using the equity method in the regulatory consolifor the net value of recognised surplus values in parameters are prescribed by the regulations. In dated situation. Wholly owned subsidiaries are also pension assets. However, the deduction may the IRB Approach with own estimates of LGD and consolidated according to the acquisition method. be reduced by an amount corresponding to the CCF, the Bank uses its own methods to calculate All subsidiaries which are subject to the regulations Bank’s right to reimbursement for pension costs the loss in the case of default (LGD) and the are included in the consolidated situation. Handelsfrom Handelsbanken’s pension foundation. exposure amount. banken has no subsidiaries where the actual own In 2014, unrealised gains derived from assets Handelsbanken uses the IRB approach without funds are less than the prescribed own funds. classiﬁed as available for sale must also be own estimates of LGD and CCF for exposures to deducted. institutions and for certain product and collateral DESCRIPTION OF OWN FUNDS types for corporate exposures in the whole of the FOR CONSOLIDATED SITUATION Additional tier 1 capital regional banking operations and in the following Own funds consist of tier 1 capital and tier 2 Additional tier 1 capital consists of instruments subsidiaries: Stadshypotek AB, Handelsbanken capital. The tier 1 capital is divided into common which fulﬁl the requirements for additional tier 1 Finans AB, Handelsbanken Finans (Shanghai) equity tier 1 capital and additional tier 1 capital. capital. This capital must be perpetual and must Financial Leasing Co Ltd and Rahoitus Oy. Common equity tier 1 capital consists mainly be redeemable after ﬁve years at the earliest, The IRB Approach with own estimates of LGD 140 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP and CCF is applied to the majority of exposures Ownership Corporate identity to Large corporates, medium-sized companies, Companies included in consolidated situation share % number Domicile property companies and housing co-operative Handelsbanken AB (publ)1 502007-7862 Stockholm associations in regional bank operations (excluding the Netherlands), Handelsbanken Capital Markets, SUBSIDIARIES Stadshypotek AB and Handelsbanken Finans AB, Handelsbanken Finans AB1 100 556053-0841 Stockholm and retail exposures in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Kredit-Inkasso AB 100 556069-3185 Stockholm Denmark, as well as in the subsidiaries Stadshypotek Handelsbanken Rahoitus Oy 100 0112308-8 Helsinki AB, Handelsbanken Finans AB and Rahoitus Oy. Kreditt-Inkasso AS 100 955074203 Fredrikstad As at the year-end, the IRB Approach covered 83 Handelsbanken Finans (Shanghai) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd 100 310101717882194 Shanghai per cent of the total risk-weighted exposure amount 1 Stadshypotek AB 100 556459-6715 Stockholm in terms of credit risk calculated according to CRR. Svenska Intecknings Garanti AB Sigab (inaktiv) 100 556432-7285 Stockholm For the remaining credit risk exposures, the capital requirement is calculated using the standardised Handelsbanken Fondbolagsförvaltning AB 100 556070-0683 Stockholm approach. Figures reported in this section refer to the Handelsbanken Fonder AB 100 556418-8851 Stockholm minimum capital requirements under Pillar 1 of the Handelsinvest Investeringsforvaltning A/S 100 12930879 Copenhagen Basel III capital adequacy regulations, CRR and CRD Handelsbanken Fondbolag Ab 100 1105019-3 Helsinki IV. In the adjoining tables, According to CRR means Handelsbanken Kapitalförvaltning AS 100 973194860 Oslo that the ﬁgures are based on the minimum capital reXact Kapitalförvaltning AB 100 556997-8140 Stockholm quirements after the transitional rules have ceased to apply. The transitional rules apply until further notice. AB Handel och Industri 100 556013-5336 Stockholm Repos and securities loans are reported separately Heartwood Wealth Management Limited 100 04132340 London in the table of capital requirement according to the Heartwood Nominees Limited (inactive) 100 2299877 London IRB Approach, since they give rise to very low capital Heartwood Second Nominees Limited (inactive) 100 3193458 London requirements, while the volumes vary considerably Private Ofﬁce limited (inactive) 100 4332528 London over time. The low capital requirement is due to the exposure being reported gross and being secured. Other The total average risk weight for the IRB-approved Ejendomsselskabet af 1. maj 2009 A/S 100 59173812 Hillerød exposures went down by 1.9 percentage points durForva AS 100 945812141 Oslo ing the year. The decrease is mainly due to a decrease Lejontrappan AB (inaktiv) 100 556481-1551 Gothenburg in the average risk weight for corporate exposures. Handelsbanken Markets Securities, Inc1 100 11-3257438 New York This in turn is mainly due to higher credit volume durHandelsbanken Mezzanine Management AB (inaktiv) 100 556679-2668 Stockholm ing the year to counterparties with relatively lower risk Handelsbanken Mezzanine Fond 1 KB (inaktiv) 100 969710-3126 Stockholm weights combined with a decrease in the volume to Lokalbolig A/S 67.5 78488018 Hillerød counterparties with relatively higher risk weights. Rådstuplass 4 AS 100 910508423 Bergen For further information about changes during the SIL (Nominees) Limited (inaktiv) 100 1932320 London year, see the Bank’s interim reports for 2014 and Svenska Property Nominees Limited (inactive) 100 2308524 London the Bank’s disclosures according to the special inforLila stugan i Stockholm AB (inactive) 100 556993-9084 Stockholm mation about capital adequacy stated in Risk and Bruna stugan i Stockholm (inactive) 100 556993-2311 Stockholm Capital Management – Information according to Pillar 3. Blå stugan i Stockholm (inactive) 100 556993-9357 Stockholm Svenska Handelsbanken Representações (Brasil) Ltda 99.9 15.367.073/0001-93 São Paulo Operational risk Subsidaries of Handelsbanken Liv Försäkrings AB Handelsbanken uses the standardised approach Handelsbanken Fastigheter AB 100 556873-0021 Stockholm according to which calculation of the capital requirement is based on the Bank’s income in various busiASSOCIATES ness segments. Bankomatcentralen AB 21.89 556197-2265 Stockholm BDB Bankernas Depå AB 20 556695-3567 Stockholm MARKET RISKS BGC Holding AB 25.38 556607-0933 Stockholm The capital requirement for market risks is calculated Bankgirocentralen BGC AB 100 556047-3521 Stockholm for the consolidated situation. The capital requireDevise Business Transactions Sweden AB 100 556564-5404 Stockholm ment for interest rate risks and equity price risks is, Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 28.3 556630-4928 Stockholm however, only calculated for positions in the trading Upplysningscentralen UC AB 24.48 556137-5113 Stockholm book. When calculating the capital requirement for UC Ekonomipublikationer AB 100 556613-0042 Stockholm market risks, the standardised approach is applied. UC Ljungquist Information AB 100 556576-7133 Stockholm UC allabolag AB 51 556730-7367 Stockholm CAPITAL ADEQUACY FOR THE FINANCIAL Bankomat AB 20 556817-9716 Stockholm CONGLOMERATE Getswish AB 20 556913-7382 Stockholm 1 Institutions and insurance companies which are part Credit institution. of the ﬁnancial conglomerate must have own funds Ownership Corporate identity which are adequate in relation to the capital requireCompanies not included in consolidated situation share % number Domicile ment for the ﬁnancial conglomerate. Own funds for the ﬁnancial conglomerate have been calculated Handelsbanken Liv Försäkring AB (group excl. Handelsbanken Fastigheter AB) 100 516401-8284 Stockholm by means of a combination of the aggregation and Svenska Re S.A. 100 RCS Lux B-32053 Luxembourg settlement method and the consolidation method. Handelsbanken Skadeförsäkrings AB 100 516401-6767 Stockholm This means that the own funds for the consolidated Flisekompaniet Holding AS 47 992999136 Oslo situation have been combined with the capital base Dyson Group plc 44.5 163096 Shefﬁeld for the Handelsbanken Liv AB insurance group. Plastal Industri AB 100 556532-8845 Gothenburg Correspondingly, in order to calculate the requireEFN Ekonomikanalen AB 100 556930-1608 Stockholm ment for the conglomerate, the solvency requirement SHB Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag 100 2478149-7 Helsinki for the insurance group has been added to the capital Svenska RKA International Insurance Services AB (inaktiv) 100 556324-2964 Stockholm requirement for the consolidated situation. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 141 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont. Balance sheet 2014 2013 Consolidated Banking Consolidated Banking SEK m situation group situation group ASSETS Cash and balances with central banks 454 532 454 532 338 788 334 794 Other loans to central banks 51 047 51 047 35 160 35 160 Treasury bills and other eligible securities 74 367 78 219 53 790 57 451 Loans to other credit institutions 71 445 70 339 63 972 62 898 Loans to the public 1 808 036 1 807 836 1 696 489 1 696 339 Value change of interest-hedged item in portfolio hedge 70 70 96 96 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 59 652 63 725 58 943 64 125 of which interest-bearing instruments classiﬁed as available for sale (carrying amount) 2 322 2 322 902 902 of which interest-bearing instruments classiﬁed as available for sale accumulated, value change -124 -228 -293 -293 Shares and participating interests 44 995 46 546 47 268 48 595 of which shares classiﬁed as available for sale (carrying amount) 8 367 8 367 5 725 5 725 of which shares classiﬁed as available for sale, accumulated value change 1 614 1 614 1 369 1 369 Investments in associates 6 655 286 6 479 272 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 3 024 94 763 4 112 80 930 Derivative instruments 116 135 116 124 69 959 69 961 of which cash ﬂow hedges 5 331 5 331 0 0 Reinsurance assets 0 6 0 4 Intangible assets 8 055 8 132 8 229 7 835 Property and equipment 2 239 2 239 2 646 2 205 Current tax assets 115 115 360 405 Deferred tax assets 389 389 277 269 of which related to cash ﬂow hedges 0 0 420 420 of which related to interest-bearing instruments classiﬁed as available for sale 43 43 54 54 Pension assets 0 0 1 747 1 733 Assets held for sale 0 1 196 0 1 247 Other assets 14 135 14 321 17 151 13 262 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 6 688 6 791 7 182 7 140 Total assets 2 721 579 2 816 676 2 412 648 2 484 721 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities to credit institutions 208 018 200 074 186 609 171 624 Deposits and borrowing from the public 1 012 258 1 022 267 814 319 825 205 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 3 125 94 864 4 160 80 977 Issued securities 1 212 613 1 212 613 1 150 641 1 150 641 Derivative instruments 62 878 62 878 61 532 61 529 of which cash ﬂow hedges 0 0 1 518 1 518 Short-term positions 20 648 20 648 22 845 22 845 Insurance liabilities 0 663 0 622 Current tax liabilities 906 957 827 831 Deferred tax liabilities 9 164 9 209 7 378 7 413 of which related to cash ﬂow hedges 1 504 1 504 0 0 of which related to interest-bearing instruments classiﬁed as available for sale 155 155 152 152 Provisions 0 0 235 141 Pension obligations 1 460 1 480 0 0 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 0 580 0 539 Other liabilities 14 366 14 578 13 225 13 189 Accrued expenses and deferred income 18 536 18 681 21 926 21 861 Subordinated liabilities 30 289 30 289 15 965 15 965 of which tier 1 capital loans 8 043 8 043 10 602 10 602 of which loans with remaining time to maturity > 5 yrs 17 163 17 163 2 990 2 990 of which loans with remaining time to maturity < 5 yrs 2 323 2 323 2 230 2 230 of which other loans 2 643 2 643 0 0 Total liabilities 2 594 469 2 689 849 2 299 662 2 373 382 Minority interest 3 3 602 2 Share capital 2 956 2 956 2 956 2 956 Holdings of own shares 0 0 0 0 Share premium reserve 3 203 3 203 2 843 2 843 of which equity from combined ﬁnancial instruments 1 045 1 045 0 0 Other reserves 12 271 12 220 1 906 1 837 Retained earnings 94 227 93 262 91 064 89 406 Proﬁt for the year (shareholders’) 14 450 15 183 13 615 14 295 Total equity 127 110 126 827 112 986 111 339 Total liabilities and equity 2 721 579 2 816 676 2 412 648 2 484 721 142 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Transitional own funds Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or 2013 prescribed residual amount according SEK m 2014 of regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to CRR Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital: instruments and reserves Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 5 741 5 799 of which share capital 5 593 5 579 of which convertible securities 148 148 220 Retained earnings 94 227 91 064 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves) 12 271 1 906 Funds for general banking risk Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (3) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from CET1 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until January 2018 Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1) Independently reviewed interim proﬁts net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 3 326 3 130 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital before regulatory adjustment 115 565 101 899 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital: regulatory adjustment Additional value adjustments (negative amount) -1 -67 Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative amount) -8 123 -7 835 Empty set in the EU Deferred tax assets that rely on future proﬁtability excluding those arising from temporary differences (net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) (negative amount) Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash ﬂow hedges -5 331 1 518 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts -2 103 -1 986 Any increase in equity that results from securitised assets (negative amount) Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing Deﬁned-beneﬁt pension fund assets (negative amount) Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own CET1 instruments (negative amount) -466 0 Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institution designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Empty set in EU Exposure amounts of the following items which qualify for a RW of 1,250%, where the institution opts for deduction alternative -491 of which qualifying holdings outside the ﬁnancial sector (negative amount) of which securitisation positions (negative amount) of which free deliveries (negative amount) Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold, net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) (negative amount) Amount exceeding the 15% threshold (negative amount) of which direct and indirect holdings by the institution of CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has signiﬁcant investments in those entities Empty set in the EU of which deferred tax assets arising from temporary difference Losses for the current ﬁnancial year (negative amount) Foreseeable tax charges relating to CET1 items (negative amount) Regulatory adjustments applied to common equity tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment Regulatory adjustments relating to unrealised gains and losses pursuant to Article 467 and 468 -1 457 of which ﬁlter for unrealised loss -1 457 Amount to be deducted from or added to common equity tier 1 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Qualifying AT1 deductions that exceed the AT1 of the institution (negative amount) Total regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 (CET1) -17 480 -8 861 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital 98 084 93 038 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 143 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont. Transitional own funds Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or 2013 prescribed residual amount according SEK m 2014 of regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to CRR Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital: instrument Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 10 602 of which classiﬁed as equity under applicable accounting standards of which classiﬁed as liabilities under applicable accounting standards 10 602 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (4) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from AT1 8 043 8 043 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until 1 January 2018 Qualifying tier 1 capital included in consolidated AT1 capital (including minority interest not included in row 5) issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties of which instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital before regulatory adjustments 8 043 10 602 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital: regulatory adjustments Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own AT1 instruments (negative amount) Holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institution designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Regulatory adjustments applied to additional tier 1 capital in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 585/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amount) Residual amounts deducted from additional tier 1 capital with regard to deduction from common equity tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to article 472 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. material net interim losses, intangibles, shortfall of provisions to expected losses etc. Residual amounts deducted from additional tier 1 capital with regard to deduction from tier 2 capital during the transitional period pursuant to article 475 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. reciprocal cross holdings in tier 2 instrument, direct holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc. Amounts to be deducted from or added to additional tier 1 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Qualifying tier 2 (T2) deductions that exceed the T2 capital of the institution (negative amount) Total regulatory adjustments to additional tier 1 (AT1) capital 0 0 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital 8 043 10 602 Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 106 127 103 640 Tier 2 (T2) capital: instruments and provisions Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 17 860 697 3 882 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (5) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from T2 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until 1 January 2018 Qualifying own funds instruments included in consolidated T2 capital (including minority interest and AT1 instruments not included in rows 5 or 34) issued by subsidiaries and held by third party of which instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out Credit risk adjustments Tier 2 (T2) capital before regulatory adjustment 17 860 3 882 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. 144 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Transitional own funds Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or 2013 prescribed residual amount according SEK m 2014 of regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to CRR Tier 2 (T2) capital: regulatory adjustments Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own T2 instruments and subordinated loans (negative amount) Holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institutions designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) of which new holdings not subject to transitional arrangements of which holdings existing before 1 January 2013 and subject to transitional arrangements Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) -1 129 -1 129 Regulatory adjustments applied to tier 2 in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amounts) Residual amounts deducted from tier 2 capital with regard to deduction from common equity tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to article 472 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. material net interim losses, intangibles, shortfall of provisions to expected losses etc. Residual amounts deducted from tier 2 capital with regard to deduction from additional tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to article 475 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. reciprocal cross holdings in Tier 2 instrument, direct holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc. Amounts to be deducted from or added to tier 2 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Total regulatory adjustments to tier 2 (T2) capital -1 129 -1 129 Tier 2 (T2) capital 16 731 2 753 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 122 858 106 392 Risk weighted assets in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amount) 480 388 492 785 of which additional capital to insurance companies in the Group not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital (residual values according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 15 633 of which deferred tax claims not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital (residual values according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 332 Items not deducted from T2 items (Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 residual amounts) (items to be detailed line by line, e.g. indirect holdings of own T2 instruments, indirect holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities, indirect holdings of signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc.) Total risk-weighted assets 480 388 492 785 Capital ratios and buffers Common equity tier 1 (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 20.4 18.9 Tier 1 (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 22.1 21.0 Total capital (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 25.6 21.6 Institution speciﬁc buffer requirement (CET1 requirement in accordance with Article 92 (1) (a) plus capital conservation and countercyclical buffer requirements plus a systemic risk buffer, plus systemically important institution buffer expressed as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 2.5 0.0 of which capital conservation buffer requirement 2.5 0.0 of which countercyclical buffer requirement 0.0 0.0 of which systemic risk buffer requirement 0.0 0.0 of which Global Systemically Important Institution (G-SII) or Other Systemically Important Institution (O-SII) buffer 0.0 0.0 Common equity tier 1 available to meet buffers (as a percentage of risk exposure amount) 15.9 18.9 [non-relevant in EU regulation] [non-relevant in EU regulation] [non-relevant in EU regulation] Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 145 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont. Transitional own funds Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or 2013 prescribed residual amount according SEK m 2014 of regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to CRR Capital ratios and buffers Direct and indirect holdings of the capital of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) Direct and indirect holdings of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) 72 [Empty set in the EU] Deferred tax assets arising from temporary difference (amount below 10% threshold, net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) -133 Applicable caps on the inclusion of provisions tier 2 Credit risk adjustments included in T2 in respect of exposures subject to standardised approach (prior to the application of the cap) Cap on inclusion of credit risk adjustments in T2 under standardised approach Credit risk adjustments included in T2 in respect of exposures subject to internal rating-based approach (prior to the application of the cap) Cap for inclusion of credit risk adjustments in T2 under internal ratings-based approach Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 Jan 2013 and 1 Jan 2022) Current cap on CET1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 232 Amount excluded from CET1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 9 780 Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 Current cap on T2 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 5 926 Amount excluded from T2 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. 146 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Capital instruments main features, CET1 SHB A SHB B Issuer Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Unique identiﬁer (e.g. CUSIP, ISIN or Bloomberg identiﬁer for private placement) SE0000193120 SE0000152084 Governing law(s) of the instrument Swedish law Swedish law Regulatory treatment Transitional CRR rules Common equity tier 1 capital Common equity tier 1 capital Post-transitional rules Common equity tier 1 capital Common equity tier 1 capital Eligible at solo/(sub-)consolidated/solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Instrument type (types to be speciﬁed by each jurisdiction) Share capital, class A Share capital, class B Amount recognised in regulatory capital (currency in million, at most recent reporting date) SEK 4,562m SEK 86m Nominal amount of instrument SEK 2,901m SEK 55m Issue price SEK 4,562m SEK 86m Redemption price N/A N/A Accounting classiﬁcation Equity Equity Original date of issuance 1871 1990 Perpetual or dated Perpetual Perpetual Original maturity date N/A N/A Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval N/A N/A Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount N/A N/A Subsequent call dates, if applicable N/A N/A Coupons/dividends Fixed or ﬂoating dividend/coupons N/A N/A Coupon rate and any related index N/A N/A Existence of dividend stopper N/A N/A Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of timing) N/A N/A Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of amount) N/A N/A Existence of step-up or other incentive to redeem No No Non-cumulative or cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Convertible or non-convertible Non-convertible Non-convertible If convertible, conversion trigger(s) N/A N/A If convertible, fully or partially N/A N/A If convertible, conversion rate N/A N/A If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion N/A N/A If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into N/A N/A If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into N/A N/A Write-down features No No If write-down, write-down trigger(s) N/A N/A If write-down, full or partial N/A N/A If write-down, permanent or temporary N/A N/A If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism N/A N/A Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation Lowest, next senior is Lowest, next senior is (specify instrument type immediately senior to instrument) additional tier 1 capital additional tier 1 capital Non-compliant transitioned features No No If yes, specify non-compliant features N/A N/A Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 147 NOTES | GROUP Capital instruments main features, T1 Issuer Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Unique identiﬁer (e.g. CUSIP, ISIN or Bloomberg identiﬁer for private placement) XS0238196942 W8975#AA3 SE0002450601 XS0406264092 Mainly English law, Mainly English law, Mainly English law, Governing law(s) of the instrument Swedish insolvency law Swedish insolvency law Swedish law Swedish insolvency law Regulatory treatment Transitional CRR rules Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Post-transitional rules Non-eligible Non-eligible Non-eligible Tier 2 capital Eligible at solo/(sub-)consolidated/solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Instrument type (types to be speciﬁed by each jurisdiction) Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Amount recognised in regulatory capital (currency in million, at most recent reporting date) SEK 4,712m SEK 977m SEK 6m SEK 2,347m Nominal amount of instrument EUR 500m JPY 15,000m SEK 6m SEK 2,350m Issue price 100% 100% 100% 100% Redemption price 100% 100% 100% 100% Accounting classiﬁcation Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Original date of issuance 16 Dec 2005 20 Dec 2005 12 Jun 2008 19 Dec 2008 Perpetual or dated Perpetual Perpetual Perpetual Perpetual Original maturity date No maturity date No maturity date No maturity date No maturity date Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval Yes Yes Yes Yes Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount 16 Dec 2015 20 Dec 2015 21 May 2013 19 Mar 2019 Callable each subsequent 2020-12-25, 2035-12-20 Callable at any time Callable each subsequent interest payment date after and then on each interest with 40-day interest payment date after Subsequent call dates, if applicable ﬁrst redemption date payment date qualiﬁcation period ﬁrst redemption date Coupons/dividends Fixed or ﬂoating dividend/coupons Fixed Fixed to ﬂoating Floating Fixed Coupon rate and any related index 4.19% 4.10% 1.56% 11% Existence of dividend stopper Yes Yes Yes Yes Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of timing) Partially discretionary Partially discretionary Partially discretionary Partially discretionary Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of amount) Partially discretionary Partially discretionary Partially discretionary Partially discretionary Existence of step-up or other incentive to redeem Yes Yes Yes Yes Non-cumulative or cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Convertible or non-convertible Non-convertible Non-convertible Convertible Non-convertible If convertible, conversion trigger(s) N/A N/A Fully discretionary N/A If convertible, fully or partially N/A N/A Fully or partially N/A If convertible, conversion rate N/A N/A SEK 187.56 per share N/A If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion N/A N/A Optional N/A If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into N/A N/A Share capital, class A N/A If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into N/A N/A Svenska Handelsbanken AB N/A Write-down features Yes Yes Yes Yes Breach of Breach of Expected breach of Expected breach of If write-down, write-down trigger(s) capital requirement capital requirement capital requirement capital requirement If write-down, full or partial Fully or partially Fully or partially Fully or partially Fully or partially If write-down, permanent or temporary Temporary Temporary Temporary Temporary If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism Fully discretionary Fully discretionary Fully discretionary Fully discretionary Subordinate to all instruments Subordinate to all instruments Subordinate to all instruments Subordinate to all instruments Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation except shares, next in priority except shares, next in priority except shares, next in priority except shares, next in priority (specify instrument type immediately senior to instrument) are subordinated loans are subordinated loans are subordinated loans are subordinated loans Non-compliant transitioned features Yes Yes Yes Yes Step-up and Step-up and Step-up and Step-up and If yes, specify non-compliant features dividend stopper dividend stopper dividend stopper dividend stopper Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. 148 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Capital instruments main features, T2 Issuer Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Unique identiﬁer (e.g. CUSIP, ISIN or Bloomberg identiﬁer for private placement) XS1014674227 XS0842167719 XS0842167552 SE0003961713 Mainly English law, Mainly English law, Mainly English law, Governing law(s) of the instrument Swedish insolvency law Swedish insolvency law Swedish insolvency law Swedish law Regulatory treatment Transitional CRR rules Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Post-transitional rules Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Eligible at solo/(sub-)consolidated/solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Instrument type (types to be speciﬁed by each jurisdiction) Subordinated loan Subordinated loan Subordinated loan Convertible debenture loan Amount recognised in regulatory capital (currency in million, at most recent reporting date) SEK 14,174m SEK 1,740m SEK 1,250m SEK 697m Nominal amount of instrument EUR 1,500m SEK 1,750m SEK 1,250m SEK 2,513m Issue price 100% 100% 100% 100% Redemption price 100% 100% 100% 100% Accounting classiﬁcation Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Original date of issuance 15 Jan 2014 12 Oct 2012 12 Oct 2012 1 Jun 2011 Perpetual or dated Dated Dated Dated Perpetual Original maturity date 15 Jan 2024 12 Oct 2022 12 Oct 2022 N/A Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval Yes Yes Yes No Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount 15 Jan 2019 12 Oct 2017 12 Oct 2017 1 Jul 2016 Callable each subsequent Callable each subsequent Callable each subsequent Callable at any time interest payment date after interest payment date after interest payment date after with 40-day Subsequent call dates, if applicable ﬁrst redemption date ﬁrst redemption date ﬁrst redemption date qualiﬁcation period Coupons/dividends Fixed or ﬂoating dividend/coupons Fixed Fixed Floating Floating Coupon rate and any related index 2.66% 4.47% 3.36% 1.49% Existence of dividend stopper No No No No Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of timing) Mandatory Mandatory Mandatory Partially discretionary Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of amount) Mandatory Mandatory Mandatory Partially discretionary Existence of step-up or other incentive to redeem No No No No Non-cumulative or cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Convertible or non-convertible Non-convertible Non-convertible Non-convertible Convertible Expected breach of capital If convertible, conversion trigger(s) N/A N/A N/A requirement If convertible, fully or partially N/A N/A N/A Partially If convertible, conversion rate N/A N/A N/A SEK 224.52 per share If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion N/A N/A N/A Optional If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into N/A N/A N/A SHB A If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into N/A N/A N/A Svenska Handelsbanken AB Write-down features No No No Yes Expected breach of capital If write-down, write-down trigger(s) N/A N/A N/A requirement If write-down, full or partial N/A N/A N/A Partially If write-down, permanent or temporary N/A N/A N/A Temporary If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism N/A N/A N/A Fully discretionary Subordinate to all instruments Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation Subordinate to Subordinate to Subordinate to except shares, next in priority (specify instrument type immediately senior to instrument) all senior lending all senior lending all senior lending are subordinated loans Non-compliant transitioned features No No No No If yes, specify non-compliant features N/A N/A N/A N/A Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 149 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont. Capital requirement SEK m 2014 2013 Credit risk according to standardised approach 5 575 4 225 Credit risk according to IRB approach 26 944 28 015 Market risk 939 770 Credit valuation adjustment risk (CVA) 534 Operational risk 4 439 4 246 Total capital requirement 38 431 37 256 Adjustment according to Basel 1 ﬂoor 51 975 44 039 Capital requirement, Basel 1 ﬂoor 90 406 81 295 Total capital base1, Basel 1 ﬂoor 124 961 100 406 1 For 2013, total own funds for the Basel I ﬂoor correspond to the regulatory requirement. Thus it covers both the ﬂoor and the normal capital requirement. Capital requirement market risks SEK m 2014 2013 Position risk in the trading book 927 756 Interest rate risk 908 745 of which general risk 566 493 of which speciﬁc risk 338 252 of which positions in securitisation instruments 0 1 of which non-delta risk1 4 Equity price risk 19 11 of which general risk 3 3 of which speciﬁc risk 7 6 of which mutual funds 1 2 of which non-delta risk1 8 Exchange rate risk of which non-delta risk1 Commodities risk 8 14 of which non-delta risk1 0 Settlement risk 4 0 Total capital requirement for market risks 939 770 1 Non-delta risks were included in the capital requirement when CRR came into force on 1 January 2014. Capital adequacy analysis 2014 2013 Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRR, % 20.4 18.9 Tier 1 ratio, CRR, % 22.1 21.0 Total capital ratio, CRR, % 25.6 21.6 Risk exposure amount, CRR, SEK m 480 388 492 785 Capital base in relation to capital requirement according to Basel 1 ﬂoor, % 138.0 124.0 Institution-speciﬁc buffer requirement, % 2.5 of which capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 Common equity tier 1 capital available for use as a buffer, %1 15.9 1 Available common equity tier 1 capital after a deduction for the part required for the Bank to fulﬁl all minimum requirements. The historical comparison ﬁgures regarding the key ratios according to CRR/CRD IV for 2013 are estimates based on the Bank’s interpretation of the regulations at the reporting date and assuming full implementation. See note G2 for information on risk-weighted amounts for counterparty risks. Capital adequacy ﬁnancial conglomerate SEK m 2014 2013 Capital base after reduction and adjustments 129 412 107 365 Capital requirement 91 322 82 180 Surplus 38 090 25 185 150 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | GROUP Credit risk IRB Exposure amount Average risk weight % Capital requirement SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Corporate exposures 958 861 915 218 24.1 28.4 18 459 20 824 of which repos and securities loans 14 060 8 376 0.4 0.5 5 3 of which other lending, foundation approach 142 047 140 425 32.8 35.8 3 728 4 023 of which other lending, advanced approach 802 754 766 417 22.9 27.4 14 726 16 798 of which Large corporates 149 446 153 810 48.6 52.5 5 806 6 458 of which Small and medium-sized companies 74 041 72 305 45.5 57.4 2 698 3 323 of which Property companies 428 314 401 705 16.8 20 5 773 6 435 of which Housing co-operative associations 150 952 138 597 3.7 5.2 449 582 Retail exposures 867 447 818 080 8 8.3 5 521 5 405 Private individuals 839 719 789 722 7.3 7.3 4 910 4 604 of which property loans 756 225 705 004 5.6 5.2 3 364 2 934 of which other 83 494 84 718 23.2 24.6 1 546 1 670 Small companies 27 728 28 358 27.5 35.3 611 801 of which property loans 7 535 7 207 20.3 25.2 122 145 of which other 20 193 21 151 30.2 38.7 489 656 Institutional exposures 134 409 100 503 12.4 11.9 1 334 954 of which repos and securities loans 51 433 48 863 1.3 0.8 53 31 of which other lending 82 976 51 640 19.3 22.3 1 281 923 Equity exposures 6 102 5 693 296.8 143.6 1 449 654 of which listed equities 5 584 4 369 290 133 1 296 465 of which other equities 518 1 324 370 180.7 153 189 Exposures wihout a counterparty 2 239 2 204 100 100 179 176 Securitisation positions 269 878 8.8 3.1 2 2 of which traditional securitisation 269 878 8.8 3.1 2 2 of which synthetic securitisation Total IRB 1 969 327 1 842 576 17.1 19 26 944 28 015 of which repos and securities loans 65 493 57 239 1.1 0.7 57 34 of which other lending, foundation approach 233 633 200 840 35.5 36 6 639 5 778 of which other lending, advanced approach 1 670 201 1 584 497 15.2 17.5 20 247 22 203 Capital requirements, Standardised approach1 2014 2013 Exposure Average risk Capital Exposure Average risk Capital SEK m value weight % requirement value weight % requirement Sovereign and central banks 558 624 0.0 4 406 996 0.0 12 Municipalities 64 086 0.0 2 57 231 0.0 2 Multilateral development banks 762 0.0 0 1 647 0.0 0 Institutions 2 277 25.2 46 2 238 25.4 45 Corporate 12 771 81.3 831 23 032 100.0 1 842 Retail 19 212 74.7 1 147 11 117 75.0 667 Property mortgages 57 765 36.3 1 680 36 378 37.8 1 102 Past due items 144 129.9 15 168 136.2 18 Equities 7 110 230.6 1 311 of which listed equities 641 100.0 51 of which other equities 6 469 243.5 1 260 Other items 7 409 90.9 539 14 748 45.5 537 Total 730 160 9.5 5 575 553 555 9.5 4 225 1 Details of capital requirements for exposure classes where there are exposures. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 151 Parent company ADMINISTRATION REPORT | PARENT COMPANY Administration report Parent company Performance in the parent company Recommended appropriation of proﬁts The parent company’s accounts cover parts The Board proposes a total dividend of SEK of the operations that, in organisational terms, 17.50 per share (16.50), comprising an ordinary are included in branch operations within and dividend of SEK 12.50 per share (11.50) and outside Sweden, Capital Markets, and central an extra dividend of SEK 5.00 per share. The departments and administrative functions. Board’s recommendation for distribution of Although most of Handelsbanken’s business proﬁts is shown on page 191. comes from the local branches and is coordinated by them, in legal terms a sizeable The Handelsbanken share part of business volumes are outside the Shares divided into share classes parent company in wholly-owned subsidiaries 31 December 2014 – particularly in the Stadshypotek AB mortgage % of % of institution. Thus, the performance of the parent Share class Number capital votes company is not equivalent to the performance Class A 623 925 276 98.15 99.81 of business operations in the Group as a whole. Class B 11 750 443 1.85 0.19 The performance of business operations is Total 635 675 719 100.00 100.00 therefore better illustrated by the administration report for the Group. To obtain a comprehensive Two shareholders own more than ten per cent of and more representative picture of Handelsthe shares: Industrivärden and the Oktogonen banken’s position, results and performance, see Foundation. Detailed information on the Bank’s the Group’s administration report. largest Swedish shareholders can be found on The parent company’s operating proﬁt page 45. increased during the ﬁnancial year by 6 per cent Handelsbanken’s articles of association state to SEK 17,413 million (16,380). The year’s proﬁt that at shareholders’ meetings, no shareholder decreased by 15 per cent to SEK 13,701 million is allowed to exercise voting rights representing (16,028). Net interest income increased by 1 per more than ten per cent of the total number of cent to SEK 16,082 million (15,962) and net fee votes in the Bank. For more information regardand commission income by 8 per cent to SEK ing shareholders’ rights, see page 52. 6,112 million (5,649). The parent company’s At the AGM in March 2014, the Board equity increased to SEK 102,585 million received a mandate to repurchase a maximum (90,758). For the parent company’s ﬁve-year of 40 million shares during the period until the overview, see page 159. AGM in March 2015. This mandate was not used in 2014. More detailed information on this Risk management can be found on page 45. Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance that is maintained through a strong risk culture which Other is sustainable in the long term and applies to all Handelsbanken works continually with measareas of the Group. For a more detailed descripures to minimise the Bank’s direct and indirect tion of the Bank’s exposure to risks, and the impact on the environment. For more informamanagement of these, see note G2. tion regarding the Bank’s environmental activities, see page 47. Principles for compensation to senior manHandelsbanken strives for its decentralised agement work method and belief in the individual to Handelsbanken’s principles for compensation permeate its operations. For a more detailed to senior management are set out in note G8 description of the Bank’s working method and and in the principles for compensation to staff development, see page 46. senior management section of the Corporate Governance Report (see page 60). H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 153 ADMINISTRATION REPORT | PARENT COMPANY Financial report Parent company CONTENTS Income statement 155 P19 Intangible assets 173 Statement of comprehensive income 155 P20 Property and equipment 174 Balance sheet 156 P21 Other assets 174 Statement of changes in equity 157 P22 Prepaid expenses and Cash ﬂow statement 158 accrued income 174 Five-year overview 159 P23 Due to credit institutions 175 Notes Parent company 161 P24 Deposits and borrowing from the public 175 P1 Accounting policies 161 P25 Issued securities 176 P2 Risk and capital management 162 P26 Short positions 176 P3 Net interest income 164 P27 Taxes 177 P4 Dividends received 165 P28 Provisions 177 P5 Net fee and commission P29 Other liabilities 178 income 165 P30 Accrued expenses and P6 Net gains/losses on financial deferred income 178 transactions 165 P31 Subordinated liabilities 178 P7 Other operating income 165 P32 Untaxed reserves 178 P8 Staff costs 166 P33 Classification of financial P9 Other administrative assets and liabilities 179 expenses 166 P34 Fair value measurement P10 Loan losses 167 of financial instruments 180 P11 Appropriations 169 P35 Pledged assets, collateral received and transferred P12 Loans to credit institutions 169 financial assets 182 P13 Loans to the public 170 P36 Contingent liabilities 182 P14 Interest-bearing securities 170 P37 Other commitments 183 P15 Shares 170 P38 Pension obligations 183 P16 Shares in subsidiaries and P39 Assets and liabilities investments in associates 171 in currencies 184 P17 Derivative instruments 172 P40 Related-party disclosures 185 P18 Offsetting of financial P41 Capital adequacy 186 instruments 173 154 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 INCOME STATEMENT AND STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME | PARENT COMPANY Income statement Parent company SEK m 2014 2013 Interest income Note P3 27 959 29 295 Interest expense Note P3 -11 877 -13 333 Net interest income 16 082 15 962 Dividends received Note P4 9 664 8 995 Fee and commission income Note P5 8 030 7 423 Fee and commission expense Note P5 -1 918 -1 774 Net fee and commission income 6 112 5 649 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions Note P6 1 117 589 Other operating income Note P7 2 188 1 953 Total operating income 35 163 33 148 General administrative expenses Staff costs Note P8 -10 441 -9 977 Other administrative expenses Note P9 -5 006 -5 075 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets Note P19, P20 -478 -498 Total expenses before loan losses -15 925 -15 550 Proﬁt before loan losses 19 238 17 598 Net loan losses Note P10 -1 825 -1 189 Impairment loss on ﬁnancial assets -29 Operating proﬁt 17 413 16 380 Appropriations Note P11 111 4 267 Proﬁt before taxes 17 524 20 647 Taxes Note P27 -3 823 -4 619 Proﬁt for the year 13 701 16 028 Statement of comprehensive income, Parent company SEK m 2014 2013 Proﬁt for the year 13 701 16 028 Other comprehensive income Cash ﬂow hedges 3 249 -3 009 Available-for-sale instruments 295 534 Translation difference for the year 5 634 879 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations 2 675 901 Tax related to other comprehensive income -1 311 397 of which cash ﬂow hedges -709 656 of which available-for-sale instruments -14 -61 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations -588 -198 Total other comprehensive income 7 867 -1 199 Total comprehensive income for the year 21 568 14 829 The period’s reclassiﬁcations to the income statement are presented in Statement of changes in equity. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 155 BALANCE SHEET | PARENT COMPANY Balance sheet Parent company SEK m 2014 2013 ASSETS Cash and balances with central banks 454 532 334 794 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Note P14 74 362 53 785 Loans to credit institutions Note P12 568 589 475 440 Loans to the public Note P13 737 483 685 372 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Note P14 59 652 58 943 Shares Note P15 44 949 47 221 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates Note P16 45 764 46 153 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 3 024 2 188 Derivative instruments Note P17 120 051 78 295 Intangible assets Note P19 1 805 1 750 Property and equipment Note P20 1 032 978 Current tax assets Deferred tax assets Note P27 361 202 Other assets Note P21 19 195 16 468 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Note P22 4 996 5 272 Total assets Note P33 2 135 795 1 806 861 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Due to credit institutions Note P23 210 099 226 631 Deposits and borrowing from the public Note P24 1 020 962 814 227 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 3 125 2 236 Issued securities, etc. Note P25 633 128 532 607 Derivative instruments Note P17 87 718 77 143 Short positions Note P26 20 648 22 845 Current tax liabilities 829 816 Deferred tax liabilities Note P27 1 669 114 Provisions Note P28 87 128 Other liabilities Note P29 14 148 12 703 Accrued expenses and deferred income Note P30 9 809 9 915 Subordinated liabilities Note P31 30 289 15 965 Total liabilities Note P33 2 032 511 1 715 330 Untaxed reserves Note P32 699 773 Share capital 2 956 2 956 Share premium 3 203 2 843 Other funds 9 778 1 911 Retained earnings 72 947 67 020 Proﬁt for the year 13 701 16 028 Total equity 102 585 90 758 Total liabilities and equity 2 135 795 1 806 861 MEMORANDUM ITEMS Assets pledged for own debt Note P35 42 225 25 216 Other assets pledged Note P35 35 758 41 679 Contingent liabilities Note P36 80 471 121 509 Other commitments Note P37 487 070 495 502 156 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY | PARENT COMPANY Statement of changes in equity Parent company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Statutory Share Hedge Fair value Translation Retained SEK m Share capital reserve premium reserve1 reserve1 reserve1 earnings Total Opening equity 2014 2 956 2 682 2 843 -1 343 1 023 -451 83 048 90 758 Proﬁt for the year 13 701 13 701 Other comprehensive income 2 540 281 5 046 7 867 Total comprehensive income for the year 2 540 281 5 046 13 701 21 568 Dividend -10 488 -10 488 Effects of convertible subordinated loans2 0 360 49 409 Effect of merger 338 338 Closing equity 2014 2 956 2 682 3 203 1 197 1 304 4 595 86 648 102 585 Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Statutory Share Hedge Fair value Translation Retained SEK m Share capital reserve premium reserve1 reserve1 reserve1 earnings Total Opening equity 2013 2 943 2 682 2 337 1 010 550 -1 132 73 842 82 232 Proﬁt for the year 16 028 16 028 Other comprehensive income -2 353 473 681 -1 199 Total comprehensive income for the year -2 353 473 681 16 028 14 829 Dividend -6 822 -6 822 Effects of convertible subordinated loans 13 506 519 Closing equity 2013 2 956 2 682 2 843 -1 343 1 023 -451 83 048 90 758 1 Included in fair value fund. 2 The inherent value of the option to convert in issued convertible debt instruments is recognised in the share premium reserve. The net effect of the 2014 convertible instrument of debt amounted to SEK 466m. During the third quarter, the share premium reserve was adjusted by SEK 243m for deferred tax on the convertible instrument of debt. This amount is recognised in the income statement over the remaining maturity. During the period January to December 2014, convertibles for a nominal value of SEK 6m (533) relating to the 2008 subordinated convertible bond had been converted into 29,924 class A shares (2,838,683). At the end of the ﬁnancial year the number of Handelsbanken shares in the trading book was 0 (0). Speciﬁcation of changes in equity Change in hedge reserve SEK m 2014 2013 Hedge reserve at beginning of year -1 343 1 010 Unrealised value changes during the year 2 620 -2 432 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement1 -80 79 Hedge reserve at end of year 1 197 -1 343 Change in fair value reserve SEK m 2014 2013 Fair value reserve at beginning of year 1 023 550 Unrealised market value change during the year for remaining and new holdings 240 507 Realised market valuation reclassiﬁed in the income statement2 41 -34 Fair value reserve at end of year 1 304 1 023 Change in translation reserve SEK m 2014 2013 Translation reserve at beginning of year -451 -1 132 Change in translation difference pertaining to branches 5 043 681 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement3 3 0 Translation reserve at end of year 4 595 -451 1 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 22m (-22). 2 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 10m (16). 3 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item (-). H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 157 CASH FLOW STATEMENT | PARENT COMPANY Cash flow statement Parent company SEK m 2014 2013 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating proﬁt 17 413 16 380 of which paid-in interest 28 468 26 690 of which paid-out interest -12 130 -13 280 of which paid-in dividends 9 664 1 039 Adjustment for non-cash items in proﬁt/loss Loan losses 1 957 1 271 Unrealised changes in value -188 -162 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 478 527 Group contribution to be received -8 727 -7 951 Paid income tax -3 905 -4 145 Changes in the assets and liabilities of operating activities Loans to credit institutions -88 573 -52 543 Loans to the public -51 840 45 214 Interest-bearing securities and shares -20 317 -24 281 Due to credit institutions -15 651 -16 701 Deposits and borrowing from the public 199 449 145 544 Issued securities 100 521 1 323 Derivative instruments, net positions -30 489 -5 245 Short-term positions -2 197 6 644 Claims and liabilities on investment banking settlements -441 -819 Other -53 136 -4 813 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 44 354 100 243 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisition of subsidiary -446 Change in shares -1 666 -8 Change in interest-bearing securities 3 395 594 Change in property and equipment -200 -248 Change in intangible non-current assets -248 -322 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 1 281 -430 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repayment of subordinated loans -2 905 -4 048 Issued subordinated loans 16 612 Dividend paid -10 488 -6 822 Dividends received from group companies 7 950 7 477 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 11 169 -3 393 Cash ﬂow for the year 56 804 96 420 Liquid funds at beginning of year 334 794 236 447 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 44 354 100 243 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 1 281 -430 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 11 169 -3 393 Exchange rate difference on liquid funds 62 934 1 927 Liquid funds at end of year 454 532 334 794 158 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW | PARENT COMPANY Five-year overview Parent company Income statement SEK m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Net interest income 16 082 15 962 16 431 15 684 14 549 Dividends received 9 664 8 995 9 152 5 733 2 749 Net fee and commission income 6 112 5 649 5 724 6 026 6 455 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 1 117 589 3 994 458 790 Other operating income 2 188 1 953 758 640 624 Total operating income 35 163 33 148 36 059 28 541 25 167 General administrative expenses Staff costs -10 441 -9 977 -9 808 -9 247 -8 838 Other administrative expenses -5 006 -5 075 -5 157 -4 723 -4 775 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -478 -498 -518 -538 -533 Total expenses before loan losses -15 925 -15 550 -15 483 -14 508 -14 146 Proﬁt before loan losses 19 238 17 598 20 576 14 033 11 021 Net loan losses -1 825 -1 189 -1 154 -1 081 -1 466 Impairment loss on ﬁnancial assets -29 -820 -375 -470 Operating proﬁt 17 413 16 380 18 602 12 577 9 085 Appropriations 111 4 267 -4 065 106 108 Proﬁt before tax 17 524 20 647 14 537 12 683 9 193 Taxes -3 823 -4 619 -2 985 -3 470 -2 548 Proﬁt for the year 13 701 16 028 11 552 9 213 6 645 Dividend for the year 11 1241 10 488 6 804 6 085 5 611 1 As proposed by the Board. Statement of comprehensive income SEK m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Proﬁt for the year 13 701 16 028 11 552 9 213 6 645 Other comprehensive income Cash ﬂow hedges 3 249 -3 009 2 522 -264 -186 Available-for-sale instruments 295 534 983 -1 319 2 188 Translation difference for the year 5 634 879 -10 36 -1 462 of which hedges of net asssets in foreign operations 2 675 901 481 Tax related to other comprehensive income -1 311 397 -962 435 -549 of which cash ﬂow hedges -709 656 -608 70 49 of which available-for-sale instruments -14 -61 -248 365 -598 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations -588 -198 -106 Total other comprehensive income 7 867 -1 199 2 533 -1 112 -9 Total comprehensive income for the year 21 568 14 829 14 085 8 101 6 636 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 159 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW | PARENT COMPANY Five-year overview Parent company, cont. Balance sheet SEK m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Assets Loans to the public 737 483 685 372 731 967 686 827 691 221 Loans to credit institutions 568 589 475 440 422 897 532 713 505 049 Interest-bearing securities 134 014 112 728 108 198 94 237 103 836 Other assets 695 709 533 321 461 704 499 484 314 057 Total assets 2 135 795 1 806 861 1 724 766 1 813 261 1 614 163 Liabilities and equity Deposits and borrowing from the public 1 020 962 814 227 668 683 705 565 577 180 Due to credit institutions 210 099 226 631 243 332 261 806 260 117 Issued securities 633 128 532 607 531 284 543 876 483 305 Subordinated liabilities 30 289 15 965 21 167 35 325 43 959 Other liabilities 138 033 125 900 173 030 193 034 178 922 Untaxed reserves 699 773 5 038 998 1 110 Equity 102 585 90 758 82 232 72 657 69 570 Total liabilities and equity 2 135 795 1 806 861 1 724 766 1 813 261 1 614 163 Memorandum items Assets pledged for own debt 42 225 25 216 59 195 72 007 79 591 Other assets pledged 35 758 41 679 2 564 5 236 4 398 Contingent liabilities 80 471 121 509 131 586 149 061 131 479 Other commitments 487 070 495 502 475 287 513 217 415 771 Key ﬁgures 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Impaired loans reserve ratio, % 46.6 58.0 56.0 61.0 61.5 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.36 0.24 0.28 0.24 0.33 Common equity tier 1 ratio, % according to CRD IV 18.5 Tier 1 ratio, % according to Basel II 20.5 19.0 16.9 12.9 Tier 1 ratio, % according to CRD IV 20.2 Capital ratio, % according to Basel II 21.4 20.6 20.9 19.3 Total capital ratio, % according to CRD IV 23.9 Return on capital employed, % 0.70 0.91 0.64 0.54 0.41 160 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Notes Parent company P1 Accounting policies • broker and stock exchange costs are reported in the parent company as commission relations that the acquisitions have led to are very long, and consequently the useful life of expenses goodwill on acquisitions. The amortisation • dividends received are reported on a sepaperiod has been set at 20 years. Statement of compliance rate line in the parent company’s income The parent company’s annual report is prestatement Dividends pared in accordance with the Swedish Annual • the gain/loss arising when divesting property, The item Dividends received comprises all diviAccounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securiequipment and intangible non-current assets dends received in the parent company including ties Companies (1995:1559) and the regulations in the parent company is reported as other dividends from subsidiaries and associated and general guidelines issued by the Swedish income/expense companies, and group contributions received. Financial Supervisory Authority, FFFS 2008:25, • memorandum items are reported in direct Anticipated dividend is recognised only if the Annual reports in credit institutions and securiconjunction with the parent company’s parent company has the right to decide the ties companies. The parent company also balance sheet amount of the dividend and the decision has applies the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s • untaxed reserves that are split into equity been taken before the ﬁnancial reports were recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for legal share and tax liability in the Group are republished. entities and statements. In accordance with the ported as a separate balance sheet item Financial Supervisory Authority’s general advice, in the parent company. Accounting for pensions the parent company applies statutory IFRS. The parent company does not apply the This means that the international accounting Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies provisions of IAS 19 concerning accounting for standards and interpretations of these standLoans in the parent company which are hedging deﬁned beneﬁt plans. Instead, pension costs ards as adopted by the EU have been applied to net investments in foreign operations are measare calculated on an actuarial basis in the parent the extent that is possible within the framework ured at the historical rate of exchange. company in accordance with the provisions of of national laws and directives and the link the Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations between accounting and taxation. Held-for-sale assets and discontinued and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authoroperations ity’s regulations. This mainly means that there The relationship between the parent Net proﬁt after tax from discontinued operaare differences regarding how the discount rate company’s and the Group’s accounting tions is not recognised separately in the parent is established and that the calculation of the policies. company’s income statement. Nor are held-forfuture commitment does not take into account The parent company’s accounting policies sale assets presented separately in the balance assumptions of future salary increases. The correspond largely to those of the Group. The sheet. recognised net cost of pensions is calculated following reports only on the areas where the as disbursed pensions, pension premiums and parent company’s policies differ from those of Shares in subsidiaries and associated an allocation to the pension foundation, with a the Group. In all other respects, reference is companies deduction for any compensation from the penmade to the accounting policies in note G1. Shares in subsidiaries and associated compasion foundation. The net pension cost for the nies are measured at cost. Dividends on shares year is reported under Staff costs in the parent Changed accounting policies in subsidiaries and associated companies are company’s income statement. The parent company’s accounting policies are in recognised as income in proﬁt or loss under Excess amounts as a result of the value of the all material respects the same as those applied Dividends received. plan assets exceeding the estimated pension in the 2013 ﬁnancial year. obligations are not recognised as an asset in the Financial guarantees parent company’s balance sheet. Deﬁcits are Presentation Financial guarantees in the form of guarantees recognised as a liability. The parent company applies the presentation in favour of subsidiaries and associated comThe pension fund’s commitments to the models for the income statement and balance panies are recognised in the parent company employees of subsidiaries are guaranteed by sheet in compliance with the Annual Accounts as a provision in the balance sheet where the the parent company so if the pension fund Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Comparent company has an existing commitment cannot pay its commitments, the Bank is liable panies and the Swedish Financial Supervisory and payment will probably be required to settle to take over and pay the commitment. Authority’s regulations. This mainly implies the this commitment. following differences relative to the presentation Taxes by the Group: Intangible assets In the parent company, untaxed reserves are • claims on central banks that are immediately In the parent company, acquisition assets and recognised as a separate item in the balance available upon demand that are reported in other intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful sheet. Untaxed reserves comprise one compothe consolidated balance sheet under Other life are amortised in compliance with the provinent consisting of deferred tax liabilities and one loans to central banks, are reported as Loans sions of the above-mentioned Annual Accounts component consisting of equity. to credit institutions in the parent company’s Act. According to experience, the customer balance sheet H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 161 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P2 Risk and capital management The Handelsbanken Group’s management is described in note G2. Speciﬁc information about the parent company’s risks is presented below. For deﬁnitions, see page 236. Credit risk Credit risk exposure SEK m 2014 2013 Loans to the public1 737 483 685 372 of which repos 23 858 15 711 Loans to credit institutions 517 542 440 280 of which repos 43 383 34 259 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 102 817 101 866 Credit commitments 267 134 242 242 Other commitments 117 119 151 394 Guarantees, credits 10 336 54 386 Guarantees, other 66 172 62 126 Letters of credit 3 963 4 997 Derivatives 120 051 78 295 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 74 362 53 785 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 59 652 58 943 Total 2 076 631 1 933 686 Cash and balances with central banks 454 532 334 794 Other loans to central banks 51 047 35 160 Total 2 582 210 2 303 640 1 SEK 2,181m (2,580) of this amount is loans which upon initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in the income statement. 2 As of 2014, unutilised overdraft facilities which the counterpart does not have at its disposal at the time of the recognition are not included and therefore do not give rise to a capital requirement. The comparative ﬁgures have been adjusted. Loans to the public, by sector 2014 2013 Loans before Provisions for Loans after Loans before Provisions for Loans after deduction of probable loan deduction of deduction of probable loan deduction of SEK m provisions losses provisions provisions losses provisions Private individuals 156 740 -614 156 126 132 880 -618 132 262 Housing co-operative associations 16 310 -12 16 298 11 796 -24 11 772 Property management 321 154 -585 320 569 306 280 -391 305 889 Manufacturing 35 873 -724 35 149 36 237 -516 35 721 Retail 25 461 -343 25 118 28 971 -361 28 610 Hotel and restaurant 7 380 -25 7 355 6 556 -24 6 532 Passenger and goods transport by sea 10 974 -405 10 569 13 285 -423 12 862 Other transport and communication 9 892 -39 9 853 6 089 -80 6 009 Construction 12 535 -113 12 422 9 409 -116 9 293 Electricity, gas and water 13 300 -24 13 276 12 483 -44 12 439 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 6 237 -15 6 222 4 951 -20 4 931 Other services 16 780 -42 16 738 19 007 -97 18 910 Holding, investment, insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 57 246 -187 57 059 67 426 -569 66 857 Sovereigns and municipalities 18 193 0 18 193 7 648 0 7 648 Other corporate lending 33 268 -466 32 802 26 042 -67 25 975 Total 741 343 -3 594 737 749 689 060 -3 350 685 710 Collective provisions -266 -338 Total loans to the public 741 343 737 483 689 060 685 372 Loans to the public, collateral Credit risk exposure on balance, collateral SEK m 2014 2013 SEK m 2014 2013 Residential property1 194 270 163 375 Residential property1 194 270 163 375 of which private individuales 97 133 82 197 of which private individuales 97 133 82 197 Other property 213 870 192 153 Other property 213 870 192 153 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils2 13 519 6 048 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils2 542 282 398 681 Guarantees3 15 435 14 897 Guarantees3 16 006 14 908 Financial collateral 22 032 12 650 Financial collateral 63 490 53 163 Collateral in assets 0 0 Collateral in assets 0 0 Other collateral 67 357 54 914 Other collateral 67 357 54 914 Unsecured 211 000 241 335 Unsecured 634 280 678 271 Total loans to the public 737 483 685 372 Total loans to the public on balance 1 731 555 1 555 465 1 1 Including housing co-operatives. Including housing co-operatives. 2 2 Refers to direct sovereign exposures and government guarantees. Refers to direct sovereign exposures and government guarantees. 3 3 Does not include government guarantees. Does not include government guarantees. 162 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Credit quality Proportion of exposure amount per product Proportion of exposure amount per product Proportion of exposure amount per product type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits – Corporate exposures – Institutional exposures –Retail exposures Proportion of exposure, % Proportion of exposure, % Proportion of exposure, % 50 50 50 40 40 40 30 30 30 20 20 20 10 10 10 0 0 0 –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– PD,% –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– PD,% –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– PD,% Derivatives Loans Derivatives Loans Derivatives Loans Interest-bearing securities Other products Interest-bearing securities Other products Interest-bearing securities Other products Market risk1 SEK m 2014 2013 Interest rate risk2 965 996 Exchange rate risk3 -7 5 1 For information about equity and commodity risk in the parent company, see note G2. 2 Reference numbers for 2013 have been recalculated according to the revised way of reporting interest rate risk which takes into account the equity held by the Bank. 3 Worst outcome in the case of +/5% change in SEK. Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2014 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 505 579 505 579 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 74 729 74 729 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 60 267 60 267 Loans to credit institutions 131 372 158 451 99 965 68 424 33 672 34 405 526 289 of which reverse repos 9 576 32 589 42 165 Loans to the public 88 347 107 341 78 845 101 034 218 553 198 366 792 486 of which reverse repos 23 859 23 859 Other 53 044 188 133 241 177 of which shares and participating interests 44 949 44 949 of which claims on investment banking settlements 8 095 8 095 Total 913 338 265 792 178 810 169 458 252 225 232 771 188 133 2 200 527 Due to credit institutions 107 987 58 233 816 314 915 7 787 38 460 214 512 of which repos 88 88 of which central banks 45 647 47 374 116 3 948 97 085 Deposits and borrowing from the public 241 212 57 026 16 245 2 105 1 010 251 703 636 1 021 485 of which repos 168 168 Issued securities3 70 800 242 025 73 552 69 717 141 635 61 193 658 922 of which covered bonds 0 of which certiﬁcates and other securities with original maturity of less than one year 66 137 231 670 46 109 343 916 of which senior bonds and other securities with original maturity of more than one year 4 663 10 355 27 443 69 717 141 635 61 193 315 006 Subordinated liabilities 388 341 4 931 3 245 24 323 955 34 183 Other 28 923 212 709 241 632 of which short positions 20 963 20 963 of which investment banking settlement debts 7 960 7 960 Total 449 310 357 625 95 544 75 381 167 883 70 186 954 805 2 170 734 Off-balance-sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 487 070 Derivatives 2014 SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 369 950 484 637 84 462 155 742 364 527 158 132 1 617 450 Total derivatives outﬂow 363 872 476 643 82 078 153 094 353 974 155 709 1 585 370 Net 6 078 7 994 2 384 2 648 10 553 2 423 32 080 1 SEK 21,127m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 2 SEK 6,023m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 3 SEK 380,028m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. For deposit volumes the column Unspecified maturity refers to deposits payable on demand. The table contains interest flows which means that the balance sheet rows are not reconcilable with the Group’s balance sheet. Maturity tables without interest flows including maturity tables in foreign currencies can be found in the Fact Book. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 163 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P2 Cont. Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2013 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 369 957 369 957 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 54 391 54 391 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 59 607 59 607 Loans to credit institutions 130 985 176 516 48 320 30 015 36 556 26 496 290 449 178 of which reverse repos 14 966 18 926 33 892 Loans to the public 59 555 96 996 76 263 80 881 201 033 224 364 1 992 741 084 of which reverse repos 15 714 15 714 Other 53 691 144 836 198 527 of which shares and participating interests 47 221 47 221 of which claims on investment banking settlements 6 470 6 470 Total 728 186 273 512 124 583 110 896 237 589 250 860 147 118 1 872 744 Due to credit institutions 115 670 50 726 4 351 10 183 18 082 13 874 20 850 233 736 of which repos 748 748 of which central banks 41 759 28 189 1 634 71 582 Deposits and borrowing from the public 166 782 45 601 12 414 2 400 926 499 586 677 815 299 of which repos 7 606 7 606 Issued securities3 64 196 186 440 24 131 77 756 132 894 74 488 559 905 of which covered bonds 0 of which certiﬁcates and other securities with original maturity of less than one year 58 244 148 334 4 180 38 822 249 580 of which senior bonds and other securities with original maturity of more than one year 5 952 38 106 19 951 38 934 132 894 74 488 310 325 Subordinated liabilities 13 4 357 1 139 4 524 5 599 3 245 18 877 Other 29 947 187 809 217 756 of which short positions 23 170 23 170 of which investment banking settlement debts 6 777 6 777 Total 376 608 287 124 42 035 94 863 157 501 92 106 795 336 1 845 573 Off-balance-sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 518 414 Derivatives 2013 SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 215 696 310 653 270 094 93 807 427 537 153 825 1 471 612 Total derivatives outﬂow 232 119 303 430 257 822 95 971 405 859 147 748 1 442 949 Net -16 423 7 223 12 272 -2 164 21 678 6 077 28 663 1 SEK 25,022m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 2 SEK 11,192m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 3 SEK 268,182m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. For deposit volumes the column Unspecified maturity refers to deposits payable on demand. The table contains interest flows which means that the balance sheet rows are not reconcilable with the Group’s balance sheet. Maturity tables without interest flows including maturity tables in foreign currencies can be found in the Fact Book. P3 Net interest income SEK m 2014 2013 Interest income Loans to credit institutions and central banks 6 748 6 936 Loans to the public 21 403 22 442 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 719 2 106 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1 015 1 897 Derivative instruments -2 511 -2 777 Other interest income 1 218 1 324 Total interest income 28 592 31 928 Of which interest income reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 633 2 633 Interest income according to income statement 27 959 29 295 Interest expense Due to credit institutions and central banks -1 124 -1 319 Deposits and borrowing from the public -3 741 -4 609 Issued securities -7 528 -7 344 Derivative instruments 3 041 2 267 Subordinated liabilities -1 283 -1 214 Other interest expense -1 508 -3 269 Total interest expense -12 143 -15 488 Of which interest expense reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions -266 -2 155 Interest expense according to income statement -11 877 -13 333 Net interest income 16 082 15 962 Includes interest income on impaired loans SEK 88m (93). Total interest income on assets recognised at amortised cost and available-for-sale assets was SEK 29,495m (30,841). Total interest expense on liabilities recognised at amortised cost was SEK 14,918m (15,600). 164 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P4 Dividends received SEK m 2014 2013 Dividends on shares 929 1 039 Dividends from associates 8 5 Dividends from group companies Group contribution received 8 727 7 951 Total 9 664 8 995 P5 Net fee and commission income SEK m 2014 2013 Brokerage and other securities commissions 1 089 1 171 Mutual funds 1 489 1 134 Custody and other asset management fees 365 316 Advisory services 209 263 Payments 3 075 2 784 Loans and deposits 878 856 Guarantees 424 434 Other 501 465 Total fee and commission income 8 030 7 423 Securities -584 -544 Payments -1 270 -1 164 Other -64 -66 Total fee and commission expense -1 918 -1 774 Net fee and commission income 6 112 5 649 P6 Net gains/losses on financial transactions SEK m 2014 2013 Trading, derivatives, FX effect etc. -1 839 1 237 Other ﬁnancial instruments denominated at fair value in proﬁt/loss 2 278 -785 of which interest-bearing securities 2 260 -707 of which loans 18 -78 Financial instruments at amortised cost 262 106 of which loans 305 147 of which liabilities -43 -41 Financial instruments available for sale 365 -21 Hedge accounting Fair value hedges 39 19 of which hedging instruments -7 -160 of which hedged items 46 179 Cash ﬂow hedge ineffectiveness 12 33 Total 1 117 589 P7 Other operating income SEK m 2014 2013 Rental income 21 19 Other operating income 2 167 1 934 Total 2 188 1 953 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 165 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P8 Staff costs SEK m 2014 2013 Salaries and fees -6 942 -6 497 Social security costs -1 687 -1 622 Pension costs1 -600 -346 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation -722 -1 022 Other staff costs -490 -490 Total -10 441 -9 977 1 Information about pension costs is presented in note P38. Salaries and fees SEK m 2014 2013 Ofﬁcers in an executive position2, 30 (27) persons -103 -100 Others -6 839 -6 397 Total -6 942 -6 497 2 Executive Directors and board members. Gender distribution % 2014 2013 Men Women Men Women Board 80 20 73 27 Executive Directors 81 19 79 21 Average number of employees 2014 Men Women 2013 Men Women Sweden 6 826 3 141 3 685 6 966 3 201 3 765 Norway 752 413 339 745 411 334 Finland 525 217 308 526 216 310 Denmark 682 338 344 676 338 338 UK 1 554 937 617 1 294 780 514 Luxembourg 67 39 28 30 18 12 Germany 59 32 27 64 36 28 USA 74 47 27 76 48 28 Netherlands 140 86 54 113 74 39 Singapore 38 9 29 37 9 28 Hong Kong 67 26 41 66 26 40 Poland 42 15 27 45 18 27 Other countries 71 29 42 69 26 43 Total 10 897 5 329 5 568 10 707 5 201 5 506 Note G8 provides information about the principles for remuneration to executive ofﬁcers in the parent company. P9 Other administrative expenses SEK m 2014 2013 Property and premises -1 350 -1 261 External IT costs -1 575 -1 653 Communication -322 -341 Travel and marketing -297 -327 Purchased services -897 -952 Supplies -194 -191 Other administrative expenses -371 -350 Total -5 006 -5 075 Of which expenses for operating leases Minimum lease fee -738 -680 Variable fee -19 -19 Total -757 -699 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. Rental costs for premises normally have a variable fee related to the inﬂation rate and to property taxes. In 2014, the cost of the largest individual lease contract was approx. SEK 167m (165). None of the major lease contracts has a variable fee. Remuneration to auditors and audit companies KPMG Ernst & Young AB SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 Audit assignment -10 -8 -2 -3 Audit operations outside the audit assignment -4 -2 Tax advice -1 -1 Other services 166 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P10 Loan losses SEK m 2014 2013 Speciﬁc provision for individually assessed loans The year's provision -1 917 -1 241 Reversal of previous provisions 273 277 Total -1 644 -964 Collective provision The year's net provision for individually assessed loans 75 -64 The year's net provision for homogeneous loans 1 1 Total 76 -63 Off-balance sheet items Losses on off-balance sheet items -62 -9 Reversal of previous losses on off-balance sheet items 13 0 Change in collective provision for off-balance sheet items 16 -10 Total -33 -19 Write-offs Actual loan losses for the year -1 829 -1 359 Utilised share of previous provisions 1 474 1 134 Recoveries 131 82 Total -224 -143 Net loan losses -1 825 -1 189 Impaired loans, etc. SEK m 2014 2013 Impaired loans 8 290 6 360 Speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans -3 594 -3 350 Provisions for collectively assessed homogeneous groups of loans with limited value Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -266 -338 Net impaired loans 4 430 2 672 Total impaired loans reserve ratio, % 46.6 58.0 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.36 0.24 Impaired loans reserve ratio excluding collective provisions, % 43.3 52.7 Loans past due > 60 days, which are not impaired 1 491 1 266 Impaired loans reclassiﬁed as normal loans during the year 29 27 Loans are classiﬁed as impaired if it is probable that the contractual cash ﬂows will not be fulﬁlled. The full amount of each receivable that gives rise to a speciﬁc provision is included in impaired loans even if this amount is partly covered by collateral. Received collateral is thus not taken into account when calculating the reserve ratio. Non-performing loans are loans where interest, repayments or overdrafts have been due for payment for more than 60 days. For other deﬁnitions, see page 236. Change in provision for probable loan losses 2014 Provision for Collective collectively Provision for provision for assessed Total provision individually individually homogeneous for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 350 -338 -3 688 The year's provision -1 917 -1 917 Reversal of previous provisions 273 75 348 Utilised for actual loan losses 1 474 1 474 Foreign exchange effect, etc. -74 -3 -77 Provision at end of year -3 594 -266 -3 860 Change in provision for probable loan losses 2013 Provision for Collective collectively Provision for provision for assessed Total provision individually individually homogeneous for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 616 -275 -3 891 The year's provision -1 241 -64 -1 305 Reversal of previous provisions 277 277 Utilised for actual loan losses 1 134 1 134 Foreign exchange effect, etc. 96 1 97 Provision at end of year -3 350 -338 -3 688 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 167 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P10 Cont. Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due by sector 2014 Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 260 -614 646 423 570 Housing co-operative associations 23 -12 11 10 24 Property management 1 706 -585 1 121 837 337 Manufacturing 1 634 -724 910 70 111 Retail 595 -343 252 168 13 Hotel and restaurant 45 -25 20 11 260 Passenger and goods transport by sea 1 616 -405 1 211 Other transport and communication 49 -39 10 10 41 Construction 187 -113 74 42 56 Electricity, gas and water 32 -24 8 8 0 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 21 -15 6 1 2 Other services 73 -42 31 25 56 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds, etc. 316 -187 129 34 2 Other corporate lending 733 -466 267 266 19 Credit institutions 0 Total 8 290 -3 594 4 696 1 905 1 491 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due by sector 2013 Of which past > 60 days, which SEK m Gross Provisions Net1 due > 60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 226 -618 608 479 562 Housing co-operative associations 75 -24 51 45 6 Property management 1 166 -391 775 430 401 Manufacturing 890 -516 374 189 9 Retail 704 -361 343 209 42 Hotel and restaurant 37 -24 13 11 9 Passenger and goods transport by sea 424 -423 1 1 1 Other transport and communication 110 -80 30 28 5 Construction 193 -116 77 71 88 Electricity, gas and water 72 -44 28 28 7 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 25 -20 5 6 1 Other services 147 -97 50 43 33 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds, etc. 1 138 -569 569 61 4 Other corporate lending 153 -67 86 74 98 Credit institutions Total 6 360 -3 350 3 010 1 675 1 266 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans and provisions for collectively assessed loans, but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due geographic distribution 2014 Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Sweden 3 212 -1 535 1 677 626 357 Norway 289 -135 154 118 338 Finland 798 -635 163 142 503 Denmark 2 728 -917 1 811 329 25 UK 1 103 -291 812 618 194 Netherlands 21 -8 13 11 Rest of Europe 137 -73 64 61 74 North America Asia 2 0 2 Total 8 290 -3 594 4 696 1 905 1 491 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due geographic distribution 2013 Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Sweden 2 224 -1 249 975 886 340 Norway 433 -177 256 214 285 Finland 934 -393 541 289 99 Denmark 1 294 -852 442 167 16 UK 320 -106 214 47 459 Netherlands 15 -3 12 12 Rest of Europe 123 -57 66 60 67 North America 1 015 -513 502 Asia 2 0 2 Total 6 360 -3 350 3 010 1 675 1 266 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans and provisions for collectively assessed loans, but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. 168 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2014 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 752 910 1 662 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 140 99 239 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 80 373 453 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 323 203 526 Past due > 12 months 355 157 512 Total 1 650 1 742 3 392 Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2013 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 661 851 1 512 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 138 110 248 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 80 20 100 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 280 297 577 Past due > 12 months 431 158 589 Total 1 590 1 436 3 026 Assets repossessed for protection of claims SEK m 2014 2013 Property 465 392 Movable property Shares 0 0 Carrying amount 465 392 P11 Appropriations SEK m 2014 2013 Tax allocation reserve 4 168 Change in amortisation of goodwill in excess of plan 111 99 Total 111 4 267 P12 Loans to credit institutions SEK m 2014 2013 Loans in Swedish kronor Banks 8 340 5 402 Other credit institutions 308 581 250 765 Total 316 921 256 167 Loans in foreign currency Banks 67 263 55 930 Other credit institutions 184 405 163 343 Total 251 668 219 273 Probable loan losses Total loans to credit institutions 568 589 475 440 Of which reverse repos 43 383 34 259 Of which subordinated 20 718 21 218 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Loans to credit institutions in Swedish kronor 351 308 261 438 Loans to credit institutions in foreign currency 182 945 212 622 Total 534 253 474 060 Of which reverse repos 39 423 35 528 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 169 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P13 Loans to the public SEK m 2014 2013 Loans in Swedish kronor Households 45 120 42 794 Companies 184 336 199 557 National Debt Ofﬁce 19 044 5 180 Total 248 500 247 531 Loans in foreign currency Households 130 142 105 864 Companies 362 701 335 665 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 492 843 441 529 Probable loan losses -3 860 -3 688 Total loans to the public 737 483 685 372 Of which reverse repos 23 858 15 711 Of which subordinated 1 129 1 129 Average volumes, excl. National Debt Ofﬁce SEK m 2014 2013 Loans to the public in Swedish kronor 237 742 266 862 Loans to the public in foreign currency 466 813 429 613 Total 704 555 696 475 Of which reverse repos 16 565 22 665 P14 Interest-bearing securities 2014 2013 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Government securities eligible as collateral with central banks 62 426 64 155 64 152 45 803 46 695 46 675 Other securities eligible as collateral with central banks 10 137 10 210 10 210 7 019 7 110 7 110 Total interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with cental banks 72 563 74 365 74 362 52 822 53 805 53 785 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 57 550 59 650 59 652 56 961 58 941 58 943 Total interest-bearing securities 130 113 134 015 134 014 109 783 112 746 112 728 Of which unlisted securities 4 569 4 569 3 240 3 240 2014 2013 Interest-bearing securities distributed by issuer Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Government 62 426 64 155 64 152 45 803 46 695 46 675 Credit institutions 9 404 9 633 9 635 10 330 10 696 10 698 Mortgage institutions 37 733 39 572 39 572 37 933 39 476 39 476 Other 20 550 20 655 20 655 15 717 15 879 15 879 Total 130 113 134 015 134 014 109 783 112 746 112 728 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Interest-bearing securities 120 237 124 208 P15 Shares SEK m 2014 2013 Holdings at fair value over the income statement Listed 33 300 40 287 Non-listed 3 328 1 256 Total 36 628 41 543 Classiﬁed as available for sale Listed 6 753 4 368 Non-listed 1 568 1 310 Total 8 321 5 678 Total shares 44 949 47 221 170 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P16 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates SEK m 2014 2013 Associates, unlisted 95 92 Subsidiaries, unlisted 45 669 46 061 Total 45 764 46 153 Associates Carrying amount SEK m Corporate Number of Ownership identity number Domicile shares share % 2014 2013 Bankomat AB 556817-9716 Stockholm 150 20.00 55 55 Bankomatcentralen AB 556197-2265 Stockholm 1 100 21.90 0 0 BDB Bankernas Depå AB 556695-3567 Stockholm 13 000 20.00 7 7 BGC Holding AB 556607-0933 Stockholm 25 382 25.40 4 4 Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 556630-4928 Stockholm 12 735 28.30 24 24 Getswish AB 556913-7382 Stockholm 10 000 20.00 4 2 Upplysningscentralen UC AB 556137-5113 Stockholm 2 448 24.48 1 0 Total 95 92 Subsidiaries Carrying amount SEK m Corporate Number of Ownership identity number Domicile shares share % 2014 2013 Handelsbanken Finans AB1 556053-0841 Stockholm 1 550 000 100 11 672 11 672 Kredit-Inkasso AB 556069-3185 Stockholm 100 Handelsbanken Rahoitus Oy 0112308-8 Helsinki 100 Kreditt-Inkasso AS 955074203 Oslo 100 Handelsbanken Finans (Shanghai) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd 310101717882194 Shanghai 100 Stadshypotek AB1 556459-6715 Stockholm 162 000 100 26 870 26 870 Handelsbanken Fondbolagsförvaltning AB 556070-0683 Stockholm 10 000 100 1 1 Handelsbanken Fonder AB 556418-8851 Stockholm 100 Handelsinvest Investeringsforvaltning A/S 12930879 Copenhagen 100 Handelsbanken Fondbolag Ab 1105019-3 Helsinki 100 Handelsbanken Kapitalforvaltning AS 973194860 Oslo 100 Xact Kapitalförvaltning AB 556997-8140 Stockholm 100 Handelsbanken Liv Försäkrings AB 516401-8284 Stockholm 100 000 100 6 189 6 189 SHB Liv Forsikringsaktieselskab 20594942 Copenhagen 100 SHB Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag 2478149-7 Helsinki 100 Handelsbanken Fastigheter AB 556873-0021 Stockholm 100 AB Handel och Industri 556013-5336 Stockholm 100 000 100 104 104 Plastal Industri AB 556532-8845 Gothenburg 100 Heartwood Wealth Group Ltd 5498937 London 1 000 000 100 470 Heartwood Wealth Management Limited 4132340 London 1 319 206 100 533 Other subsidaries EFN Ekonomikanalen AB 556930-1608 Stockholm 100 100 0 0 Ejendomsselskabet af 1. januar 2002 A/S 38300512 Herning 294 Ejendomsselskabet af 1. maj 2009 A/S 59173812 Hillerød 2 700 000 100 200 200 Forva AS 945812141 Oslo 4 000 000 100 1 1 Lejontrappan AB 556481-1551 Gothenburg 1 000 100 0 0 Handelsbanken Markets Securities, Inc.1 11-3257438 New York 1 000 100 29 29 Handelsbanken Mezzanine Fond 1 KB 969710-3126 Stockholm Unit 100 0 0 Handelsbanken Mezzanine Management AB 556679-2668 Stockholm 5 000 100 1 1 Handelsbanken Renting AB 556043-2766 Stockholm 14 Handelsbanken Skadeförsäkrings AB 516401-6767 Stockholm 1 500 100 31 31 Lokalbolig A/S 78488018 Hillerød 540 000 68.35 1 1 Rådstuplass 4 AS 910508423 Bergen 40 000 100 0 0 SIL (Nominees) Limited 1932320 London 100 100 Svenska Handelsbanken Delaware Inc. 13-3153272 Delaware 0 Svenska Handelsbanken Representações (Brasil) Ltda 15.367.073/001-93 São Paulo 999 99.9 2 2 Svenska Handelsbanken S.A.1 RCS Lux B-15992 Luxembourg 147 Svenska Property Nominees Limited 2308524 London 100 100 Svenska Re S.A. RCS Lux B-32053 Luxembourg 20 000 100 35 35 Lila stugan i Stockholm AB 556993-9084 Stockholm 50 100 0 Blå stugan i Stockholm AB 556993-9357 Stockholm 50 100 0 Bruna stugan i Stockholm AB 556993-2311 Stockholm 50 100 0 Total 45 669 46 061 The list of Group companies contains directly owned subsidiaries and large subsidiaries of these companies. 1 Credit institution. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 171 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P17 Derivative instruments Nominal amount/maturity Nominal amount Positive market values Negative market values over 1 yr SEK m up to 1 yr up to 5 yrs Over 5 yrs 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Derivatives held for trading Interest rate-related contracts Options 132 389 161 396 5 773 299 558 293 602 3 505 4 200 3 699 4 338 FRA/futures 1 557 960 778 881 2 336 841 2 972 176 1 137 420 1 549 143 Swaps 547 979 1 405 325 483 861 2 437 165 2 738 953 61 994 47 505 62 865 47 831 Other instruments 3 058 3 058 50 Currency-related contracts Options 60 623 1 668 29 62 320 44 634 663 311 953 234 Futures 105 527 9 466 271 115 264 111 170 3 051 1 083 1 710 1 313 Swaps 643 585 300 350 65 306 1 009 241 1 017 479 28 515 16 236 18 752 13 949 Other instruments 61 0 15 120 Equity-related contracts Options 10 845 24 158 949 35 952 42 699 2 537 3 019 2 371 5 112 Futures 10 306 10 306 4 408 8 8 36 34 Swaps 28 324 7 409 128 35 861 34 688 736 691 1 999 2 486 Other instruments 2 362 2 362 677 3 39 494 Commodity-related contracts Options 2 155 2 253 122 4 530 5 067 183 105 528 992 Futures 26 074 2 446 148 28 668 21 047 1 002 375 1 079 377 Swaps 12 12 313 0 8 49 Other instruments 457 132 420 Credit-related contracts Options Swaps 1 195 7 640 729 9 564 10 049 620 544 91 45 Other instruments Other derivative contracts Total 3 132 394 2 700 992 557 316 6 390 702 7 297 480 103 951 74 647 95 729 77 937 Derivatives for fair value hedges Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 0 Other instruments Currency-related contracts Swaps 965 965 817 63 177 Total 965 965 817 63 177 0 Derivatives for cash ﬂow hedges Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 23 471 160 634 58 236 242 341 185 183 11 488 4 773 1 661 2 002 Currency-related contracts Swaps 18 364 113 900 35 687 167 951 143 659 17 178 4 733 2 957 3 239 Total 41 835 274 534 93 923 410 292 328 842 28 666 9 506 4 618 5 241 Total derivative instruments 3 174 229 2 975 526 652 204 6 801 959 7 627 139 132 680 84 330 100 347 83 178 Of which exchange traded derivatives 1 314 691 1 692 858 676 317 1 804 866 Of which OTC derivatives settled by CCP 716 067 736 270 12 009 2 834 11 140 2 479 Amounts set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -6 035 -12 629 -6 035 Net amount in the balance sheet 120 051 78 295 87 718 77 143 Currency breakdown of market values SEK -239 436 99 605 -89 043 182 836 USD 403 012 23 433 126 836 -199 795 EUR 109 799 67 126 21 384 37 352 Others -140 695 -105 834 41 170 62 785 Derivative contracts are presented gross in the table. Offsetted amounts consist of the offsetted market value of contracts for which the Bank has the legal right and intention to settle contractual cash ﬂows net (including cleared contracts). These contracts are presented on a net basis in the balance sheet per counterparty and currency. The Bank amortises positive differences between the value measured by a valuation model upon initial recognition and the transaction price (day 1 proﬁt), over the life of the derivative. Such not yet recognised day 1 proﬁt amounted to SEK 465m (396) at year-end. 172 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P18 Offsetting of financial instruments 2014 Repurchase agreements, securities borrowing and SEK m Derivatives similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 132 680 68 887 201 567 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -12 629 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 120 051 68 887 188 938 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -45 652 -45 652 Collateral received -38 191 -68 857 -107 048 Net amount 36 208 30 36 238 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 100 347 256 100 603 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -12 629 Net amounts of ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the balance sheet 87 718 256 87 974 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -45 652 -45 652 Assets pledged -9 674 -256 -9 930 Net amount 32 392 0 32 392 2013 Repurchase agreements, securities borrowing and SEK m Derivatives similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 84 330 53 612 137 942 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -6 035 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 78 295 53 612 131 907 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -41 036 -41 036 Collateral received -10 540 -53 569 -64 109 Net amount 26 719 43 26 762 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 83 178 8 352 91 530 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -6 035 Net amounts of ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the balance sheet 77 143 8 352 85 495 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -41 036 -41 036 Assets pledged -4 793 -7 889 -12 682 Net amount 31 314 463 31 777 P19 Intangible assets 2014 Internally 2013 Internally Acquisition developed Total Acquisition developed Total SEK m assets software 2014 SEK m assets software 2014 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 2 071 1 346 3 417 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 2 072 1 104 3 176 Cost of acquisition of additional intangible Cost of acquisition of additional intangible assets 248 248 assets 322 322 Disposals and retirements -135 -135 Disposals and retirements -82 -82 Foreign exchange effect 99 1 100 Foreign exchange effect -1 2 1 Cost of acquisition at end of year 2 170 1 460 3 630 Cost of acquisition at end of year 2 071 1 346 3 417 Accumulated amortisation and impairments Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -1 298 -369 -1 667 at beginning of year -1 193 -340 -1 533 Disposals and retirements 135 135 Disposals and retirements 82 82 Amortisation for the year according to plan -111 -110 -221 Amortisation for the year according to plan -108 -106 -214 Impairments for the year -9 -9 Impairments for the year -2 -2 Foreign exchange effect -62 -1 -63 Foreign exchange effect 3 -3 0 Accumulated amortisation and Accumulated amortisation and impairments at end of year -1 471 -354 -1 825 impairments at end of year -1 298 -369 -1 667 Carrying amount 699 1 106 1 805 Carrying amount 773 977 1 750 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 173 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P20 Property and equipment Property and equipment SEK m 2014 2013 Equipment 452 466 Property 115 120 Property repossessed for protection of claims 465 392 Total 1 032 978 Property repossessed for protection of claims contains properties which are regularly measured at fair value in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for assets repossessed to protect claims. See note G1. The fair value of properties which are regularly measured at fair value is SEK 465m (392). Unrealised value changes on these properties had an impact of SEK 6m (-10) on the year’s proﬁt. The valuation of private housing is essentially based on market observations of comparable property purchases in the location in question. The valuation of commercial properties is based on discounting future cash ﬂows using assumptions such as rents, vacancy levels, operating and maintenance costs, yield requirement and calculation interest rates. The valuation is also based on the condition of the property, its location and alternative areas of use. The Bank’s principle is always to use an authorised valuer for valuing commercial and ofﬁce buildings, and industrial properties. Valuations which are only based on market observations (SEK 119m) are classiﬁed as level 2 in the valuation hierarchy described in note G40. Valuations where own assumptions are used to a material extent (SEK 346m) are classiﬁed as level 3 in the valuation hierarchy. Unrealised value changes in level 3 relating to properties which are regularly measured at fair value have affected the year’s proﬁt by SEK 0m (-17). The year’s sale of properties which are regularly measured at fair value amounts to SEK 108m (81) of which SEK 80m (64) was classiﬁed as level 3 before the sale. The value of new properties added during the year is SEK 112m (50), with SEK 20m (48) of this classiﬁed as level 3. Equipment SEK m 2014 2013 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 1 517 1 513 Cost of additional acquisition for the year 247 265 Disposals and retirements -472 -238 Foreign exchange effect 40 -23 Cost of acquisition at end of year 1 332 1 517 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -1 051 -1 061 Amortisation for the year according to plan -235 -248 Disposals and retirements 434 236 Foreign exchange effect -28 22 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -880 -1 051 Carrying amount 452 466 Property SEK m 2014 2013 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 190 190 Cost of additional acquisition for the year New construction and rebuilding Disposals and retirements Cost of acquisition at end of year 190 190 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -70 -65 Amortisation for the year according to plan -5 -5 Impairments for the year Disposals and retirements Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -75 -70 Carrying amount 115 120 P21 Other assets SEK m 2014 2013 Claims on investment banking settlements 8 095 6 470 Other 11 100 9 998 Total 19 195 16 468 P22 Prepaid expenses and accrued income SEK m 2014 2013 Accrued interest income 3 230 3 739 Other accrued income 1 477 1 341 Prepaid expenses 289 192 Total 4 996 5 272 Of which subordinated 36 11 174 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P23 Due to credit institutions SEK m 2014 2013 Due in Swedish kronor Banks 23 252 19 869 Other credit institutions 15 818 12 162 Total 39 070 32 031 Due in foreign currency Banks 166 465 135 848 Other credit institutions 4 564 58 752 Total 171 029 194 600 Total due to credit institutions 210 099 226 631 Of which repos 88 748 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Due to credit institutions in Swedish kronor 114 981 52 839 Due to credit institutions in foreign currency 149 491 223 293 Total 264 472 276 132 Of which repos 1 625 3 961 P24 Deposits and borrowing from the public Deposits from the public SEK m 2014 2013 Deposits in Swedish kronor Households 224 898 207 374 Companies 185 250 165 314 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 410 148 372 688 Deposits in foreign currency Households 65 758 48 990 Companies 236 431 172 779 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 302 189 221 769 Total deposits from the public 712 337 594 457 Borrowing from the public SEK m 2014 2013 Swedish kronor 31 944 49 117 Foreign currency 276 681 170 653 Total 308 625 219 770 Of which repos 168 7 604 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 1 020 962 814 227 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Deposits from the public Deposits from the public in Swedish kronor 372 466 348 970 Deposits from the public in foreign currency 282 252 178 337 Total 654 718 527 307 Borrowing from the public Borrowing from the public in Swedish kronor 47 869 53 434 Borrowing from the public in foreign currency 186 525 146 665 Total 234 394 200 099 Of which repos 8 685 10 551 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 175 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P25 Issued securities 2014 2013 Nominal Carrying Nominal Carrying SEK m amount amount amount amount Commercial paper Commercial paper in Swedish kronor 9 816 10 621 15 613 17 299 Of which at amortised cost 101 101 for trading 9 816 10 621 15 512 17 198 Commercial paper in foreign currency 300 177 309 993 227 719 227 754 Of which at amortised cost 298 804 308 191 227 532 227 532 for trading 1 373 1 802 187 222 Total 309 993 320 614 243 332 245 053 Bonds Bonds in Swedish kronor 18 443 18 000 14 822 14 298 Of which at amortised cost 18 443 18 000 14 822 14 006 for fair value hedges 292 Bonds in foreign currency 293 800 294 514 271 426 273 256 Of which at amortised cost 292 830 294 397 268 882 272 319 for fair value hedges 970 117 2 544 937 Total 312 243 312 514 286 248 287 554 Total issued securities 622 236 633 128 529 580 532 607 SEK m 2014 2013 Issued securities at beginning of year 532 607 531 284 Issued 708 274 857 711 Repurchased 15 886 17 373 Matured 664 066 843 242 Foreign exchange effect etc. 72 199 4 227 Issued securities at end of year 633 128 532 607 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Swedish kronor 29 839 32 140 Foreign currency 521 628 514 620 Total 551 467 546 760 P26 Short positions SEK m 2014 2013 Short positions at fair value Equities 1 273 3 430 Interest-bearing securities 19 375 19 415 Of which other issuers 19 375 19 415 own issued Total 20 648 22 845 Average volumes SEK m 2014 2013 Swedish kronor 18 878 22 832 Foreign currency 809 1 214 Total 19 687 24 046 176 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P27 Taxes Deferred tax assets SEK m 2014 2013 Property and equipment 30 35 Hedging instruments 257 159 Other 74 8 Total 361 202 Deferred tax liabilities SEK m 2014 2013 Property and equipment 15 16 Hedging instruments 1 495 98 Other 159 Total 1 669 114 Net deferred taxes 1 308 -88 Change in deferred taxes 2014 Recognised Recognised in Opening in income other compreClosing SEK m balance statement hensive income balance Property and equipment -19 4 -15 Hedging instruments -61 3 1 296 1 238 Other -8 -99 192 85 Total -88 -92 1 488 1 308 Change in deferred taxes 2013 Recognised Recognised in Opening in income other compreClosing SEK m balance statement hensive income balance Property and equipment -17 -2 -19 Hedging instruments 391 6 -458 -61 Other 0 -8 -8 Total 374 -4 -458 -88 Tax expenses recognised in the income statemet SEK m 2014 2013 Current tax Tax expense for the year -3 864 -4 604 Adjustment of tax relating to prior years -51 -19 Deferred tax Changes in temporary differences 92 4 Total -3 823 -4 619 Nominal tax rate in Sweden, % 22.0 22.0 Deviations Non-taxable income/non-deductible expenses -0.2 0.3 Tax relating to prior years 0.0 0.1 Effective tax rate, % 21.8 22.4 P28 Provisions Provision Provision for for guarantee Other Total Total SEK m restructuring commitments provisions 2014 2013 Provisions at beginning of year 51 59 18 128 116 Provisions during the year 62 62 52 Utilised -39 -52 -91 -40 Written back -12 -12 Provisions at end of year 7 80 87 128 The provision for restructuring relates to additional costs as a result of the decision to terminate rental contracts for premises. All of the provision has been settled during 2014. Provision for guarantee commitments consists of provisions for a number of off-balance sheet items. The Group is the subject of claims in a number of civil actions which are being pursued in general courts of law. The Group’s assessment is that the actions will essentially be settled in favour of the Bank. The assessment is that the amounts in dispute would not have a material effect on the Bank’s ﬁnancial position or proﬁt/loss. The amounts allocated for future settlement of the claims towards the Bank are presented under other provisions. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 177 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P29 Other liabilities SEK m 2014 2013 Liabilities on investment banking settlements 7 960 6 777 Other 6 188 5 926 Total 14 148 12 703 P30 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEK m 2014 2013 Accrued interest expenses 5 441 5 817 Other accrued expenses 3 589 3 889 Deferred income 779 209 Total 9 809 9 915 P31 Subordinated liabilities 1 Swedish subordinated loans are individually less than 10% of the total subordinated liabilities. SEK m 2014 2013 The total includes one perpetual subordinated loan at a ﬂoating rate. The loan is a subordiSubordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 308 10 472 nated convertible loan of nominally SEK 3.2bn issued to the Group’s employees on market terms. The loan does not have the status of regulatory capital but can be converted into Subordinated loans in foreign currency 19 981 5 493 Handelsbanken shares. The Bank has the right to demand conversion at any time and the Total 30 289 15 965 holder has the right to demand conversion between 1 May and 30 November 2019, at the initial conversion price of SEK 379.19, corresponding to 117% of the average share price during the period 2–14 May 2014. The initial conversion price is adjusted for dividends durAverage volumes ing the term of the loan. If the common equity tier 1 ratio for the Bank or calculated accordSEK m 2014 2013 ing to the consolidated situation falls below 7%, there will be automatic conversion. Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 9 831 10 764 For information regarding other Swedish subordinated loans, see note G49. 2 Subordinated loans in foreign currency 18 852 7 824 For further information about subordinated loans in EUR, see note G49. 3 Total 28 683 18 588 Other foreign subordinated loans are issued in the form of perpetual subordinated loans. Speciﬁcation, subordinated loans Original nominal amount in each Interest Outstanding Issue/conv./ﬁnal payment year Currency currency rate % amount IN SWEDISH KRONOR Swedish subordinated liabilities 1 13 337 10 308 Total 10 308 IN FOREIGN CURRENCY 2005/perpetual 2 EUR 500 4.194 4 713 2014/ﬁxed-term 2 EUR 1 500 2.656 14 174 Other foreign 3 1 094 Total 19 981 Total subordinated liabilitites 30 289 P32 Untaxed reserves SEK m 2014 2013 Accumulated amortisation of goodwill in excess of plan 699 773 Total 699 773 178 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P33 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 2014 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedging held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other 1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 454 040 492 454 532 454 532 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 42 096 30 526 747 993 74 362 74 365 Loans to credit institutions 568 589 568 589 575 487 Loans to the public 2 181 735 302 737 483 738 506 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 26 235 30 842 253 2 322 59 652 59 650 Shares 36 628 8 321 44 949 44 949 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates 45 764 45 764 45 764 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 2 935 89 3 024 3 024 Derivative instruments 91 612 28 439 120 051 120 051 Other assets 35 10 168 8 992 19 195 19 195 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 408 573 1 1 605 2 2 407 4 996 4 996 Total ﬁnancial assets 197 014 67 057 28 439 1 001 1 769 793 11 638 57 655 2 132 597 2 140 519 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 3 198 Total assets 2 135 795 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 210 099 210 099 212 437 Deposits and borrowing from the public 1 020 962 1 020 962 1 021 010 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 3 036 89 3 125 3 125 Issued securities 12 423 620 705 633 128 649 565 Derivative instruments 83 440 4 278 87 718 87 718 Short positions 20 648 20 648 20 648 Other liabilities 16 14 132 14 148 14 148 Accrued expenses and deferred income 315 9 494 9 809 9 809 Subordinated liabilities 30 289 30 289 34 409 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 116 842 3 036 4 278 1 905 770 2 029 926 2 052 869 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 2 585 Total liabilities 2 032 511 2013 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedging held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 334 185 609 334 794 334 794 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 32 611 16 160 3 461 1 553 53 785 53 805 Loans to credit institutions 475 440 475 440 479 609 Loans to the public 2 580 682 792 685 372 685 711 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 26 959 30 149 933 902 58 943 58 941 Shares 41 543 5 678 47 221 47 221 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates 46 153 46 153 46 153 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 860 328 2 188 2 188 Derivative instruments 69 471 8 824 78 295 78 295 Other assets 68 8 346 8 054 16 468 16 468 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 480 661 117 1 734 2 280 5 272 5 272 Total ﬁnancial assets 171 132 51 410 8 824 4 511 1 502 825 8 133 57 096 1 803 931 1 808 457 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 2 930 Total assets 1 806 861 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 226 631 226 631 228 131 Deposits and borrowing from the public 814 227 814 227 814 035 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 1 908 328 2 236 2 236 Issued securities 17 420 515 187 532 607 544 327 Derivative instruments 72 136 5 007 77 143 77 143 Short positions 22 845 22 845 22 845 Other liabilities 19 12 684 12 703 12 703 Accrued expenses and deferred income 357 9 558 9 915 9 915 Subordinated liabilities 15 965 15 965 17 705 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 112 777 1 908 5 007 1 594 580 1 714 272 1 729 040 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 1 058 Total liabilities 1 715 330 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. The principles for measurement at fair value are presented in note G39. For shares in subsidiaries and associated companies, the acquisition cost is stated and not the fair value. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 179 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P33 Cont. Reclassiﬁed ﬁnancial assets 2014 2013 Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed from held for from available from held for from available SEK m trading for sale trading for sale Carrying amount 12 4 469 74 5 375 Fair value 13 4 535 74 5 464 Value change recognised in the income statement 209 170 Value change recognised in other comprehensive income 2 318 0 -3 Value change that would have been recognised in income statement if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 1 209 1 170 Value change that would have been recognised in other comprehensive income if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 54 -25 Interest recognised as income 0 82 69 137 All holdings presented above were reclassiﬁed to loans and receivables on 1 July 2008. P34 Fair value measurement of financial instruments Financial instruments at fair value 2014 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 42 096 42 096 Denominated at fair value 30 526 30 526 Available for sale 993 993 Loans to the public 2 168 13 2 181 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 21 643 4 592 26 235 Denominated at fair value 30 842 30 842 Available for sale 2 091 231 2 322 Shares Held for trading 33 175 3 359 94 36 628 Denominated at fair value Available for sale 6 753 811 757 8 321 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 2 237 698 2 935 Derivative instruments 630 119 421 120 051 Total 170 986 130 582 1 562 303 130 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 2 338 698 3 036 Issued securities 12 329 94 12 423 Derivative instruments 1 566 86 152 87 718 Short positions 20 560 88 20 648 Total 24 464 98 569 792 123 825 180 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Financial instruments at fair value 2013 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 32 611 32 611 Denominated at fair value 16 160 16 160 Available for sale 1 553 1 553 Loans to the public 2 562 18 2 580 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 21 881 5 078 26 959 Denominated at fair value 30 149 30 149 Available for sale 582 320 902 Shares Held for trading 40 284 1 183 76 41 543 Denominated at fair value Available for sale 4 367 634 677 5 678 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 860 1 860 Derivative instruments 1 328 76 967 78 295 Total 150 775 86 744 771 238 290 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 1 908 1 908 Issued securities 4 17 332 84 17 420 Derivative instruments 2 155 74 988 77 143 Short positions 21 951 894 22 845 Total 26 018 93 214 84 119 316 Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2014 Assets where the Liabilities where the Derivatives, Loans to customer bears the customer bears the Issued SEK m Shares net position the public value change risk value change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 753 18 -84 Acquisitions 30 490 -490 -10 Repurchases/sales -30 Matured -7 Unrealised value change in income statement 19 208 -208 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 79 1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 1 Transfer to level 1 or 2 Carrying amount at end of year 851 13 698 -698 -94 Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2013 Assets where the Liabilities where the Derivatives, Loans to customer bears the customer bears the Issued SEK m Shares net position the public value change risk value change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 708 24 -77 Acquisitions 44 -1 Repurchases/sales -6 Matured -1 -2 Unrealised value change in income statement -30 0 -6 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 38 1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 3 Transfer to level 1 or 2 -8 Carrying amount at end of year 753 18 -84 Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments recognised at cost or amortised cost 2014 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 454 532 454 532 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 750 750 Loans to credit institutions 49 357 525 638 492 575 487 Loans to the public 6 818 52 511 676 996 736 325 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 251 251 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 89 89 Total 511 708 578 238 677 488 1 767 434 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 75 727 136 710 212 437 Deposits and borrowing from the public 709 555 311 455 1 021 010 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 89 89 Issued securities 160 516 476 626 637 142 Subordinated liabilities 34 409 34 409 Total 945 798 959 289 1 905 087 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 181 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P34 Cont. Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments recognised at cost or amortised cost 2013 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 334 794 334 794 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 3 481 3 481 Loans to credit institutions 17 693 460 979 937 479 609 Loans to the public 5 768 30 449 646 914 683 131 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 931 931 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 312 16 328 Total 362 667 491 740 647 867 1 502 274 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 47 866 180 265 228 131 Deposits and borrowing from the public 679 852 134 183 814 035 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 328 328 Issued securities 136 324 390 583 526 907 Subordinated liabilities 17 705 17 705 Total 864 042 723 064 1 587 106 P35 Pledged assets, collateral received and transferred financial assets Assets pledged for own debt SEK m 2014 2013 Cash 21 048 Government instruments and bonds 20 6291 21 853 Loans to the public Shares 232 3 086 Other 316 277 Total 42 225 25 216 Of which pledged assets that may be freely withdrawn by the Bank 27 497 Other pledged assets SEK m 2014 2013 Cash 2 102 702 Government instruments and bonds 25 1852 30 483 Loans to the public 3 702 Shares 4 751 6 482 Other 18 4 012 Total 35 758 41 679 Of which pledged assets that may be freely withdrawn by the Bank 26 788 Other pledged assets refers to collateral pledged for obligations not reported in the balance sheet. Assets received As a component in reverse repurchase agreements and securities loans, the Group has received assets that can be sold or repledged to a third party. The fair value of received assets of this type was SEK 38,562m (34,306) at the end of the ﬁnancial year, where assets worth SEK 5,295m (1,050) had been sold or repledged to a third party. Transferred ﬁnancial assets recognised in the balance sheet 2014 2013 Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying associated Carrying associated SEK m amount liability amount liability Shares, securities lending 1 646 2061 3 641 3 0861 Shares, other 3 337 5 927 Government instruments and bonds, repurchase agreements 196 201 6 685 6 689 Government instruments and bonds, other 57 1 184 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 008 1 008 328 328 Total 6 244 1 415 17 765 10 103 1 Received cash collateral. P36 Contingent liabilities SEK m 2014 2013 Guarantees, loans 10 336 54 386 Guarantees, other 66 172 62 126 Letters of credit 3 733 4 842 Other 230 155 Total 80 471 121 509 Contingent liabilities mainly consisted of various types of guarantees. The nominal amounts of the guarantees are shown in the table. 182 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P37 Other commitments SEK m 2014 2013 Loan commitments 267 134 242 242 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 102 817 101 866 Other 117 119 151 394 Total 487 070 495 502 1 As of 2014, unutilised overdraft facilities which the counterparty does not have at its disposal at the time of recognition are not included and therefore do not give rise to a capital requirement. The comparative ﬁgures have been restated. “Other” includes internal liquidity guarantees to subsidiaries amounting to SEK 102,285m (140,112). Contracted irrevocable future operating lease charges distributed by the year they fall due for payment SEK m 2014 2013 2015 704 694 2016–2019 1 670 1 765 2020 and later 456 556 Total 2 830 3 015 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. P38 Pension obligations Pension obligations SEK m 2014 2013 SEK m 2014 2013 Fair value of plan assets 25 108 23 972 Opening balance 25 234 21 231 Pension obligations 25 615 25 234 Technical fee 452 422 Net pensions1 -507 -1 262 Interest 382 416 Indexation 269 18 Pension obligations are calculated in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Early retirement 208 109 Authority’s regulations, which for the Swedish obligation means in accordance with the Act on Pensions paid -471 -464 Safeguarding Pension Obligations and for foreign obligations in accordance with their corresponding local regulation. Plan assets are held by Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse, Changed assumptions2 0 1 819 Pensionskasssan SHB, Försäkringsföreningen, and similar legal entities regarding commitValue change conditional obligation 863 1 343 ments of the bank branches in the UK, Norway and Germany. During the year a sub-portfolio Additional items retirement pension 0 480 has been moved from Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse to Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening. As a result the obligations of Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse Sub-portfolio movement -1 494 has decreased with SEK 1,494m. As neither the assets of Pensionskassan nor the actuarial Other change in capital value 172 -140 provisions can be allocated to employers with insurances with Pensionskassan, these are not Closing balance 25 615 25 234 included in the plan assets nor the obligations in the table above. The surplus in Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening can be used to cover the deﬁcit in the parent company. The 2 pension obligations are SEK 6,140m (3,557) in the Bank’s pension fund (Pensionskassan Refers to the effect of changed discount rate in accordance with the Swedish Financial SHB, Försäkringsförening) and the market value of the assets is SEK 10,089m (10,141). The Supervisory Authority’s directives. surplus value in Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening is thus SEK 3,949m (6,584). 1 Given that the surplus in Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening can be used to cover Allocation of plan assets the parent company’s pension obligations, a deﬁcit is not recorded as a liability in the balance SEK m 2014 2013 sheet for 2014. Shares 20 340 19 565 Pension costs Interest-bearing securities 4 357 3 489 SEK m 2014 2013 Other plan assets3 411 918 Pensions paid -471 -464 Total 25 108 23 972 Pension premiums -527 -426 In Sweden, a retirement pension is paid from the age of 65 in accordance with the pension Social contributions -11 16 agreement between the Employers’ Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions (BAO) Compensation from own pension trust 540 555 and the Swedish Financial Sector Union/Swedish Confederation of Professional AssociaPayments to own pension trusts -131 -27 tions. The amount is 10% of the annual salary up to 7.5 income base amounts. On the part of the salary between 7.5 and 20 income base amounts, the retirement pension is 65% and Pension cost recognised in the income statement -600 -346 in the interval between 20 and 30 income base amounts, it is 32.5% of the annual salary. No retirement pension is paid on the portion of the salary in excess of 30 income base amounts. The expected payment for next year for deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is SEK 650m. The The value of the pension commitments is calculated annually on the balance sheet date, on costs for pension premiums include premiums to the BTPK plan (deﬁned-contribution penactuarial grounds. sion) of SEK 86m (80). In Norway, retirement pensions are paid from the age of 67. The amount of the pension is partly dependent on the period of service and the ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. The Plan assets retirement pension including the statutory pension is expected to be approximately 70% of the SEK m 2014 2013 ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. In the UK, deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions are paid to employees who were employed before 1 Opening balance 23 972 21 835 January 2006. For employees who started after this date, deﬁned-contribution pensions are Return 1 545 2 665 paid. The normal retirement age is 65. The maximum retirement pension is some 67% of the pensionable salary, which is achieved after 40 years of service. The pensionable salary is Payments to own pension trusts 131 27 limited to a maximum amount which is currently GBP 137,400. Compensation from own pension trust -540 -555 In Sweden, the most important calculation assumptions are mortality and the discount rate. Closing balance 25 108 23 972 The mortality and disount rate assumption follows the assumptions in the Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations. The discount rate is 2% (2%) after tax and assumptions for costs. The Percentage return on plan assets 6% 12% pension obligations in the foreign branches are calculated in accordance with local accounting requirements. SEK 11,970m (11,042) of the fair value of the plan assets in Svenska Handelsbankens 3 Other plan assets include compensation from pension foundation that has not yet been paid Pensionsstiftelse consists of the provisions made in the years 1989–2004 to a special out. supplementary pension (SKP). The obligations include a commitment regarding SKP of the same amount as the fair value of the plan assets. A part of the commitment, SEK 9,518m (8,655), is conditional. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 183 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P39 Assets and liabilities in currencies 2014 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 223 81 932 2 342 97 55 782 312 782 1 374 454 532 Loans to credit institutions 316 920 72 350 60 444 54 914 6 738 54 849 2 374 568 589 Loans to the public 246 820 117 776 119 338 46 912 167 068 26 628 12 941 737 483 of which corporate 201 700 94 255 86 286 27 907 113 903 26 476 11 694 562 221 of which households 45 120 23 521 33 052 19 005 53 165 152 1 247 175 262 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 37 115 6 576 1 080 1 28 597 993 74 362 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 50 924 3 976 3 890 828 34 59 652 Other items not broken down by currency 241 177 241 177 Total assets 893 179 282 610 187 094 101 924 230 416 422 890 17 682 2 135 795 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 39 071 71 539 12 424 15 187 3 922 56 408 11 548 210 099 Deposits and borrowing from the public 442 092 120 325 61 907 30 277 106 728 249 914 9 719 1 020 962 of which corporate 193 758 105 636 44 602 17 609 87 548 247 707 9 423 706 283 of which households 248 334 14 689 17 305 12 668 19 180 2 207 296 314 679 Issued securities 28 620 150 348 2 067 342 77 212 349 888 24 651 633 128 Subordinated liabilities 10 308 18 887 117 977 30 289 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 241 317 241 317 Total liabilities and equity 761 408 361 099 76 398 45 806 187 862 656 327 46 895 2 135 795 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency, net 78 545 -110 649 -56 091 -42 460 233 160 29 291 Net foreign currency position 56 47 27 94 -277 78 25 2013 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 342 48 191 4 263 85 46 585 235 126 202 334 794 Loans to credit institutions 256 800 61 117 55 136 41 214 1 510 55 844 3 819 475 440 Loans to the public 246 168 112 723 120 198 42 815 128 823 24 349 10 296 685 372 of which corporate 203 374 96 502 88 683 24 522 90 189 24 294 9 150 536 714 of which households 42 794 16 221 31 515 18 293 38 634 55 1 146 148 658 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 23 165 6 727 1 137 1 0 21 202 1 553 53 785 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 49 739 5 651 2 667 75 734 77 58 943 Other items not broken down by currency 198 527 198 527 Total assets 774 741 234 409 183 401 84 190 176 918 337 255 15 947 1 806 861 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 32 664 25 769 7 982 14 260 12 490 121 745 11 721 226 631 Deposits and borrowing from the public 421 806 81 255 52 376 32 395 68 467 152 487 5 441 814 227 of which corporate 190 365 68 902 36 967 21 093 59 592 151 289 5 286 533 494 of which households 231 441 12 353 15 409 11 302 8 875 1 198 155 280 733 Issued securities 31 597 154 408 5 190 226 74 753 254 048 12 385 532 607 Subordinated liabilities 10 472 4 427 143 923 15 965 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 217 431 217 431 Total liabilities and equity 713 970 265 859 65 548 46 881 155 710 528 423 30 470 1 806 861 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency, net 31 421 -117 857 -37 267 -21 253 191 178 14 609 Net foreign currency position -29 -4 42 -45 10 86 60 184 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P40 Related-party disclosures Claims on and liabilities to related parties Subsidiaries Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Loans to credit institutions 447 382 377 619 Loans to the public 1 207 1 207 1 186 729 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Derivatives 3 931 8 338 Other assets 9 433 8 725 85 85 565 587 Total 461 953 395 889 1 271 814 565 587 Due to credit institutions 15 418 61 701 Deposits and borrowing from the public 9 072 7 214 178 186 281 334 Issued securities Derivatives 24 430 15 250 0 Subordinated liabilities 701 698 Other liabilities 522 325 56 56 Total 49 442 84 490 178 186 1 038 1 088 Contingent liabilities 53 120 55 907 Derivatives, nominal amount 420 219 475 041 Related parties – income and expense Subsidiaries Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Interest income 5 144 5 406 25 8 0 0 Interest expense -404 -591 -2 -2 -74 -75 Fee and commission income 25 25 5 2 Fee and commission expense 0 -231 -93 -37 -29 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 0 0 Other income 1 973 1 835 0 13 12 Other expenses -405 -438 -2 -2 -55 -45 Total 6 333 6 237 -205 -87 -153 -137 Note P16 contains a speciﬁcation of subsidiaries and associated companies. The associated companies’ operations comprise various types of services related to the ﬁnancial markets. The following companies are included in the group of other related parties: Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse, Svenska Handelsbankens Personalstiftelse and Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening. These companies use Svenska Handelsbanken AB for normal banking and accounting services. Disclosures concerning shareholders’ contributions to Group and associated companies are provided in note P16. On 25 March 2014, Svenska Handelsbanken AB, Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse and Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening made mutual reallocations of their respective shareholdings; the Bank divested several shareholdings and, at the same time, purchased shares in Industrivärden and SCA. Following these transactions, Svenska Handelsbanken AB controls 10.46% of the votes in Industrivärden (7.5% of the capital) and 10.15% of the votes in SCA (2.1% of the capital). These transactions generated a capital gain of SEK 306m for the Bank. All business transactions with associated companies are made on market terms. During the year a sub-portfolio has been moved from Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse to Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening. This is described in detail in note P38. Information regarding loans to executive ofﬁcers, conditions and other remuneration to executive ofﬁcers is given in note G8. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 185 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P41 Capital adequacy Transitional own funds Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment 2013 or prescribed residual amount according SEK m 2014 of regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to Basel II Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital: instruments and reserves Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 5 741 5 799 of which share capital 5 593 5 579 of which convertible securities 148 148 220 Retained earnings 75 629 69 702 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves) 7 096 -771 Funds for general banking risk Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (3) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from CET1 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until January 2018 Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1) Independently reviewed interim proﬁts net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 2 576 5 543 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital before regulatory adjustment 91 043 80 273 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital: regulatory adjustment Additional value adjustments (negative amount) -1 -1 Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative amount) -1 106 -977 Empty set in the EU Deferred tax assets that rely on future proﬁtability excluding those arising from temporary differences (net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) (negative amount) -36 Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash ﬂow hedges -1 197 1 344 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts -1 693 -806 Any increase in equity that results from securitised assets (negative amount) Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing Deﬁned-beneﬁt pension fund assets (negative amount) Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own CET1 instruments (negative amount) -466 0 Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institution designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Empty set in EU Exposure amounts of the following items which qualify for a RW of 1,250%, where the institution opts for deduction alternative -245 of which qualifying holdings outside the ﬁnancial sector (negative amount) of which securitisation positions (negative amount) of which free deliveries (negative amount) Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold, net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) (negative amount) Amount exceeding the 15% threshold (negative amount) of which direct and indirect holdings by the institution of CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has signiﬁcant investments in those entities Empty set in the EU of which deferred tax assets arising from temporary difference Losses for the current ﬁnancial year (negative amount) Foreseeable tax charges relating to CET1 items (negative amount) Regulatory adjustments applied to common equity tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment Regulatory adjustments relating to unrealised gains and losses pursuant to Article 467 and 468 -1 437 -1 080 of which ﬁlter for unrealised loss -1 437 -1 196 Amount to be deducted from or added to common equity tier 1 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR -32 Qualifying AT1 deductions that exceed the AT1 of the institution (negative amount) Total regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 (CET1) -5 900 -1 835 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital 85 143 78 438 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. 186 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Transitional own funds Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment 2013 or prescribed residual amount according SEK m 2014 of regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to Basel II Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital: instrument Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 8 043 8 043 10 602 of which classiﬁed as equity under applicable accounting standards of which classiﬁed as liabilities under applicable accounting standards 8 043 8 043 10 602 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (4) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from AT1 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until 1 January 2018 Qualifying tier 1 capital included in consolidated AT1 capital (including minority interest not included in row 5) issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties of which instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital before regulatory adjustments 8 043 10 602 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital: regulatory adjustments Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own AT1 instruments (negative amount) Holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institution designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Regulatory adjustments applied to additional tier 1 capital in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 585/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amount) Residual amounts deducted from additional tier 1 capital with regard to deduction from common equity tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to article 472 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. material net interim losses, intangibles, shortfall of provisions to expected losses etc. Residual amounts deducted from additional tier 1 capital with regard to deduction from tier 2 capital during the transitional period pursuant to article 475 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. reciprocal cross holdings in tier 2 instrument, direct holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc. Amounts to be deducted from or added to additional tier 1 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Qualifying tier 2 (T2) deductions that exceed the T2 capital of the institution (negative amount) Total regulatory adjustments to additional tier 1 (AT1) capital 0 0 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital 8 043 10 602 Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 93 185 89 040 Tier 2 (T2) capital: instruments and provisions Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 17 860 697 3 881 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (5) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from T2 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until 1 January 2018 Qualifying own funds instruments included in consolidated T2 capital (including minority interest and AT1 instruments not included in rows 5 or 34) issued by subsidiaries and held by third party of which instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out Credit risk adjustments Tier 2 (T2) capital before regulatory adjustment 17 860 3 881 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 187 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P41 Cont. Transitional own funds Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment 2013 or prescribed residual amount according SEK m 2014 of regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to Basel II Tier 2 (T2) capital: regulatory adjustments Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own T2 instruments and subordinated loans (negative amount) Holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institutions designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) of which new holdings not subject to transitional arrangements of which holdings existing before 1 January 2013 and subject to transitional arrangements Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) -1 129 -32 Regulatory adjustments applied to tier 2 in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amounts) 145 Residual amounts deducted from tier 2 capital with regard to deduction from common equity tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to article 472 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. material net interim losses, intangibles, shortfall of provisions to expected losses etc. Residual amounts deducted from tier 2 capital with regard to deduction from additional tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to article 475 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. reciprocal cross holdings in Tier 2 instrument, direct holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc. Amounts to be deducted from or added to tier 2 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Total regulatory adjustments to tier 2 (T2) capital -1 129 113 Tier 2 (T2) capital 16 731 3 994 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 109 916 93 034 Risk weighted assets in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amount) 460 401 435 189 of which additional capital to insurance companies in the Group not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital (residual values according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 15 633 of which deferred tax claims not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital (residual values according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 262 Items not deducted from T2 items (Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 residual amounts) (items to be detailed line by line, e.g. indirect holdings of own T2 instruments, indirect holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities, indirect holdings of signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc.) Total risk-weighted assets 460 401 435 189 Capital ratios and buffers Common equity tier 1 (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 18.5 18.0 Tier 1 (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 20.2 20.5 Total capital (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 23.9 21.4 Institution speciﬁc buffer requirement (CET1 requirement in accordance with Article 92 (1) (a) plus capital conservation and countercyclical buffer requirements plus a systemic risk buffer, plus systemically important institution buffer expressed as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 2.5 of which capital conservation buffer requirement 2.5 of which countercyclical buffer requirement 0.0 of which systemic risk buffer requirement 0.0 of which Global Systemically Important Institution (G-SII) or Other Systemically Important Institution (O-SII) buffer 0.0 Common equity tier 1 available to meet buffers (as a percentage of risk exposure amount) 14.0 [non-relevant in EU regulation] [non-relevant in EU regulation] [non-relevant in EU regulation] Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. 188 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Transitional own funds Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment 2013 or prescribed residual amount according SEK m 2014 of regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to Basel II Capital ratios and buffers Direct and indirect holdings of the capital of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) Direct and indirect holdings of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) 72 [Empty set in the EU] Deferred tax assets arising from temporary difference (amount below 10% threshold, net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) -105 Applicable caps on the inclusion of provisions tier 2 Credit risk adjustments included in T2 in respect of exposures subject to standardised approach (prior to the application of the cap) Cap on inclusion of credit risk adjustments in T2 under standardised approach Credit risk adjustments included in T2 in respect of exposures subject to internal rating-based approach (prior to the application of the cap) Cap for inclusion of credit risk adjustments in T2 under internal ratings-based approach Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 Jan 2013 and 1 Jan 2022) Current cap on CET1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 232 Amount excluded from CET1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 9 780 Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 Current cap on T2 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 5 926 Amount excluded from T2 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 For reporting of the main features of capital instruments, see the publication “Risk and Capital Management – Information according to Pillar 3”. Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. Capital requirement SEK m 2014 2013 Credit risk according to standardised approach 10 221 3 836 Credit risk according to IRB approach 21 941 27 081 Market risk 939 770 Credit valuation adjustment risk (CVA) 534 Operational risk 3 197 3 128 Total capital requirement 36 832 34 815 Adjustment according to Basel 1 ﬂoor 12 317 8 993 Capital requirement, Basel 1 ﬂoor 49 149 43 808 Total capital base, Basel 1 ﬂoor 111 610 94 646 Capital requirement market risks SEK m 2014 2013 Position risk in the trading book 927 756 Interest rate risk 908 745 of which general risk 566 493 of which speciﬁc risk 338 252 of which positions in securitisation instruments 0 1 of which non-delta risk1 4 Equity price risk 19 11 of which general risk 3 3 of which speciﬁc risk 7 6 of which mutual funds 1 2 of which non-delta risk1 8 Exchange rate risk of which non-delta risk1 Commodities risk 8 14 of which non-delta risk1 0 Settlement risk 4 0 Total capital requirement for market risks 939 770 1 Non-delta risks were included in the capital requirement when CRR came into force on 1 January 2014. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 189 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P41 Cont. Capital adequacy analysis 2014 2013 Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRR, % 18.5 18,0 Tier 1 ratio, CRR, % 20.2 20.5 Total capital ratio, CRR, % 23.9 21.4 Risk exposure amount1, CRR, SEK m 460 401 435 189 Own funds in relation to capital requirement according to Basel 1 ﬂoor, % 227 212 Institution-speciﬁc buffer requirement, % 2.5 of which capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 Common equity tier 1 capital available for use as a buffer, % 14.0 1 Called risk-weighted assets in the regulations applying as at 31 December 2013 (Basel II). Credit risk IRB Exposure amount Average risk weight % Capital requirement SEK m 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Corporate exposures 667 183 642 301 31.1 36.3 16 579 18 655 of which repos and securities loans 14 060 8 376 0.4 0.5 5 3 of which other lending, IRB Approach without own estimates of LGD and CCF 139 438 139 862 32.8 35.9 3 664 4 015 of which other lending, IRB Approach with own estimates of LGD and CCF 513 684 494 063 31.4 37 12 911 14 637 Large corporates 148 769 153 531 48.6 52.5 5 782 6 450 Small and medium-sized companies 66 036 65 961 48.1 60.1 2 543 3 172 Property companies 282 575 261 980 19.6 23.1 4 440 4 832 Housing co-operative associations 16 304 12 591 11.2 18.1 147 183 Retail exposures 140 337 132 514 15.8 15.7 1 770 1 667 of which property loans 75 321 61 259 11.6 8.8 698 432 of which other 65 016 71 255 20.6 21.7 1 072 1 235 Small companies 20 857 21 631 31.2 39.4 520 682 Institutional exposures 134 408 100 490 12.4 11.9 1 334 953 of which repos and securities loans 51 433 48 863 1.3 0.8 53 31 of which other lending 82 975 51 627 19.3 22.3 1 281 922 Equity exposures 6 794 51 829 304.2 121.6 1 654 5 043 of which listed equities 5 584 290 1 296 of which other equities 1 209 370 358 Exposures without a counterparty 1 032 978 100 100 82 78 Securitisation positions 269 878 8.8 3.1 2 2 of which traditional securitisation 269 878 8.8 3.1 2 2 of which synthetic securitisation Total IRB 970 879 950 621 28.2 35.6 21 941 27 081 of which repos and securities loans 65 493 57 239 1.1 0.7 57 34 of which other lending, IRB Approach without own estimates of LGD and CCF 230 508 245 174 36.2 51.3 6 682 10 061 of which other lending, IRB Approach with own estimates of LGD and CCF 674 878 648 208 28.2 32.8 15 201 16 986 Capital requirements, Standardised approach1 2014 2013 Exposure Average risk Capital Exposure Average risk Capital SEK m value weight % requirement value weight % requirement Sovereign and central banks 553 001 0.0 4 403 612 0.0 12 Municipalities 29 965 0.1 1 31 115 0.1 2 Multilateral development banks 762 0.0 0 1 647 0.0 0 Institutions 454 716 0.2 76 402 234 0.2 69 Corporate 12 355 80.7 798 23 740 100.0 1 898 Retail 18 591 74.8 1 112 10 277 75.0 617 Property mortgages 58 011 36.3 1 686 35 349 37.9 1 072 Past due items 136 130.3 14 147 137.2 16 Equity exposures 66 571 114.1 6 076 of which listed equities 641 100.0 51 of which other equities 65 930 114.2 6 025 Other items 6 348 89.4 454 2 487 75.5 150 Total Standardised approach 1 200 456 10.6 10 221 910 608 5.3 3 836 1 Details of capital requirements for exposure classes where there are exposures. 190 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 RECOMMENDED APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT AND STATEMENT FROM THE BOARD Recommended appropriation of profit and statement from the Board In accordance with the balance sheet for Handelsbanken, proﬁts totalling SEK 96,947 million are at the disposal of the annual general meeting. The Board recommends that the proﬁt be distributed as follows: Dividend per share paid to the shareholders SEK 17.50, of which SEK 12.50 in ordinary dividend (SEK 16.50 for 2013) 11,124 Balance carried forward 85,823 Total allocated 96,947 When assessing the amount of the company’s proposed dividend, totalling SEK 11,124 million (or a higher amount which may result if more shares are added as a result of the conversion of Handelsbanken’s outstanding 2008 convertible loan, but a maximum of SEK 11,125 million), account has been taken of the nature of operations, their scope, consolidation requirement, risk-taking, liquidity, and the general situation in both the Bank and the rest of the Group. The Board’s assessment is that the above appropriation of proﬁts is prudent and well-adapted to the operations as a going concern. Unrealised changes in assets and liabilities at fair value have affected the equity by SEK 12,365 million net. The Bank’s total capital according to the consolidated situation at the year-end, minus the proposed dividend based on completed conversions and other material changes since the year-end, exceeded the statutory minimum capital requirement by SEK 34,555 million, common equity tier 1 capital exceeded the minimum requirement and the buffer requirement by SEK 50,045 million, and the tier 1 capital by SEK 50,882 million. For the parent company, the total capital exceeded the statutory minimum capital requirement by SEK 62,461 million, common equity tier 1 capital exceeded the minimum requirement and the buffer requirement by SEK 52,914 million, and the tier 1 capital by SEK 54,051 million. We hereby declare that the consolidated accounts were prepared in accordance with international ﬁnancial reporting standards as referred to in the Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards, that the parent company’s annual accounts were prepared in accordance with sound accounting practices for stock market companies, that the annual accounts and consolidated accounts give a fair presentation of the Group’s and the parent company’s ﬁnancial position and performance, and that the statutory administration report provides a fair view of the parent company’s and Group’s operations, ﬁnancial position and performance and describes material risks and uncertainties to which the parent company and other companies in the Group are exposed. STOCKHOLM, 3 FEBRUARY 2015 Fredrik Lundberg Anders Nyrén Sverker Martin-Löf Chairman of the Board Jon Fredrik Baksaas Tommy Bylund Jan Johansson Ole Johansson Bente Rathe Charlotte Skog Pär Boman President and Group Chief Executive H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 191 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity number 502007-7862 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS We have audited the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) for the year 2014, included in the printed version of this document on pages 7–191. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive for the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and for the fair presentation of the consolidated accounts in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and the consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts are free from material misstatements. During the year, the Bank’s internal audit department has continuously examined the internal controls and accounts. We have received the reports that have been prepared. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2014 and of its ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the group as of 31 December 2014 and of its ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows for the year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared. The Board of Directors’ report and the Corporate Governance Report are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet of the parent company and the group. 192 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 AUDITOR’S REPORT REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) for the year 2014. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive are responsible for administration under the Companies Act and the Banking and Financing Business Act. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss, we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, we examined signiﬁcant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive is liable to the company. We also examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Banking and Financing Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, or the Articles of Association. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Opinions We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the proﬁt be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Board of Directors’ report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive be discharged from liability for the ﬁnancial year. Stockholm, 12 February 2015 KPMG AB Ernst & Young AB Stefan Holmström Erik Åström Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 193 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report In this Sustainability Report, Handelsbanken has gathered information about the Bank’s sustainability work, in accordance with guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. For many years, the Bank has reported relationships with our main stakeholders – customers, employees, investors and the community at large – and also how the Bank’s operations have affected the environment. CONTENTS INTRODUCTION Sustainability at Handelsbanken 197 OVERVIEW Key ﬁgures for sustainability work 198 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION Our concept and organisation 200 Handelsbanken’s stakeholders 201 CUSTOMERS Satisﬁed customers 202 EMPLOYEES Skilled staff 204 Conditions and beneﬁts 206 OWNERS Corporate Governance 207 SOCIETY Corporate social responsibility 208 Responsible lending 209 Responsible investments 210 Handelsbanken in the community 213 Economic value creation 214 High ethical standards engender trust 215 The Bank’s environmental activities 216 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 218 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Content and restrictions 220 GRI index 221 EXAMINERS’ REPORT Auditor’s report 223 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report describes how Handelsbanken works with its most important sustainability issues, in relation to its main stakeholders. This is Handelsbanken’s ﬁfth sustainability report prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) 3.0 guidelines for reporting and covers activities and results for the 2014 calendar year. The information refers to the Group unless otherwise stated. Handelsbanken’s reporting meets level C+, which has also been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. See the assurance report on page 223. There is a comprehensive index according to GRI principles on pages 221–222. The report constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Additional information regarding Handelsbanken’s sustainability activities is presented in an expanded GRI supplement, published on Handelsbanken’s website. 196 INTRODUCTION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability at Handelsbanken The Bank’s business opportunities and successes depend on customers, employees, the general public, investors and public authorities having confidence in the Bank. A condition for this confidence is that the Bank’s operations are subject to high ethical standards and responsible actions. DEFINITION The loan loss ratios of a bank are perhaps the fund, asset and pension management, HandelsIn addition to Handelsbanken’s corporate goal clearest indicator when assessing how responbanken endeavours to contribute to sustainable of having higher proﬁtability than the average of sible a bank is.An unhealthy level of household development in economic, environmental and sopeer banks in its home markets, Handelsbanken and corporate debt always hits the customer cial terms in the companies in which we invest, on also aims to act as a responsible institution in the hardest. The latest global ﬁnancial crisis has behalf of our customers. community. It is therefore logical for the Bank to shown that banking operations can – if they are Handelsbanken also examines its major supwork with sustainability issues – often referred to not run in a responsible manner – lead to negapliers’ approach to sustainability. When making as Corporate Social Responsibility – which entail tive consequences for stakeholders and the wider purchases, the Bank must make enquiries as to a voluntary responsibility for how the Bank’s community. Handelsbanken considers it very whether suppliers have collective agreements, operations affect the community from an ecoimportant that the Bank’s lending is responsible, and have policies regarding work environment nomic, social and environmental perspective. and that it is based on a careful assessment of and giving and taking bribes. the customer’s repayment capacity. A weak LONG TRADITION OF TAKING repayment capacity can never be accepted with Financial sustainability RESPONSIBILITY the argument that the customer is prepared to pay The latest global ﬁnancial crisis has clearly shown Sustainability has long been a well-integrated part a high interest rate. The aim of short-term proﬁts that, for a bank, the most fundamental criterion of the Handelsbanken concept of how successfor the Bank must take second place to what can for sustainability is survival. Handelsbanken is ful banking operations can be run in a responsible be considered sustainable in the long term. Tradi– and will continue to be – a bank with stable way. Back in the early 20th century, the managetionally, Handelsbanken has a very low risk tolerﬁnances, which manages without support from ment of the Bank was keen to offer the employance and therefore has low loan losses. the government or central banks, a bank which, ees good terms of employment, including penIn times of ﬁnancial turbulence, it becomes regardless of the situation in the world around sions and paid holiday leave. even clearer that banks which have acted reus, is there for our customers. Handelsbanken For a long time, Handelsbanken has had very sponsibly have a competitive edge, for example is convinced that sustainable long-term growth good relations with the union organisations. In the regarding their opportunities and terms to obtain and shareholder value can only be achieved if the early 1970s, Handelsbanken was a pioneer in giving funding on the international bond market and Bank creates long-term value for its customers at seats on the Bank’s Board to representatives of attracting talented staff. Customers also attach the same time – and for society as a whole. its employees. great importance to the fact that a bank has acted For more than 40 years, Handelsbanken has responsibly. Having funds on an account with a Social sustainability built up a decentralised organisation with a strong secure bank is perceived as an attractive option. One manifestation of social and ethical responsilocal presence where operations are based on bility at Handelsbanken is responsible lending and the customer’s requirements. The results have HOW WE WORK WITH SUSTAINABILITY advice. A long-term commitment permeates our been steadily increasing customer satisfaction Handelsbanken aims to continue being a responwork with no short-term incentive systems. This and since SKI/EPSI started their customer satissible participant in society by, in addition to the is our overall approach in the Bank. For this reafaction surveys in the late 1980s, Handelsbanken legal requirements, taking responsibility for how son no performanceor volume-based bonuses has been at the top. the Bank’s operations affect stakeholders and the occur, or other forms of variable remuneration, for Handelsbanken’s operations are characterised community from an economic, social, ethical and the Bank’s management or for any other employee by long-term stable ﬁnances. This means that environmental perspective. who takes decisions on credits or limits. Nor does Handelsbanken has never needed to seek supSustainability work is completely integrated in the Bank make any budgets, or have any volume port from either the government and tax payers or Handelsbanken’s corporate culture and workor market share targets. central banks in modern times. ing methods and encompasses the whole of Handelsbanken aims to continue to be a the Group’s operations in all markets where the secure, attractive employer where all employees OUR ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT Bank operates. In addition to internal governare happy and enjoy good health. Among other OF OUR OPERATIONS ance documents and guidelines, the Bank is also things, this means that employees have the right Companies can affect their environment in ﬁnana member of the UN initiatives: Global Compact to join a union or employee organisation and that cial, social and environmental terms. Different and Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). the Bank’s work with gender equality and diversectors have varying impact within the various These initiatives are totally in keeping with the valsity will continue. The Bank aims to retain a very areas of responsibility. For example, a bank’s diues, principles and working methods that have low level of external staff turnover. rect environmental impact is fairly limited. In terms applied at Handelsbanken for a long time. of its indirect environmental impact, HandelsHandelsbanken considers sustainability quesEnvironmental sustainability banken’s assessment is that it normally has relations to be very important when granting credits. As far as is technically and ﬁnancially possible, tively little opportunity to affect customers’ behavThe Bank’s credit policy states that when making and to the extent that is compatible with the iour and that customers are fully responsible for credit risk assessments, the customer’s approach Bank’s undertakings, Handelsbanken aims to how their operations are run. However, a fundato human rights, fundamental principles regardpromote long-term sustainable development. mental condition for the Bank’s lending is that the ing work conditions, environmental concerns and A bank’s direct environmental impact is relatively operation is legally compliant and that it fulﬁls all anti-corruption must be taken into account. limited. The Bank measures and takes action to requirements from public authorities in terms of Sustainability issues are also a vital compominimise the carbon dioxide emissions generated environmental and other sustainability matters. nent of responsible asset management. In mutual by its operations. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 197 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Key figures for sustainability work To follow up the sustainability work, the Bank has identified a number of measurable indicators for how our sustainability activities perform over time, and compared them with those of peer companies with similar conditions. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY By being a bank with stable ﬁnances, HandelsCorporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken To promote long-term sustainable development, banken aims to act as a responsible instituis manifested partly in responsible lending and Handelsbanken works to minimise the Bank’s tion and contribute to the development of the advisory services, the aim to have satisﬁed cusdirect and indirect impact on the environment. community. tomers and also be an attractive employer. • The proportion of green electricity is 89 per • For a bank, the most fundamental criterion • Over-aggressive selling of credits which leads cent for the Nordic region as a whole and for sustainability is survival – without taxpayer to an unhealthy level of household and cor99 per cent for Swedish operations. support. Handelsbanken has stable ﬁnances, porate debt always hits the customer hard• In autumn 2014, CDP presented its annual and on no occasion during the most recent est. For many years, Handelsbanken has had report on how the world’s 4,800 largest comﬁnancial crisis did it need to ask for liquidity much lower loan losses than peer players in panies report their emissions, and how they support or capital contributions, either from a the banking sector. In 2014, Handelsbanken’s manage their impact on climate. Handelscentral bank, the state or in the form of a new loan losses were 0.10 per cent (0.07) of lendbanken improved its result to 85 points (81) share issue. ing. Since the onset of the ﬁnancial crisis in out of a possible 100. The average value in • Every year since the early 1970s, Handels2008, the Bank’s loan loss ratio has averaged the CDP Nordic survey was 80 points for the banken has had higher proﬁtability than the 0.10 per cent. This can be compared with 189 respondents. average of peer banks on our home markets. the average ﬁgure for the other major Nordic • For all the Bank’s regional banks in the Nor• Handelsbanken has paid a dividend to its banks over the same period: 0.35 per cent. dic countries, the UK and the Netherlands shareholders for many years in succession, • In 2014, Handelsbanken had the most satand also central units, carbon dioxide (CO2) including every year during the recent period isﬁed customers of the four major banks* in emissions from the operations’ electricity of turbulence on the ﬁnancial markets. Sweden, according to SKI (Swedish Quality consumption totalled 3,663 tonnes in 2014. • By virtue of its proﬁt level over many years, Index). This applied to both private and corEmissions of CO2 for electricity consumption Handelsbanken has been one of the largest porate customers. In Handelsbanken’s other have increased compared with 2013. This is payers of corporate tax in Sweden and is the home markets, the Bank is maintaining its because the Bank’s operations grew in 2014, largest payer to the Swedish Stabilisation strong, stable position as regards customer mainly in the UK, which affects the Bank’s Fund for the ﬁnancial system. satisfaction, according to SKI’s associated electricity consumption. organisation, EPSI Rating. For the Swedish operations, we measure • Handelsbanken is an attractive employer that CO2 emissions for electricity consumption, offers its staff security. External staff turnover transport, business travel and heating/cooling was very low and, excluding retirements and and diesel for properties owned by the Bank deaths, was 3.2 per cent (2.9) in the Group, in Sweden, which totalled 3,702 tonnes of and 2.2 per cent (1.8) in Sweden. CO2 (excluding paper consumption) for 2014. • Total absence due to sickness for staff in Emissions of CO2 in Sweden have gone down Sweden was 2.7 per cent (3.0), with 1.0 per by 10 per cent compared with 2013. cent of this ﬁgure long-term sick leave (1.3). • Starting in 2014, the Bank reports internal use of paper for Sweden, Finland and Norway. * Handelsbanken, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. OVERALL GOALS Return on equity 1973–2014 Corporate goal % Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher profitability than the average of peer 30 banks in its home markets. 25 20 Goal achievement 15 Handelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations was 13.4 per cent (13.9). 10 The corresponding figure for a weighted average of other major Nordic banks 5 was 11.3 per cent (11.4). The corresponding figure for a weighted average of all peer banks in the home markets is estimated at approximately 10 per cent 0 -74 -76 -78 -80 -82 -84 -86 -88 -90 -92 -94 -96 -98 -00 -02 -04 -06 -08 -10 -12 -14 (10.2). This means that for the 43rd consecutive year, Handelsbanken has met -5 its corporate goal. -10 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2002 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. 198 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LOWER LOAN LOSSES MOST SATISFIED CUSTOMERS Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This means that the quality of credits must One way that Handelsbanken aims to achieve its profitability goal is by having more never be neglected in favour of achieving higher volume or a higher margin. satisfied customers than its competitors. The quality and service must therefore at least meet customer expectations, and preferably exceed them. Outcome Loan losses were SEK -1,781 million (-1,195). Loan losses as a proportion of lending Outcome were 0.10 per cent (0.07). The corresponding figure for other major Nordic banks Handelsbanken continued to have the most satisfied customers of the four major was 0.12 per cent (0.15). banks in Sweden, both private and corporate. Handelsbanken also retains its strong and stable position regarding customer satisfaction in the Nordic countries, the UK and the Netherlands. Satisfied customers are proof of the viability of Handelsbanken’s method of working. Loan losses as a percentage of lending Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction 1998–2014 – Private customers 2014 – Corporate customers 2014 % Index Index 1.2 90 90 1.0 80 80 0.8 0.6 70 70 0.4 0.2 60 60 0.0 -0.2 50 50 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands lands Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. SICKNESS ABSENCE LONG-TERM EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Handelsbanken aims for all its employees to enjoy good health, develop on a personal The Bank takes a long-term approach to relations with both customers and level and function in an optimal way. This is a long-term goal that includes factors such employees. It sees each recruitment as important and long term. Employees as clear and honest communication, having the skills and competence and the right with long experience and with broad knowledge from the whole Bank make conditions to perform tasks and deal with work-related situations, having pride and a vital contribution to the Bank having satisfied customers. confidence in one’s work, respecting others, and being respected oneself. Outcome Outcome External staff turnover in Sweden was very low and amounted to 2.2 per cent Total absence due to sickness for staff in Sweden was 2.7 per cent (3.0), of which in Sweden (1.8). those on long-term sick leave represented 1.0 per cent (1.3). Sickness absence rate in Sweden 2010–2014* External staff turnover 2010–2014* % % 5 10 4 8 3 6 2 4 1 2 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. * The proportion of employees who have left externally (excluding retirements and deaths) in relation to the average number of employees. Sweden CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS Outcome To clarify Handelsbanken’s environmental impact and activities, the Bank has opted Carbon dioxide emissions for electricity consumption increased compared to 2013. to report carbon dioxide emissions from electricity consumption in the Nordic counThis is because the Bank’s operations grew in 2014, mainly in the UK, which affects tries for 2009–2014, in the UK for 2011–2014 and in the Netherlands for 2013–2014. the Bank’s energy consumption. Carbon dioxide emissions (CO2 ) tonnes 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Electricity consumption, Nordic region 1, 2, UK 3 and Netherlands 4 3 663 2 971 Electricity consumption, Nordic region 1, 2 and UK 3 3 515 2 846 2 170 3 763 of which electricity consumption, Nordic countries 1, 2 1 568 1 093 767 2 517 4 519 6 568 electricity consumption, Sweden 2 152 83 224 821 2 717 5 071 Heating, cooling, oil, diesel, city gas for own properties, Sweden 992 1 143 1 480 1 466 1 569 1 181 External transport, Sweden 345 398 401 125 128 289 Business travel, Sweden 2 214 2 470 2 261 2 171 2 216 2 417 Business travel by car in Denmark, Finland and Norway 253 Paper consumption external distribution, Sweden 539 Paper consumption, Sweden, Finland and Norway 31 Total reported carbon dioxide emissions 8 036 1 Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland. 2 The recalculation factor applied for emissions of CO2 for non-green electricity in the Nordic countries is residual mix Nordic countries, i.e. electricity where the source cannot be derived. Emissions of CO2 for 2009–2012 have been retroactively recalculated according to residual mix Nordic countries. 3 For the UK, the emission factor is from the report: “2014 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting: Methodology Paper for Emission Factors”. 4 For the Netherlands, the emission factor is from the report “CO2 emissions from fuel combustion: highlights (2013 Edition)”. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 199 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our concept and organisation Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a decentralised working method, a strong local presence due to nationwide branch networks and a long-term approach to customer relations. Handelsbanken primarily grows by opening new branches in locations where the Bank has not previously had operations. Handelsbanken has conducted banking since Management, Merchant Banking International, on the customer’s requirements and are made 1871 and its share is the oldest listed share on Stadshypotek, Forestry & Farming and Retail & by the local branch. Every branch is led by a the Stockholm stock exchange. E-services. Each product owner packages their manager who is solely responsible for all bankHandelsbanken’s goal is to have higher product, while the branch takes responsibility ing business in his/her local area of operations. proﬁtability than the average of peer banks for each individual customer being offered serHandelsbanken’s branch managers have a in its home markets. This goal is mainly to be vices which are adapted to that particular cusvery high degree of independence, as we are achieved by having more satisﬁed customers tomer’s needs and circumstances. convinced that those who work closest to the and lower costs than those of competitors. customer will make the most sensible decisions, MARKETS from the customer’s and from the Bank’s point AVAILABILITY, SIMPLICITY AND CARE Handelsbanken offers ﬁnancial products and serof view. This mandate to take the important We put a great deal of effort into being available vices in its six home markets: Sweden, the UK, business decisions on the spot with the cusfor our customers and this is a major compoDenmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. tomer is a sound basis for successful customer nent in Handelsbanken’s method of banking. We In the UK, the Bank now has 178 branches. meetings. Our customers meet the person who don’t close branches – instead we open new During the year, it opened a ﬁfth regional bank, will make the decision, not a messenger. ones. In Sweden, Handelsbanken Direkt Personwith its head ofﬁce in Leeds, and the Bank conThe branches’ independence gives them a al Service is always open 24 hours a day, 365 tinues to grow in the UK. very strong local presence, with long-term cusdays a year. We constantly strive to develop and We also opened new branches in the Nethertomer relationships. No one has better knowimprove our meeting-places and to increase the lands in 2014, and at the end of the year had 20 ledge of the speciﬁc demands applying in the level of availability for customers. This applies at branches there. local market than the local branch. This is why the our branches, online, and at new digital meetingHandelsbanken has a nationwide branch netBank does not normally use central marketing places, such as services in the form of apps (mowork in its home markets, organised into one or plans or advertising campaigns. Handelsbanken bile applications) for mobile phones and tablets. more regional banks in each country. has consistently and successfully applied this deWhen a customer contacts us, the meeting Handelsbanken currently has more than 830 centralised working method for many years. should be simple and unbureaucratic. For examofﬁces in 24 countries, including 815 branches ple, we aim to have the same range of services in our six home markets. ORGANISATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY in our various meeting-places. This means that Handelsbanken’s Board has decided on the the customer can do the same type of business GROWTH MODEL Bank’s policy in a number of central sustainabilwith the Bank regardless of how they contact For Handelsbanken to achieve and retain high ity issues. the Bank. proﬁtability, growth is also necessary. The Bank Handelsbanken has a committee for susIn everything it does, the Bank aims to creprimarily grows by opening new branches in tainability matters which was formed in 2010. ate the best possible conditions for successful locations where it has not previously had opThe chairman of the committee is an Executive meetings with customers. The Bank creates, erations. In this way, Handelsbanken grows Vice President and member of Senior Managemaintains and develops strong, long-term cuscustomer by customer, branch by branch. This ment with overall responsibility for ensuring that tomer relationships through these meetings. method of working and of achieving growth has Handelsbanken identiﬁes and addresses the We always focus on the customer’s needs proved successful in an increasing number of sustainability matters of relevance to the Bank. and our aim is that they should feel that our serlocations and in an increasing number of counThe committee comprises representatives from vice is caring. tries. This organic growth model means that branches in Sweden, branches outside the Handelsbanken can achieve growth, coupled Bank’s home markets, Handelsbanken Capital PRODUCTS AND SERVICES with low risk and good cost control. Markets, and representatives from the central Handelsbanken has a full range of products functions for Communications, Investor Relaand services to meet all the ﬁnancial needs and DECENTRALISED ORGANISATION tions, IT, Credits and Personnel. The committee wishes of its customers. Responsible for this FOCUSING ON THE CUSTOMER met nine times during the year. range are product specialists in the Bank’s busiAll business decisions that affect the individual ness areas: Pension & Life, Markets & Asset customer’s relationship with the Bank are based Central Central business departments and Regional areas and Branches CUSTOMER administrative head ofﬁces product owners functions This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working can best be depicted by an arrow where all the operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the proﬁtability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of central business areas where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head ofﬁce also has administrative functions and specialist departments with overarching responsibility for various functions at the Bank. 200 H A N D E L SB ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Handelsbanken’s stakeholders Many private individuals, organisations and companies are affected by how Handelsbanken acts in various matters. For Handelsbanken, corporate social responsibility means living up to the reasonable expectations of these stakeholders and acting so that their confidence in the Bank is maintained. Handelsbanken’s principal stakeholders are our Employees The Bank’s Investor Relations unit provides customers, employees, shareholders and bond All employees participate and are active in their investors, analysts, rating agencies and other investors, as well as the community at large. own unit’s business planning every year. This capital market players with information regardThis includes the supervisory authorities in the is followed by the individual planning dialogues ing Handelsbanken’s operations and ﬁnancial countries where the Bank operates. and performance reviews which are the link beperformance. tween the goals of the business operations and CONTINUOUS DIALOGUE the goals of the employee. The result is an action Attendance at AGMs 2010–2014 It is important that the Bank keeps itself upplan which is followed up regularly during the year No. % to-date concerning the wishes and requireand then forms the basis of an annual salary dia1 800 100 ments that various stakeholders have as relogue review between employee and manager. gards Handelsbanken. Therefore the Bank has 1 500 80 a continuous dialogue with its customers, staff, Shareholders 1 200 shareholders and investors, as well as with auHandelsbanken’s shareholders are those who 60 thorities and other public organisations. ultimately decide about the Bank’s governance. 900 The shareholders exercise their right to decide 40 600 Customers on matters relating to the company at general The most important dialogue occurs at the meetings of shareholders. Here, individual share20 300 thousands of meetings with customers that take holders have the opportunity to put questions to 0 0 place daily at over 830 ofﬁces and by phone and the Bank’s Board and senior management. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 by email. Shareholders show great interest in the No. of shareholders Proportion of votes By being responsive to customers’ requests Bank’s AGMs. In the past ﬁve years, shareholdpresent/represented and questions, Handelsbanken can provide aners representing more than 50 per cent of the swers and meet the customers’ expectations. votes in the Bank have participated. Society Handelsbanken has a continuous dialogue with supervisory authorities, central banks, regulatory bodies, etc., as well as with governments and The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is parliaments, in Sweden, the EU and other counallocated over various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. tries. The Bank also has continuous contact Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) with non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders SEK bn 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Customers Income after loan losses and before fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 37.7 36.2 34.9 33.1 30.4 RS TO CU Value created by serving customers 37.7 36.2 34.9 33.1 30.4 VES ST N ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE OWN S ER Employees ER M S/ O Salaries 7.6 7.1 6.9 6.7 6.4 I Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation 0.8 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 Payroll charges, pensions and other staff costs 3.4 3.2 3.3 2.3 2.3 Cost of employees 11.8 11.4 11.2 9.9 9.5 Public authorities and society at large ES SO YE Suppliers incl. non-deductible VAT* 5.6 5.7 5.5 5.5 5.5 CI ET O Tax costs** 4.1 3.9 3.0 4.4 4.0 Y PL Fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.1 0.6 EM Government bank support received Participation in government guarantee programmes/central bank support To society 10.9 10.7 9.6 11.0 10.1 All stakeholders have expectations of Handelsbanken. What they have in common is that they Shareholders all wish the Bank to be stable, and responsive to Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 10.5 6.8 6.1 5.6 5.0 their wishes. How well the Bank manages to live New share issue up to these expectations has an impact on the Transactions with the shareholders 10.5 6.8 6.1 5.6 5.0 continued success of Handelsbanken. Reinvested economic value (“remaining in the Bank”) 4.5 7.3 8.0 6.6 5.8 * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. ** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 201 CUSTOMERS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Satisfied customers For Handelsbanken, the starting point is always meeting the individual customers’ requirements. In this way we build a trusting, long-term relationship with every customer. Every year, SKI (Swedish Quality Index) and EPSI Rating carry out independent surveys of customer satisfaction, including in the banking sector. For the 26th year running,* customers rated Handelsbanken highest compared with the three other major banks in Sweden. Handelsbanken always aims for all important This is a unique service since it is staffed by procustomers attach great importance to whether business decisions to be taken as close to the fessional bank ofﬁcers who help customers out banks act in a responsible manner – for example customer as possible. This contributes to better by phone, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. by maintaining branch presence in towns, and meetings with customers, better decisions and In addition to personal service, we work all not closing down branches. more satisﬁed customers. In everything it does, the time to improve our digital meeting-places the Bank aims to create the best possible conwhere customers can do most of their bankditions for successful meetings with customers. ing transactions such as paying bills, transferBy gaining its customers’ trust, Handelsbanken becomes their natural choice. ring money, seeing balances and card transactions, buying and selling mutual fund units and reviewing their mutual fund savings directly via a mobile phone or tablet device. There are apps “ In Sweden, Handelsbanken has the most (mobile applications) for Android, iPhone, iPad satisfied customers, in “ By gaining its customers’ trust, Handelsbanken and Windows Phone. But customer responsibility is always with the local branch, regardless of the meeting-place the customer chooses. At terms of the banking becomes their natural Handelsbanken, all contact paths lead to the local branch. sector as a whole. ” choice. ” SATISFIED CUSTOMERS IN OUR HOME MARKETS Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction surveys to be very important. Every year, In the UK, Handelsbanken continued to have the most satisﬁed private and corporate customers. The result also shows that customer satisfaction ALWAYS INCREASE AVAILABILITY SKI (Swedish Quality Index) and its associated is higher than the average for the sector. An important starting-point for having satisﬁed organisation EPSI Rating carry out independIn Denmark, Handelsbanken had the most customers is to constantly increase our availent surveys of customer satisfaction. This year’s satisﬁed private and corporate customers, and ability, to be there for our customers, whenever surveys showed that Handelsbanken has more thus the Bank retains its No.1 position for anand wherever they need us. We don’t close satisﬁed private customers than the average other year. branches – instead we open new ones. We for the banking sector in each of the Bank’s six In Finland, too, the Bank has the most satisalso develop a new type of physical meetinghome markets. ﬁed private and corporate customers. place that is linked to the local branch ofﬁce in In Sweden, Handelsbanken has the most The results in Norway showed that Handelslocations where customers can meet the Bank satisﬁed customers, in terms of the banking banken has more satisﬁed private customers when it suits them. sector as a whole. Handelsbanken also gains than the average for the Norwegian banking When the branches are closed, Handelsthe highest ratings when it comes to acting sector. Among corporate customers, satisfacbanken Direkt Personal Service is always open. responsibly, as the survey also shows that tion is on a par with the sector average. Customer satisfaction – Private customers 2014 Customer satisfaction – Corporate customers 2014 Index Index 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands lands * According to SKI (Swedish Quality Index), since surveys Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average started in 1989, Handelsbanken has had the most satisﬁed private customers among the four major Swedish banks – Source: SKI/EPSI Source: SKI/EPSI Handelsbanken, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. 202 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CUSTOMERS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and change banks to a lesser extent. This leads HANDLING OF CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS to lower costs for the Bank which in turn creates Handelsbanken takes customer complaints “ To sum up, these independent surveys of custhe right conditions for more competitive prices to customers. In Swedish Quality Index’s (SKI) and EPSI’s annual surveys, loyalty, too is a key result linked very seriously and has well-established procedures for handling these cases. We attach great importance to handling opinions and complaints that come in to the Bank in a manner which intomer satisfaction are to customer satisfaction. There is a positive spires conﬁdence. connection between customer satisfaction and Complaints must be dealt with in the ﬁrst proof of Handelsbanken’s loyalty. Loyalty reﬂects whether customers inplace by the responsible branch, with the attentend to remain with their bank, in what terms tion that each case requires. If the customer success in working they talk about their bank, and whether they wishes to pursue the matter, there is a designated would recommend their bank to other people. complaints ofﬁcer in each regional bank. In consistently and conIn addition to the fact that Handelsbanken’s addition, there are complaints ofﬁcers at Group customers are very satisﬁed, the results for level who regularly report to Senior Managetinuously with building 2014 show that they are also very loyal. In all ment, regional banks and product owners. up long-term customer home markets, it can be seen that loyalty is considerably higher than for the average of the secInformation about complaints management at the Bank is easily available at handelsbanken.com. relationships. ” tor. This also applies to markets where Handelsbanken can be regarded as a major player, which must be considered unique. In the Netherlands, surveys showed that the Bank’s customers are considerably more satisﬁed than the average for the sector. This applies REPUTATION According to the TNS Sifo Reputation Index for 2014, based on public opinion, Handelsbanken “ In all home markets, it can be seen that loyalty to both private and corporate customers. is one of the ten companies in Sweden with the is considerably higher To sum up, these independent surveys of best reputation, regardless of the sector surcustomer satisfaction are proof of Handelsveyed. The Bank’s index score of 56 can be than for the average of banken’s success in working consistently and compared with those of the other three major continuously with building up long-term customer relationships. Swedish banks, which are between 29 and 42. According to the survey, Handelsbanken is perceived, among other things, to have high the sector. ” LOYAL CUSTOMERS ethical and moral standards, to show civic reIt is just as important to have loyal customers as sponsibility, and to be a good workplace; these satisﬁed customers. This offers many advantagare important factors inﬂuencing Handelses, for example, that customers are dissatisﬁed banken’s reputation in terms of sustainability. Loyalty – Private customers 2014 Loyalty – Corporate customers 2014 Index Index 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands lands Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI Source: SKI/EPSI H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 203 EMPLOYEES | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Skilled staff At Handelsbanken, we constantly strive for our corporate culture, with its decentralised work method and belief in the individual, to permeate our operations. This applies no matter where in the world Handelsbanken opens new branches. In 2014, Handelsbanken had 11,692 employees, working in 24 countries, almost 37 per cent of whom were employed outside Sweden. HANDELSBANKEN RECRUITS PEOPLE the basis of the PLUS performance dialogue, recruited internally. In 2014, 100 per cent (98) WHO SHARE THE BANK’S BASIC VALUES which every employee has with his/her line of all managers in Sweden were recruited interAbove all, working at Handelsbanken is about manager at least once a year. After this, each nally. For the Group as a whole, the correspondrelationships with other people. Without the right employee puts together an action plan setting ing ﬁgure is 93 per cent (90), including markets staff, it does not matter how good the products out the goals to be attained and the conditions where the Bank established operations relatively or services are. So when we recruit new emnecessary for this. The employee has a salary recently. ployees, we always seek people who share the dialogue review with his/her line manager, based One of the most vital tasks for managers at Bank’s basic values. We want our employees to on a follow-up of the action plan carried out. the Bank is to identify, encourage and develop be driven by putting the customer ﬁrst, to enjoy new managers. taking a large amount of individual responsibility, INTERNAL LABOUR MARKET AND and to want to take their own initiatives. MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION LOCAL ACCEPTANCE Handelsbanken’s strong corporate culture and In the Bank’s home markets – with few excepHANDELSBANKEN’S STUDENT values are vital to the Bank’s success. Due to tions – managers and employees are locally PROGRAMME the Bank’s decentralised working methods, employed. It is important that those who work at Handelsbanken in Sweden offers students from employees take a large amount of personal rebranches have natural links to and good knowupper secondary school who plan to study at unisponsibility, are given a mandate to take their ledge of the town and local market. versity the opportunity to participate in the Bank’s own decisions and are driven by focusing on At the year-end, in the home markets, 95 per Student Programme alongside their studies. The the customer. Internal mobility helps to spread cent of executive ofﬁcers, who at Handelsbanken purpose is to attract and recruit young employees the working method and culture throughout the are Executive Directors in the parent company as part of the Bank’s future management succesBank, by transferring skills and experience acand chief executives and deputy chief executives sion, and to promote gender equality and diverquired to the employee’s new tasks. This means in subsidiaries, were locally employed. sity. The programme comprises working at the that internal recruitment and long-term employBank during their studies, their own action plan ment are important. To retain an employee, the FOR GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY and relevant studies for development at Handelsright conditions must exist for work developThe work towards equality at Handelsbanken banken. Just over 100 of the Bank’s employees ment, as well as a variety of career opportunities continues, and this year the Bank began the are participating, or have participated, in the Stu– and consideration must be taken of the stage work of increasing the focus on diversity in a dent Programme since its inception in 2011. of life that she or he is in. Employees who are sewider perspective. The Bank aims to broaden its cure and happy, and have long and broad experecruitment base, to become, to an even greater CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT rience of the whole Bank, give good service and extent, a bank that reﬂects the community in The Bank’s strength is derived from the combined create long-term customer relationships. This which it operates. Initiatives have been taken expertise of its employees. The most important makes a vital contribution to the Bank having in several parts of the Group to increase knowsource of increased professionalism is learnsatisﬁed customers. The Handelsbanken Group ledge and awareness of diversity. At Handelsing in your daily work, where all employees are continues to have very low external staff turnbanken, it is a question of beneﬁting from the responsible for constant development – their over. In 2014, the ﬁgure was 3.2 per cent (2.9). whole of the Bank’s potential, and is a vital condiown and that of the operations. Managers at Handelsbanken must be exemption for remaining a successful, proﬁtable bank. Therefore, all employees participate in drawlary ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate culDiversity encompasses various individuals’ ing up their own unit’s business plan. This forms ture, which explains why most managers are different skills and work experience, different The Wheel – the relationship between the Bank’s operations and the employee’s development. Age and gender distribution 2014 Age Men Women Business plan 65– process 60–64 Business planning 55–59 Salary 50–54 dialogue PLUS 45–49 review CUSTOMER 40–44 35–39 30–34 25–29 Individual Action follow-up planning 20–24 –19 1 400 1 200 1 000 800 600 400 200 0 200 400 600 800 1 000 1 200 1 400 Number of employees 204 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 EMPLOYEES | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ways of thinking and solving problems, and difto provide support for managers so that they term goal that includes factors such as clear ferent characteristics, appearance, behaviour have been able to take salary-setting decisions and honest communication, having the skills and life situations. Diversity also encompasses independently. and competence and the right conditions to differences such as gender, transgender idenIn 2014, the Bank, together with union repperform tasks and deal with work-related situtity or expression, age, ethnicity, sexual orientaresentatives, carried out a separate survey to ations, having pride and conﬁdence in one’s tion, disability, religion, or any other grounds for identify any remaining differentials. The survey work, respecting others, and being respected discrimination. was carried out with the aid of tools that indicate oneself. statistical and structural differences, and is sepAll employees are responsible for creating a An even more equal Handelsbanken arate from the previous review in conjunction positive work environment at Handelsbanken. In Handelsbanken’s gender equality goal is to with individual salary dialogues. co-operation with staff and employee representbe a company where men and women have The result of the past few years’ work has atives, managers must develop a healthy and the same opportunities, chances and power been that pay differentials have decreased, and safe workplace in accordance with the Bank’s to shape the Bank and their own professional there is a strong basis for the effect to be a lastwork environment goal. career. In all countries where Handelsbanken ing one. In Sweden, managers with delegated work operates, the Bank must produce a gender environment responsibility must, together with equality plan to support the Group’s equality work environment representatives and employgoals. The gender equality plan is to be based ees, compile a work environment status report on Handelsbanken’s fundamental values and the laws and guidelines applying in the country. At the year-end, 45 per cent (44) of the Bank’s managers in Sweden were women. The “ Managers at Handelsbanken must be exemat least once a year. This includes the employees’ physical and psychosocial environment. The results are discussed within each unit at the Bank, and any measures decided upon must be proportion of women among the total number of plary ambassadors for integrated into the business plan. employees in Sweden was 54 per cent (54). Health promotion and work environment acIn the Group as a whole, 37 per cent (38) the Bank’s corporate tivities are components of the long-term proof managers were women. The proportion of cess, called Sustainable Health, to create the women among the total number of employees culture, which explains conditions for good physical and mental health in the Group was 51 per cent (52). in the workplace. The Bank’s work with gender equality is conwhy most managers are In connection with crisis situations, for many tinuing, with various measures aimed at making years, Handelsbanken has had a support proHandelsbanken an even more gender-equal company. Training is carried out within the organisation in order to increase awareness of how social recruited internally. ” gramme with the help of external partners. Employees are offered a wide choice and large number of subsidised group and individand cultural norms affect attitudes and behaviour The collaboration between the Bank and the ual healthcare and health promotion activities. in everyday life. In Sweden there is an interactive trade unions is a vital condition for systematic, Handelsbanken also has its own sports assotraining course aimed at all employees. This has goal-oriented gender equality work. And as an ciation. Dating back to 1919, with 4,300 membeen designed in collaboration with the union orafﬁrmation of this, Handelsbanken has received bers, the association is one of the largest of its ganisation and its purpose is to create a dialogue external gender equality awards on several kind in Sweden. and provide the tools for analysis and action from occasions. To stimulate interest in art and crafts the a gender equality perspective. In Denmark, trainIncidents of discrimination concerning the Bank also has an Art Association with just over ing courses have been run for all managers at Bank’s employees are normally managed in 3,600 members. It is the largest art association both branches and internal departments. In the the operations through the local personnel in Sweden. UK, seminars for regional bank management functions, but cases reported to the national teams and personnel functions have been organdiscrimination ombudsman or correspondSTAFF MAGAZINE ised, as part of the process of integrating gender ing ofﬁcial body are followed up at Group level. Handelsbanken’s staff magazine, Remissan, equality plans into annual business planning. No such cases were reported in 2014. started in 1948 and is a publication which is made by and for the employees of the Bank. Separate salary mapping completed WORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH Remissan’s task is to create a sense of comIn the past few years in Sweden, the Bank, Handelsbanken’s overall goal with its work envimunity, belonging and commitment among together with trade unions, has worked to rectify ronment work focuses on employees enjoying the employees, and to reﬂect Handelsbanken’s unwarranted pay differentials between women good health, developing on a personal level and culture throughout the Group. The magazine is and men. Joint events have been organised, functioning in an optimal way. This is a longpublished in Swedish and English. Average number of employees 2010–2014 12 000 Sickness absence rate in Sweden 2014 2013 10 000 % Men Women Total Men Women Total 8 000 Aged 29 or younger 1.3 3.1 2.3 1.2 2.8 2.1 Aged 30–49 1.5 3.3 2.5 1.5 3.2 2.5 6 000 Aged 50 or older 2.1 3.8 3.0 2.5 5.8 4.3 Total sickness absence 1.7 3.5 2.7 1.8 4.0 3.0 4 000 of which long-term absence 0.4 1.4 1.0 0.6 1.9 1.3 2 000 Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. Long-term absence is a period of absence 0 of 60 days or more. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Other countries H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 205 EMPLOYEES | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Conditions and benefits Handelsbanken aims to be an attractive employer. In addition to the laws, regulations and agreements which the Bank follows, we also offer various types of competitive benefits, for both permanent and temporary employees in the Group. AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER convertible bond offered new employees, as 98 per cent of the Group’s employees are now Collective bargaining agreements are the foundawell as those who have been with the Bank a covered by Oktogonen. The proﬁt-sharing tion of the conditions the Bank offers to both temlong time, a further opportunity to beneﬁt from scheme is long-term, as payments cannot be porary and permanent employees. At Handelsthe value created jointly by the staff and to parmade until the year the employee turns 60. banken, we have individual salaries which are ticipate in the Bank’s future development. HoldOne of the fundamental concepts in managdecided in the salary dialogue review between ers may call for conversion to shares in 2019. ing the foundation is that the funds are invested managers and employees. Handelsbanken aims Employees were also offered the opportunity to in shares in Handelsbanken. to be an attractive employer and wishes to meet subscribe for convertibles in 2008 and 2011. For many years, the proﬁt-sharing foundation its employees’ need for beneﬁts at various phases Subscription for convertibles is entirely on marhas been one of the Bank’s largest shareholders, of their life in a ﬂexible way. Conditions and beneket terms with no subsidy; the rate of participaand Oktogonen has two representatives on the ﬁts differ within the Group and are adapted to the tion in the Bank’s convertible programmes is Handelsbanken Board. Thus, the employees are market where the Bank operates and the collecuniquely high compared with other companies also able to inﬂuence the Bank at Board level. tive agreements which have been entered into. where subscription is on similar terms. RELATIONS WITH THE UNION PENSIONS AND OTHER CONDITIONS All employees of Handelsbanken have the right Handelsbanken aims to be an attractive employer. to organise and join a union or employee organiThe Bank therefore offers various types of competitive beneﬁts, for both permanent and temporary employees of the Group. Pensions are part of the total remuneration “ Handelsbanken’s traditional good relationship sation. Handelsbanken’s traditional good relationship with unions is a valuable component of the Bank’s culture. All employees in Denmark, Finland, France, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden to employees of Handelsbanken. The pension with unions is a valuable and Austria, comprising almost 82 per cent of terms in the countries where the Bank pursues the Bank’s employees, are covered by collecits operations must be competitive and adapted component of Handelstive bargaining agreements. In these countries, to legislation and regulations, in accordance with employees who are not members of a union the local conditions prevailing in each country. An occupational pension plan can include a retirement pension, disability pension and surbanken’s culture. ” are also covered by the terms of the collective agreement. The number of employees has increased in countries which traditionally have a viving family member protection. The pension low rate of membership of collective bargaining solutions which can be offered to employees OKTOGONEN – THE BANK’S agreements. For this reason, the proportion of of Handelsbanken are deﬁned beneﬁt, deﬁned PROFIT-SHARING SCHEME employees who are covered by a collective barcontribution or a combination of the two. A condition for achieving the Bank’s ﬁnancial gaining agreement has fallen slightly. Handelsbanken also aims to make it easier goal of better proﬁtability than the average of Various matters in Sweden, such as organisafor both men and women to combine employpeer banks in its home markets is that employtional changes, are regulated in Handelsbanken’s ment with parenthood. The Bank subsidises ees outperform their peers in the rest of the secco-determination agreement with the Financial home and family services for employees in tor. The Board thus considers it reasonable that Sector Union of Sweden’s local bodies and in the Sweden who have children under the age of employees receive a share of any extra proﬁts. collective agreement between the Employers’ 12. In addition to current social insurance reguEvery year but two since 1973, the Board has Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions lations for parental leave, in most of its home decided to allocate part of the Bank’s proﬁts to a (BAO) and the Swedish Association of Graduates markets, Handelsbanken provides remuneraproﬁt-sharing scheme for employees. The funds in Business Administration and Economics and tion in accordance with local regulations. Taken are managed by the Oktogonen Foundation. the Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers, together, this means that parents receive 80 to Allocations are subject to the Handelsbanken which are afﬁliated to the Swedish Confederation 100 per cent of their salaries over a limited periGroup achieving its goal of higher return on of Professional Associations (SACO). od. Employees who take parental leave have the equity than a weighted average of comparable There is an ongoing dialogue between union same right to salary development as other staff. listed Nordic, UK and Dutch banks. If this is satrepresentatives and managers concerning In the Bank’s home markets, employees are isﬁed, one third of the extra proﬁts can be allooperations – such as when changes and new offered credits on special terms. These credits cated to the employees. The allocated amount services are to be launched – where valuable are mainly granted for housing purposes. The is limited to ten per cent of the dividends to information is exchanged at the very early stages. terms differ between countries depending on shareholders. If the Bank reduces the dividend As well as matters which are dealt with in a the local conditions. In certain countries, it is a paid to its shareholders, no allocation can be dialogue with the union organisations in each taxable beneﬁt. Other examples of beneﬁts are made to the foundation. All employees receive country, Handelsbanken’s European Work insurance, staff or company cars and various an equal part of the allocated amount, regardCouncil (EWC) functions as a forum for joint and health promotion beneﬁts. less of their position and work tasks, and the cross-border questions within the Handelsscheme includes all employees in the Bank’s banken Group. The EWC consists of representCONVERTIBLE AIMED AT EMPLOYEES home markets. In recent years, employees in atives from nine countries: Denmark, Finland, During the year the Bank issued a convertible Hong Kong, Luxembourg, Poland, Singapore Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, subordinated bond aimed at its employees. The and Taipei have also been included. the UK, Sweden and Germany. 206 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 OWNERS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Governance Corporate governance concerns how rights and obligations are allocated among the Bank’s bodies, in accordance with prevailing laws and regulations. Corporate governance also encompasses systems for decision-making, and the structure through which owners control the Bank, directly and indirectly. Handelsbanken’s corporate governance report internal document called Our Way, which sets must be in place, and compliance with these is based on a shareholder perspective. There out the Bank’s goals, business concept and procedures is monitored regularly. are, however, also other stakeholders with an working method. All employees receive a perThe compliance function has the function interest in Handelsbanken’s corporate governsonal copy of Our Way. responsibility for compliance, and provides ance, upon whose conﬁdence the Bank is deHandelsbanken’s strong corporate culture advice and support in regulatory matters. Interpendent. These include customers, employees, is of major importance in the governance of nal control and compliance work are subject to shareholders, bond investors and the commuthe Bank. It permeates and works in paralinternal and external risk-based auditing. nity at large. lel with the principles, strategies, limits and Handelsbanken has an established system target ﬁgures stated in policy documents and for whistleblowing. instructions. One way in which the Handelsbanken Board “ The Bank has a decentralised working methexercises its governance of the Bank is by issuing policies and instructions. The CEO also exercises his governance by issuing various policy documents. The CEO compiles instruc“ The Bank’s corporate culture, working method with a high degree tions for the managers who report directly to him, and issues guidelines, some of which proods and fundamental of autonomy extending vide more detailed directions to complement and clarify the Board’s policies. Based on these, view of people are throughout the organithe Board takes decisions on the Bank’s policy in a number of central sustainability issues, in based on sustainable sational structure.” particular by adopting ethical guidelines for the Handelsbanken Group. These relate to, for example, matters such as economic crime, relations with customers, conﬂicts of interest, conﬁvalues. ” PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE dentiality and the environment. GOVERNANCE AT HANDELSBANKEN The Bank’s corporate culture, working methHandelsbanken has developed a strong corpoInternal control ods and fundamental view of people are based rate culture for how the Bank’s work should be The responsibility for internal control and the on sustainable values. It is therefore natural in carried out. The Bank has a decentralised workBank’s compliance is an integral part of manthe planning and development review (PLUS) ing method with a high degree of autonomy exagers’ responsibility at all levels in the Bank. with managers, to have a discussion concerntending throughout the organisational structure. This responsibility means that ﬁt-for-purpose ing responsible business, proﬁtability through This corporate culture is described in detail in an instructions and procedures for the operation high customer satisfaction and the ability to lead employees. SELECTION OF POLICY DOCUMENTS ESTABLISHED BY THE BOARD: • Credit policy • Policy for operational risks • Capital policy • Financial policy • Policy for ﬁnancial risks • Information policy • Ethical guidelines • Policy for conﬂicts of interest and measures against bribery and improper inﬂuence • Policy for remuneration and suitability assessment • Policy for independent risk control • Policy for compliance More information • Policy on measures against money laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism and the observance For more information, please see the Bank’s full of international sanctions Corporate Governance Report, which can be • Policy for responsible investment (established by the asset management unit) found on pages 49–65 of the Annual Report. • Policy for handling customer complaints More information about Handelsbanken’s corporate governance is available at A SELECTION OF CODES OF CONDUCT IN THE PERSONNEL AREA: handelsbanken.se/ireng. This includes the • Personnel policy following information: • Guidelines for alcoholand drug-related matters • Previous corporate governance reports from • Guidelines for handling suspected addiction to gambling 2007 onwards • Guidelines for the prevention of victimisation at work • Articles of association • Guidelines for the prevention of sexual harassment • Information about the nomination committee • Guidelines regarding bribery and improper inﬂuence • Information from shareholders’ meetings from • Environmental policy 2008 onwards. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 207 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken is manifested in responsible lending and advisory services, as well as our efforts to have satisfied customers and be an attractive employer. The actual words corporate social responsibility guidance on ﬁnancing, payments or investUN’s Global Compact, cementing the Bank’s well reﬂect the strong social and ethical aspects ments that is adapted to each customer’s reexpressed support for universal human rights. of a responsibly run banking operation. While quirements. This means that the Bank strives to support and the Bank’s environmental impact is relatively When providing investment advice, the prorespect the protection of human rights within limited, the Bank can make a major difference in posal is adapted to the customer’s goals, savthe area which the Bank can inﬂuence. It also terms of social responsibility towards customings horizon and attitude to risk. The customer’s means that the Bank ensures that it is not iners, employees and taxpayers. The most recent knowledge and understanding of the speciﬁc volved in any breach of human rights. ﬁnancial crisis showed that unless a bank acts risks related to each type of ﬁnancial instrument, in a responsible manner, it is not only the bank’s as well as the customer’s investment experiTHE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER shareholders that run the risk of being adversely ence, are also taken into account. Handelsbanken has a long-term view of its relaaffected, but customers, employees and taxThe regulations require that all employees tionship with its employees, and we believe that payers too. who provide customers with ﬁnancial advice the individual’s will and ability is the foundation concerning investments and insurance have of the Bank’s corporate culture. Since people LOW LOAN LOSSES relevant, up-to-date competence. In Sweden, have different needs and capacity during their Over-aggressive selling of credits which leads the Bank has almost 4,860 employees who professional life, we as an employer aim to proto an unhealthy level of household and corpoare permitted to provide investment advice. vide the right conditions for our employees to rate debt always hits the customer hardest. For All of these are SwedSec-licensed for advisory develop and contribute to the Bank’s success. those who wish to evaluate a bank in terms of services concerning ﬁnancial instruments and Among other things, Handelsbanken in sustainability, one method is to study the bank’s insurance. These employees take an annual Sweden works with Samhall. Samhall’s task is risk tolerance. At Handelsbanken we have a knowledge update test. During the year broad to create meaningful work with development very low risk tolerance. The Bank’s strict aptraining programmes have been carried out, to opportunities for people with various functional proach to risk means that we deliberately avoid further strengthen competence in this area. disabilities. high-risk transactions, even if the customer is The Bank’s advice always prioritises the cuswilling to pay a high interest rate. This low risk tomer’s interests and is professional, observes COOPERATION WITH ECPAT FIGHTING tolerance is maintained through a strong risk high ethical standards and is executed in acCOMMERCIAL SEXUAL EXPLOITATION culture that is sustainable in the long term and cordance with the current laws and regulations. OF CHILDREN applies to all areas of the Group. Handelsbanken does not apply performanceIn Sweden, Handelsbanken co-operates For many years, Handelsbanken has had or volume-based bonuses, or other forms of with the children’s rights organisation Ecpat much lower loan losses than peer banks. Durvariable remuneration. Nor do we have volume Sweden and is also a member of the Financial ing the 1998–2014 period, the average loan or market share goals. Coalition against Child Pornography. The overloss ratio at Handelsbanken was 0.05 per cent, Our customer information must be clear, all objective of the co-operation and memberas compared to 0.18 per cent for the average factual and easy to understand, and the terms ship is to prevent trafﬁcking and commercial of the other three major Swedish banks. and conditions for the Bank’s services must be sexual exploitation of children by means of clear and not arbitrarily changed. information, and preventing and obstructing RESPONSIBLE ADVISORY SERVICES monetary transactions made as payment for When providing ﬁnancial advisory services and HUMAN RIGHTS child pornography. insurance mediation, the Bank always considHandelsbanken endorses the principles set ers the customer’s overall situation and ﬁnancial out in the United Nations Universal Declaration circumstances. Based on this, we can provide of Human Rights. Handelsbanken adheres to Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1998–2014 % 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 -0.2 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. One manifestation of this is the fact that for many years, the Bank has had considerably lower loan losses than the rest of the sector. 208 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Responsible lending Financial advice in conjunction with lending must always be based on the customer’s needs and financial position. Responsible lending means that Handelstion regarding health protection, the environment customer’s repayment capacity. This is particubanken does not grant credit to customers who and union rights, there are public authorities that larly important for customers engaged in envirlack the capacity to repay their loans. When the monitor compliance with laws and regulations. onmentally hazardous activities or selling prodBank grants credit, great importance is thereEven if the business is legal and meets all reguucts that involve environmental or health risks. fore attached to customers’ ability to fulﬁl their latory requirements, there may be businesses The Bank’s responsibility for sustainability commitments. This protects the individual cuswhich Handelsbanken does not ﬁnance. One matters related to granting credits is limited to tomer from running into ﬁnancial difﬁculties due example of this is manufacture and distribution an assessment of the customer’s repayment to excessive indebtedness – something that of nuclear weapons. Handelsbanken intends to capacity and thus the credit risk. One examalso beneﬁts the Bank and society at large. introduce a written policy on this in 2015. ple may be the risk that the customer’s product Financial advice in conjunction with lending Handelsbanken’s credit policy states that the cannot be sold, or that more stringent environmust always be based on the customer’s needs Bank must maintain sound ethical standards in its mental requirements for the customer’s manuand ﬁnancial position. Deﬁciencies in a customlending operations. This means that in its credit facturing process will cause the company’s er’s repayment capacity can never be ignored risk assessment, the Bank takes into account the repayment capacity to deteriorate. on the grounds that the Bank is being offered customer’s attitude to human rights, fundamental For property-related lending, it is important good collateral or high margins. principles of working conditions and environmental to take into account whether environmentally considerations, and ﬁghting corruption. harmful activities are or have been conducted SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS RELATED in the property. TO LENDING The branch which is responsible for the cusAn important matter in terms of ethics and printomer carries out the credit risk assessment. ciples is the extent to which the Bank should bear the responsibility for what its customers do. This could, for example, apply to a borrower that manufactures products that are dangerous to “ Handelsbanken’s credit policy states that the Thus, the branch also assesses how environmental risks will affect the customer’s repayment capacity. All this is part of the business assessment which is the Bank’s method of evalhealth, has a manufacturing process that affects Bank must maintain uating a customer. the environment adversely, or does not permit The business assessment is a good aid for its employees to exercise their union rights. sound ethical standards the branches when it comes to identifying and Handelsbanken’s view is based on the princiassessing risks. It is also good documentation ple that it is the customer that is fully responsible for its operation and how they are run. However, a fundamental condition for Handelsbanken’s in its lending operations. ” for higher levels in the Bank to evaluate credit risk and monitor that branches take into account environmental issues in the credit risk lending is that the operation is legally compliant assessment. and fulﬁls all requirements from public authorities ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS For a long time, the Bank has taken a restricin terms of environmental questions and other WHEN LENDING tive approach to risk in its lending – including sustainability matters. In the Bank’s home marIn its credit assessments, Handelsbanken takes environmental risk. This culture and expertise on kets, which are countries with advanced legislainto account how environmental risks affect the the part of the staff is best maintained and developed in day-to-day work and learning at the branches. Loans to the public, geographical distribution GREEN BONDS The market for “green bonds” developed substantially in 2014 and several Swedish companies have Sweden 66.1% opted to issue green bonds. Interest from invesNorway 11.3% tors has increased, and there is clearly a growing UK 9.4% focus on environmental and sustainability issues. Finland 6.4% Handelsbanken welcomes this trend, and the Denmark 4.4% opportunity it provides to assist our customNetherlands 1.0% ers in ﬁnancing green and sustainable projects. Other countries 1.4% Green bonds enable investors to participate in the ﬁnancing of sustainable, environmentally correct projects. An external veriﬁcation agency investigates and conﬁrms the environmental beneﬁts in the investments concerned. During the year, Handelsbanken has arranged green bonds for three issuers. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 209 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Responsible investments As asset manager, Handelsbanken has been entrusted by our customers to manage their savings in the optimum way. During the year, we continued to develop our work in the area of responsible investments. Our goal is to generate strong long-term returns for our customers, while living up to expectations of us as a responsible investor. We achieve this through an integrated work method where sustainability questions are part of the investment process, and a product offering that meets our customers’ requirements. Our work is based on a clear, common value nies to invest in. As we have a long-term investand conduct a dialogue with the companies that base. At Handelsbanken, low risk tolerance ment horizon, companies which take short-term we invest in. A natural part of a fund manager’s and a long-term approach are two of the corshortcuts are less attractive to invest in. work is to assess the ﬁnancial risks and potennerstones of our corporate culture and our inMatters of principle relating to sustainabiltial in an investment. Our assessments of how vestment philosophy. In mutual fund and asset ity in asset management are the responsibility companies manage their sustainability risks are management, as well as pension management, of Handelsbanken’s Responsible Investments relevant to good value growth in the long term. we endeavour to contribute to sustainable deCommittee. The committee actively monitors In 2014, our asset managers had meetings with velopment in economic, environmental and sodevelopments in this area, to contribute to the almost 1,750 companies, in order to monitor cial terms in the companies in which we invest, continuing evolution of Handelsbanken’s work their performance, their business methods and on behalf of our customers. We base this on the with responsible investments. It also sets up their opportunities, taking into account sustainjoint standards set out in international convenand monitors relevant objectives for operations ability, among other things. tions and guidelines. Handelsbanken stands in responsible investments. The chair of the behind the UN Global Compact, which sets committee is the Chief Executive of HandelsIDENTIFYING RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES out standards regarding human rights, labour banken Fonder and the other members include In addition to our regular investment research, a rights, environmental damage and corruption. the head of asset management, the Corporate twice-yearly analysis of all our holdings of listed Handelsbanken has also signed the UN PrinciGovernance manager and account managers. equities and corporate bonds is carried out, to ples of Responsible Investment (PRI). identify any companies that are violating international standards or conventions – a “normINTEGRATED WORK METHOD IN MUTUAL based screening.”It is based on Global ComFUND AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Our approach is for the work with responsible investments to be done continuously and be integrated into the existing investment process and “ At Handelsbanken, low risk tolerance and a pact’s ten principles, as well as the International Labour Organization’s core conventions on labour laws, the OECD guidelines for multinational companies, and other internationally accepted asset management organisation. In our view, long-term approach are standards. The analysis is carried out by an an integrated working method has the greatest external party. impact in an already robust investment process two of the cornerstones and, in the long term, this creates value in the portfolios. The people who make our actual inof our corporate culture vestment decisions pay regard to sustainability issues in their daily work, both from a risk perand our investment spective and as a way of identifying investment ideas. Our active asset management is based on fundamental research, careful follow-up and risk control. We regard sustainability risks as also philosophy. ” 1. Incorporate environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes. 2. Be active owners and incorporate ESG issues being ﬁnancial risks. Therefore, the assessment We have a long-term perspective on the investinto our ownership policies and practices of these is a vital part of our long-term ﬁnancial ments we make on behalf of our customers. On 3. Seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by research and our decisions on which compabehalf of our customers, we are able to contact the entities in which we invest 4. Promote acceptance and application of the principles within the investment industry Responsible investments – from fundamental values to investment decisions 5. Work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the principles 6. Report on our activities and progress towards implementing the principles PRI and Global In the annual PRI survey of the players that are Compact signatories to the principles, Handelsbanken receives high scores. Parts of our reporting, on Value base Policy Exclusion Integration Portfolio which the evaluation was based, are available at in the investment process unpri.org. 210 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A signal of breaches in sustainability matters composition of the companies’ boards and the fer seven index funds, actively managed equity can therefore come from several sources. In procedure prior to and at shareholders’ meetfunds and ﬁxed income funds with a special insuch cases, the Committee for Responsible ings. Ahead of annual general meetings in 2014, vestment focus under the general name Criteria. Investments takes a decision on what action to Handelsbanken Fonder participated in the work Together with our fund Handelsbanken Hållbar take. Dialogue is our primary long-term method of nine nomination committees. In addition, Energi (sustainable energy) that invests in comfor contributing to sustainable development. Handelsbanken Fonder voted at 55 annual genpanies that develop or use technologies and We can – alone or together with other inveseral meetings, 44 of these in Swedish compatechniques to limit global warming, these funds tors – contact companies if we receive indicanies. Questions concerning sustainability and have combined assets of SEK 40 billion, corretions that the companies we invest in do not live diversity have been in focus at several annual sponding to 12 per cent of total fund volumes. up to the international standards and convengeneral meetings during the year. tions that we respect. In 2014, we had discussions regarding speciﬁc sustainability matters RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS AT with 41 companies. These discussions have inHANDELSBANKEN LIV cluded matters such as corruption, environmental Handelsbanken offers pension solutions and destruction and labour laws. A list of these comother insurance solutions for private and corpopanies is available at handelsbanken.se/csreng. rate customers. Handelsbanken Liv has a policy Handelsbanken has also taken part in the for responsible investment based on Global Sustainable Value Creation project – a collaboCompact and PRI. Handelsbanken Liv does ration between major Swedish investors with not have its own asset managers. When sethe aim of highlighting the importance of Swedish lecting asset managers, mutual funds and fund listed companies taking a structured approach management companies, we factor in how well to sustainability issues. they live up to Handelsbanken’s sustainability Patience and persistence are vital in these requirements. processes – but up to a ﬁnite limit. Divestment In 2014, Handelsbanken Fonder was the or exclusion of companies from our investments largest provider for both traditional manageare a last resort if all other alternatives have ment and unit-linked management. failed. For example, Handelsbanken excludes companies that are involved in the production of weapons that are banned under international law. In 2015, the Bank intends to introduce exclusion of companies involved in manufacture and distribution of nuclear weapons. A list of the companies that are excluded from Handels“ In the annual PRI survey of signatories to banken’s mutual funds is available at handelsthe principles, Handelsbanken.se/csreng. banken receives high More information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN ” For more information, please see HANDELSBANKEN’S FUNDS scores. handelsbanken.se/csreng. There are the following The Bank’s fund management company, policies and documents, for example: Handelsbanken Fonder, exercises its owner• Handelsbanken Fonder’s Policy for Responsible investments – part of our Corporate ship role in the companies in which its mutual Governance Policy funds own shares, on behalf of the unit-holders. FUNDS WITH SPECIAL CRITERIA • Handelsbanken Liv’s Policy for Responsible The goal is that the companies show optimal Handelsbanken Fonder also offers funds which Investments value performance in the long term, beneﬁting observe special criteria in their investment • Examples of companies with which we are our fund savers. Work in the ownership role folstrategy, for example, excluding investments having discussions • Examples of companies that we exclude lows the principles for governance set out in the in controversial operations, such as alcohol, • Information brochure about Responsible Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. This tobacco and fossil fuels. In 2014, we increased investments. occurs, for example, in matters concerning the our offering of these types of funds: we now ofH AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 211 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Handelsbanken in the community Handelsbanken acts in a socially responsible manner and contributes to economic development in the community by running stable, long-term banking operations that focus on customer needs. HANDELSBANKEN IN THE COMMUNITY Handelsbanken has instead elected to retain its Bank is active and it maintains an open diaHandelsbanken is a bank with long term stability local branches and thus continues to ﬁll an imlogue with the tax authorities in all countries – a bank which, regardless of the situation in the portant function in the local community. where operations are conducted. In the UK, world around us, is there for our customers. By During 2014, Handelsbanken opened 24 Handelsbanken has adopted the British tax being a bank with stable ﬁnances and a stable new branch ofﬁces in its home markets: one authorities’ code of conduct for banks. In adpresence, Handelsbanken aims to fulﬁl its role branch in Sweden, 17 branches in the UK, one dition, Handelsbanken is the largest payer to as a responsible institution. Handelsbanken branch in Denmark, two branches in Norway the Swedish Stabilisation Fund for the ﬁnancial also takes responsibility in this role by managing and two branches in the Netherlands. We are system and pays large amounts to the state risks so that as few customers as possible have currently the only bank in 59 locations. deposit guarantee scheme. payment difﬁculties, and the Bank can continue For 2014, it is estimated that Handelsto have stable ﬁnances, making a positive conACCESSIBLE LOCAL BRANCHES banken’s total taxes and state fees amount to tribution to customers, shareholders, and the The Bank’s local branches must also be accessiSEK 8 billion. community. ble to customers with reduced mobility or sense of direction. Most of the Bank’s 463 branches in POLITICALLY INDEPENDENT HANDELSBANKEN IN THE LOCAL Sweden meet with these requirements. In cases Handelsbanken is not allied to any political parCOMMUNITY where these requirements are not met, it is usually ties. The Bank has never, in living memory, proHandelsbanken is convinced of the need for a due to restrictions regarding alterations to the vided ﬁnancial support to any political parties, local presence. The basic concept of the Bank’s exterior of the building or the street environment. nor made any other type of political donation. way of operating is that business decisions are Our large number of branches means that if made as close to the customer as possible, necessary we can offer customers a nearby GRANTS FOR RESEARCH AND EDUCATION based on local information. This is why Handelsbranch which is adapted to these needs. Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on banken offers a nationwide branch network in a number of occasions awarded grants for ecothe countries the Bank categorises as its home SERVICES FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD nomic research, mainly through allocations to markets. Our decentralised organisation, where A bank’s fundamental tasks are, on the one two independent research foundations: the Tore the local branch manager is responsible for all hand, to manage the money of those who wish Browaldh Foundation and the Jan Wallander the Bank’s business in its local operating area, to postpone their spending and save their money, and Tom Hedelius Foundation. means that Handelsbanken is ﬁrmly established and on the other to lend money to companies Together, these foundations are one of the in the local community. and households that wish to spend and invest most important sources of funding for ecoIn recent years, most banks have decided to today. Together, banks must also maintain an nomic research in Sweden. In 2014, 152 (148) signiﬁcantly reduce the number of branches. efﬁcient, functioning payment system, as well grants were awarded for a total of SEK 151 milas managing risk. lion (149). At the end of 2014, the foundations’ comHANDELSBANKEN AS A TAXPAYER bined capital totalled some SEK 5,627 million. Number of new branches opened, 2004–2014 Handelsbanken contributes to society by paying Handelsbanken has also funded a professo50 taxes and fees, and has for many years been rial chair in accounting at the Stockholm School one of the largest payers of corporate tax in of Economics and has contributed to the Insti40 Sweden. VAT is also a major cost for Handelstute for Financial Research (SIFR) and Swedish 30 banken since VAT is to a large extent not payHouse of Finance (SHOF). able on the Bank’s operations. This means that For several years, Handelsbanken has sup20 the Bank cannot deduct input VAT which it pays ported a project to improve young people’s 10 when buying external services and products. knowledge of personal ﬁnance though ﬁnancial Handelsbanken also pays tax based on the support for information campaigns and contrib0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 local regulations in other countries where the uting the Bank’s expertise. Sweden Outside Sweden Tax per country SEK m Sweden Denmark Finland Norway UK Netherlands Other countries Group Income 23 958 2 187 2 243 4 144 4 114 303 1 365 38 314 Operating proﬁt 13 415 369 985 2 466 1 431 73 473 19 212 Tax 2 818 49 209 628 228 19 118 4 069 Assets 1 670 935 89 388 148 176 190 541 216 268 29 986 471 382 2 816 676 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 213 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic value creation Handelsbanken’s higher profitability benefits society at large, as well as the Bank’s shareholders. Handelsbanken is one of the few Nordic banks that has not sought financial support from central banks, the government or its shareholders during the recent years of turbulence in the financial markets. VALUE CREATION DURING 2014 A well-run bank, which acts sustainably and DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE Handelsbanken’s proﬁt before taxes and govresponsibly, has a substantial positive impact During the most recent business cycle, Handelsernment fees was just over SEK 23 billion in on the economy in general. This applies not banken has paid dividends to its shareholders 2014. The created value was distributed as only to direct economic effects such as paying every year, while remaining one of the largest follows: SEK 8 billion in taxes and government corporate tax, but also to the indirect economic payers of corporate tax in Sweden. fees, SEK 11 billion in proposed dividends, effects. to be paid to the shareholders in the spring of INDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS 2015, and the remaining SEK 4 billion, which Handelsbanken is the largest ﬁnancer of comis reinvested in the operations. panies in Sweden, and thus it ﬁnances growth STABLE IN THE MIDST OF THE FINANCIAL CRISIS During the ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken has “ During the most recent business cycle, Handelsand increased employment throughout the country. The Bank enables households to fund property purchases and thus move to a new town not used the Swedish government’s capital banken has paid diviwhere the employment situation is better, for support or guarantee programme and is the example. The Handelsbanken Group ﬁnances only listed Swedish bank that has not needed to dends to its shareholdalmost one quarter of households’ mortgage ask its shareholders for fresh capital. loans in Sweden. When the ﬁnancial crisis was at its height in Sweden in 2009, Handelsbanken deposited around SEK 100 billion to the Riksbank, which ers every year. ” was at their disposal. The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders SEK bn 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Customers Income after loan losses and before fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 37.7 36.2 34.9 33.1 30.4 Value created by serving customers 37.7 36.2 34.9 33.1 30.4 ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE Employees Salaries 7.6 7.1 6.9 6.7 6.4 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation 0.8 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 Payroll charges, pensions and other staff costs 3.4 3.2 3.3 2.3 2.3 The table of created and delivered direct ecoCost of employees 11.8 11.4 11.2 9.9 9.5 nomic value shows how the income generated by Handelsbanken’s operations during the year was Public authorities and society at large allocated over various stakeholders. The calculaSuppliers incl. non-deductible VAT* 5.6 5.7 5.5 5.5 5.5 tion is based on the ﬁgures in the income stateTax costs** 4.1 3.9 3.0 4.4 4.0 ment and in accordance with the GRI guidelines. Fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.1 0.6 The items allocated in the table are based on broader value created where salaries and other Government bank support received administrative costs (suppliers) are added to the Participation in government guarantee programmes/central bank support operating proﬁt. The purpose is to show in a baTo society 10.9 10.7 9.6 11.0 10.1 sic way how Handelsbanken creates value for its Shareholders stakeholders and in the economic system in which the organisation works. The table provides an Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 10.5 6.8 6.1 5.6 5.0 overview of the direct measurable monetary value New share issue contributed by Handelsbanken to its stakeholders, Transactions with the shareholders 10.5 6.8 6.1 5.6 5.0 and thus to development in the community. Reinvested economic value (“remaining in the Bank”) 4.5 7.3 8.0 6.6 5.8 * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. ** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement. 214 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT High ethical standards engender trust To retain the confidence of the business world, it is important that the Bank acts ethically. Guidelines for this are formulated in the Bank’s ethical guidelines, which are established by the Bank’s Board. ETHICAL GUIDELINES For the past few years, we have paid attention • must notify their manager or Central Audit Handelsbanken’s ethical guidelines are adopted to this and in consultation with the national if they suspect irregularities at the Bank. by the Bank’s Board and formulate the basic supervisory authorities, we ensure that HandelsHandelsbanken’s special system for whistleguidelines for every employee’s actions. banken complies with the current laws and blowing is used to complement these reportEmployees who are in doubt when applying regulations in the markets where we operate. ing channels. The report is made on a special the Bank’s ethical guidelines and dealing with form and is sent to the Head of Central Audit related issues must contact their immediate suCONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND • must notify the Bank of assignments outside perior to ﬁnd out what is ethically acceptable. CORRUPTION the Bank and obtain approval. These rules A self-evident rule is that Handelsbanken Conﬂicts of interest occur daily in society and also apply to secondary occupations and and the Bank’s employees must comply the ﬁnancial sector is no exception. Regardcertain posts in clubs, societies and the like. with the laws and regulations that govern the less of where they work in the Bank, employBank’s operations. If the individual has poorees must comply with the Bank’s regulations THE BANK AS CUSTOMER er protection from local laws and regulations on conﬂicts of interest and identify conﬂicts of Handelsbanken purchases goods and services than Swedish laws, regulations and principles, interest whenever they arise, and as far as posfrom Swedish and international suppliers. EthiHandelsbanken applies the latter. sible ensure that they are avoided. It is also imcal considerations are just as important for the The guidelines are reviewed every year by the portant that employees comply with laws and Bank in its role as customer as when it supplies Board. The starting point here is any changes the Bank’s regulations regarding bribery and services and products. To avoid incurring oblito the relevant legislation, but also changes in improper inﬂuence so that they avoid being degations to suppliers, the Bank also has rules reexternal expectations, the Bank’s experience of pendent on a customer or supplier to the Bank garding receiving and giving personal gifts and regular internal work and observations from the or have improper inﬂuence on a customer. As for business entertaining. Bank’s comprehensive internal control. well as the applicable legislation and regulaEnvironmental considerations must be intions, employees must follow recommendations cluded in all purchase decisions. When making MEASURES AGAINST MONEY issued by the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute. purchases, the Bank must make enquiries as to LAUNDERING AND FINANCING OF Every head of unit must hold an annual review whether suppliers have: TERRORISM with the unit’s staff based on the current regula• collective bargaining agreements To prevent banks being used for money launtions regarding bribery and improper inﬂuence. • a work environment policy dering and ﬁnancing of terrorism, laws and The regulations must be followed in all con• a policy concerning giving and taking bribes. regulations stipulate that the Bank is obliged to texts, including gifts, entertainment and other have good knowledge of its customers and their events. Employees’ business travel must always As support to ensure quality when making purbanking transactions both at the time the busibe paid for by the Bank. chases, the Bank has drawn up a check list ness relationship starts and during the period it which was implemented in Sweden in 2014. lasts. Transactions, ownership structures and CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES The Bank maintains an ongoing dialogue with business arrangements which are perceived Handelsbanken’s employees its suppliers to promote and improve our envias being unusual and where the Bank does not • must not be in a position where they may be ronmental activities. understand the background are examined. suspected of taking improper advantage of Handelsbanken’s ethical guidelines are also The Bank’s instructions, procedures, training knowledge about the ﬁnancial markets which complied with when the Bank itself is a customer. and system support in the area of money launthey obtain in the course of their work dering are intended to support employees so • must be familiar with local insider trading laws HANDELSBANKEN’S ETHICAL GUIDEthat good knowledge of customers is achieved. and observe the Bank’s rules for employees’ LINES COVER THE FOLLOWING AREAS: In this way, the Bank can avoid participating • High ethical standards private securities and currency transactions • Laws, regulations and guiding principles in transactions which are suspected of being • must, in their work at the Bank and private af• Economic crime linked to criminal activities, or of which the emfairs, refrain from business transactions that • Customer relations ployees do not understand the implications. violate the Bank’s rules or current legislation • Conﬂicts of interest • must refrain from transactions or other com• The UN Global Compact • Conduct of employees EXPOSURE AND COMPLIANCE mitments that could seriously jeopardise their • Reporting by employees who suspect internal Handelsbanken has over 830 ofﬁces in 24 differpersonal ﬁnancial position fraud or other irregularities ent countries, six of which are the Bank’s home • are not permitted to process transactions • Conﬁdentiality markets. With such a large number of branches, in which they, or persons closely related to • Environmental matters • External contractors the Bank could be, for example, more exposed them, have a personal interest. This also to attempts at money laundering, compared applies to companies to which these employwith banks which only offer their customers a ees or persons closely related to them have Read more small number of branches. a commitment The Bank’s ethical guidelines are available at handelsbanken.se/csreng. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 215 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Bank’s environmental activities To promote long-term sustainable development, Handelsbanken works to minimise the Bank’s direct and indirect impact on the environment. HANDELSBANKEN’S ENVIRONMENTAL HANDELSBANKEN’S DIRECT The proportion of green electricity is 99 per POLICY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT cent for Sweden. As far as is technically and ﬁnancially possible, A bank’s direct environmental impact is fairly Handelsbanken’s electricity consumption for and to the extent that is compatible with the limited. Handelsbanken’s direct impact derives its Nordic operations decreased in 2014 comBank’s undertakings, Handelsbanken aims to mainly from consumption of energy, materials, pared with 2013. On the other hand, the propromote long-term sustainable development. equipment, travel and transport. For several portion of green electricity for the Nordic counTherefore, the starting-point is that Handelsyears, the Bank has measured and reported tries as a whole has decreased to 89 per cent, banken’s impact on the environment must be the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions generated which means that the total amount of CO2 emisminimised. As part of our efforts to achieve by its own operations as the result of its use of sions for the Nordic countries increased in 2014 this, a new environmental policy for the entire transport and its consumption of electricity and compared to 2013. Handelsbanken Group was adopted in 2014. heat energy. For all the Bank’s regional banks Handelsbanken strives to minimise the CO2 Among other things, this means that the Bank in the Nordic countries, the UK and the Netheremissions generated in its operations. aims to: lands and also central units, CO2 emissions CDP is an independent international non• take long-term sustainable business decifrom the operations’ total electricity consumpproﬁt organisation which works for transparency sions in which environmental factors are tion totalled 3,663 tonnes for 2014. and a dialogue concerning companies’ CO2 taken into consideration emissions and how they manage their climate • set environmental requirements in all central impact and pass this knowledge on to invesprocurements, and ensuring that these are tors.Over 5,000 organisations in some 60 councomplied with • encourage environmental awareness and environmental competence among employees • constantly develop its environmental activi“ Handelsbanken strives to minimise the CO 2 tries worldwide measure and report their emissions of greenhouse gases and climate impact via CDP. Handelsbanken improved its result and ties, so that the Bank’s environmental impact emissions generated in received 85 (81) points out of a possible 100 in is continuously minimised CDP’s report for 2014, which was presented in • monitor and measure the Bank’s impact on the environment. Handelsbanken has signed and complies with its operations. ” autumn of the same year. The average value in the CDP Nordic survey was 80 points. CDP works on behalf of over 800 institutional investors, and as of 2015, Handelsbanken is a number of voluntary agreements, such as the For the Swedish operations, we measure CO2 one of them. ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Developemissions for electricity consumption, transport, ment, the UN’s Banks and the Environment probusiness travel and heating/cooling and diesel CLIMATE COMPENSATION gramme (UNEP FI), the UN’s Global Compact for properties owned by the Bank in Sweden, Handelsbanken compensates for emissions of voluntary initiative, and the UN Principles of Rewhich totalled 3,702 tonnes of CO2 (excludCO2 which are currently related to business travel sponsible Investment (PRI). ing paper consumption) for 2014. Emissions of in Sweden and for business travel by company CO2 in Sweden have gone down by 10 per cent car in Denmark, Finland and Norway. Compensacompared with 2013. tion is through purchase of emission rights and in 2014, Handelsbanken will purchase 3,000 rights. Carbon dioxide emissions (CO2 ) tonnes 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Electricity consumption, Nordic region 1, 2, UK 3 and Netherlands 4 3 663 2 971 Electricity consumption, Nordic region 1, 2 and UK 3 3 515 2 846 2 170 3 763 of which electricity consumption, Nordic countries 1, 2 1 568 1 093 767 2 517 4 519 6 568 electricity consumption, Sweden 2 152 83 224 821 2 717 5 071 Heating, cooling, oil, diesel, city gas for own properties, Sweden 992 1 143 1 480 1 466 1 569 1 181 External transport, Sweden 345 398 401 125 128 289 Business travel, Sweden 2 214 2 470 2 261 2 171 2 216 2 417 Business travel by car in Denmark, Finland and Norway 253 Paper consumption external distribution, Sweden 539 Paper consumption, Sweden, Finland and Norway 31 Total reported carbon dioxide emissions 8 036 1 Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland. 2 The recalculation factor applied for emissions of CO2 for non-green electricity in the Nordic countries is residual mix Nordic countries, i.e. electricity where the source cannot be derived. Emissions of CO2 for 2009–2012 have been retroactively recalculated according to residual mix Nordic countries. 3 For the UK, the emission factor is from the report: “2014 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting: Methodology Paper for Emission Factors”. 4 For the Netherlands, the emission factor is from the report “CO2 emissions from fuel combustion: highlights (2013 Edition)”. 216 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MORE EFFICIENT EQUIPMENT AND • When old equipment is to be scrapped, the The main focus of this joint work is to reduce UTILISATION OF RESOURCES Bank ensures that it is recycled in an environenergy consumption and inﬂuence selection Throughout the Bank, changes are constantly mentally friendly manner. of materials and interior environments. being made which, together, are reducing envi• Handelsbanken has supplemented its se• A long-term maintenance plan has been ronmental and climatic impact. lection of leasing vehicles for employees in drawn up for the properties owned by the • Deep water source cooling is used from DeSweden with plug-in hybrid cars that can be Bank, to reduce the properties’ overall energy cember to May for the head ofﬁce properties charged from the electricity mains. consumption. as a complement to the use of cooling ma• Increase the proportion of green electricity purchines and district cooling solutions. DeepMEASURES TO REDUCE THE BANK’S chased in 2015 for the other home markets. water source cooling involves taking water ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT • Increase the amount of recycled refuse. from the Baltic Sea using heat exchangers to To reduce the Bank’s environmental impact, the • Reduce the amount of business travel by facool the Bank’s premises and computer rooms. following initiatives are planned over the next cilitating the use of video conferences. • New customers who save regularly each few years: • Further develop digital services for customers month and who use Handelsbanken Online • Further increase the level of awareness invia computers, mobile phones and tablet deBanking receive electronic notiﬁcations. ternally by means of information and trainvices, and for branches and internal units in • In 2014, the number of video conferences ing regarding measures to reduce the Bank’s order to reduce paper consumption. was up by 44 per cent from 2013. direct climatic impact. The aim of this is that • Electronic processing of supplier invoices is all parts of the organisation should be able to HANDELSBANKEN’S INDIRECT gradually being increased, which reduces the contribute effectively to reducing energy conENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT use of paper and transport. The Bank continsumption, for example. By joining the UN’s Global Compact, Handelsues to develop digital services for customers, • In 2015, it is estimated that electricity and banken undertakes to describe how it works branches and internal units, so as to further cooling requirements for the Bank’s comwith environmental matters, etc. In addition to reduce paper consumption. puter rooms will decrease by around 20 per the Bank’s own consumption of resources, this • In one of the Bank’s properties, new vencent. This is largely due to the enhancement mainly concerns the indirect environmental imtilation units with heat recycling have been of the efﬁciency of the Bank’s servers that has pact via lending, asset management and agreeinstalled, becoming fully operational at yeartaken place in recent years, and also replacements with suppliers. end 2013. This has led to a halving of the anment of old equipment. New, modernised nual heating consumption. equipment also means that there is less need • Old printers, fax machines and scanners are for cooling in the computer rooms. being replaced by multi-function machines • The Bank has begun collaborating with an exwhich use less energy, are environmentally ternal property owner, to gain environmental Read more certiﬁed and have environmentally friendly certiﬁcation for one of the properties in which For more information regarding the Bank’s environmental activities, see handelsbanken.se/csreng. toner, and in the long term also reduce paper the Bank is a tenant. The surface area in quesThe site includes the following information: consumption. tion is 10,500 m2 and environmental certiﬁca• The Bank’s environmental policy tion is in accordance with Green Building and • Supplementary GRI Appendix. Sweden Green Building Council (Miljöbyggnad). Electricity consumption, Sweden Business travel, Sweden Centrally distributed information, Group GWh CO2 tonnes Km million CO2 tonnes No. million No. of customers thous. 60 9 000 25 3 500 70 1 400 50 3 000 60 1 200 7 500 20 2 500 50 1 000 40 6 000 15 40 2 000 800 30 4 500 10 1 500 30 600 20 3 000 1 000 20 400 5 10 1 500 10 200 500 0 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Electricity consumption (kWh) Air Rail Car Sheets Envelopes Of which green electricity (%) CO2 emissions Active online customers* CO2 emissions (tonnes) * Private and corporate customers who have been The recalculation factor applied for emissions of CO2 for active in Handelsbanken Online Banking at least once non-green electricity in the Nordic countries is residual mix during the last six months of 2014. Nordic countries, that is electricity where the source cannot be traced. Emissions of CO2 for 2008–2012 are recalculated retroactively according to residual mix Nordic countries. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 217 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEX | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Initiatives, awards, surveys and sustainability index Handelsbanken works both within and outside the financial industry in various initiatives which are intended to increase the level of awareness relating to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. INITIATIVES Ecpat Personal ﬁnances for young people Global Compact In 2009, Handelsbanken, together Handelsbanken supports initiatives that improve In 2009, Handelsbanken signed the with the Swedish Bankers’ Associayoung people’s knowledge of personal ﬁnance by UN’s Global Compact, cementing the tion, started co-operating with Ecpat. supporting information campaigns and contributsupport the Bank has expressed for The overall objective of the cooperaing know-how. Ung Privatekonomi (Young Personal universal human rights and corporate tion is to prevent commercial sexual Finances) is a schools information project that teaches social responsibility. Global Compact exploitation of children by preventing and obstructSwedish upper secondary school students and is an initiative aimed at companies and advocates ing monetary transactions made as payment for teachers about personal ﬁnances and savings. ten principles based on international conventions. child pornography. These principles, which were established in 2000, Ecpat Sweden is part of Ecpat International, Collaboration with universities and colleges include human rights, labour laws, the environment which has member organisations in more than 70 Handelsbanken has a number of collaborations with and anti-corruption. countries. Ecpat is working to prevent and stop all universities and colleges, and these are an important forms of commercial sexual exploitation of children: part of its long-term employer branding work. Through ICC child pornography, child sex tourism and trafﬁcking this, Handelsbanken establishes contact with target The International Chamin under-age human beings for sexual purposes. groups that are important in terms of recruitment and ber of Commerce (ICC) contributes expertise and experience to the courses. has developed a busiFinancial Coalition Against Child Pornography This is based on co-operation with and commitment ness charter, with the aim of guiding the world’s Handelsbanken has been from local personnel departments, as well as employcompanies in their efforts to fulﬁl their environmental a member of the Swedish ees and managers from branches and internal units. commitments. These commitments are in compliFinancial Coalition Against ance with national and international guidelines and Child Pornography (the Financial Coalition) since Handelsbanken’s Student Programme standards for environmentally aware governance. 2009. The Financial Coalition works to impede and Handelsbanken in Sweden offers students from upper Handelsbanken has signed the charter and comprevent trade related to child pornography, based secondary school who plan to study at university plied with it since the 1990s. on the overall crime-prevention goal of stopping the opportunity to participate in the Bank’s Student child sexual abuse. With the intention of preventing Programme alongside their studies. The programme PRI this trade from being conducted through the ﬁnancomprises working at the Bank during their studies, PRI (United Nations cial systems, a unique cooperation has been develtheir own action plan and relevant studies for develbacked Principles for oped between public authorities, the private sector opment at Handelsbanken. The purpose is to attract, Responsible Investment and the non-proﬁt sector. The fact that the Financial recruit and develop young employees as part of Initiative) was launched in 2006. It is a network of inCoalition’s members impede the opportunity of usthe Bank’s future management succession, and to vestors that work together with the UN to implement ing the ﬁnancial systems for this kind of crime, helps promote gender equality and diversity. principles for responsible investment. Its aim is to to make it more complicated and limit its distribution. promote responsible actions among institutional The Technology Leap investors and to work for increased openness and Economic research Since the autumn of 2013, Handelsbanken in awareness of environmental, social and corporate Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on a Sweden has taken part in the Technology Leap governance issues in the companies in which these number of occasions awarded grants for economic (Tekniksprånget). The Technology Leap is run by the players invest. Handelsbanken became a signatory research, mainly through allocations to two indeRoyal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences to the principles in 2009. In total, almost 1,350 capital pendent research foundations: the Jan Wallander (IVA), on behalf of the Swedish National Agency owners, asset managers and other stakeholders and Tom Hedelius Foundation and the Tore Browaldh for Education. The Technology Leap is an initiative, have become signatories. Foundation. the aim of which is to give young people who have Together, these foundations are one of the most graduated from natural sciences and technology UNEP FI important sources of funding for economic research programmes in upper secondary school an insight The UN Environmental Programme in Sweden. In 2014, 152 (148) grants were awarded into the engineering profession. Over a four-month has a special organisation that works for a total of SEK 151 million (149). period, the young people are offered work experiwith how the capital markets can proAt the end of 2014, the foundations’ combined ence aimed at inspiring them to apply for technology mote the adoption of best environcapital totalled some SEK 5,627 million. degree courses in the future. mental and sustainability practice. Handelsbanken has also funded a professorial Some 200 ﬁnancial institutions which support the inichair in accounting at the Stockholm School of AWARDS tiative contribute to research into and knowledge of Economics and has contributed to the Institute for Bank of the Year 2014 in Denmark how sustainability issues can be integrated into ﬁnanFinancial Research (SIFR) and Swedish House of Handelsbanken was acclaimed cial decisions. Handelsbanken has been a member Finance (SHOF). Bank of the Year in Denmark by the of UNEP FI since the mid-1990s. ﬁnancial periodical The Banker, which is owned by the Financial Times. One of the factors cited for the award was the Bank’s ability to create positive and stable growth on a very difﬁcult market. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 218 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEX | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Bank of the Year 2014 in Norway Sustainable Brand Index Ethibel Sustainability Index Handelsbanken was acclaimed The 2014 results of The Brussels-based organBank of the Year in Norway by the Scandinavia’s largest isation Ethibel provides the ﬁnancial periodical The Banker, annual brand study ﬁnancial market with inforwhich is owned by the Financial focusing on sustainability – Sustainable Brand Inmation on various compaTimes. The award was due to the dex™ – shows that Handelsbanken is in top place in nies and their sustainability work. Its analyses are Bank’s sound ﬁnancial development, its operative Sweden among the four major banks. carried out by the Vigeo research company, and efﬁciency and customer satisfaction. The Banker In this study, 24,000 consumers assess the susbased on these results, Ethibel creates a universe also points to Handelsbanken’s success with tainability of a brand. Based on the setting, the human that forms a platform for sustainability products and decentralised, local responsibility and continuing and the brand, the study seeks to understand why a responsible investments. The Svenska Handelsbranch establishments in parallel with digital brand is perceived in a certain way. banken class A share has been included in the Ethibel development. Excellence Investment Register since 2004, and is Universum also included in the ESI Excellence index, which is Bank of the Year in the UK Employees based on this universe. Handelsbanken was acclaimed Bank of the Year for During the year, the 2014 by the London-based periodical City AM. This research company UniOMX GES Sustainability was the ﬁfth year running the award was given and versum performed three Together with the GES it goes to companies which are considered to prodifferent surveys in which Investment Services vide a major contribution to the economy in terms of Handelsbanken received very high ratings. When research company, the growth and wealth. The jury, which consists of BritUniversum ranked Sweden’s Ideal Employer 2014, Nasdaq Stockholm stock ish business leaders, praised the Bank for its ongoing Handelsbanken came in 19th place, which is best in exchange has launched expansion of branches in the UK with the comment the banking sector. This result was based on factors a number of sustainability indexes that provide “totally messing up perceptions that you can’t have a such as “internal identity” (i.e. employees’ views of investors with a universe of companies that are retail banking business that’s successful.” their employers’ reputation and image), job characfulﬁlling sustainability requirements. Handelsbanken teristics, people and corporate culture, as well as has qualiﬁed for the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Sweden’s Small Enterprise Bank 2014 remuneration and opportunities to advance. Emindex, as well as the OMX GES Sustainability Nordic For the third consecutive ployees also graded their “satisfaction” in overall index. year, Handelsbanken terms, and their “loyalty” – how inclined they were has been acclaimed Small Enterprise Bank of the to remain with their employer. STOXX Global ESG Leaders Year in Sweden by companies with between one Handelsbanken is included in the STOXX Global and nine employees in Finansbarometern’s annual Business students ESG Leaders index. The companies included in the survey. Service and contacts, and the quality of Handelsbanken was in seventh place, and the index were selected in an analysis process based electronic services are the factors considered most number two bank, out of a total of 203 companies on environmental factors, social responsibility and important when corporates choose a bank. The ratin the Corporate Barometer 2014, a survey carried corporate governance issues. The Index consists ing is the highest that has been awarded to any out by the Universum research company among of three underlying indices: STOXX Global ESG bank since the survey began. business students in Sweden. The survey’s particiEnvironmental Leaders, STOXX Global ESG Social pants – business students in Sweden – respondLeaders and STOXX Global ESG Governance Business Bank of the Year 2014 ed to questions on ideal employers, and graded Leaders. Handelsbanken is included in all three For the fourth consecuthese according to the following criteria: reputation of these indices. tive year, Handelsand image; job characteristics; people and corbanken was voted Business Bank of the Year by porate culture; remuneration and opportunities to FTSE4Good Sweden’s 1,000 largest companies in Finansbaadvance. Handelsbanken has been selectrometern’s annual survey. Service and contacts, ed to be included in the internathe quality of advice, and the range of products are Young professionals tional FTSE4Good Index 2014. some of the factors considered most important In Universum’s Career Barometer survey, Sweden’s The index is independent and when corporates choose a bank. “young professionals” named their ideal employers. is based on analyses of companies’ work with “Young professionals” refers to people under 40 environmental, social and governance practices SURVEYS with an academic background and one to eight (ESG). Handelsbanken has been part of the index Satisﬁed customers years’ experience of working life. Among professince 2001. In 2014, Handelsbanken again sionals working in ﬁnance, Handelsbanken was had the most satisﬁed customthe number two bank and in ninth place out of a Sustainable Value Creation ers of the major banks in Swetotal of 197 companies. In this survey, too, particiSince 2009, Handelsden. This applies to both pripants answered questions about what is a good banken Asset Manvate and corporate customers. employer based on the following criteria: reputaagement, together The Bank also retains its strong tion and image; job characteristics; people and with other major Swedish investors, has taken part and stable position in all home markets. SKI (Swedcorporate culture; remuneration and opportunities in the Sustainable Value Creation project. For the ish Quality Index) is a system for compiling, analysto advance. participants, the aim of the project has been to ing and distributing information about customers’ highlight the importance of Swedish companies expectations, perceived quality and evaluation of SUSTAINABILITY INDEX working with sustainability issues in a structured goods and services. Helping to run SKI is the interHandelsbanken is scrutinised and assessed by manner. national organisation EPSI Rating (European Perforboth customers and ﬁnancial market players. The In its capacity as one of the 100 largest listed mance Satisfaction Index), which conducts compaoutcome, and the assessment of the Bank that reSwedish companies, Handelsbanken has itself rable surveys in over 20 countries. Research and sults from this, shows how well Handelsbanken is responded to the surveys on its work. development related to the surveys is conducted living up to their expectations. regularly at SIQ (the Swedish Institute for Quality) and the Stockholm School of Economics. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 219 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Content and restrictions Since 2009, Handelsbanken has reported its relevant work with sustainability in accordance with guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI 3.0. We do this as part of the Bank’s Annual Report. The aim of the report is that our stakeholders should be able to find out about our work in a simple manner, gaining a good understanding of the Bank’s performance. THE WORK OF DEFINING CONTENT ports the sustainability issues that we consider mation that is deemed to have a lower degree Handelsbanken’s sustainability committee conto be particularly relevant to the Bank’s abilof relevance, but which has been requested by sists of representatives from branch ofﬁces in ity as regards long-term value creation, and to some external stakeholders. Sweden, ofﬁces outside the Bank’s home marour stakeholders. To be able to report what is kets, Handelsbanken Capital Markets, as well relevant and material, Handelsbanken applies DATA COLLECTION AND LIMITATIONS as representatives from the central functions for the GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement The Sustainability Report contains information Communications, Investor Relations, IT, Credits (FSSS). relating to the Group unless otherwise stated. and Personnel. With its starting-point in the In assessing the degree of relevance of a The information presented in the report covers Bank’s business operations, the committee speciﬁc indicator, the starting point has been the largest and most important parts of the has conducted an analysis of the mutual inﬂuHandelsbanken’s operations and where they operations, with focus on banking operations. ences and relationship between the Bank and its are conducted. Banking operations have a limThe Report has certain limitations regarding stakeholders, and the results of their continuous ited direct environmental impact, and therelabour practices and environmental data (LA dialogue. Handelsbanken has deﬁned a stakefore, a number of GRI environmental indicators and EN). Some personnel information refers to holder as a player that is affected to a large extent have been deemed to have less relevance for the Swedish operations only, while other inforby the Bank’s actions, or that can affect the Handelsbanken, and thus these are not reportmation is for the Group as a whole. EnvironmenBank’s ability to create value. The information ed. Handelsbanken’s suppliers, e.g. real estate tal data refers to operations in the Bank’s home presented in this report is intended to provide a owners that provide premises for bank branchmarkets, with focus on the Swedish operations. clear picture of Handelsbanken’s sustainability es, or suppliers of ofﬁce material, are located Any limitations are shown in the report. No major efforts and to meet the information requirements in the regions where Handelsbanken operates. corrections or amendments with reference to of stakeholders. Risks associated with human rights and workprevious information provided in previous years’ ing conditions among providers are therefore sustainability reports have been made in this RELEVANCE FOR A BANK IN THE NORDIC deemed to be limited. report. REGION, THE UK AND THE NETHERLANDS In addition to the information provided in the Relevance and materiality are key GRI concepts report, there is also a separate GRI appendix at in sustainability reporting. Handelsbanken rehandelsbanken.se/csreng. This includes inforProﬁle: Company information Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for 1.1 for Level C plus: Level B 2.1–2.10 1.2 OUTPUT Indicators: Indicators: Indicators: G3 Proﬁle Disclosures 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Economic Environmental Social Performance (EC) Performance (EN) (LA, HR, SO, PR) Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Sector supplement: Indicator Category Indicator Category OUTPUT G3 Management FINANCIAL SERVICE SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Approach Disclosures (FSSS) Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 Performance Indicators, at Performance Indicators, at and Sector Supplement* G3 Performance least one from each of least one from each of Indicator with due regard to OUTPUT Indicators & Economic, Social and Economic, Environmental, the Materiality principle. Sector Supplement Environmental. Human rights, Labor, Society, Performance Indicators Product responsibility. *Sector supplement in ﬁnal version 220 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDEX ACCORDING TO THE GLOBAL the 2014 calendar year. The latest report was CONTACT REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) submitted in February 2014, and related to the For questions or comments on this report, Handelsbanken reports its sustainability in ac2013 calendar year. or on the Bank’s sustainability work, please cordance with guidelines from the Global ReThe table below contains the indicators which mail Handelsbanken’s sustainability ofﬁcer porting Initiative (GRI) 3.0. The Sustainability Reare assessed to be relevant to Handelsbanken’s at csr@handelsbanken.se. port meets the information requirements of level operations including indicators from the GRI C+ and this has been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS). external auditors. Handelsbanken reports the The symbols in the table show the degree of Group’s sustainability activities annually. This relevance that Handelsbanken deems the indiyear’s Sustainability Report is Handelsbanken’s cator to have and also to what extent Handelsﬁfth in accordance with GRI, and relates to banken reports on the indicator. PROFILE: COMPANY INFORMATION Page CSR Page AR/www Scope 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Comments from the Group Chief Executive 4–5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 197, 208–211, 213–217 12–13 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation 3 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 9, 14–17 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 14–15 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 3 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 14–17, 225–235 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 50–58 2.7 Markets Inside cover, 14–17, 225–235 2.8 Scale of the organisation Inside cover, 10–11, 19, 22–23 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period 220 20–21 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 218–219 4–5 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 221 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 221 3.3 Reporting cycle 221 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 221 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content 220 3.6 Boundary of the report 220 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 220 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 220 72–73 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 220 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 220 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 221–222 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 223 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure 207 50, 56–58, 62–65 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role 50, 54, 62 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members 52–54, 62–63 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board 201 2, 50, 52–53 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives 206 51–53, 59–60, 108–111 4.6 Processes for avoiding conﬂicts of interests in the Board 52–55, 58 4.7 Processes for determining the qualiﬁcations of Board members 52, 54 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 197, 200, 207, 215 58 4.9 The Board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 207 54–58 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance 52–54 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, principles or other initiatives 196–197, 208, 210–211, 4–5 215–216, 218 4.13 Memberships in associations 218–219 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 201, 213 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 197, 201 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 201–203, 205, 219 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 201–203 Key to symbols AR Refers to the 2014 Annual Report Relevant Reported CSR Refers to the 2014 Sustainability Report Partly relevant Partly reported www Refers to the GRI supplement at handelsbanken.se/csreng Not relevant Not reported H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 221 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDICATORS Page CSR Page AR/www Relevance Scope 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EC) Disclosure on management approach/Economic 197, 209 9–13 EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed 201, 213–214 EC2. Financial impact, and risks and opportunities for the organisation due to climate changes 197, 209–211, 215–216 EC3. Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations 206 108–111 EC4. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government 197, 213–214 EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 204 EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 213, 218 EC9. Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 197, 213–214 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (EN) Disclosure on management approach/Environment 197–199, 216–217 EN1. Materials used by weight or volume www EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source 198–199, 216–217 EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency improvements 216–217 EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or renewable energy-based products/services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 209, 216–217 EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and results 216–217 EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 198–199, 216–217 EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 216–217 www EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 198–199, 216–217 EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method www EN29. Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 216–217 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (LA, HR, SO, PR) Disclosure on management approach Employment and working conditions (LA) 197–201, 204–216 LA1. Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 204–205 LA2. Staff turnover and employees who have left the Bank 199, 204–205 108 LA3. Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations 206 62–65, 108–111 LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 206 LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding major operational changes and whether this is speciﬁed in the collective agreement 206 LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, total work related fatalities per region 198–199, 205 LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 205 LA12. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 204 LA13. Composition of governance bodies and employees according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity 204–205 62–65, 108–111 LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women per employee category 205 Human rights (HR) HR1. Proportion and number of Investment agreements that include human rights clauses, or that have been examined on the basis of human rights 208–213 HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 205 Society (SO) SO2. Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 56–59, 81–105 SO3. Employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 215 57–59 SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption There were no corruption incidents in 2014 SO5. Participation in public policy development and lobbying 213 SO8. Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance No signiﬁcant with laws and regulations incidents in 2014 Product responsibility (PR) PR3. Type of products and service information required by procedures, and percentage of products subject to such information requirements 208–211 PR5. Results related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 199, 202–203, 219 PR6. Programme for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes for marketing communications 197, 208 PR9. Monetary value of ﬁnes for non-compliance with regulations concerning the use of products and services No signiﬁcant incidents in 2014 FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Page CSR Page AR/www Relevance Scope FS. PRODUCT AND SERVICE IMPACT SECTION FS1. Policies with speciﬁc environmental and social components applied to business lines 197, 209–211, 216–217 FS2. Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines 209–211 FS3. Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions 209 FS5. Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities 209–211 FS10. Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues 210–211 FS11. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental screening 210–211 FS12. Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting 210–211 FS13. Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 200, 213 16–17 FS15. Policies for the fair design and sale of ﬁnancial products and services 197, 208 FS16. Initiative to enhance ﬁnancial literacy by type of beneﬁciary 213, 218 Key to symbols AR Refers to the 2014 Annual Report Relevant Reported CSR Refers to the 2014 Sustainability Report Partly relevant Partly reported www Refers to the GRI supplement at handelsbanken.se/csreng Not relevant Not reported 222 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 EXAMINERS' REPORT | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Auditor’s Combined Assurance Report on Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Report To Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) INTRODUCTION assurance that the information is free of material CONCLUSIONS We have been engaged by the executive misstatements. A reasonable assurance enBased on the limited assurance procedures management of Svenska Handelsbanken AB gagement includes examining, on a test basis, we have performed, nothing has come to (publ) to undertake an examination of Svenska evidence supporting the quantitative and qualiour attention that causes us to believe that Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability tative information in the Sustainability Report. A the Sustainability Report, is not prepared, in Report for the year 2014. The Sustainability limited assurance engagement consists of makall material respects, in accordance with the Report also includes a separate GRI Appendix, ing inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and Handelsbanken’s GRI Appendix 2014 at the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and Executive Management. www.handelsbanken.se/csreng. The Company applying analytical and other limited assurance In our opinion the information in the Sustainhas deﬁned the scope of the Sustainability procedures. The procedures performed in a limability Report which has been subject to our Report on page 3 in the Annual Report 2014. ited assurance engagement vary in nature from, reasonable assurance procedures have, in all and are less in extent than for, a reasonable asmaterial respects, been prepared in accordance RESPONSIBILITIES OF surance engagement conducted in accordance with the criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality and Executive Management. THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT FOR Control and other generally accepted auditing THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. standards in Sweden. Hence, the conclusion The Board of Directors and the Executive based on our limited assurance procedures Management are responsible for the preparation does not comprise the same level of assurance of the Sustainability Report in accordance with as the conclusion of our reasonable assurance the applicable criteria, as explained on page procedures. Since this assurance engagement 221 in the Sustainability Report, and are the is combined, our conclusions regarding the reaparts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines sonable assurance and the limited assurance (published by The Global Reporting Initiative will be presented in separate sections. (GRI)) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculaOur reasonable assurance engagement tion principles that the Company has developed. includes the following: Stockholm, 12 February 2015 This responsibility includes the internal control • Table “External staff turnover 2010–2014” relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability • Tables “Return on equity, 1973–2014”, KPMG AB Report that is free from material misstatements, “Loan losses as a percentage of lending whether due to fraud or error. 1998–2014”, “Customer satisfaction, private customers and corporate customers 2014” . Stefan Holmström Torbjörn Westman RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR • Carbon dioxide emissions from electricity Authorised Public Expert Member of FAR Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on consumption Accountant the Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed. Our procedures are based on the criteria We conducted our engagement in accorddeﬁned by the Board of Directors and the ance with RevR 6 Assurance of SustainabilExecutive Management as described above. ity Reports issued by FAR. The engagement We consider these criteria suitable for the includes a limited assurance engagement on preparation of the Sustainability Report. the complete Sustainability Report and audit We believe that the evidence we have obof certain information as speciﬁed below. The tained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide objective of an audit is to obtain reasonable a basis for our conclusions below. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 223 Contact information CONTENTS CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE 226 HEAD OFFICES, REGIONAL BANKS Northern Sweden 227 HEAD OFFICE SWEDEN 226 Central Sweden 227 HEAD OFFICE UK 226 Stockholm 227 Eastern Sweden 227 UNITS AND CENTRAL DEPARTMENTS AT THE CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE Western Sweden 227 Corporate Governance 226 Southern Sweden 227 Compliance 226 Great Britain – Northern 227 Group Finance 226 Great Britain – North East 227 Communications 226 Great Britain – Central 227 Infrastructure 226 Great Britain – South West 227 IT 226 Great Britain – Southern 227 Legal affairs 226 Denmark 227 Credits 226 Finland 227 Independent risk control 226 Norway 227 Personnel 226 The Netherlands 227 Audit 226 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS SEGMENTS AND BUSINESS AREAS Sweden 228 Capital Markets 226 UK 231 Retail & E-services 226 Denmark 233 Markets & Asset Management 226 Finland 233 Merchant Banking International 226 Norway 234 Pension & Life 226 The Netherlands 234 Forestry & Farming 226 Outside the Nordic countries, the UK and the Netherlands 235 SUBSIDIARIES Boards of subsidiaries and business area 235 EFN 226 Handel & Industri 226 Handelsbanken Finans 226 Handelsbanken Fonder 226 Handelsbanken Liv 226 Heartwood 226 Stadshypotek 226 225 CONTACT US Contact information Web site: handelsbanken.com unless otherwise stated. CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE IT PENSION & LIFE Anders H Johansson, Head Louise Sander, Head Pär Boman, Group Chief Executive Yonnie Bergqvist, Central Head Office Tegeluddsvägen 10 Blasieholmstorg 12 Katarina Berner Frösdal, Sustainability SE-115 82 Stockholm, Sweden Box 1325 Olof Lindstrand, Central Head Office +46 (0)8 701 10 00 SE-111 83 Stockholm, Sweden Claes Norlén, Central Head Office +46 (0)8 701 71 00 Anders Ohlner, Central Head Office LEGAL AFFAIRS Håkan Sandberg, Central Head Office Ulf Köping-Höggård, Head FORESTRY & FARMING Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Åsa Willén, Head Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Torsgatan 14 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 SE-103 70 Stockholm, Sweden handelsbanken.se +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Corporate identity no.: 502007-7862 CREDITS Per Beckman, Head SUBSIDIARIES Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 HEAD OFFICE SWEDEN SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden EFN Frank Vang-Jensen, Head +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Carl Bjurling, Head Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Blasieholmstorg 12 INDEPENDENT RISK CONTROL SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Maria Hedin, Head +46 (0)8 701 10 00 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Corporate identity no.: 556930-1608 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden HEAD OFFICE UK +46 (0)8 701 10 00 HANDEL & INDUSTRI Anders Bouvin, Head Bengt Kjell, Head PERSONNEL Nybrokajen 15 3 Thomas More Square Katarina Berner Frösdal, Head London E1W 1WY, UK SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +44 (0)20 757 880 00 Blasieholmstorg 12 +46 (0)8 701 41 10 handelsbanken.co.uk SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Corporate identity no.: 556013-5336 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 HANDELSBANKEN FINANS UNITS AND CENTRAL DEPARTMENTS AUDIT Marie Lundberg, Head AT THE CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE Tord Jonerot, Head Torsgatan 12–14 Blasieholmstorg 12 SE-106 35 Stockholm, Sweden CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 46 00 Klas Tollstadius, Head +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Corporate identity no.: 556053-0841 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden HANDELSBANKEN FONDER +46 (0)8 701 10 00 SEGMENTS AND BUSINESS AREAS Katja Bergqvist, Head CAPITAL MARKETS Blasieholmstorg 12 COMPLIANCE Michael Green, Head SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Luciana Pacor Hygrell, Head Jan Häggström, Head of Economic Research +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Blasieholmstorg 11 Corporate identity no.: 556418-8851 Blasieholmstorg 11 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 HANDELSBANKEN LIV +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Louise Sander, Head GROUP FINANCE RETAIL & E-SERVICES Blasieholmstorg 12 Ulf Riese, CFO Anders Karlsson, Head Box 1325 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 SE-111 83 Stockholm, Sweden Torsgatan 12 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 71 00 SE-106 35 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Corporate identity no.: 516401-8284 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 COMMUNICATIONS HEARTWOOD MARKETS & ASSET MANAGEMENT Johan Lagerström, Head Tracey Davidson, Head Per Elcar, Head Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 12 Henrietta Street Blasieholmstorg 11 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Covent Garden SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 London WC2E 8LH, UK +46 (0)8 701 10 00 +44 (0)20 704 513 20 INFRASTRUCTURE Corporate identity no.: 4132340 MERCHANT BANKING INTERNATIONAL Agneta Lilja, Head Jan Amethier, Head Torsgatan 14 STADSHYPOTEK Blasieholmstorg 11 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Ulrica Stolt Kirkegaard, Head SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Torsgatan 12 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 SE-103 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 54 00 Corporate identity no.: 556459-6715 226 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 CONTACT US HEAD OFFICES, REGIONAL BANKS GREAT BRITAIN – CENTRAL Nick Lowe, Head NORTHERN SWEDEN Two Colmore Square Magnus Ericson, Head 38 Colmore Circus, 3rd floor Storgatan 48 Queensway Box 1002 Birmingham B4 6BN, UK SE-901 20 Umeå +44 (0)12 121 291 74 +46 (0)90 15 45 60 handelsbanken.co.uk CENTRAL SWEDEN GREAT BRITAIN – SOUTH WEST Pontus Åhlund, Head Michael Broom, Head Nygatan 20 1100 Parkway North Box 196 Stoke Gifford SE-801 03 Gävle Bristol BS34 8YU, UK +46 (0)26 17 20 60 +44 (0)11 793 110 08 handelsbanken.co.uk STOCKHOLM Carina Åkerström, Head GREAT BRITAIN – SOUTHERN Arsenalsgatan 9 John Hodson, Head SE-106 70 Stockholm 3 Thomas More Square +46 (0)8 701 10 00 London E1W 1WY, UK +44 (0)20 757 880 00 EASTERN SWEDEN handelsbanken.co.uk Stefan Nilsson, Head Ågatan 7 DENMARK Box 421 Lars Moesgaard, Head SE-581 04 Linköping Havneholmen 29 +46 (0)13 28 91 00 DK-1561 Copenhagen V, Denmark +45 (0)46 79 12 00 WESTERN SWEDEN handelsbanken.dk Katarina Ljungqvist, Head Östra Hamngatan 23 A FINLAND SE-405 40 Gothenburg Nina Arkilahti, Head +46 (0)31 774 80 00 Alexanderkatu 11 FI-00100 Helsinki, Finland SOUTHERN SWEDEN +358 (0)10 444 11 Göran Stille, Head handelsbanken.fi Södergatan 10 SE-205 40 Malmö NORWAY +46 (0)40 24 50 00 Dag Tjernsmo, Head Tjuvholmen Allé 11 GREAT BRITAIN – NORTHERN Postboks 1342 Vika John Parker, Head NO-0113 Oslo, Norway 4M Building +47 (0)22 39 70 00 Malaga Avenue handelsbanken.no Manchester Airport Manchester M90 3RR, UK THE NETHERLANDS +44 (0)16 160 202 00 Mikael Sørensen, Head handelsbanken.co.uk WTC Schiphol Airport Schiphol Boulevard 135 GREAT BRITAIN – NORTH EAST NL-1118 BG Schiphol, The Netherlands Simon Lodge, Head +31 (0)204 127 600 No 1 Whitehall Riverside, 4th Floor handelsbanken.nl Leeds LS1 4BN, UK +44 (0)11 338 601 00 handelsbanken.co.uk H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 227 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS Branches and branch managers REGIONAL BANK NORTHERN SWEDEN REGIONAL BANK CENTRAL SWEDEN Board Board Bob Persson Frösön, Chairman Ulf Bergkvist Insjön, Chairman Hans Jonsson Umeå Torsten Engwall Gävle Gunnar Liljedahl Luleå Peter Larson Gävle Agneta Marell Umeå Ulf Larsson Sundsvall Magnus Ericson Umeå Monica Oldenstedt Västerås Anna Mattsson Luleå, (E)* Arne Skoglund Uppsala Pontus Åhlund Gävle Head Monica Morén Hedemora, (E)* Magnus Ericson Umeå Head Pontus Åhlund Gävle Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Arvidsjaur Ann-Louise Högberg Lövånger Kjell-Ove Lövgren Alfta Dan Silvroth Mora Jürgen Smolle Backe Linnea Olsson Malå Ewa Lundqvist Arboga Larry Andersson Norberg Håkan Bjurling Bjurholm Linda Öhrman Mörsil Jessica Forssén Arbrå Pär Lindh Norrtälje Bo Schotte Bjästa Kathrin Nordenberg Nordingrå Tommy Sjölund Avesta Ruben Bergdahl Ockelbo Fredrik Nordkvist Björna Veronica Egnor Nordmaling Mats Ågren Bergby Susanne Persson Orsa Anette Skoglund Boden Ann-Christin Söderberg Rånman Norsjö Greger Holmström Bergsjö Rose-Marie Hildingsson Rimbo Iréne Widnersson Bredbyn Anna Englund Näsåker Mari Tarander Jakobsson Bjursås Anders Rapp Rättvik Maria Holmberg Bureå Helen Sundström Offerdal Jörgen Nordqvist Björbo Jenny Åkerström Sala Robert Karlsson Burträsk Joakim Löfbom Pajala Martin Hedberg Bollnäs Thomas Frykberg Sandviken Johan Lindahl Byske Sören Markström Piteå Stefan Uddström Borlänge Caroline Cedergren Skinnskatteberg Niclas Zidén Domsjö Patrise Halsius Ramsele Jan-Åke Sjömäling Bräcke Per Stålhandske Skultuna Johan Gustavsson Dorotea Fredrik Sjöbom Robertsfors Anton Olofsson Delsbo Örjan Källman Skutskär Magnus Sjökvist Föllinge Bodil Edfeldt Olsson Råneå Maria Mörk Edsbyn Annika Wikström Skärplinge Stefan Holmquist Gammelstad Susanne Rudeklint Skellefteå Hans Albert Lindgren Enköping Lars Olsson Skönsberg Urban Strömbom Gällivare Björn Nyström Sollefteå Sofia Bodin Fagersta Mikael Johansson Holst Stora Tuna Andreas Borgefors, Acting Hammarstrand Lars-Göran Fahlén Sorsele Fredrik Karlsson Falun Henrik Ragnarsson Storvik Helene Hedin Hammerdal David Sjödin Storuman Fredrik Karlsson Fellingsbro Daniel Wallin Sundsvall Owe Sundin Haparanda Tomas Björnfot Strömsund Lars-Erik Olsén Fränsta Per Röstlund Sveg Jörgen Andersson Holmsund Helene Hedman Sävar Andreas Fors Frövi Mikael Jansson Svenstavik Bengt Nilzén Hoting Berith Minasdotter Trehörningsjö Gunilla Näslund Furudal Maria Holmberg Säter Patrik Nylén Husum Veronica Egnor Ullånger Tommy Sjölund Gagnef Anders Rehn Söderhamn Joakim Frithiof Härnösand Åsa Starfelt Nilsson Umeå Gnarp Niclas Södergren Sörberge Ulrica Bolt Jokkmokk Ulrica Kvickström City Anders Sundström Grangärde Andreas Abraham Tierp Pernilla Strömberg Junsele Annica Olofsson Teg Thomas Rönnberg Grängesberg Mia Karlsson Timrå Amanda Eriksson Järpen Pär Jakobsson Västra Henrik Lundström Gällö Karin Evertsson Torsåker Toni Soppela Kalix Ulla-Britt Söderberg Vilhelmina Karin Svensson Gävle City Svante Larsson Uppsala Kiruna Andreas Karlsson Vindeln Anna Johansson Hallstavik Catarina Lyshag City Johanna Lundberg Kramfors Susanne Moström Vännäs Alexander Bagrov Heby Maria Oscarsson Eriksberg Magnus Sundqvist Krokom Henrik Lindqvist Ånäset Anton Olofsson Hede Mattias Sundt Industriområde Micael Lindström Liden Tobias Wiklund Åre Jenny Strand Hedemora Håkan Arvidsson Luthagen Birger Kristiansson Lit Magnus Noren Åsele Anna Andersson Hedesunda Markus Strömberg Vansbro Fredrik Hallqvist Lugnvik Tommy Sjölund Älvsbyn Eva Berggren Hudiksvall Thony Nylund Västanfors Andreas Byrén Luleå Örnsköldsvik Lars Norlinder Insjön Oskar Ahlzén Västerås Storgatan Jörgen Ericsson Östersund Petter Dahlin Järvsö Mikael Stridh City Per Karlsson Örnäset Lisbeth Aidanpää Överkalix Maria Fältmark Kilafors Sten Morin Emausgatan Therese Massaro Lycksele Henrik Johansson Övertorneå Asta Blombäck Knivsta Agneta Sturesson Kvarnryd Kolbäck Terése Ahl Lejderud Köpingsvägen Mats Söderlund Kopparberg Lena Ragnarsson Vöks Stora Gatan Håkan Janson Kungsör Ann-Charlotte Edin Ånge Michaela Morén Kvissleby Per Pettersson Österbybruk Kristina Carlsson Köping Peter Fällman Östervåla Helena Kolström Leksand Anders Ekström Östhammar Anna Lydell Bjälmén Lima Lena Eggens Lindesberg Maria Ekdahl Meeting-places Ljusdal Tommy Bylund Knivsta Ljusne Anna Ekström Alsike Agneta Sturesson Ludvika Andreas Abraham Mora Malung Martin Sellberg Älvdalen Jürgen Smolle Matfors Caroline Jungell Mockfjärd Bengt Korning (E)*= employee representative 228 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK STOCKHOLM REGIONAL BANK EASTERN SWEDEN Board Board Stefan Wigren Bromma, Chairman Jan Cedwall Nyköping, Chairman Ingalill Berglund Solna Santhe Dahl Växjö Carl-Olof By Saltsjöbaden Jan-Eric Nilsson Djursholm Jörgen Centerman Stockholm Sten Peterson Katrineholm Ulf Lundahl Lidingö Kenneth Synnersten Västerås Carina Åkerström Stockholm Stefan Nilsson Linköping Anne Reis Stockholm, (E)* Helena Håkansson Färjestaden, (E)* Head Head Carina Åkerström Stockholm Stefan Nilsson Linköping Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Alviks Torg Johan Lurén Sigtuna Vacant Alvesta Maj-Lis Pettersson Norrköping Arlanda Sky City Carl-Fredrik Boija Skanstull Johan Hilmersson Anderstorp Sten Berglund Drottninggatan Hans Widmark Birger Jarlsgatan Daniel Spangenberg Skärholmen Rickard Svallfors Bankeryd Åsa A Olsson Eneby Marie Kellgren Brommaplan Peter Lindh Sköndal Jessica Nirvin Borensberg Malin Svanberg Fjärilsgatan Terese Klöver Bålsta Ann-Sofie Sivander Sollentuna Fredrik Andersson Borgholm Conny Johansson Nybro Thomas Svensson Dalarö Kristina Jansenberger Solna Eksjö Karin Jönsson Nyköping Jens Fransson Djursholm Sune Werkell Frösunda Ulf Eliasson Emmaboda Johan Lorentzon Nässjö Cecilia Antonsson Ekerö Mathias Lindmark Solna Lisa Spangenberg Eskilstuna Oskarshamn Jenny Nilsson Farsta Jesper Hellström, Acting Solna Strand Lena Schaumburger Fristadstorget Katarina Rülcker Pålsboda Anna Klerne Fleminggatan Tomas Wistedt Spånga Ola Arvidsson Östermalm Bo Vallin Rörvik Christina Blomstrand Fridhemsplan Ann Lilja Stockholm Sergel Maria Hellberg Finspång Ingela Nyrén Slite Per Karlsson Frihamnen Johanna Lagerbäck Strandvägen Mats Ernborg Fjugesta Anders Hedvall Strängnäs Katharina Schramm Hellmark Gamla Stan Carl-Magnus Gustafsson Stureplan Peter Sturesson Flen Johan Hallkvist Sävsjö Cecilia Tahlin Globen Daniel Andersson Stuvsta Mats Nordling Fårösund Britt Nordstöm Söderköping Marika Ronnerheim Gustav Adolfs Torg Anders Lindegren Sundbyberg Per Anders Tranberg Färjestaden Ida Petersson Tingsryd Peter Andersson Götgatsbacken Maria Wedholm Sveavägen Malin Bergström Gislaved Per Risberg Torsås Jeanette Karlström Hallunda Göran Rönngren Södertälje Bengt Bohman Gnesta Mårten Larsson Tranås Patrik Rosengren Hammarby Marcus Axelson Tessinparken Lars Eberson Hallsberg Mats Kagerup Trosa Anna-Karin Borg Haninge Pernilla Eldestrand Torsgatan Lena Stenmark Hemse Lars Cramér Vadstena Christine Wallstén Hornsberg Kajsen Hansson Trångsund Pia Bergkvist Hultsfred Monica Carlenskog Vaggeryd Inger Ågren Hornsgatan Lars Holm Tullinge Lena Lövkvist Huskvarna Mats Andersson Vetlanda Jörgen Asp Huddinge Jenny Lööw Borsos Tyresö Susanne Norman-Taube Högsby Jonas Petersson Vimmerby Hans Will Humlegården AnneMarie Dahlstedt Täby Centrum Johan Grahn Jönköping Cicki Törnell Virserum Monica Johansson Hägersten Anders Friman Ulvsunda Tina Nylén Kalmar Visby Hässelby Gård Anders Stenberg Upplands Väsby Urban Wolters Kalmar Hansa Christin Abrahamsson Adelsgatan Linda Ewald Högalid Per Lindholm Vallentuna Fredrik Enander Kvarnholmen Ola Tyrberg Öster Carl Oscar Sjöström Högdalen Maria Sjöstedt Vanadisplan Johan Palm Katrineholm Göran Bjerke Vislanda Maj-Lis Pettersson Jakobsberg Marie Lindström Vasagatan Christer Örtegren Klintehamn Linda Ewald Värnamo Jonas Flink Järna Ellinor Lindblom Vaxholm Maria Lindberg Kumla Thomas Ljungberg Västervik Michael Skännestig Karlaplan Vacant Vällingby Åsa Eriksson-Hedensiö Lammhult Christina Blomstrand Växjö Jonas Ahlqvist Karlavägen Mats-Jörgen Hansson Värmdö Niklas Eklund Landsbro Jörgen Asp Ålem Helena Edström Kista Hans Lundin Värtavägen Carl-Gustav Moberg, Acting Linköping Åseda Mattias König Kungsholmstorg Jan Wallin Västerhaninge Göran Hartog City Michael Sterne Åtvidaberg Lars Blomqvist Kungsträdgården Peter Einarsson Västermalm Ulrika Staffas Nordqvist Tornby Mats Borgsjö Örebro Kungsängen Stina Marklund Åkersberga Christer Lövholm Mjölby Michael Rimstedt Ekersgatan Kristina Dahl Kärrtorp Katarina Eriksson Årsta Anna Karlsson Motala Anders Hättström Stortorget Kenneth Vallin Lidingö Älvsjö Anna Blomstergren Mönsterås Helena Edström Våghustorget Anders Forsgren Centrum Elisabeth Hiljebäck Ängby Blackeberg Marcus Lundgren Mörbylånga Ida Petersson Larsberg Mikael Gustafson Ösmo Anna Persson Mörlunda Marie Jonsson Meeting-places Näset Magnus Blomqvist Östermalmstorg Jan Larsson Norrköping Drottninggatan Marieberg Lotta Adestam Östra Station Elisabeth Croon Östra Husby Hans Widmark Marievik David Haqvinsson Strängnäs Märsta Magnus Hedlund Meeting-places Mariefred Katharina Schramm Hellmark Mörby Centrum Peder Wiberg Alviks Torg Nacka Forum Anki Lenksjö Äppelviken Johan Lurén Norrmalmstorg Johan Nordström Högdalen Norrtull Kjell Andersson Stureby Maria Sjöstedt Nynäshamn Anders Hagman Solna Näsby Park Cecilia Sonntag Arenastaden Lisa Spangenberg Odengatan Catarina Thunstedt Täby Centrum Odenplan Susanne Signell Arninge Johan Grahn Renstiernas Gata Cecilia Hallqvist Värtavägen Rotebro Katarina Fridén Norra Djurgårdsstaden Carl-Gustav Moberg, Acting S:t Eriksplan Marika Hedblom Ängby Blackeberg Salem Torsten Johansson Ängbyplan Marcus Lundgren Saltsjö-Boo Malin Meijer (E)*= employee representative H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 229 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK WESTERN SWEDEN REGIONAL BANK SOUTHERN SWEDEN Board Board Lennart Mankert Gothenburg, Chairman Charlotta Falvin Genarp, Chairman Stig-Arne Blom Ulricehamn Bengt Kjell Helsingborg Peter Claesson Gothenburg Claes Lindqvist Viken Carin Kindbom Västra Frölunda Johan Mattsson Tomelilla Claes Larsson Gothenburg Mikael Roos Malmö Håkan Larsson Gothenburg Göran Stille Falsterbo Vilhelm Schottenius Varberg Pia Håkansson Ystad, (E)* M. Johan Widerberg Gothenburg Katarina Ljungqvist Västra Frölunda Head Lena Lindén Karlstad, (E)* Göran Stille Falsterbo Head Katarina Ljungqvist Västra Frölunda Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Ale Torg Anna-Lisa Jansson Hjo Thomas Waller Arlöv Rickard Ohlsson Markaryd Maria Larsson Alingsås Staffan Svantesson Karlskoga Johan Dahl Bara Cecilia Leijgård Olofström Catharina Lydell Arvika Stefan Lindberg Karlstad Broby Catharina Munkberg Osby Henrica Lorentsson Bollebygd Malin Lignell Stora Torget Ulrik Wedelin Båstad Lars-Olof Ottosson Ronneby Magnus Jurvin Borås Våxnäs Sara Brask Eslöv Mats Jonsson Simrishamn Andreas Jeppsson Hulta Kenneth Källerman Kristinehamn Fredrik Ekenberg Halmstad Magnus Landbring Sjöbo Thomas Hansson Stora Torget Ingela Forsberg Kungsbacka Mats Rollof Helsingborg Skanör Maria Hägerström Viared Thomas Bogsjö Kungälv Lena Gillholm Norr Olof Enander Skurup Louise Pedersen Falkenberg Kristian Gårdenfelt Landvetter Hanna Samuelsson Stortorget Göran Pelvén Staffanstorp Susanne Linné Nilsson Falköping Magnus Kvarnmarker Lerum Ola Forsman Söderport Martin Berg Svedala Cecilia Leijgård Filipstad Ida Sandgren Lidköping Nina Ahlén Hässleholm Rebecca Thörnqvist Sölvesborg Magnus Gardell Finnerödja Olle Jonsson Lilla Edet Ellinor Fagerberg Höganäs Gunilla Voss Sösdala Karin Eriksson Fristad Anders Roos Mariestad Torbjörn Läth Höllviken Ebba Olsson Tomelilla Pål Andersson Färgelanda Mats Brändén Mellerud Claes Hernvall Höör Magnus Holmer Trelleborg Marianne Nilsson Gällstad Janne Pehrsson Mölndal Ulrika Jivefors Karlshamn Catharina Lydell Tyringe Marie Persson-Lärka Gothenburg Mölnlycke Ann Sundvisson Karlskrona Hedvig Stache Veberöd Hans-Åke Mårtensson Almedal Jan Gottberg Partille Anna Ekstrand Kivik Pontus Hansson Vellinge Eric Elmlid Avenyn Håkan Jarbeck Skara Anna-Lena Andersson Klippan Jonas Olsson Vittsjö Henrica Lorentsson Backa-Ringön Deborah Moberg Skövde Martin Drebin Knislinge Catharina Munkberg Vollsjö Thomas Hansson City Martin Henriksson Sollebrunn Peter Kornesjö Kristianstad Thomas Johansson Ystad Mia Kristell Eriksberg Kent Larsson Stenungsund Anette Pettersson Kävlinge Sara Malterling Åhus Daniel N Högstedt Frölunda Camilla Sjöberg Strömstad Johan Rosengren Laholm Fredrik Johnson Älmhult Fredrik Roghner Första Långgatan Anders Olausson Sunne Maria Hannebo Landskrona Per-Ove Kamlund Ängelholm Irene Andersson Gårda Jens Persson Surte Marie Erlandson Ljungby Thomas Eldh Hisings Kärra Paula Johannesson Svenljunga Hans Qvist Ljungbyhed Jonas Olsson Meeting-places Hjällbo Börje Ström Säffle Dennis Göransson Lomma Erik Hultgren Höganäs Högsbo Sara Larsson Tibro Hanna Rosing Lund Viken Gunilla Voss Kortedala Per Stolpe Tidaholm Martin Ekman, Acting City Peter Andersson Lund City Landala Louise Martinsson Torsby Pär Olsson Ideon Nils Möllerberg Hjärup Peter Andersson Lilla Bommen Marie Kaptein Tranemo Christina Ljung Väster Anneli Sömnez Sölvesborg Lindholmen Gabriella Berndtsson Trollhättan Ingela Karlsson Malmö Bromölla Magnus Gardell Majorna Niklas Häggström Uddevalla Peter Johansson Amiralsgatan Göran Camitz Odinsgatan Annika Löfberg Ulricehamn Janne Pehrsson City Erik Bredberg Sisjön Christian Pennert Vara Maj Rudell Fosie Anders Persson Torslanda Fredrik Karlberg Varberg Jonas Lagerqvist Fridhem Marie Brunstam Volvo Christian Sjöberg Vårgårda Ann Björn Hyllie Anna Harrison Barthold Örgryte Patrik Niklasson Vänersborg Jan-Olof Strand Köpenhamnsvägen Peter Ivarsson Övre Husargatan Christian Nielsen Åmål Magdalena Gunnarsson Limhamn Roger Håkansson Hagfors Hans-Göran Lindgren Årjäng Louise Persson, Acting Lundavägen Bengt Nyquist Herrljunga Susanne Bender Älvängen Marie Wall Triangeln Annila Hansson Värnhem Annika Bäckström Meeting-places Västra Hamnen Mårten Edlund Gothenburg Frölunda Långedrag Camilla Sjöberg Kungsbacka Kungsporten Mats Rollof (E)*= employee representative 230 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK NORTHERN GREAT BRITAIN REGIONAL BANK CENTRAL GREAT BRITAIN The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch.. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch.. Board Board Anders Bouvin London, Anders Bouvin London, CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Håkan Sandberg Stockholm John Parker Manchester Nick Lowe Birmingham Head Head John Parker Manchester Nick Lowe Birmingham Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Aberdeen Neil Clark Kendal Richard Lancaster Banbury Paul Graham Mansfield Darryn Evans Altrincham Ian Noke Lancaster Kevin Sanderson Bedford Mick Valerio Milton Keynes Derek Bell Blackburn Philip Skupski Liverpool Keith Lowe Birmingham Northampton Mark Charteress Bolton Sean Greenhalgh Lytham Christopher Strahan Newhall St David Hastings Norwich Ian Hall Burnley Alan Jolliffe Manchester Temple Row Tony Hall Nottingham Bury David Bowen Spinningfields Joe McGrath Bromsgrove Stephen Ellis City Gate Andrew Tomlinson Carlisle Jason Smith Trinity Way John Burke Burton-on-Trent Ian Morris West Bridgford Ian Davys Chester Chris Burgoyne Perth Alexander McDougall Bury St Edmunds Nigel Foyster Peterborough Julian Turner Chorley Andrew Pearson Preston David Warbrick Cambridge Richard Waters Rugby Andy McCabe Edinburgh Stirling David Beggs Colwyn Bay Gareth Jones Shrewsbury Chris Hyde George Street Michael Mullins Stockport David Kovacs Coventry Paul Belfield Solihull Richard Baker West End Iain Henderson Warrington Lesley Cozens Crewe Adrian Smith Stafford Mike Smith Glasgow George Shanks Wigan Alan Bowers Derby Shaun Hill Stratford-upon-Avon Andrew Smith Heswall Richard Malley Wilmslow Anthony Flynn Ipswich Andrew Pike Stoke-on-Trent Paul Stokes Leamington Spa Paul Brooksbank Tamworth Christine Banks Leicester Simon Bradley Walsall Stephen Breen Lincoln David Thompson Wolverhampton Steven Lewis Loughborough Simon Grant Worcester Philip Dutton Luton Brett Alligan Wrexham Vicky Davies REGIONAL BANK NORTH EAST GREAT BRITAIN The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch.. Board Anders Bouvin London, CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Simon Lodge Leeds Head Simon Lodge Leeds Branch/branch manager Barnsley Peter Gray Leeds Beverley Anna Adcock The Embankment David Brady Bradford Andrew Lowther Headingley Stephen Hill Castleford Ian Mason Wellington Street James Cornell Chesterfield Phil Walker Middlesbrough John Martinson Darlington Mike Airey Morpeth David Elliot Doncaster Neil Ebden Newcastle Durham Rory Gibson Grey Street Tom Ramshaw Grimsby Anthony Winn Saville Row Mike Brunskill Halifax Ian Jackson, Acting Rotherham Mike Harrison Harrogate Richard Lally Scarborough Nick Sharples Hexham David Wilson Sheffield Huddersfield Tony Jones Riverside Stephen Tweedle Hull Tudor Square Patrick McGarry Hesslewood Neil Harrison Stockton-on-Tees David Filby Marina Court Ian Gatenby Sunderland Granville Kelly Ilkley Sue Toulson Wakefield Paul Drysdale Wetherby Adam von Emloh York Christopher Ibbotson H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 231 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK SOUTH WEST GREAT BRITAIN REGIONAL BANK SOUTHERN GREAT BRITAIN The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch.. Board Board Anders Bouvin London, Anders Bouvin London, CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Michael Broom Bristol John Hodson London Head Head Michael Broom Bristol John Hodson London Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Abingdon David Cook Guildford Neil Truman Bishop's Stortford Steve Cooper Hampstead Denis McCarthy Ascot Richard Payton Henley-on-Thames Sarah Dean Brighton Simon Howe Holborn Toni Virtanen Aylesbury Derek Beards Hereford Craig Wyer Bromley Chris Pye Kensington Tom Fuller Barnstaple Peter Larcombe High Wycombe Jack Miller Canterbury David Kiernan London Bridge David Boaden Basingstoke Richard James Newbury Geoff Dann Chatham Gavin Coleman Marylebone Andrew Rowlands Bath Chris Johnson Newport Martin Leech Chelmsford Mark Earlam Moorgate Paul Chapman Bodmin Phil Kerkin Oxford David Woodhead Colchester Alan Barnard Queen’s Park Steve MacDonald Bournemouth Jeremy Tollworthy Plymouth Phill Harvey Crawley Simon Briggs West End Roy Budgett Bridgend Mark Standley Poole Dave Shering Croydon Keith Yeoman Maidstone Jeremy Brett Bristol Portsmouth Phil Dedman Dartford Trevor Adams Redhill Clive Martin Clifton Martin Bidgood Reading Graham Beith Ealing Chris Ttouli Richmond Mark Lobo Parkway Roger Bell Salisbury Graham Renshaw Enfield Adrian Bennett Romford David Roe Queen Square Ian Dibble Slough Mark Bradbury Epsom Phil Hunt Sevenoaks Nick Brooker Cardiff Neil Humphreys Southampton Craig Ward Harrow Paul Jarman Southend-on-Sea John Brooks Cheltenham Di Pitts Swansea Steve Smith Hertford Debbie Chilton St Albans Bill Whittemore Chichester Chris Golding Swindon Shaun Bradshaw Hove Simon Nicholson Tunbridge Wells Nick Green Dorchester Andrew Denning Taunton Peter Kirby Islington Paul Cooledge Uxbridge Steve Howarth Exeter Darren Galliford Truro Denise Major Kingston Peter Wylde Watford Andrew Samarasinghe Farnham Glenn Gough Weston-super-Mare Martin Fey London Weybridge Tim Tostevin Frimley Mark Clinkskel Winchester John Gornall Chelsea Kieran Costello Wimbledon Barry Sexton Gloucester Simon Cropper Yeovil Jim Durrant Chiswick Dermot Jordan Clapham Neil Higgs Meeting-places Finchley Steve Smith London Moorgate Greenwich Mark Foley Canary Wharf Paul Chapman 232 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK DENMARK REGIONAL BANK FINLAND The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, Copenhagen openhagen branch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, Helsinki sinki branch. Board Board Claes Norlén Stockholm, Chairman Stig Gustavson Helsinki, Chairman Ulrik Kolding Hartvig Roskilde Claes Norlén Stockholm, Vice Chairman Steen Winther-Petersen Copenhagen Bjarne Mitts Helsinki John Vestergaard Ikast Leena Niemistö Helsinki Lise Westphal Emdrup Elmar Paananen Helsinki Lars Moesgaard Copenhagen Andreas Tallberg Kirkonummi Helle Rank Aalborg, (E)* Nina Arkilahti Espoo Tiina Pöyhönen Kuopio, (E)* Head Lars Moesgaard Copenhagen Head Nina Arkilahti Helsinki Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Aalborg Helsingør Henrik Bengtsson Espoo Lappeenranta Martti Mäkelä City Ole Dahl Nielsen Herlev Flemming Jensen Matinkylä Outi Vesanto Lohja Arto Finérus Syd Morten O. Hedemann Herning Tapiola Hannu Oksanen Mikkeli Jouko Kervinen Aarhus City Niels Viggo Malle Helsinki Oulu Timo Väisänen Aarhus City Esben Kjeldsen Fredhøj Bruno Hansen Aleksi Tuija Nuutinen Pietarsaari Jörgen Blomqvist Aarhus Nord Lars Graugaard Hillerød Dianapuisto Ilari Tyrkkö Pori Sami-Pekka Ylikoski Aarhus Syd Arne Vestergaard Knudsen Hillerød Steen Hirschsprung Hakaniemi Jussi Nikkanen Porvoo Annika Bergvall Allerød Mads Christian Heidemann Vest Lisbeth Arenfeldt Herttoniemi Outi Vainikka Raisio Maaria Rahikainen Amager Dorte Jellestad Holstebro Henrik Kristiansen Kamppi Ari Turunen Rauma Sami-Pekka Ylikoski, Acting Aulum Gerda Kviesgaard Horsens John Jørgensen Munkkivuori Nora Kari Rovaniemi Merja Majanen Ballerup Steen Hansen Ikast Arnth Stougaard Pasila Jari Murtoperä Salo Teemu Alanko Birkerød Jesper Borglykke Karup Vibeke Hestbek Ruoholahti Kristiina Seppälä Seinäjoki Vacant Brande Henrik Overgaard Kgs. Lyngby Preben Bjerrekær Hyvinkää Risto Mäkeläinen Tammisaari Hannu Oksanen Charlottenlund Allan Kandrup Kibæk Preben Staal Hämeenlinna Pauli Ranta Tampere Copenhagen Kolding Jesper Andersen Imatra Pekka Lankinen Kauppakatu Tarja Suvisalmi City Gorm Bjørkmann Køge Maj-Britt Nielsen Joensuu Mauri Kujanen Kyttälä Kari Koivisto Østerbro Bjarne Albrechtsen Lemvig Peter Tornbo Jyväskylä Jarkko Käki Tornio Roger Keisu Large Corporates Knud Jacobsen Lynge Hatice Bakke Järvenpää Ilkka Arenius Turku Vest Jan Arup Odense Klaus Rydal Kauniainen Nina Lukka Hämeenkatu Risto Vihula Esbjerg Morten Andersen Roskilde Bøje Nielsen, Acting Kerava Aku Dunderfelt Kauppatori Josefiina Vornanen Farum Jens Karlsson Sdr. Felding Kristian Hansen Kirkkonummi Päivi Toppari Vaasa Frej Björses Fredensborg Kjeld Aunstrup Silkeborg Stefan Brochmann Kokkola Esa Alkio Vantaa Fredericia Brian Sørensen Slagelse Henrik Kragh Kotka Hannu Huostila Aviapolis Tero Juotasniemi Frederiksberg Slangerup Jørgen Torm Kouvola Henri Lilja Tikkurila Stephan Björkell Frederiksberg Jan Rasmussen Stenløse Dennis Grouleff Kuopio Simo Sarkkinen Myyrmäki Matti Sulamaa Frederiksberg Vest Jesper Christensen Struer Poul Bakkegaard Lahti Matti Nieminen Frederikssund Michael Tøgersen Sunds Allan Eg Frederiksværk Alan Nielsen Vejle Carsten Hjortflod Give Martin Skovgaard Larsen Viborg Henrik Toft Mathiasen Grindsted Dorthe Vestergaard Videbæk Anja Lyhne Hammerum Jakob Rousing Sloth Vildbjerg Frank Jensen Helsinge Steen Malmqvist (E)*= employee representative H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 233 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK NORWAY REGIONAL BANK THE NETHERLANDS The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, Oslo o branch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken AB, Netherlands lands branch. Board Board Bjørn Flatgård Kolbotn, Chairman Håkan Sandberg Stockholm, Chairman Claes Norlén Stockholm, Vice Chairman Anders Bouvin London Hans Anfinn Eide Helland Sandnes Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Dag Tangevald-Jensen Oslo Mikael Sørensen Haarlem Dag Tjernsmo Oslo Christer Enersen Slemmestad, (E)* Head Mikael Sørensen Haarlem Head Dag Tjernsmo Oslo Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Arendal Trond Røisland Moss Willy Fossum Amersfoort Robert van der Kolk Emmen Marc Bruin Asker Turid Williksen Oslo Amsterdam Groningen Erwin van der Steur Bergen Grev Wedels plass Thomas B. Tresselt Centrum Jasper Klok Het Gooi Lars Vissers Fana Monica Vågen Large Corporates Sven Ove Oksvik Zuid Daniël van Til Leeuwarden Tammo Oosterhof Fyllingsdalen Gottlieb Gullaksen Majorstuen Bjørn Erik Øverland Apeldoorn Jeroen Altena Maastricht Tim Neu Kokstad Jarle Hundven Nydalen Eirik Arnesen Arnhem Patricia Schwalbach Rotterdam Hans Troost Minde Margunn Kolle, Acting Olav Vs gate Harald Søreide Barendrecht Peter Bot Schiphol Edwin Boonk Sentrum Tore Svein Nese Bryn Christian Doksrød Bergen op Zoom Patrick van Zon Twente Martijn Peters Strandgaten Erik Ramsdal Skøyen Thomas Stousland Breda Ton Schröder Utrecht Michiel van Loon Vest Kristian Hartvedt Knudsen Økern Ronny Myreng Den Haag Roderick Mastenbroek Zwolle Wery Hegge Åsane Mette Skauge Sandefjord Hans Jørgen Ormar Eindhoven Pieter van de Koolwijk Bodø Tore Halvorsen Sandnes Sindre Bergsagel Drammen Toril Garntangen Sandvika Kirsti Jensås Fredrikstad Tove Anita R Torp Sarpsborg Tormod Sørum Halden Roar Elsness Ski Geir Anders Sundnes Hamar Hans Skjelbreid Skien Jan Egil Hafredal Haugesund Knut Børge Lunde Sotra Erik Nygård, Acting Jæren Rolf Inge Knutsen Stavanger Jessheim Inger Kyhen Sentrum Lynn Sperb Kolbotn Terje Andersen Straen Ole Henry Slette Kongsberg Kristin Franck Tromsø Yngve Haldorsen Kristiansand Vidar Akselsen Trondheim Larvik Bodil Hansen Heimdal Fredrik Lillemyr Lillehammer Thomas Næstad Moe Leangen Ole-Martin Smedseng Lillestrøm Paal Tollefsen Søndregate Ola Grøtte Lysaker Glenn Steinbø Tønsberg Per Skustad Mo i Rana Jonny I Bohlin Ålesund Steinar Krøvel Molde Jørund Alme (E)*= employee representative 234 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 BOARDS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND BUSINESS AREA OFFICES OUTSIDE THE NORDIC COUNTRIES, THE UK AND THE NETHERLANDS Operations are conducted in Svenska Handelsbanken with branches in each country. Branch/branch manager Lithuania Moscow General Manager Håkan Molin Representative Viktor Tsoy Austria Vilnius Håkan Molin General Manager Johan Sandh, Acting Mumbai Vienna Johan Sandh, Acting Luxembourg Representative Ashish Gupta General Manager Jörgen Oldensand China Luxembourg Jörgen Oldensand São Paolo General Manager Mikael Westerback Representative Per Magnus Egeberg-Pedersen Hong Kong Johan Andrén Poland Shanghai Mikael Westerback General Manager Harri Tuohimaa Sydney Warsaw Harri Tuohimaa Representative Robert Karlsson Estonia General Manager Annika Nordström Singapore Taipei Tallinn Annika Nordström General Manager Jan B Djerf Representative Amy Chen Singapore Jan B Djerf France Zurich General Manager Björn Torsteinsrud USA Representative Olof Svalborn Nice Anna Jansson-Clauzier General Manager Rolf Marquardt Paris Martijn van Dongen New York Rolf Marquardt Meeting-places Germany General Manager Tomas Ejnar Representative ofﬁces Vienna Düsseldorf Thomas Kuhn Salzburg Johan Sandh, Acting Frankfurt Marie Jöhnk Beijing Hamburg Kerstin Fuchs Representative Jason Wang Munich Andreas Stein Stuttgart Jürgen Ding Kuala Lumpur Representative Abhinash Murukesvan Latvia General Manager Dzintars Salavs Marbella Riga Dzintars Salavs Representative Jessika Kroon Representative Vibeke Toustrup Bonne BOARDS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND BUSINESS AREA EFN** HANDELSBANKEN FONDER** FORESTRY & FARMING Board Board Board Johan Lagerström Täby, Chairman Olof Lindstrand Stockholm, Chairman Anders Ohlner Malmö, Chairman Magnus Berglund Saltsjöbaden Michael Bertorp Stockholm Kent Anving Varberg Michael Green Västra Frölunda Gunnar Båtelsson Sandviken Ulf Bergqvist Insjön Ulf Köping-Höggård Lidingö Åsa Magnusson Linköping Magnus Börjeson Vreta Kloster Frank Vang-Jensen Stockholm Lena Munkhammar Solna Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Ann-Christine Frilund Gustavsberg, (E)* Johan Mattsson Tomelilla Chief Executive Carl Bjurling Enskede Bob Persson Frösön Chief Executive Katja Bergqvist Stockholm Thomas Rappe Ålem Baltzar Wachtmeister Knislinge HANDEL & INDUSTRI** Åsa Willén Uppsala Board HANDELSBANKEN LIV** M. Johan Widerberg Gothenburg, Chairman Board Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Thommy Mossinger Malmö, Chairman STADSHYPOTEK** Bo Annvik Hovås Joakim Jansson Sundbyberg Board Anders Ohlner Malmö Håkan Sandberg Stockholm, Chairman Chief Executive Michael Bertorp Stockholm Bengt Kjell Stockholm Lennart Söderberg Täby Anna Hjelmberg Järfälla, (E)* Yonnie Bergqvist Täby Olof Lindstrand Lidingö HANDELSBANKEN FINANS** Chief Executive Anders Ohlner Malmö Louise Sander Danderyd Board Camilla Persson Farsta, (E)* Yonnie Bergqvist Täby, Chairman Chief Executive Kai Jokitulppo Stockholm HEARTWOOD** Ulrica Stolt Kirkegaard Stocksund Göran Holgerson Gnesta Board Frank Vang-Jensen Stockholm Ian White Stockport, Chairman Peter Gustafsson Farsta, (E)* Tracey Davidson London Nolan Carter Oxfordshire Chief Executive Marie Lundberg Stockholm Karen Fryer Croydon Simon Dixon Battle (E)*= employee representative ** For the complete name of the company, see note P16. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2014 235 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS Definitions and explanations ADDITIONAL TIER 1 CAPITAL ITRAXX RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS Additional tier 1 capital comprises perpetual ITRAXX Financials is an index of CDS spreads Total risk exposure amount. The statutory subordinated loans which meet the requirements for the 25 largest bond issuers in the European capital requirement is based on this. stated in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and can bank and insurance sector. It describes the therefore be included in the tier 1 capital. average premium that an investor requires in SOLVENCY RATIO order to accept credit risk on the companies. A concept used in the Bank’s insurance operaADJUSTED EQUITY PER SHARE tions. The solvency ratio is the available solEquity at the end of the year reduced by the LOAN LOSS RATIO vency margin divided by the required solvency equity effect of cash ﬂow hedges and the Loan losses and changes in value of reposmargin and is a measure of the margin the comminority share of equity. Adjusted equity is sessed property in relation to loans to the public pany has to meet its commitments. The ratio for then divided by the number of ordinary shares and credit institutions (excluding banks) at the a demutualised, proﬁt-distributing life insurance at the year-end reduced by buybacks. Where beginning of the year, and also repossessed company cannot be compared with the ratio for applicable, the dilution effect is taken into property and credit guarantees. a mutual life insurance company. account. OWN FUNDS/TOTAL CAPITAL TIER 1 CAPITAL C/I RATIO Own funds are the sum of tier 1 and tier 2 capital. Common equity tier 1 capital including additionTotal expenses in relation to total income. For a more detailed description of own funds, al tier 1 capital. For a more detailed description see note G49. of own funds, see note G49. COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL Common equity tier 1 capital is one of the comP/E RATIO TIER 1 RATIO ponents of own funds and mainly comprises The share price at year-end divided by earnings Tier 1 capital in relation to risk-weighted assets. equity. Deductions are made for, inter alia, diviper share. dends generated, goodwill and other intangiTIER 2 CAPITAL ble assets, and also the difference between an PREMIUMS WRITTEN Tier 2 capital is one of the components of own expected loss and provisions made for probable A concept used within the Bank’s insurance funds, and mainly consists of perpetual subordiloan losses. operations denoting mainly the total of insurnated loans which fulﬁl the requirements stated ance premiums paid in during the year. in Regulation (EU) No 575/2103 to be included COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 RATIO as tier 2 capital. For a more detailed description Common equity tier 1 capital in relation to riskPROPORTION OF IMPAIRED LOANS of own funds, see note G49. weighted assets. Net impaired loans in relation to total loans to the public and credit institutions (excluding TOTAL CAPITAL RATIO COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL banks). Impaired loans are reported without Total own funds for capital adequacy purposes AVAILABLE TO COVER BUFFER deduction for the collateral that is security for in relation to risk-weighted assets. REQUIREMENTS the claim. The common equity tier 1 ratio after a deducTOTAL RETURN tion for the part of common equity tier 1 capiRETURN ON EQUITY The total of the year’s change in share price and tal required to comply with all formal capital The year’s proﬁt in relation to average equity. paid dividend per share divided by the share requirements. Average equity is adjusted for value changes price at the end of the previous year. on ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as available for DIVIDEND YIELD sale, derivatives in cash ﬂow hedges, revaluaYIELD SPLIT Dividend per share divided by the share price tion effects from deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans When the total yield exceeds the guaranteed at year-end. and a weighted average of new share issues, return for insurance with a guaranteed return, dividends and repurchase of own shares. the insurance company will receive 10 per cent EARNINGS PER SHARE of the total yield as its share in the yield split. The proﬁt for the year attributable to holders of RETURN ON TOTAL ASSETS ordinary shares divided by the average number The year’s proﬁt in relation to average total of outstanding shares. Where applicable, the assets. dilution effect is taken into account. RISK RESULT IMPAIRED LOANS A concept used in the Bank’s insurance operaLoans are classiﬁed as impaired loans if contions.The difference between the fees the comtracted cash ﬂows are not likely to be fulﬁlled. pany charges to cover the insurance risks (morThe full amount of all claims which give rise to tality, life expectancy, disability and accident) a speciﬁc provision are included in impaired and the actual cost of the insurance claims. loans even if parts are covered by collateral. 236 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 4 handelsbanken.com | +46 8-701 10 00 | SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden
