United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 A Letter from the DA-Desk Board Dear Reader, Since our last Communication on Progress In the area of anti-corruption, we continue our (COP), DA-Desk has undertaken many additional strong and active engagement with organizations initiatives to further embed our commitment to such as the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network UNGC’s Ten Principles in our everyday work. (MACN), TRACE International, and most recently, BIMCO, the world’s largest shipping association Our three UNGC working groups have made great and a non-governmental organization (NGO) progress in a number of areas. Perhaps the most accredited with all relevant United Nations visible testament to this is the achievement by the agencies. In addition to that, we have developed Environment Protection Team, whose work led new products that support global sanctions policies DA-Desk to be awarded a Certificate of Excellence and transparency such as US Tax Forms Collection, for being a Top 10 company within the United Arab Supplier Payment Verification and Container Emirates for waste management. In this report, you Manifest screening. can learn how we achieved that. Starting this year, 2015, DA-Desk opened In addition, we have now converted more than 35% operations in Mumbai, India. We currently employ of all documents received by DA-Desk to electronic over 100 staff members locally and we have format. This has meant a significant reduction in Mumbai employees on the UNGC Team dealing carbon footprint by way of eliminating printing, with Human and Labour Rights Protection. photocopying and courier shipments. Finally as a testament to our commitment to Our commitment to the principles of Human positively contribute to the society we operate in, I Rights and Labour remains firmly embedded in would like to mention that DA-Desk was a finalist in “As a testament to our our HR policies, and since our last COP, we have the Seatrade Middle East Awards 2014 based on our established a formalized grievance procedure contribution to the region’s maritime cluster. commitment to positively overseen by an independent team. contribute to the society This is to ensure that if any staff member feels I thank you sincerely for taking the time to read we operate in, we were bullied, discriminated against or otherwise treated through our COP. Rest assured that we remain unfairly, there is a mechanism in place to raise the committed to raising standards in all areas covered a finalist in the Seatrade relevant issues and concerns without fear of any by the UNGC’s Ten Principles. Middle East Awards 2014” untoward repercussions. Hans-Christian Mordhorst Managing Director 2 2 About DA-Desk DA-Desk is the world’s largest provider of port cost management services. The company serves over 220 vessel operating companies located globally, including many publicly traded companies, the three biggest commodity trading houses, and major tanker operators. These companies look to us for operational efficiency, cost savings, and a sophisticated understanding and management of compliance issues. DA-Desk was founded in 2001 and focuses About this Report primarily on the disbursement accounting (DA) process, from port agent nomination to voyage DA-Desk joined the United Nations Global Compact closing. Our mission is to increase transparency (UNGC) initiative in June 2012. The UNGC is a in the DA process, create operational efficiencies, voluntary framework for companies that commit and improve the price-value relationship for both to align their business operations to the UNGC’s principals of shipping companies and port agents. Ten Principles. DA-Desk is fully independent, with no financial The Ten Principles consist of four main pillars: connection to port authorities, port suppliers, port Human Rights, Labour, Environment and agents or shipping companies. Anti-corruption. The company’s flagship service, PortSpend This Report is DA-Desk’s third Communication on ManagementTM, and PortPayables®, along with Progress, covering the period from June 2014 to other services and tools, deliver benefits to May 2015. The report is an overview of activities customers across the globe whose annual port calls and initiatives at DA-Desk’s offices in Dubai, United range in number from 100 to 6,000. DA-Desk has Arab Emirates and Mumbai, India that relate to the over 440 operations staff and senior executives UNGC principles. working in dedicated teams on behalf of its customers. The company maintains a sanctionsDA-Desk is founded on the principle of building checked database of almost 10,000 agents in its sustainable long-term value for all stakeholders comprehensive Agency Relationship Management while ensuring that compliance and transparency (ARM) System and processed around 140,000 port are integral to all processes. As such, this Report calls in 2014. covers only a part of all the active and planned initiatives in the company, but it includes information about our business, our policies, and our efforts relating to aligning our operations and initiatives with the Ten Principles. For more information about UNGC, go to www.unglobalcompact.org, Certificate No: TRACE Certification BIMCO MEA1105073 ID TC4142-1856 3 3 DA-Desk’s implementation of the ten Global Compact Principles Since introducing the concept of outsourced Over the last year, we have expanded our port cost management in 2001, we have helped sanctions compliance service offerings to also transform port cost management practices and cover the container shipping industry. Hans-Christian establish new standards for efficiency and This service covers comprehensive screening of oversight in the industry. container booking and manifest data, and has been Mordhorst developed in close coordination with key players in (UNGC Chairman) We bi-annually engage Lloyd’s Register the industry. Quality Assurance (LRQA) to audit our Quality Management System (QMS) for ISO 9001:2008 DA-Desk is a multi-cultural workplace with 24 certification and Deloitte to audit our process different nationalities currently represented. controls under the ISAE 3402 international We continuously focus on our people, hiring standard issued by the International Auditing experienced knowledge workers who fully Mike Candida Pradeep and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). understand the practices of the shipping industry. Rhodes Hendricks Pant Integrity, transparency, and independence are the As part of our business continuity planning, our cornerstones of our company, and compliance is newly established sister company in Mumbai, India, fundamental and embedded in all our services is being geared to support our current business and processes. needs, future growth, and product innovation. The Human Rights Labour Rights Environment Antinew office offers our employees additional flexibility Protection Protection Protection Corruption By aligning with UNGC principles, DA-Desk has and opportunities for career planning and training. Team Team Team Team become part of a growing community of businesses who operate in ways that benefit economies and We have an interdisciplinary UNGC Team that societies everywhere. includes key members from various departments. This team ensures that progress is made according We invest intensively in our services to further to our commitments, new initiatives are taken, and Deepa Nair Harshad Soman Peter D’Souza develop and deliver new applications that meet our reporting is done to the Board. We continue to have Prem Kumaresh Jeena George Rohit Soman customers’ need for process improvements while overwhelming engagement from volunteer staff. also meeting regulatory demands. 4 4 Our Stakeholders 1 Board members, Clients, Determining materiality for this Report includes considering economic, environmental, and social Agents, Employees, impacts that are relevant to us, our stakeholders and our business in general. The major topics that have attracted more stakeholder interest are Core Suppliers presented below. The materiality test was conducted internally by relevant staff members who engage on a regular basis with key stakeholders. 2 Goverment, Group Companies, The primary areas highlighted by stakeholders during the materiality test are: Courier Companies, Private • A nti-corruption, fair business ethics, innovation, profitability, integration, privacy and data Banks, Competitors protection, engagement, transparency, compliance regulations 3 Port Authorities, • Human rights, on-time payment, compensation & benefits, talent retention, career path, promotions, training & development, working conditions, gender equality Local suppliers/banks, • Carbon emission, waste management Local community 5 5 1/2 Human Rights Principles 3/4/5/6 Labour Standard Policies, actions Principles and outcomes The following pages provide an overview of how we apply practical actions, planned projects and 7/8/9 initiatives aligned with the Ten Principles and based on the four pillars of UNGC. Environment Principles 10 Anti-corruption Principles 6 6 PRINCIPLE COMMITMENT, PRINCIPLE Human Rights POLICIES & GOALS 1: We respect our colleagues & employees. Our policies uphold and promote human rights in At DA-Desk, respect and support for human rights Businesses should support accordance with the United Nations Global Compact. are fundamental aspects of the company’s culture. and respect the protection of We seek to do this in three ways: internationally proclaimed • I n our operations by upholding our values and DA-Desk employs a multicultural group of human rights. standards. professionals. Our Code of Conduct outlines the HUMAN RIGHTS • I n our work environment by encouraging individuals behavior expected of every DA-Desk employee at 2: to grow professionally and personally. all levels. Businesses should make sure • I n our relationships with our customers and suppliers that they are not complicit in by upholding our values and standards and through DA-Desk employees act with integrity and conduct human rights abuses. constant communication. their affairs legally, ethically and responsibly. Our policies are in accordance with applicable laws In practical terms, our policies prohibit us, for of the United Arab Emirates and India instance, from paying money to or receiving money • R espect for human rights, including the requirement from the suppliers whose invoices we audit on that no employee shall suffer harassment, physical or behalf of our principals. This way, we can be certain mental punishment, or other form of abuse that we do not take part in irresponsible practices • Fair remuneration, which may include the provision that are harmful to our customers and to society as to employees of housing or housing allowance, a whole. medical insurance, repatriation and end-of-service gratuity As a company, we acknowledge that human rights are integral to our business with all stakeholders and we uphold and promote human rights in accordance with the UNGC. The internal UNGC HR Policies Team includes dedicated members who focus • We set up and introduced a formalised Grievance Procedure. This includes a dedicated mailbox and a Grievance Form. The procedure clearly outlines that any grievances received will be treated with on human rights awareness, campaigns and sensitivity and not made public. initiatives across the company’s departments and • We set up Staff Advisories, which serve as the training mechanism for the staff regarding UNGC organisational structure, as well as highlighting • We introduced a new HR System, where staff can manage their personal profile and look up details of developments with external stakeholders. their rights and benefits • In our new office in Mumbai, India, we based our compensation on an external consultant’s report, and provide up to 20% more pay than comparable job functions in the region and country. • We have increased diversity of staff in most levels of the organisation. Additional Actions • In 2014 and 2015, we supported several humanitarian organisations: We participated in the UAE Colour Run and collected sponsorship funds which were sent to the Sailors’ Society, an international charity providing a personal lifeline for merchant seafarers without distinction for rank, nationality or faith. We raised over US$ 3,000 of contributions from staff after the Nepal earthquake. The amount was HIGHLIGHTS doubled by DA-Desk to US $7,000, and the funds were forwarded to the EON Charity. • Based on an employee survey in 2013/14, where employees regarded Salary as the most important element, we engaged an external consultant to review and establish salary benchmarks for all positions across the company. Safety of the Staff • DA-Desk has an Emergency Response Plan in case of an emergency. The Plan is shared with employees and visitors alike. • A ll employees are trained to use fire extinguishers in case of a fire and we have run fire drills in cooperation with the building management and free zone authorities in Dubai. • We are currently running additional First Aid training courses for 30 staff members to have in-house trained aid in case of a medical emergency. Training of Staff • We continue to invest in employee development through company-specific training programs, both externally (through ICS lectures to enhance Shipping and Liner trade knowledge) as well as internally (through the Compass Intranet powered by Compliance Wave). • In 2014, we again selected 4 employees for Internal QMS Auditor courses fully sponsored by the company. • We have introduced additional compliance training of volunteer staff. Empowerment of women. • We have hired more than 22 female employees in 2014/2015, which figure represents 42% of new recruits, and promoted several to Senior Management positions. 7 7 PRINCIPLE COMMITMENT, PRINCIPLE Labour Standards POLICIES & GOALS 3: We respect labour laws and the welfare of our employees DA-Desk respects and follows the labour laws of the Businesses should uphold the United Arab Emirates. freedom of association and the DA-Desk endeavours to uphold and promote labour rights in accordance with UNGC principles and effective recognition of the right international conventions. LABOUR STANDARDS We now have over 350 employees, representing to collective bargaining. 27 nationalities. We believe in providing equal DA-Desk does not use forced, compulsory or child labour. opportunity and in empowering people through 4: knowledge. Businesses should uphold the DA-Desk policies are in accordance with the laws of the United Arab Emirates and India, with respect to elimination of all forms of forced labour standards, which include: We employ skilled, professional and dedicated and compulsory labour. people. We believe that it is important to engage • No use of forced or compulsory labour; and inform all employees about our values. These 5: • Freedom of employees to terminate employment are highlighted when each employee is introduced Businesses should uphold after serving the contractual notice period of one, three or six months, as the case may be; to the company and their specifi c job tasks during the abolition of child labour. their induction period. Each member of our staff • The minimum age of employment at DA-Desk is has access to our HR Handbook, is informed of his 6: 18 years. or her rights, and is encouraged to share his or her Businesses should uphold the DA-Desk aims to ensure not to conduct business opinion and concerns. elimination of discrimination with companies that violate labour rights. in respect of employment and We do not tolerate retaliation against individuals occupation. who make a good-faith report of suspected misconduct or violation of law. Likewise, we do not tolerate any form of retaliation against anyone H R Handbook who honestly cooperates or participates in any • DA-Desk’s HR Handbook clearly describes DA-Desk’s labour policies. This investigation of a suspected violation. handbook is available on our Compass Intranet and is handed out during induction for new employees Within the UNGC team, we have allocated four • We introduced a new, upgraded Intranet, through which, staff can collaborate, create department profiles, look up customers, share news, and receive compliance-related members to engage in initiatives and processes in training powered by Compliance Wave. regards to labour standards. • DA-Desk does not employ forced or compulsory labour. All employees are free to terminate employment after serving the contractual notice period of one, three or six months. • We encourage a healthy workplace for our staff. Smoking and alcohol are strictly banned on our office premises and this policy is clearly conveyed to our staff in our HR Handbook. • Our policies provide equal rights for all at all levels. No discrimination is allowed based on gender, ethnicity, religion, race, nationality, or physical disability. HIGHLIGHTS Equal Opportunity and Remuneration • DA-Desk is a multicultural workplace with 24 different nationalities represented. • Promotions and growth opportunities are equal to all. We use performance appraisals which ensure transparency in our promotion, benefits and compensation policies. • A ll staff members were appraised during 2014 and were rewarded with bonus and increments based on their achievements • The average tenure of staff with our company continues to be more than 4,5 years, and many have been with us over 10 years. This is noteworthy considering our company has only been in operation since 2001. 8 8 PRINCIPLE COMMITMENT, PRINCIPLE Environment POLICIES & GOALS 7: We protect our environment. Our Board, management and our dedicated UNGC Businesses should support DA-Desk policies and business principles support team employees drive all aspects of commitment a precautionary approach to innovative developments in the shipping industry that create platforms for digital exchange of information to best use of resources and protection of the environmental changes. and communication. environment. Through employee involvement, commitment and training, we will continue to 8: DA-Desk aims to reduce waste. ENVIRONMENT find and adopt ways to do our share to protect the Businesses should undertake Reduction of printed papers and the active promotion environment in our daily business activities. initiatives to promote greater of digital submission of information are incorporated in DA-Desk’s methods and procedures. environmental responsibility. Reduction of paper usage and the active promotion of digital submission of information 9: are incorporated in DA-Desk’s methods and Businesses should encourage procedures. We recognize our obligation to the development and diffusion contribute to sustainable development and to of environmentally friendly behave as a good citizen. Thus, we will try our best technologies. to limit our environmental impact through effi cient utilization of resources and we will support innovative developments for the shipping industry that create platforms for digital exchange of information and communication. Product Responsibility • Our unique services and tools deliver operational efficiencies. DA-Desk services are completely webbased and save energy. Moreover, we reduce the consumption of paper and print cartridges, and we save courier and travel costs. • To further reduce our carbon footprint, we introduced ‘Soft Upload’ as an easy and only option for our customers’ agents, which is intended to eliminate in full the printing, photocopying and shipment of documents. • We continuously introduce online tools, such as the PortPayables Financial Dashboard and the DA-KPIs, that eliminate printed paper reports. Operational Improvements • Our Soft Upload process is a work-in-progress, currently implemented for 40% of our business. • While business is growing, we have successfully achieved a significant reduction of 33% on the use of paper year-on-year as compared to 2014. • We have started using reusable cups and plates instead of single-use glasses and plates in our office cafeteria. • A s a group, we have consolidated three offices under one roof, which has reduced car usage and reduced consumption of energy, water and waste. HIGHLIGHTS • We continue to showcase best practices. We use informational circulars and videos on TV screens and Intranet to encourage more staff to follow best practices. • We are implementing external Energy Audits to measure our carbon footprint. Energy • We have achieved an estimated saving of 96,200 lbs of CO2 by reducing the number of business trips and engaging with our customers through web-based meetings. • We congregate in a single working area during night shifts to reduce energy consumption. • We are constantly replacing the used light bulbs with energy-saving CFL/LED bulbs. • Our purpose-built offices are aimed at energy efficiency. We are installing environmentally friendly technologies such as power sensors and employing water recycling, smart usage of space and cooling, to contribute towards reduction of energy consumption. Waste Management • Our waste management is handled by a professional agency, which ensures waste is managed efficiently. • We have implemented recycling of unrequired papers, plastic bottles, cans, etc. • In 2015, we introduced the glass water bottle initiative, wherein glass bottles were given to staff to discourage the use of plastic bottles. • O ver the 2014-15 period, we have handed over 307 kilograms of paper waste and 90 kilograms of cardboard waste to Emirates Environment Group (EEG) for recycling. • We oversaw the e-scrapping of 99 units of electronic appliances in the year 2014-15 which amounts to 1,244.38 kilograms and achieved a reduction of 5,238 lbs CO2 through Enviroserve. • We donated the proceeds from sale of old computers to staff towards the earthquake victims in Nepal. • In 2015, we received a ‘Certificate of Excellence’ for being among the Top 10 Companies in the UAE for waste management. 9 9 PRINCIPLE COMMITMENT, PRINCIPLE Anti-corruption POLICIES & GOALS 10: We comply with Anti-Corruption Laws Compliance is one of core values as a company. Businesses should work DA-Desk is committed to acting ethically and legally Thus, we will try our best to continually improve against all forms of regardless of where we do business. This means, in part, that we abide by all international anti-corruption the culture of compliance within our organization corruption, including laws, treaties and regulations that prohibit bribery, and in the industry where we operate. We will extortion and bribery. improper payments or kickbacks. ANTI-CORRUPTION favour suppliers and partners that hold and practice DA-Desk is strongly committed to do its part in the same principles we value. combatting corruption in all its forms. We believe that corruption undermines democracy, the rule of law and DA-Desk is an over decade-old compliance the proper operation of free markets. enforcement engine. We efficiently manage Anti-corruption compliance is embedded in critical compliance regulations affecting port cost DA-Desk’s processes. DA-Desk also has a management. dedicated Compliance Team that works full time on compliance-related tasks and initiatives. Our compliance work is effi cient and manageable. It is embedded in all our operational processes, accepted and in daily use by our 2,000 commercial users and their 10,000 agents. We facilitate an effi cient operational fl ow that integrates compliance related functionalities and procedures relevant to our customers. The 10,000 vetted agents in our system receive and actively acknowledge detailed instructions Compliance and policies for every port call, which is unique to • DA-Desk views compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010 from two perspectives: first, its own compliance; and second, its customers’ compliance the industry. Through each and every transaction, both customers and agents benefi t from being • DA-Desk does not engage in facilitation payments and has a zero tolerance policy for acts or conduct involving bribery more compliant through DA-Desk. As new • For its customers’ compliance, DA-Desk views its role (i.e., its processes and its systems) as critically regulations infl uence our industry, this responsive important in helping its customers comply with the law for their own benefit. system enables our customers to implement new instructions on regulation that matter to them. Corruption We enforce segregation of duties. The process • DA-Desk is a committed and active Associate member of the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN). of agents alone verifying and settling 3rd party • Our Compliance Task Force works closely with the Chief Compliance Officer to continuously improve invoices on our customers’ behalf poses a and educate all levels of the organisation. DA-Desk has a renewed TRACE Certification for transparency compliance burden for both customers and agents. in international commercial transactions. TRACE is the world’s leading anti-bribery standard setting With our independent port cost management organization system, the process is ensuring full segregation • We continuously promote TRACE Certification to the agency community of the global maritime HIGHLIGHTS of duties in vendor payments, while being more industry, where agents can get TRACE Certification at a reduced price. straightforward and accepted by agents. • A s part of the TRACE Certification process, we have provided TRACE’s anti-corruption training to all our staff. As of this writing, 90% of our staff successfully attained certification and we expect 100% certification by end of 2015. • DA-Desk continues to maintain a unique, 12-digit TRACE Registered Access Code (“TRAC”) number. TRAC is a global identification system designed to quickly and cost-effectively establish a TRAC holder’s identity, address, and information. • DA-Desk scrutinizes each invoice that is presented to a customer by the customer’s counterparties and DA-Desk exercises every commercially reasonable effort to verify that the invoice is legitimate. DA-Desk does not process a payment that is unsupported by an invoice. • DA-Desk does not process a payment if an invoice or other relevant documents contain the term “facilitation payment” or “payment for facilitating [a particular transaction].” • We run campaigns and alerts to develop awareness and to prevent fraudulent activities. • In 2014, DA-Desk developed new services for sanctions screening of cargoes and traders, for container shipments in cooperation with influential players in the container shipping industry. External Auditors • DA-Desk is an ISO 9001:2008-certified company and is audited by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance annually. • DA-Desk’s financial auditor is Deloitte & Touche. The firm has, since 2006, also audited the company’s compliance to the guidelines prescribed under the US Sarbanes Oxley Act, specifically in regards to internal controls. Deloitte has concluded that “DA-Desk, as a whole, has programs and policies designed to promote and ensure integrity and ethical values in their environment.” 10 10 Contact us You can read more about DA-Desk and our initiatives at: www.da-desk.com/about us/CSR We are interested in knowing what you think about our Communication on Progress report. We value your feedback, which will be used for analysis and further improvements. Please send your feedback to our contacts below or: info@da-desk.com DA-Desk, UNGC Team ____________________________________________ Hans-Christian Mordhorst Managing Director, DA-Desk UNGC Chairman Tel: + 971-4-3636200 h.mordhorst@da-desk.com Pradeep Pant Deputy Managing Director, Finance & HR Director Tel: + 971-4-3636200 p.pant@da-desk.com Mike Rhodes Operations Manager, DA-Desk Tel: + 971-4-3636200 m.rhodes@da-desk.com Candida A. Hendricks Executive Assistant to the Board of Directors Tel: + 971-4-3636200 c.hendricks@da-desk.com 11 11
