Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Report 2015 CSR Report 2015 CONTENTS Top Message 2 Together with Local Communities CSR Highlights 1 Development of Sustainable Housing 5 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities 113 2 The Evolving MOCCA Business 6 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan 117 3 Sustainable Forest Management 7 Examples of Overseas Community Development and 121 4 Generating Renewable Energy from Wood 8 Regional Contribution Activities 5 Leveraging Various Perspectives and Ideas 9 CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Report Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of 10 the Sumitomo Forestry Group Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues and Environmental Management Mid-Term CSR Management Plan 13 Environmental Philosophy and Environmental Policies 127 Environmental Management Structure 129 Management System Environmental Risk Management 133 Environmental Performance Corporate Governance 19 Risk Management 24 Environmental Impact of Business Activities 138 Compliance 26 Scope and Method of Data Aggregation 142 Business Continuity Management 30 Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan 145 Information Security 33 Energy Efficiency and Mitigating Global Warming Intellectual Property Management 35 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse CSR Management 37 Gas Emissions from Business Activities 152 Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation 158 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Social Report Gas Emissions During Residence Period 163 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business 169 Together with Our Customers Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste 175 Housing Safety and Quality Control 46 Forest Management Product Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials 53 Sustainable Forest Management 183 Acquisition of Quality-Related Certification 56 Forest Management in Japan 186 Communication with Our Customers 58 Forest Management Overseas 191 Together with Our Business Partners Biodiversity Conservation Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation 199 Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement of Timber 63 Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests 202 Sustainable Procurement of Timber 67 in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Communication with Our Business Partners 77 Conservation of Biodiversity through Business and Services 206 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances 209 Together with Our Shareholders and Investors Efficient Use of Water Resources 214 Information Disclosure and Communication 79 Environmental Accounting 216 Returns to Shareholders 81 Environmental Data for Group Companies 220 Together with Our Employees Corporate Profile 224 Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2015 227 Fair Employment and Treatment 82 GRI G4 Content Index 230 Respect for Human Rights 87 External Recognition 242 Occupational Health and Safety 89 Third Party Assurance Report 247 Human Resources Development 94 Work-Life Balance 98 Communication with Employees 106 Employee Data 108 Top Message Top Message 324 years of responsibility. We will strive to further promote CSR management, pursuing the potential of wood, a renewable natural resource. Working to Revitalize Local Economies and Resolve Global Issues Forests occupy nearly 70 percent of Japan’s total land area, and yet without taking full advantage of this rich natural resource, we are faced with the major problem of a waning forestry industry. Furthermore, the world’s tropical forests are continuing to decline at a grave pace due to such factors as destructive logging and conversion to agricultural land. Given our Corporate Philosophy of “utilizing timber as a renewable, healthy, and environmentally friendly natural resource, and contributing to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related services,” the Sumitomo Forestry Group bears a number of missions to fulfill. Within Japan, one of our missions is to help in land conservation and regional regeneration through revitalization of local forestry, based on the history and experience of involvement in forestry management since our founding in 1691 when we undertook management of the forests around the newly opened Besshi Copper Mine in Ehime Prefecture. From a global perspective, another of our missions is to continue procuring timber from sustainable forests, and to practice sustainable forest management collaborating with local communities. Helping to realize a sustainable society based on the spirit of “gratitude for nature’s resources” and on the principle of “sustainable forestry,” namely planting and nurturing trees and then planting again once they have been felled for use, is precisely the starting point for our businesses and CSR activities. Such a sentiment is incorporated into the Sumitomo Forestry Group’s Corporate Philosophy. 2 Top Message Diverse Talent Sharing Values, Striving for Steady Success in CSR Management The business environment around us is dramatically changing on a day-to-day basis. Our business activities will not be sustainable unless we constantly prepare for change and create new preemptive changes ourselves. As we globally expand our housing related businesses centered around wood, it is vitally important that everyone involved in the Group, including employees, cooperative partners and business partners, share our goals and target directions, and synchronize their course of action in order to progress toward the future that the Sumitomo Forestry Group is aiming for. Accordingly, in March 2015, we identified new “Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues,” referring to the views of our employees and all other stakeholders. Furthermore, we also established basic strategies and objectives aimed at resolving those issues, and in April, we formulated and activated the “Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan” to achieve by fiscal 2020. By setting and managing objectives for environmental and social CSR issues, that are integrated with our daily business activities, our aim is to raise CSR awareness within our company and to achieve steady progress. Moreover, given the increasingly advanced and diverse societal demands on companies, in April 2015, we established a new CSR Department to better focus on striving to instill our CSR initiatives within the Group and on communicating them outside the Group. While actively communicating our Group’s brand message of “Happiness Grows from Trees” to all stakeholders as a shared value, we will engage in Diversity Management, respecting the differences of each individual employee in terms of their values, age, gender, nationality and other characteristics, and harnessing this diversity to lead to innovation. 3 Top Message Realizing a Sustainable Society through Business That Capitalizes on Wood At the 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21), which is to be hosted in Paris in December 2015, the international community will attempt to reach consensus on a new framework for measures to prevent global warming for beyond 2020. Given that trees absorb CO2 during their growth process and continue to sequester it as carbon even after they have been harvested and used as timber, attention has been drawn to the role played by forests in performing a function of absorbing and storing CO2. With the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 imminent, there is also growing interest in timber grown in Japan and in buildings made of wood and feature the plentiful use of wood. The Sumitomo Forestry Group has fostered a thorough knowledge of wood, and this is the very reason that I feel the expectations of our stakeholders are also growing. When providing rental housing or facilities for the aged which utilize the unique characteristics of wood, and when utilizing stock assets such as in the renovation business, we draw on our unique construction technologies and know-how developed while providing custom-built detached Sumitomo Forestry Home houses, and when it comes to timber around the world, we use the right material in the right place through the global distribution network of the Sumitomo Forestry Group. We will continue to expand the potential of wood across a wide range of areas, such as escalating the active use of Japanese timber, developing our wood biomass power generation business as a renewable energy, preserving satoyama (mountain areas linked to local communities) and urban greening. The mission of the Sumitomo Forestry Group is to pursue the potential of wood—the one natural capital that is renewable through proper management—and to maximize its added value. With an aim of becoming the world’s leading forestry company, we are committed to addressing our CSR through our business activity. 4 Developing Stronger Housing The Evolving Big-Frame (BF) Construction Method few design constraints. Thus, Sumitomo Forestry is able to offer more varied housing developments with higher degrees Against the backdrop of amendments to inheritance tax as of flexibility than ever before. well as a shift to greater fireproofing and seismic resistance in urban areas with high-density housing, there has been an increase in the demand for houses of at least three stories that Stakeholder’s Message are resistant to fire and earthquakes. Sumitomo Forestry had Developing new products by bringing together the Group’s collective technological strengths previously been offering fire-resistant housing products, but following The goal of the development was to enable four-story construction improvements to the resistance of its while maintaining an open interior space, one of the features of the Big-Frame (BF) construction method BF construction method. During the development process, we to fire and earthquakes, in April 2015, repeatedly carried out various verifications and experiments, the Company released the “BF-Fireproof” detached housing including building two full-size, four-story product and the “Forest Maison BF-Fireproof” rental housing experimental houses at our Tsukuba Research Institute. A particularly difficult part was the and owner-occupied rental product, enabling the construction development of the “twin-bolt column”, through of up to four-story houses even in areas with strict fire which we sought to improve structural performance prevention and fire resistance regulations in Japan. The BF without changing the size of the large column. It was Developing More Ecological Housing construction method is proprietary to Sumitomo Forestry, only possible through a series of trial and error and and achieves extremely strong structural frameworks and an we managed to guide the process through to commercialization by system equipped with an “outside-air cooling function.” The open comfortable habitat by employing “large columns” and exercising all of the knowledge and expertize within Sumitomo Green Smart for Better Energy Efficiency Forestry. We will continue to challenge the potential of wood and proposal is to save energy and reduce electricity costs for “metal touch joints.” Amid growing concern for resources problems and a heating and cooling, by taking advantage of the outside air The “BF-Fireproof” and “Forest Maison BF-Fireproof” remain committed to developing technologies so that we can offer low-carbon society, Sumitomo Forestry has devised a new temperature in air-conditioning, drawing in outside air when products also use the new “twin-bolt column,” which achieved customers homes where they can live in peace of mind for many a structural performance 1.5 times that of the earlier “large years to come. housing concept called “Green Smart.” Sumitomo Forestry it is at a comfortable temperature. has accumulated know-how on making the most of the unique column” by increasing the number of metal joints. Including Junichi Imai characteristics of wood and on harnessing the sun, wind, the “double column,” which combines two parallel “large greenery and other blessings of nature. By marrying this Stakeholder’s Message columns,” Sumitomo Forestry offers three types of columns, Team Manager Structures Team know-how together with technology for “reduced energy Focused on developing means for “energy and by using the right column in the right place, the Company Technology Development Group consumption,” such as improved thermal insulation, and with self-sufficiency” is able to create comfortable and relaxing living spaces even in Technology and Product Development Department Hous technology for “smart energy use,” such as solar power Sumitomo Forestry Home houses harness the blessings of nature, densely populated residential areas that present more than a generation and a home energy management system, the utilizing wood, a renewable natural resource. By its very nature, Company aims to boost energy efficiency, thereby reducing wood has a low environmental impact. On this basis, we make Large column Twin-bolt column Double column CO2 emissions. recommendations for energy-efficient devices that meet customer (thickness of two large columns) In July 2014, Sumitomo Forestry added “Green Smart needs, and we provide support for reductions in energy Wall ratio equivalent of Wall ratio equivalent of Wall ratio equivalent of Solar Z” to its lineup of offerings, a solar power generation consumption. Going forward, in addition to the smart generation 22.4 under 33.6 under 44.8 under system installed across the whole roof surface. This product and smart use of energy, we plan to further enhance products for Building Standards Building Standards Building Standards allows for a large capacity system to be mounted on a limited the storage of energy, enabling customers to live their lives with a roof space, enabling a 10kW-plus capacity system to be sense of ease even in times of emergency. With a view to the entrenchment of lifestyles that heighten self-sufficiency in energy, installed even on a relatively small roof of about 46 square we will continue to make proposals for homes that are both healthy meters, meaning that the and environmentally conscious. customer could sell all generated power at a fixed Yasuo Tanaka price for 20 years in Japan. Team Manager In January 2015, Environment Team Sumitomo Forestry launched Technology Development Group Technology and Product Development Department “Air Dream Hybrid,” a Housing Division central air-conditioning CSR Highlights Development of Sustainable Housing Developing Reliable and Comfortable Housing with Low Environmental Impact Achieving reliable and comfortable housing—that is one of the most important values sought by customers in housing, the foundation for everyday living. In recent years, there has also been a growing interest in housing with low environmental impact. Sumitomo Forestry is actively promoting the development of housing that meets these customer needs. 5 CSR Highlights The Evolving MOCCA Business Making the Most of Wood’s Appeal and MOCCA Business Construction Case Studies for Fiscal 2014 Challenging New Markets Stakeholder’s Message Kiddy Suzukicho Stakeholder’s Message Tully’s Coffee, Itami Preschool, Kawasaki Located between the Japan Railway Itami Surrounded by the warmth that is unique to Station and the Hankyu Railway Itami Station, wood, the Kiddy Suzukicho Preschool in Sakagura Street in Itami is the birthplace of Kawasaki City opened in April 2015 and has a Sumitomo Forestry believes that expanding the use and application of timber and refined sake. Lined with historic breweries, maximum capacity of 90 children. A large temples, shrines, and traditional townhouses, cherry blossom tree stands beside the entrance wood product will contribute to the revitalization of the forestry industry. the street has been designated an urban design and, in the building itself, a sloped ceiling with formation area. It is here that the Company exposed beams creates a sense of space. With increasing demand for wooden construction from every area of society, built this single-story wooden café with Everyone is barefoot so that they can feel the Sumitomo Forestry has been promoting its MOCCA business, driving wooden meticulous attention to detail in terms of both warmth of the wood amid the homely design and the materials used. Customers are surroundings. People who visit the preschool construction and the use of timber not only in the housing sector but also in fields as immersed in a cozy environment arising from even remark on how nice the wood smells. diverse as commercial and public facilities. the sense of space created by the vaulted ceiling and wooden spaces To lay a path for the next stage of its MOCCA business, the Satoshi Iijima that help absorb sound. Enjoying a cup of coffee here Company has formed business alliances with major general General Manager is something truly special. contractors and embarked on the challenge of entering the new MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department Itami Sangyo Beverage K.K. Principal, markets of mediumand large-scale wooden construction. Housing Division President and Representative Director Takaichi Ogino Kiddy Suzukicho Preschool, Kawasaki Kayoko Iwasawa The Journey of MOCCA Business in Bringing the MOCCA businesses. By fusing the wooden construction techniques and Unique Appeal of Timber Construction to Sectors The initiative proved to be fruitful, and as a result the expertise that the Company has cultivated as well as our Company has since accumulated a wealth of accomplishments unique strength of a stable supply of high-quality timber with Other Than Housing and expertise when it comes to exploiting the benefits of wood Sumitomo Mitsui Construction Co., Ltd.’s experience and With the dual goals of creating a sustainable society that as a natural resource in a diverse range of sectors, including knowledge when it comes to large buildings, our two makes the most of wood—a renewable natural resource—as kindergartens, nursing homes, hospitals, stores, and factories. companies complement each other while aiming to become well as revitalizing reforestation and forestry in Japan, we have leaders in this new market. strived to promote the use of timber. In 2010, the Japanese Entering the New Fields of Mediumand Envisioning medium-rise buildings of between five and 10 government enacted the Act for Promotion of Use of Wood in stories, we are currently engaged in joint research for the Large-Scale Wooden Construction Public Buildings, pushing for a shift to wooden construction. creation of “hybrid” buildings that incorporate wooden In addition, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport Recent years have seen an increasing call for the “warm” and construction techniques, reinforced concrete (RC) and steel and Tourism in Japan aims to achieve a low-carbon society “soothing” nature of wood from all areas of society, and the (S). Our two companies are also establishing systems for sales through the use of wooden buildings and is promoting demands placed on wooden buildings are becoming ever and promotion activities that aim to make medium and large Leading Projects for Wood Construction Technology. higher. In addition, the use of large wooden facilities wooden buildings more widespread. Sumitomo Forestry has always advocated manufacturing throughout the metropolitan area is being considered in that makes the most of the appeal of wood, and in light of such preparation for the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020. Business Alliance social changes the MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department Achieving mediumand large-scale wooden construction Wooden construction was established in April 2011 directly under the president. takes expertise in both the fields of large buildings and timber, Small-scale wooden New market sector Based on the concept of “MOCCA, a future society inspired by and there is a call for a company that has knowledge in both construction market wood,” we promoted our MOCCA business, which aims to these areas. Seizing upon this “new market devoid of any Mediumand large-scale wooden construction market drive wooden construction and the use of timber in a diverse players” as the next field for our MOCCA business, in Small-scale Large-scale array of buildings other than housing. In April 2013, the December 2014 Sumitomo Forestry formed a business alliance Company changed the Japanese name of the department in with Sumitomo Mitsui Construction Co., Ltd. in order to Mediumand large-scale the Housing Division so that it could more actively promote establish a business model before any other company. Small-scale S/RC market S/RC market S/RC The Journey of Mocca Business MOCCA Business Trends Social Trends Custom-Built Wooden Housing Non-Residential Sectors Mediumand Large-scale Architecture 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Act for Promotion of Use of Wood in Public Buildings is enacted MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department “Promotion of Wooden Homes Initiatives” is renamed Leading MOCCA (Timber Solutions) A business collaboration agreement is concluded is established Projects for Wood Construction Technology Department is reorganized with Sumitomo Mitsui Construction Co., Ltd. Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism begins “Promotion of Wooden Homes Initiatives” Sumitomo Forestry’s Construction Experience Sumitomo Forestry Home houses Wooden café Wooden manufacturing plant Wooden nursing home 6 Plantation Forest Operations in Papua New Guinea Support Project for a Sustainable Forestry Industry in Japan Sustainable Forest Management in Harmony with Local Communities and Development of Forest Resources through Production of “Container Seedlings” in the Environment Partnership with Gifu Prefecture In the Pacific Rim area including Asia, cycle from planting to logging, while systematically following the process of Around 70 percent of Japan’s total land refers to a seedling with soil attached to supply of seedlings and to regenerate population growth has resulted in an also giving consideration to the natural planting, nurturing and harvesting, the area is covered by forest, but given the its roots, grown in a special receptacle forest resources. increase in the demand for timber, and environment and to local communities. company is also working to conserve increasing use of imported timber and containing soil for raising the seedling. Preliminary surveys and site destructive logging has also resulted in The company has also earned the solid biodiversity. Based on the forest the aging forestry workforce, those Unlike conventional bare seedlings preparations have already begun in the ongoing deforestation. In order to secure confidence of the community. In fiscal certification, the company will continue forests have not been adequately without soil container seedlings allow area scheduled for tree breeding. Annual a stable supply of timber resources and 2014, OBT planted about 500,000 to practice sustainable forest managed. Consequently, there are for year-round planting, and so have production of approximately 50,000 to help in the development of rich seedlings on 797 ha of land. management in harmony with local concerns about the decline in the been attracting attention as a solution to seedlings will begin before the end of forests, the Sumitomo Forestry Group By adding the company to the communities and the environment. functions of forests, such as the the nationwide short supply of seedlings. fiscal 2015, and the plan is for promotes plantation forest operations in Sumitomo Forestry Group, the Group * Certification for forest management granted by the Forest preservation of ecosystems and the In March 2015, Sumitomo Forestry production to reach about 200,000 Stewardship Council, an international forest certification each region. further strengthened its organization scheme. cultivation of water sources. The signed a business agreement with Gifu seedlings of diverse varieties after three In Papua New Guinea, the aimed at sustainable forest management. Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to Prefecture to engage in the large-scale years. Facilities will continue to be Sumitomo Forestry Group has advanced In 2011, the company acquired promote Japan’s domestic forestry production of seedlings using container gradually expanded, with an ultimate a number of initiatives since Open Bay FSC -FM certification*, TM * an international industry and to help community seedlings. Gifu Prefecture is one of aim of a system producing one million Timber Ltd. (OBT), a company that has forest certification, the first for a forest revitalization by leveraging its extensive Japan’s foremost forestry prefectures, seedlings. The production of seedlings been engaged in large-scale forest plantation project in Papua New Guinea. experience and carrying out pioneering and is also active in the use of wood. For based on a public-private agreement has plantation since the 1970s, was added to Based on ongoing surveys, the activities that contribute to the instance, it is home to a large sawmill attracted attention as being unusual the Group in 2007. Based on a long-term company has clearly separated “high sustainability of forests and forestry. and biomass power plant. Any active use even on a national scale. Drawing on its business contract with the government, conservation value areas” and “areas for An example of such initiatives is the of wood or timber requires a stable unique technologies and know-how, OBT has conducted community-based the production of timber.” By protecting production of afforestation seedlings supply of logs, and seedlings are Sumitomo Forestry will continue to forest management over a long 18-year high conservation value forests while FSCTM certified timber using “container seedlings,” a necessary for reforestation once the contribute to the active use of forest technology in which the Group has mature trees have been felled. The aim resources and to the revitalization of conducted independent research and of this project therefore is to utilize Japan’s domestic forestry industry. development. “Container seedling” container seedlings to achieve a stable Stakeholder’s Message As a representative of the local community, I have witnessed OBT’s solid contribution. Stakeholder’s Message OBT has played an active part in the area for over 40 years since its establishment, and has contributed to the development of our forestry industry. I have been involved in OBT’s Gerard Lagisa We hope to build a stable seedling supply system that is essential for sustainable foresting. programs as both a local employee and as a land owner, and on behalf of the residents living in To achieve our prefecture’s goal of “sustainable forestation,” it is crucial that we develop a the area, I relish that, through its considerate business operations closely related to the lives of Public Relation Officer/ system that ensures a stable supply of seedlings. We invited proposals for projects that would Shigetaka Segami local residents, OBT has conducted sustainable operations that will lead not only to expansion Land Owner help realize this goal, and after making a comprehensive assessment of technologies and of the company, but also to development of the local area with a view to the next generation. Representative achievements in container seedlings and of each candidate’s eagerness for the initiative, Director Forestry Policy we decided to adopt the proposal made by Sumitomo Forestry. Going forward, our hope is to Department improve production technology and promote forestry throughout the prefecture, Gifu Prefecture by disseminating Sumitomo Forestry’s state-of-the-art technology to seedling producers within Gifu. P A P U A N E W G U I N E A J A P A N CSR Highlights Sustainable Forest Management Securing sources of timber supply to meet a growing demand has been an issue of recent years in emerging countries in Asia. On the other hand, in Japan, forests have been left unmanaged as the forest industry wanes, Practicing Sustainable Forest Management and there are fears that the vitality of forests will diminish. In light of these issues in Japan and overseas, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has developed its in Japan and Overseas own timber procurement policy as well as programs for bringing that policy to fruition. In addition, in order to pass wood, which is a renewable natural resource, down to the next generation, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has expanded efforts for sustainable forest management in Japan and overseas, drawing on the experience and expertise it has built up. 7 CSR Highlights Generating Renewable Energy from Wood Expansion of Our Wood Biomass Power Generation Business Tackling the global warming caused by increasing CO2 emissions is a task that faces the whole of society. In light of this challenge, there is an increasing focus on the use of wood biomass to generate energy from this natural resource. Having gained the cooperation of various enterprises and forest owners’ cooperatives, the Sumitomo Forestry Group is currently expanding its wood biomass power generation business at locations far and wide. The fuel consists of recycled chips made from construction PICK UP Potential of the Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Business The Group’s Wood Biomass Power Generation Business waste wood as well as fuel woodchips made from unused forest Expanding Business through Synergy with Sumitomo Osaka Cement and East Japan Railway materials. This not only serves to curb the CO2 emissions that Since wood biomass power generation employs wood, a cause global warming, but also contributes to the effective use natural resource as the fuel, the process is expected to become of wood and the revitalization of regional forestry. Since starting operations at our wood biomass power generation generation business, which not only serves to create popular and widespread for the generation of carbon neutral * * CO2 generated when burning wood had previously been absorbed by the trees during their growth process, and so does not lead to any increase of facility in Kawasaki City, Kanagawa Prefecture, in February 2011, environmentally conscious energy, but also makes major renewable energy. Sumitomo Forestry Group has large-scale CO2 in the atmosphere. Sumitomo Forestry is currently engaged in wood biomass power contributions to the maintenance of local forest environments, the plantations and timber building material manufacturing generation business at three locations. We have now selected advancement of forestry, and job creation. operations in Indonesia, and in April 2008 the Company Hachinohe City in Aomori Prefecture to be the fourth site of began the first wood biomass power generation in the country. operations and established Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Since February 2011, it has also been expanding these Co. Ltd. in cooperation with Sumitomo Osaka Cement Co., Ltd. Stakeholder’s Message operations in Japan. and East Japan Railway Company (JR East). We plan to begin Biomass Power Generation Business: Aiding Recovery operations in December 2017. from the Great East Japan Earthquake Specifically, we will build an approximately 12MW power The challenges faced by the city’s forestry policy so far have been generation facility on industrial land close to the Port of those of creating demand for and the effective utilization of local Mombetsu Biomass Power Generation Business Hachinohe. Woodchips are the intended fuel source and we plan timber. By using local unused wood materials as the main source to supply the electricity generated to power companies via the of fuel for its wood biomass power generation business, Start of operations: December 2016 (scheduled) feed-in tariff scheme for renewable energy. Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Co. Ltd. solves these Investment: Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. 51%, The woodchips to be used as fuel will mostly originate from Sumitomo Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd. 49% problems. In addition, the processes of harvesting wood, unused forest materials from the Sanpachi-Kamikita-Shimokita manufacturing woodchips, and generating power create both jobs Power generation capacity: 50 MW (annual power generation of approximately 300MkWh) region of Aomori Prefecture, which will be collected with cooperation from local parties, along with thinnings from the and an economic ripple effect, which are expected to aid recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake as well as help revitalize the Fuel: Unused forest materials, palm kernel shell, coal nearby railway forests, which JR East planted to protect their local economy. In the run-up to the start of operations in fiscal Features: It is planned for unused forest materials procured railway lines from natural disasters. Some imported palm kernel 2017, I will give my full support, both as mayor of the city and in from a 75km radius around the power plant to shell will also be used. be chipped at a neighboring plant before use. collaboration with the prefecture at large. This joint venture has been realized through cooperation Makoto Kobayashi among three parties that each Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation Business Hachinohe Biomass bring their own strengths to the Power Generation Business table: The Sumitomo Forestry Start of operations: December 2016 (scheduled) Group, with its various wood Mayor Investment: Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. 20%, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. 40%, Start of operations: December 2017 (scheduled) biomass power generation Hachinohe City, Aomori Prefecture Iwakura Corporation 20%, Hokkaido Gas Co., Ltd. 20% Investment: Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. 52%, operations of various scales and Power generation capacity: 5.8 MW Sumitomo Osaka Cement Co., Ltd. 30%, East Japan Railway Company 18% Forest railway along the JR East Ominato Line expertise when it comes to (annual power generation of approximately 40MkWh) accumulating unused forest Promoting Joint Initiatives for the Community and Fuel: Features: Unused forest materials The fuel source planned is woodchips made entirely from Power generation capacity: 12 MW (annual power generation of approximately 85MkWh) materials; Sumitomo Osaka Cement Co., Ltd., with an impressive track record in implementing private power generation facilities at the Environment unused forest materials from Hokkaido. JR East is actively promoting the introduction of renewable energy Fuel: Unused forest wood materials, thinnings, its cement factories and the subsidiary Hachinohe Cement Co., and is engaged in various initiatives that aim to make the north palm kernel shell Ltd., which possesses detailed local knowledge; and JR East, which Features: The main fuel sources planned are thinnings Tohoku region a “renewable energy base.” In order to realize our from the Sanpachi-Kamikita-Shimokita region is actively introducing renewable energy in the north Tohoku slogan of “Thriving with Communities,” we and our partner of Aomori Prefecture, timber offcuts, region. companies will activlely utilize each of our strengths in this Kawasaki Biomass Power Generation Business and railway forest thinnings from the nearby Eastern Aomori Prefecture and the Shimokita peninsula are undertaking as we strive to create green energy (cut CO2) and railway lines. hives of activity by private-sector material manufacturers and make a contribution to the local community. Start of operations: February 2011 forest owners’ cooperatives, and boast high output from both Investment: Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. 34%, Sumitomo Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd. 53%, national and privately-owned forests. Having gained full Hitoshi Nakajima Fuluhashi EPO Corporation 13% cooperation from Hachinohe City, it is an ideal location for establishing the systems to procure and collect the resources that Power generation capacity: 33 MW (annual power generation of approximately 200MkWh) are vital for our wood biomass power generation business. Deputy Director Electrical & Signal Network System Department In cooperation with various partners, the Sumitomo Forestry Railway Operations Headquarters Fuel: Construction waste, waste pallets, thinnings, pruned branches East Japan Railway Company Features: This is the largest urban-sourced wood biomass power plant in Japan to burn biomass exclusively. Group will continue to actively engage in the wood biomass power It mainly uses recycled chips made from construction waste and waste pallets from markets. Various environmental protection equipment to meet Kawasaki City’s strict environmental criteria. 8 CSR Highlights Leveraging Various Perspectives and Ideas Home Building That Incorporates the Voices of Female Customers The most important part The favorite interior style is a of everyday life is “simple” style that makes the most “the happy family circle” of natural materials and “my own time” such as wood Pantr y an Style Garden Eco Stat d Product Development That Leverages the Unique ion Tatamis er Perspective and Creativity of Women Kitchen Living R oom Propose natural Propose a garden style that A diversity of perspectives has become ever more important interior styles allows people to enrich Entrance to provide better services and products suited to the ways Dining R oom every day with flowers and greenery people live. The Sumitomo Forestry Group launched the Development Specia Cloakro l through Women’s Perspective Project to offer more comfortable om Voices of Customers and pleasant lifestyle solutions with product development and Alfresco services that capitalize on women’s unique creative power. We have received many messages of support for the development of an ideal A house development is underway. home that is inspired by female perspectives. The most comfortable place in the home is The thorough care and attention in bringing the “living room” female feelings to this home give me a sense of affinity with it. Living Accent Things associated with an affluent It’s impressive how every area of the house is Eri Makuta lifestyle are a place where women can feel relaxed. “high quality” and Supervisor “long lasting” I love the woody feeling from the knots in the Training & Education wood and the way grain has been used Department in the flooring. Housing Division Home building that focuses Develop fixtures and materials that on the living room people become attached to What Is the Development through Leveraging the Unique Perspective and Women’s Perspective Project? Creativity of Women in Product Development responses and group interviews of readers who intend to think and feel before beginning marketing. To achieve this, we purchase a home in the next five years, we garnered views and strived to promote this concept within the company by With the March 2013 launch of the Development through Building on our achievements so far, February 2015 saw the concerns on ideal floor plans and interiors. Through this, we utilizing nationwide area meetings in which the members Women’s Perspective Project, we aim to be a company that Tokyo opening of our new “konoka” model house, which was learned that the space of greatest importance to women in a could convey the product development history as well as the can earn support and brand loyalty of all women. designed to incorporate the opinions of female customers. new home is the living room and that many want to live way women think to sales managers and exhibition managers. The project members consist of 36 female employees from Sales of the products commenced in April. feeling enriched, cherishng their own style. The members This project has not only made it possible for female a wide range of divisions, such as the Housing Division, sales In developing “konoka,” we wanted to reflect the thoughts empathized with these findings. employees to cooperate across divisions, but has also allowed branches across Japan, and Group companies. We share ideas not only of those building the house, but also of the people Applying our findings to the product development us to utilize the experience gained through our day-to-day in meetings that are held several times each month, and have who would live in the house. To achieve this, we collaborated process, we developed concepts and materials that would work and engage in new areas such as product development conducted discussions and engaged in work for the with Shueisha’s women’s magazine “LEE,” whose readers resonate with customers, and made maximum use of the and product promotion. This has been a valuable experience development of specific products. mainly consist of the parenting generation in their 30s and knowledge and techniques that the members had acquired in for all of the members involved. Project achievements so far include the “comama” living 40s. Employing reader surveys that received over 1,000 our day-to-day work. This was applied throughout every We will continue to utilize the multiple perspectives room space proposal and the East Hills Seya spec homes in aspect of product development, right down to how customers cultivated through this project to drive the building of homes Ikoma-gun, Nara Prefecture. All nine houses on the East Hills are treated. that place importance on the viewpoints of the people who Seya estate were sold within six months after completion. For example, a high proportion of our salespersons are will be living in them. April Our “konoka” male, but we focused on having them understand how women 2015 houses go on sale Development through Women’s Perspective Project Timeline Initiatives to Promote the Active Involvement of Female Employees August One of the Sumitomo Forestry Group’s action guidelines is “Respect for Humanity.” Based on this principle, it 2014 respects all differences, such as age, gender, nationality, race, religion, disability and so on, and is promoting The East Hills Seya diversity management that is key to the Groups’s competitiveness. As part of this effort, it released the spec homes go on sale Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women in December 2013 and is endeavoring to October optimize systems and create an encouraging work environment for the active involvement of female employees. May 2013 2013 Main Human Resources Data for Fiscal 2014 Members from sales Number of short Number of The extra living branches across Proportion of Proportion of Number of parental working hours telecommuting March Japan and Group female employees: female managers: leave users*1: system users*1, 2: system users*1: 2013 room space 19.2% 2.6% 40 32 19 proposal companies take part “comama” is in the project Project launch developed (fiscal 2013: 18.4%) (fiscal 2013: 2.2%) (fiscal 2013: 41) (fiscal 2013: 29) (fiscal 2013: 21) *1. Includes men and women *2. Total of short working hours system users and 4-day work week users 9 23 Business Overview & CSR Highlights 2015 Business Overview & CSR Highlights 2015 24 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group 10 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Identifying the Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues Following changes in the economic, environmental and social situation, in March 2015, the Sumitomo Forestry Group identified new CSR material issues to replace the ones specified in 2008. The Group surveyed both internal and external stakeholders as well as outside experts, receiving responses from about 2,700 people. In preparing the questionnaire, 27 issues most closely related to the Sumitomo Forestry Group were specified, based on the Sumitomo Forestry Group’s Corporate Philosophy and Action Guidelines, and taking into account such matters as ISO 26000, the international standard on the social responsibility of organizations, and evaluation points linked to socially responsible investment (SRI). After incorporating management perspectives, the survey results were mapped out against axes of “management” and “stakeholders,” before determining the materiality of each issue. 12 of these issues were identified as being highly material, and rearranged into 5 issues for the Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues. 11 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Formulating the Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan In March 2015, the Sumitomo Forestry Group formulated the Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan with fiscal 2020 as its target year. The Plan sets basic strategies and specific targets aimed at resolving the five “Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues” which were mapped out based on “management” and “stakeholders” perspectives. Regarding social and environmental issues to be accomplished by fiscal 2020, each Group company and department has commenced initiatives starting in fiscal 2015 aimed at achieving targets segmentalized for each fiscal year. A PDCA cycle is steadily followed, with progress and attainment of the annual targets based on the Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan being regularly checked twice a year by the Executive Committee, which is attended by those directors who also serve as executive officers as well as by senior statutory auditors. The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to promote CSR management even further. 12 Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Continue to procure wood and materials that take sustainability and biodiversity into considerations As the world’s forests continue to decrease in size as a consequence of illegal logging, excessive slash-and-burn farming and other practices, various countries are proceeding to introduce laws and strengthen regulations to eliminate illegally logged timber from the market. Meanwhile, in Japan, maintenance of forests, and of planted forests in particular, has halted in part because of an aging and declining forestry workforce, and there are growing concerns about some forests becoming devastated. Amid this situation, the Sumitomo Forestry Group is engaged in business centered around wood, and is promoting sustainable forest management and sustainable procurement of wood both in Japan and overseas. Furthermore, since its fields of business are directly linked to forests that nurture biodiversity, the Group has positioned conserving biodiversity as one of its key CSR themes. 13 Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Examples of initiatives Sale of environmentally Monitoring surveys conscious plywood, conducted in KIKORIN-PLYWOOD Company-owned forests 14 Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Promote the reduction of the environmental impact of business activities As the impact of climate change becomes more urgent globally, companies are being asked to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases as a measure to counter global warming. Being engaged in the housing business and in the timber, building materials and sawn wood businesses, the Sumitomo Forestry Group is considerate of its impact on the environment, and is committed to reducing the volume of greenhouse gases emitted from its business activities. Furthermore, in an effort to reduce its environmental impact and to use resources effectively, the Group promotes the reduction, recycling and reuse of industrial waste. Examples Operation of the of Introduction of Metropolitan Area environmentally Recycling Center, initiatives conscious lighting into capable of undertaking offices and the advanced sorting of manufacturing sites waste 15 Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Promote development of workplaces where diverse personnel can work with vigor and enthusiasm, demonstrating their abilities and individuality The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to foster a safe and healthy workplace environment where motivated employees can be actively involved irrespective of gender, age, nationality, race, religion or disability. In an endeavor to actively engage female employees in particular, the Group released the “Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women.” It was issued to the entire Group under the name of the President, and has been the basis for subsequent efforts. Examples Preliminary meeting for of development of products under the initiatives Development through Safety inspection at a Women’s Perspective building construction Project site 16 Strengthen and promote risk management and compliance mechanisms The Sumitomo Forestry Group is working to reinforce its mechanism for managing business risk—which also encompasses Group companies—by constantly managing prioritized risks through the Risk Management Committee. 17 Promote the development and sale of products and services that are safe, reliable and environmentally conscious Sumitomo Forestry believes that popularizing durable, high-quality houses as social assets plays an important role in creating a prosperous society. In addition, Sumitomo Forestry actively promotes the use of the Excellent Long-term Housing Certification and the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System for customer’s peace of mind and safety and in order to enhance property value. Examples of initiatives Sumitomo Forestry Home houses set the standard specification to meet “Excellent Long-term Housing” standards 18 Corporate Governance｜Management System Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Guidelines Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) seeks to ensure management transparency as well as appropriateness and legality of its business and strives to promote expeditious decisionmaking and business execution under the Sumitomo Forestry Group‘s corporate philosophy of “utilizing timber as a renewable and environmentally friendly natural resource, and contributing to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related services,” following one of our Action Guidelines that requires us to “conduct business that is beneficial to society based on the principles of integrity and sound management.” By further enhancing and strengthening its corporate governance through these efforts, the Company aims to continuously increase its corporate value and conduct management that lives up to expectations of various stakeholders around the Group. Corporate Governance and Internal Control Sumitomo Forestry introduced the executive officer system to separate decision making and management oversight from operational execution functions. Comprised of nine directors (eight male, one female) including one external director (female), the Board of Directors is structured to take quick decisions. The oversight function of the Board of Directors has been strengthened, the lines of operational responsibility clarified, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors no longer serves as an executive officer. Sumitomo Forestry has a board of company auditors. In addition to attending important meetings within the Company, the auditors provide oversight for the directors' execution of duties, through sharing information and opinions with auditors at Group companies and the staff in the Internal Audit Division, and by supervising staff assisting auditing operations. As of June 23, 2015, nine directors (including one external director), five auditors (including three external auditors) and 19 executive officers had been appointed to the Company. The external director (one) and external auditors (three) have been registered as independent officers in accordance with stock exchange regulations. List of Directors and Executive Officers (link to Corporate Information) 19 Corporate Governance｜Management System Corporate Governance Structure (as of June 23,2015） Board of Directors and Executive Committee In principle, the Board of Directors meets once a month, making decisions and carrying out its supervisory function for important issues in accordance with its discussion standards. In addition to making decisions on all important items and confirming business results, it supervises the directors' execution of their duties. The Executive Committee, which is an advisory body for the President, holds meetings twice a month, before the Board of Directors meeting to ensure that there is sufficient prior discussion on important issues. It is attended by those directors who also serve as executive officers, as well as the full-time statutory auditors. In fiscal 2014, the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee met 15 times and 29 times respectively. Six of the nine directors attended all 15 meetings, and the three directors appointed at the 74th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2014, attended all meetings thereafter. 20 Corporate Governance｜Management System Board of Statutory Auditors The Board of Statutory Auditors meets to discuss and make decisions on important matters regarding audits. The five auditors, including the three external auditors, utilize the deep insights and diverse perspectives they have acquired from their various business backgrounds to provide oversight for the directors' execution of duties. The Board of Statutory Auditors met 14 times during fiscal 2014. The Board of Statutory Auditors for the Group is comprised of the full-time auditors from Sumitomo Forestry and the auditors from the Group companies. It meets once every two months to exchange information and improve the effectiveness of the audits undertaken at Group companies. Attendance of External Auditors at Meetings of the Board Directors and Board of Auditors (FY2014) Board of Directors Board of Statutory Auditors Name and area of expertise No. of % of No. of % of meetings meetings meetings meetings attended attended attended attended Certified Satoshi Public 15 100% 14 100% Teramoto Accountant Professor at the Graduate School of Agricultural Shin Nagata and Life 13 87% 13 93% Sciences at The University of Tokyo Senior Advisor of Katsuhide Sumitomo 12※ 100% 11※ 100% Kurasaka Electric Industries, Ltd. 1. Katsuhide Kurasaka was appointed as a Statutory Auditor at the 74th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2014, and attended all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Board of Statutory Auditors thereafter. 21 Corporate Governance｜Management System Risk Management Committee Information concerning the Risk Management Committee appears under “Risk Management Framework.” Risk Management Framework Internal Audits Every year, Sumitomo Forestry's Internal Audit Department draws on risk assessments in selecting about 60 business sites from among the roughly 200 business sites in the Sumitomo Forestry Group, and conducts internal audits on them. The business sites are selected by specifying an order of priority based on the two perspectives of operational risk (business results, size, complexity of business, etc.) and control risk (risk management framework). In the internal audits, the department checks on how a business site is executing its operations and managing its office work, including its compliance with laws and regulations, and it reports its findings to the President, the executive officer in charge of internal audits and to internal auditors, as well as to the manager responsible for the business site and the executive officer or director in charge of the business site. Furthermore, if any indications have been made, the department checks the improvement efforts implemented at the business site, such as by examining documents and conducting quarterly follow-up reviews, and reports on these to the President and to the executive officer in charge of internal audits. 22 Corporate Governance｜Management System Officer Remuneration In accordance with laws and regulations, Sumitomo Forestry discloses the remuneration paid to officers (directors and auditors, separated into external and internal) each fiscal year. Total Remuneration, etc. Paid to Directors and Auditors (FY2014) Category Number Total amount Directors 10 487 million yen Auditors 7 76 million yen Total 17 563 million yen 1. The figures above include one director and two auditors who retired at the conclusion of the 74th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2014. 2. The total remuneration, etc. paid to directors does not include remuneration as employees nor any compensation paid for the execution of other duties. 3. The total remuneration, etc. paid to directors includes a total of 130 million yen for bonuses to directors, which was resolved at 75th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 23, 2015. 4. At the 74th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2014, a resolution was passed for the maximum amount of monthly remuneration for directors to be no more than 36 million yen per month (no more than 2.5 million yen per month for the external director). 5. At the 74th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2014, a resolution was passed for the maximum amount of monthly remuneration for auditors to be no more than 8 million yen per month. Total Remuneration, etc. Paid to Outside Officers (FY2014) Number Total amount 5 37 million yen 1. The figure above includes one auditor who retired at the conclusion of the 74th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2014. 23 Risk Management｜Management System Risk Management Risk Management Framework In order to reinforce its framework for managing business risks for the entire Group, Sumitomo Forestry has created the Risk Management Basic Regulations and has appointed the President of Sumitomo Forestry as the highest authority on risk management for the Sumitomo Forestry Group. The Company also established the Risk Management Committee, comprised of the Company president as chairperson, together with all of executive officers. Each executive officer identifies and analyzes the priority risks to be addressed in their respective area of responsibility, including at Group companies, and formulates plans for managing those risks. These are then shared and discussed at quarterly meetings of the Risk Management Committee. A Compliance Subcommittee and a BCP Subcommittee have also been established under the command of the Risk Management Committee. These are chaired by the general manager of the General Administration Department, and are comprised of the executives in charge of risk management at each Group company. These subcommittees carry out specific activities for increasing effectiveness against “compliance risk” in relation to the Construction Business Act and other core businesses, and against “business interruption risk” such as large-scale disasters, which are both regarded as cross-sectional risks affecting the Group. A framework has been established whereby reports on these activities are submitted to and reviewed at the Board of Directors, and the outcomes reflected in the execution of business. During fiscal 2014, the Risk Management Committee and the two subcommittees met four times each, and reports were also submitted to the Board of Directors four times. During fiscal 2015, in order to respond properly to changes in the risks faced by the Sumitomo Forestry Group, the Company will strengthen its risk management framework, by taking stock of its managed risks and by following a PDCA cycle in making continuous improvements with respect to the priority risks selected in fiscal 2014. Securities Reports / Internal Control Reports Compliance Business Continuity Management 24 Risk Management｜Management System Rapidly Comprehending and Dealing with Risks The Sumitomo Forestry Group operates a two-hour rule system designed to quickly and accurately communicate information to management in the event of an emergency situation that may have a grave impact on company management. In addition to the regular reporting line, it utilizes communication via the Division responsible for risk management Through this system, management can take the best decision speedily, ensuring an initial response which avoids loss and controls the situation. Moreover, it serves a role in collecting and accumulating reported cases and assists in improved business practice and prevention of recurrence. Furthermore, the structure is organized so that, by sharing information with the public relations departments, important facts are disclosed to stakeholders properly and in a timely manner. Corporate Communications Department(Public Relations Departments) 25 Compliance｜Management System Compliance Compliance Promotion Framework Sumitomo Forestry established the Compliance Subcommittee as a subordinate organization under the Risk Management Committee, chaired by the general manager of the General Administration Department and comprised of the persons responsible for risk management, including those from the responsible departments at each Group company. As a cross-cutting organization across the Group, the subcommittee promotes responses to compliance risk. It has established the Group standard risk management system and tools to ensure compliance with the Construction Business Act and other laws, for efficient response to compliance risk. During fiscal 2014, the subcommittee met four times, and continuing on with its Group-wide initiatives from the previous fiscal year, it worked to make continuous improvements to its compliance system, such as making a comprehensive examination of risks with respect to legal requirements, such as for business activities requiring government permits and licenses. In addition, by acquiring the latest knowledge in the field through compliance seminars featuring external expert instructors, the Company endeavors to align the perspectives of those persons throughout the Group who are responsible for compliance, working bottom-up. The seminars also provide an opportunity to build an awareness of dangers that can be shared across the Group. In addition to making monthly reports on these activities to auditors and internal audit divisions, any particularly important initiatives or risk information that is common to the Group is shared with the auditors in each Group company via the Group Audit Committee. Thus, the Group has developed a system for promoting compliance in its lines of business execution using internal and external approaches. Compliance Training In order to heighten awareness among each and every employee about compliance, Sumitomo Forestry conducts compliance training for new employees to promote their understanding about traffic safety, information security and intellectual property. In fiscal 2014, training was delivered to 243 new graduate recruits and 70 mid-career recruits. Compliance training was also provided to groups of employees at specific levels, including “Training for Management” and “Training for New Managers.” Furthermore, two e-learning courses, “Legal Compliance and Risk Management” and “Information Security” have been set as compulsory courses to be taken by all Group employees, and employees are required to take these courses every year. In addition, each Group company in Japan and overseas also has its own arrangements for training, such as for new employees. 26 Compliance｜Management System Compliance Counter The Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to creating a workplace environment equipped with a self-corrective function for catching any impropriety concealed in day-to-day operations at an early stage. To this end, the Group established the Compliance Counters (advice desks) in 2002. The Group has two Compliance Counters, one within the Group (general manager of the General Administration Department) and one external to it (lawyer), ready to provide advice and receive reports via telephone or a dedicated email address. The Counters not only assist Group company employees but are available for anyone who works continuously for the Group, such as employees at collaborative workshops. As well as stipulating in the relevant regulations and user manual about the protection of rights for persons seeking advice or making reports, and publishing this on the Sumitomo Forestry intranet, the user manual is also distributed to all Group employees. In fiscal 2014, the Compliance Counters were contacted 11 times about such topics as the workplace environments and working hours. In cases where the facts were confirmed, in addition to implementing the necessary corrective measures, initiatives were promoted aimed at preventing recurrence including using these examples in training for managers. Manual for the Compliance Counters 27 Compliance｜Management System Preventing Corruption In April 2013, Sumitomo Forestry established its Regulations for Prevention of Bribery of Officials including Public Servants. These are aimed at preventing illegal corruption both in Japan and overseas. One of the Company's CSR targets is the establishment of separate regulations at consolidated subsidiaries in Japan during fiscal 2014. Furthermore, consolidated subsidiaries overseas will conduct risk analysis, prepare regulations, implement staff training and promote general awareness. Subsidiaries in China have already prepared and implemented regulations. Promotion of Fair Competition and Appropriate Transactions with Subcontractors For the purpose of promoting fair competition, Sumitomo Forestry published the Antimonopoly Act Guide Book, and via its intranet website and through training for new general managers, it works to enhance understanding and awareness regarding the intent and outline of the Antimonopoly Act and about the risk of cartels stemming from contact with competitors. Given that the Group’s business activities are supported by many business partners, every year, Sumitomo Forestry also makes a comprehensive examination of its compliance with the Subcontract Act and the Construction Business Act for the purpose of promoting appropriate transactions with subcontractors. During fiscal 2014, the Company worked on appropriately dealing with risks that change because of legislative changes, such as adding a check item for ensuring that the increase in consumption tax is properly passed on. Rejection of Influence from Anti-Social Elements The Sumitomo Forestry Group's basic policy is that the “influence from anti-social elements will be met with a resolute attitude and no compromises will be tolerated.” The General Administration Department is designated as the division to coordinate overall response and systematically cooperates with external expert bodies such as the police and lawyers in order to gather information about anti-social elements, and when required, gives guidance in issuing warning notices. In addition, in accordance with the enforcement of laws of each prefecture for the exclusion of crime syndicates, Sumitomo Forestry takes appropriate action including standardization such that all contracts that Group companies enter into with third parties include a clause to exclude anti-social elements. To further strengthen its efforts, since fiscal 2013, the Company has requested that all business partners, including its existing contracted partners, provide declarations guaranteeing that neither they nor their parent, subsidiary or subcontracting companies are anti-social elements. 28 Compliance｜Management System Prevention of Traffic Accidents and Violations Given that the Sumitomo Forestry Group has a fleet of about 7,000 vehicles used for either work or commuting in Japan, it promotes use of a standard Group system for safe driving to manage the risks associated with traffic accidents and violations. Specifically, as well as establishing related rules, standardizing accident report forms, and acquiring Certified Driving Records,1 Sumitomo Forestry has rolled out a Safe Driving Management System to each Group company which centrally manages basic driver and vehicle information (licenses, traffic violation histories, vehicle inspections, insurance, etc.), and has established systems for ensuring that the fulfillment of statutory obligations and driver instruction are carried out in a timely and appropriate manner. Sumitomo Forestry also holds monthly meetings for the Safe Driving Working Group, which is comprised of safe driving coordinators from Head Office and business divisions. The group shares and analyzes the state of traffic accidents and violations, helping in the formulation of prevention measures and awareness-raising activities. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry also conducts driving aptitude assessments authorized by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT), targeting new employees who are at a greater risk of accident due to insufficient driving skills and experience, so that they can be aware of their own driving aptitude. Training is also provided to give participants hints on how to avoid traffic accidents and so that they can reaffirm their mental readiness for safe driving. 1. A certificate issued by the Japan Safe Driving Center showing a driver’s violations and administrative punishments, etc. 29 Business Continuity Management System for Managing Business Continuity To counter risks which could significantly impact Head Office functions and are beyond a company's capacity to prevent, such as natural disasters and new strains of influenza, Sumitomo Forestry has established the BCP Subcommittee. The subcommittee sits under the Risk Management Committee, is chaired by the general manager of the General Administration Department and is comprised of the persons responsible for risk management at each Group company. BCP simulation training Additionally, the Company promotes initiatives based upon business continuity plans (BCP).Since Sumitomo Forestry Group companies are an integral link in the supply chain of one another's business, each Group company is committed to constantly improving the resilience of the whole Group, and tackling Group-wide issues with the intention of enhancing business continuity. In fiscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry held meetings of the BCP Subcommittee on four occasions. Estimates for damage sustained in the event of an earthquake centered directly under the Tokyo metropolitan area or some other large-scale disaster had been revised following the Great East Japan Earthquake and were reconfirmed; training of an international standard was held on business continuity management, with instruction provided by an expert invited from outside the Group; and various training programs were planned and implemented. 30 Measures for Employee Safety and Systems for Business Continuity Disaster Prevention Cards, Safety Verification System Disaster Prevention Cards have been distributed to all Group employees, promoting the basic response procedure to take in the event of a disaster. A safety verification system has also been introduced, allowing the safety of employees to be checked quickly in the event of a natural disaster. Drills using this system are conducted every year. In fiscal 2013, Sumitomo Forestry conducted drills using the safety verification system and the emergency contact network, divided over two occasions in November. Each Group company also conducted safety verification drills. Disaster Prevention and Damage Minimization Measures By way of preparation for employees walking long distances back home on foot or those stranded at the office unable to return home in the event of a massive earthquake, Sumitomo Forestry has stipulated a minimum stockpile of common emergency supplies for each workplace, and has had these distributed to all Group bases. In particular, at bases in large metropolitan areas (Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya), where it is expected there would be large numbers of stranded employees, enough supplies have been stored for employees to stay at the office for up to three days. Also, when selecting new offices and other facilities, rather than deciding merely on cost and convenience, the person responsible for disaster prevention at Head Office gets involved, and measures for preventing disasters and reducing damage are implemented, such as measures for preventing office equipment from falling over and multifunction printers on wheels from rolling. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry has also implemented measures from a perspective of data integrity, such as backing up data at locations physically distant from the data center. BCP Simulation Training In order to overcome the chaos immediately after a large-scale earthquake strikes and to transition quickly to action for business continuity, it is vitally important that the people in charge can make an initial response and can make decisions according to the situation at hand. For this reason, since fiscal 2011, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has continued to conduct BCP Large Scale Earthquake Countermeasures Simulation Training, targeted at the persons in charge at each Group company. The aim of this training is to get participants to experience a simulated “crisis” in an earthquake and to acquire an awareness of the issues, by getting them to make spur of the moment decisions again and again based on rigorous hypothetical scenarios. During the training, since Group companies from neighboring areas are assembled together in one place, another aim of the exercise is to share an awareness of risks and to strengthen cooperation among them in an emergency. To date, a total of more than 300 people have participated in this training. Systems have also been developed so that, in situations where employees find getting to work difficult, payment of salaries, payments to business partners and other important business operations can still be carried out from home or other remote locations while maintaining a high level of security. Simulation drills for this have also been conducted every year. 31 Overseas Representatives To ensure that employees stationed abroad and accompanying family members can receive appropriate treatment if they suffer an accidental injury or get sick while overseas, the Company has introduced a service for referring employees and their families to medical providers and making necessary arrangements. Based on the Overseas Crisis Management Manual, which prescribes safety management systems for employees overseas, Sumitomo Forestry also carries out an annual review of Advice for Employees on Business trips or Resident Overseas, which lists the risks present in each country where Sumitomo Forestry conducts business. Making use of the manual above, the Company also provides guidance to all new representatives being posted overseas. Disaster Prevention Card Overseas Emergency Contact Card Supply Chain Business Continuity Initiatives In readiness for potential disruption of its housing business supply chain following a disaster, Sumitomo Forestry shares the specifications and processes for property construction along with site progress status information with business partners including component makers and building contractors. By enabling advanced procurement of materials and production in this way, the Company is striving to reduce the risk of a disruption to operations. Sumitomo Forestry also reviews its suppliers of building and construction materials, with supplier evaluations conducted every year for determining whether to continue business with them. Business continuity items, such as systems for ensuring alternative supply routes during a disaster, have been added to these evaluations. Continuity of Customer Service In addition to establishing nighttime call centers in Tokyo, Osaka and Fukuoka, thereby facilitating a 24-hour after-sales service, Sumitomo Forestry has also developed a mechanism whereby any call center can back up the functions of another call center in the event it is affected by a disaster. By managing information for each base through a unified emergency system, the Company can share damage information pertaining to owners nationwide, enabling us to respond quickly to requests for repairs. 32 Information Security｜Management System Information Security Information Security Policy In order to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of its information systems, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has raised the security level of its systems while maintaining the “regulation” aspects and “technology” aspects of information security in a mutually complementary manner. Based on the recognition that the protection of customer information in particular is of utmost importance, the Group continues to conduct employee training to ensure dissemination of the rules, and verifies their level of awareness. With respect to the “regulation” aspects of information security, the Group has established the Sumitomo Forestry Group Information Asset Protection Guidelines for Group companies in Japan. At the same time, it has prepared a checklist based on these guidelines, and every year, the person responsible for the department in charge of information systems at each Group company runs a check for the purpose of ascertaining the level of information security. In fiscal 2012, the Group also formulated guidelines for Group companies outside of Japan. As for education on information security, Sumitomo Forestry has made it compulsory for all Group employees with access to its intranet (including temporary and part-time employees) to take an e-learning course on an annual basis. On the other hand, with respect to the “technology” aspects of information security, the Group has introduced encrypted start-ups and restrictions on writing data from computers that are taken outside the Company. Systems for Managing Information Security Under the supervision of the executive officer in charge of information systems, the general manager of the Information Systems Department promotes information security measures for the Sumitomo Forestry Group, such as the formulation and management of rules and regulations, the proposal and implementation of technical measures, the education and training of employees, and the investigation of accidents and implementation of countermeasures. Furthermore, the person responsible for each department provides guidance and management for the execution of that department's operations as the information security supervisor, and assigns an information security officer who is the working-level manager for the department's information security. The Group also holds regular meetings of the Affiliated Companies IT Managers Council, which is attended by the persons responsible for departments in charge of information systems at Group companies in Japan. The council checks the content of the guidelines and promotes the introduction of security systems. 33 Information Security｜Management System Initiatives to Strengthen Information Security The Sumitomo Forestry Group has introduced a self-check system provided by an external systems supplier, and performs self-checks once a year Group-wide. During fiscal 2014, 155 employees were reviewed, with a focus on those who are responsible for promoting information security at each base. In addition, once a year, the Group commissions an assessment from an external IT vendor and carries out a security assessment on the public websites of Sumitomo Forestry and each Group company. 34 Intellectual Property Management｜Management System Intellectual Property Management Intellectual Property Policy Imitation and unauthorized use of trademarks and copyrights have become one of the risks for corporate management. The Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to protect the intellectual property it creates, such as by claiming rights for proprietary technology and concealing its know-how. The Group is also putting effort into preventing rights violations by or to the Group. It is working to raise awareness about compliance among all Group employees, not least those in the research and development departments and in the marketing and planning departments. Systems for Managing Intellectual Property Sumitomo Forestry established the Intellectual Property Department and it employs a number of patent lawyers on its department staff. In addition to providing support for creating intellectual property, support for filing applications and preserving rights for intellectual property, and support for concluding various technology-related contracts, the department also raises awareness for intellectual property among employees, conducts internal and external intellectual property trend analysis, and makes recommendations for the direction of research and development. Furthermore, in order to prevent rights violations from being caused by or to the Group, the Company has also established Poster advertising the an Intellectual Property Hotline and promotes this service to Intellectual Property employees. Hotline 35 Intellectual Property Management｜Management System Initiatives for Intellectual Property Intellectual Property Education The Intellectual Property Department conducts classroom training for Sumitomo Forestry Group employees as required, for the purpose of promoting the creation of intellectual property and preventing any conflicts with the rights of other companies. Each year since fiscal 2012, a compliancefocused e-learning program for all Group employees has been conducted using the intranet. In addition, every year, Sumitomo Forestry enlists employees from research and Study session on intellectual development departments, including at Group companies, and property at the Tsukuba sends them to training provided by external organizations, Research Institute such as the Japan Intellectual Property Association. In fiscal 2014, the Company held two study sessions on intellectual property at the Tsukuba Research Institute in an effort to ensure thorough compliance and risk management. In addition, training on trademarks was conducted, targeted at employees in product development divisions, to emphasize the importance of trademarks and raise the level of awareness of key points. Intellectual Property Award The Intellectual Property Awards are conducted annually by the Group based on an Intellectual Property Award Code to recognize groups and individuals who have contributed to enhancing the Group’s business competitiveness through inventions and other notable achievements. In fiscal 2014, an awards ceremony was held at Head Office and eight employees received awards or commendations. Education through the Company Intranet Sumitomo Forestry has set-up a company intranet site called Intellectual Property Farm. The site provides Sumitomo Forestry Group employees with a fundamental grounding in intellectual property as well as a simple explanation about trademark rights that employees ought to understand when promoting business activities. The site also posts information on the latest topics concerning intellectual property. With the website being used for employees to acquire knowledge and to educate them about intellectual property, its hit count has increased. The Company plans to continue Front page of the Intellectual enhancing the content posted on the site. Property Farm 36 CSR Management｜Management System CSR Management Corporate Policies The Sumitomo Forestry Group's corporate philosophy advocates utilizing timber as a Corporate Policies of the Sumitomo renewable, healthy, and environmentally friendly Forestry Group natural resource, and contributing to realizing a prosperous society through all types of housingrelated services. In order to realize this philosophy and to develop corporate integrity deserving of the trust of society, it is imperative to achieve a balance among the three CSR aspects of economic, social contribution, and environmental activities. In this context, so that each and every employee can consider the significance of their own tasks, behavior, and interaction with society from a CSR perspective, as well as respond to the expectations of society, we have formulated a statement entitled “Our Work and CSR.” As a point of reference for Group employees for what should be considered as most important in relation to their actions, we formulated the statement, “Our Values and Ideals.” These have been translated into English and Chinese, and have been published on the Company’s website. The Corporate Philosophy has also been translated into Indonesian, with an aim of instilling it among local Group employees. Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group 37 Corporate Philosophy The Sumitomo Forestry Group utilizes timber as a renewable, healthy, and environmentally friendly natural resource, and contributes to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related services. Action Guidelines Sumitomo Spirit We conduct business that is beneficial to society based on the principles of integrity and sound management. Respect for Humanity We work to create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity. Environmental Responsibility We are dedicated to effectively addressing environmental issues with the aim of achieving a sustainable society. Putting Customers First We are thoroughly committed to customer satisfaction through the provision of high-quality products and services. Our Work and CSR By utilizing Sumitomo Forestry's unique expertise on timber and housing, we intend to create “spiral of happiness,” based on the keywords of “utilization,” “development,” and “bringing together,” that will lead to the individual development of employees, customers, local communities and the earth's environment. Joy in Utilizing Sustainable Resources 1．Utilize Timber 2．Utilize Forests 3．Utilize Traditions Joy in Development 1．Nurture Families 2．Develop Homes 3．Foster Communities Joy in Bringing People Together 1．Bring Employees Together 2．Bring Society Together 3．Bring the World Together 38 Our Values and Ideals The Group sets great store by the following three ideals: “Inspire Emotion,” “Blaze a Trail to the Future,” and “Act with Dignity.” 1．Inspire Emotion 1．Customer Satisfaction 2．Partnership 3．Independence and Support 4．Freedom and Vigor 5．Reflection and Learning 2．Blaze a Trail to the Future 1．Sustainable Development 2．Respect for Families 3．Accumulation and Creation 4．Giving Back to the Community 5．Environmental Responsibility 3．Act with Dignity 1．Passing on Sumitomo’s Business Spirit 2．Legal Compliance 3 ．Informat ion Handling 4．Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 5．Autonomous Actions Sumitomo Forestry‘s Business and CSR The history of Sumitomo Forestry dates back more than 320 years. At the time, the Besshi Copper Mine in Shikoku in Japan was being constructed, and so wood was in great demand for use as props in mine shafts and as fuel. Sumitomo Forestry's business originates in the management of the forests around the mine. Soon after the beginning of the Meiji era, Sumitomo carried out a large-scale reforestation plan to restore the mountain forests of Besshi which had been devastated due to overharvesting and smoke pollution. Having planted more than one million trees annually in some years, Sumitomo succeeded in returning the mountains surrounding Besshi to their original lush condition we see today. The spirit behind this “sustainable forestry,” of continuing to utilize resources while protecting the environment through a pattern of logging followed by planting, is harnessed by Sumitomo Forestry in its current operations. Society has significantly changed in recent years as a result of the global environmental problems and social issues that have emerged. As a corporate group that conducts forest management and provides timber and homes to customers both within Japan and overseas, Sumitomo Forestry Group believes that it can play a significant role in resolving these problems. Business of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environment and Resources Business Based on the principle of sustainable forestry, the Sumitomo Forestry Group carries out systematic forest management across about 46,000 hectares of vast Company-owned forests in Japan, and is actively engaged in the supply of timber and the revitalization of the forestry industry. The Group promotes sustainable forest operation overseas, managing some 200,000 hectares of plantation forest. The Group also contributes to the preservation of biodiversity and the development of local communities. Consulting services are also provided in Japan and overseas, meeting the diversifying needs of forestry management. Environment and Energy Business The Group is committed to promoting energy businesses that utilize wood resources and natural energy. With wood biomass power generation, the Group is currently participating at four facilities in Japan using construction debris and unused forest materials as fuel, thereby contributing to the supply of environmentally conscious energy and to the effective use of forest resources. Timber and Building Materials Business As Japan’s leading timber and building materials trading company, the Sumitomo Forestry Group pursues a broad range of operations, from the procurement of timber and building materials, to manufacturing and logistics. The Group also offers logistics systems, that streamline the distribution of home building materials to manufacturers, distributors, housing companies and other businesses. Leveraging its strengths in procurement and functionality proposals which draw on its global network, the Group has achieved a stable supply of high-quality timber and building materials to satisfy a wide variety of needs. 40 Overseas Manufacturing Business The Sumitomo Forestry Group has established bases in Indonesia, Australia, New Zealand, Vietnam, Thailand and the United States, and manufactures high-quality environmentally conscious wood building materials. It is reinforcing its capacity to supply, not only to Japan, but also to emerging countries where increased demand is expected in the wake of economic growth. Overseas Housing and Real Estate Business The Sumitomo Forestry Group is expanding the scale of its housing and related businesses in the United States and Australia, in cities that expects steady populations growth and demand for housing. In Asia, where a wide range of housing demand is expected to grow, the Group is actively exploring businesses to leverage synergy with its existing businesses. Housing Business Sumitomo Forestry Home houses are the leading brand of custom-built wooden houses in Japan, utilizing the unique characteristics of wood and employing advanced construction methods. They enjoy a reputation of being comfortable, safe and secure houses that are environmentally conscious and durable for many years of residence. The Group also supplies apartments, utilizing its design capabilities accumulated in developing custom-built houses to offer refined exteriors, interiors abound with the qualities of wood and a level of comfort only possible with wood. Housing Stock Business Amid a changing sense of values toward housing, from flow to stock, the Sumitomo Forestry Group is involved in the remodeling and renovation businesses, raising the value of existing homes. From detached houses to condominiums and shops, the Group provides a variety of services that enable customers to live in their homes and operate stores longer and with more peace of mind. 41 Greenery Business The Sumitomo Forestry Group conceptualizes optimal greening initiatives in a variety of areas, including housing, city planning, office buildings, urban spaces and satoyama (mountain areas linked to local communities). From the perspectives of biodiversity and sustainability, support is also provided for the environmental greenification of corporations. Comprehensive support is offered, from consulting, through to planning and design, construction and maintenance. MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business Additional increases in production and consumption of wood has been in the spotlight as one of Japan’s national policies. With this in mind, the Group is promoting a shift to the previously less common wood construction of medium to large buildings in non-residential sectors, as well as a greater use of wood qualities in interiors. Through the construction of facilities in fields where there is a strong fondness for wood—namely medicine, education and commerce—the Group aims to create a new wood culture by increasing opportunities for people to be inspired by wood. Residential Property Development Business Based on the Group’s expertise developed through a wide range of wood-related businesses, it is engaged in a new form of property development unique to Sumitomo Forestry. From space design to planting and designing lifestyles, the Group fully leverages its comprehensive capabilities to produce detached spec homes in harmony with the local natural environment and culture. Through the development of residential property that grows along with its residents, the Group is helping to realize a higher quality of life. Lifestyle Service Business Japan is a country faced with a super-aging society, and here, the Sumitomo Forestry Group operates communitybased nursing care facilities and day care services for the elderly. In addition, the Group also provides a variety of businesses closely connected to people’s lives, including the production and sale of agricultural products. The Group is constantly focused on creating new services that contribute to a higher quality of life. 42 CSR Management Based on Four Material Issues Through a process of identifying social issues that are particularly relevant to its business, and, while taking stakeholder feedback into account, narrowing them down to four priority issues for which there are high expectations on the Group, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has stipulated “Four Material Issues.” While keeping a close watch on changes in society and incorporating the suggestions of its stakeholders, the Group constantly reviews the progress and outcomes of its activities as it promotes CSR management with an aim of realizing a sustainable society. Four Material Issues Providing Timber Products and Materials from Sustainable Forests Providing Environmentally Friendly Homes Promoting Global Warming Countermeasures through Our Business Promoting Family-Centered Employee Lifestyles 43 The Process for Determining the Material Issues （1）Selection of candidate material issues Results of Mapping the Identified Issues Based on discussions with specialist third parties, responses to previous CSR Report, and opinions received through employee workshops, a total of 27 issues were identified as Sumitomo Forestry should tackle. （2）Understanding the issues that are important to our stakeholders Total of 143 customers, business partners, analysts, investors, members of the press, employees, and relevant experts were surveyed for these 27 issues, which allowed us to prioritize various expectations held by stakeholders towards Sumitomo Forestry. （3）Consideration of importance from the perspective of business strategy Priority levels in the context of Sumitomo Forestry's business activities were clarified based on management level discussions. （4）Determination of material issues Sumitomo Forestry management determined the four material issues by selecting the three issues which had scored most highly in the stakeholder survey, and then adding an item which employees felt strongly about. 44 Participation in the United Nations Global Compact In December 2008, we formally signed the United Nations (UN) Global Compact to declare our support for its principles. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact are based on globally established agreements, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. They incorporate support of and respect for the protection of human rights and the eradication of forced labor and child labor. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 45 Housing Safety and Quality Control | Social Report Housing Safety and Quality Control Basic Policy for Product Safety and Quality Control in the Housing Business Sumitomo Forestry believes that popularizing durable, high-quality houses as social assets plays an important role in creating a prosperous society. Based on this belief, and taking the opportunity of the enforcement of the Excellent Long-Term Housing Promotion Act in Japan in June 2009, the Company formulated a basic policy for product safety and quality control in its housing business in fiscal 2009. Basic Policy for Product Safety and Quality Control in the Housing Business 1. Make houses more reliable by improving their basic functions 2. Increase future options for layout to accommodate changes in lifestyles 3. Enhance maintenance programs to support long-term upkeep 4. Monitor information on any production faults, and share information on handling faults promptly 46 Housing Safety and Quality Control | Social Report Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control in the Housing Business Sumitomo Forestry sets the standard specifications for its Sumitomo Forestry Home houses to exceed the highest level of Excellent Long-term Housing1 certification conditions2 (applying the evaluation under the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System3). From product development through to construction and after-service, the Company has established its framework for product safety and quality control in order to deliver high quality homes with superior overall balance. In addition, the Company is actively promoting the use of the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System for customer peace of mind and safety and in order to enhance property value. In fiscal 2014, under the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System, Implementation of Design Performance Evaluation reached 97.7%4 (100.6% in FY2013), Implementation of Construction Performance Evaluation reached 94.9% (95.4% in FY2013), and the acquisition of Excellent Long-term Housing certification reached 91.2% (90.7% in FY2013). 1. Excellent Long-term Housing: A life-long housing certification system which aims to popularize housing that will help realize a society that values its housing stock. 2. Detached housing is evaluated for durability, seismic resistance, ease of maintenance and energy efficiency in accordance with the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System. 3. The Japanese Housing Performance Indication System: Third-party evaluation of design performance at the time of design and of construction performance upon completion so that customers can objectively assess the quality and performance of a house. The system comprises 10 evaluation items, including structural stability, fire safety, alleviation of deterioration, and thermal environment. 4. The ratio of the number of applications against the total number of detached houses constructed, including extensions and/or alterations (applications for design and construction performance evaluation, April 1, 2014 – March 31, 2015). 47 Housing Safety and Quality Control | Social Report Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control At meetings held once every two months, the Product Strategy Committee sets themes to tackle and determines its road map based upon information obtained through consumer awareness surveys and owner questionnaires. The Product Strategy The Housing Division and Committee Tsukuba Research Institute are collaborating in experiments at validation facilities and testing of prototypes, promoting the creation of products that incorporate customer feedback, including even in the details of guarantees. Sumitomo Forestry uses a unique system to check design and structure at the time of contracting and through the final design stage. A dedicated designer responsible for the work The Materials Selection Subcommittee, which meets once every month to decide upon all materials, conducts design reviews. All materials are checked to ensure that they meet the acceptance and quality standards set by the Tsukuba Research Institute and the Materials Selection Subcommittee. The Quality Improvement Committee, which meets once every two months, shares information on materials that have been newly accepted, and discusses improvements to materials that have already been accepted. During fiscal 2014 they reported and discussed progress relating to 12 themes. 48 Housing Safety and Quality Control | Social Report Sumitomo Forestry centrally manages and shares up-to-date information on the construction, process management, quality control and safety management of each building through its own site management system. Each on-site operator, contractor Construction management manager and construction manager during such stages as foundation, construction and completion, conducts inspections covering 170 items which are managed using a construction management record. Additionally, the Head Office inspection division checks the status of the inspection and management. Sumitomo Forestry includes 20 years of regular inspections with its homes. After the 20th year, customers can pay for an inspection once every ten years, although those customers in the 30-year warranty system receive a free inspection in the 25th year Regular inspection if they choose to extend their warranty in the 20th year. Sumitomo Forestry has developed a Long-Term Support System that offers renovation and maintenance proposals and manages maintenance records in order to support its customers. 49 Housing Safety and Quality Control | Social Report Based on the Company's own performance evaluation chart, Sumitomo Forestry quantifies the performance grade of existing and planned homes for seismic resistance, thermal insulation and accessibility to indicate to customers the degree to which the performance grade has been enhanced. The performance and reliability of Sumitomo Forestry’s original materials used in seismic reinforcement and so on are The Company's verified at the Tsukuba Research Institute. own performance evaluation chart In order to make a diagnosis of the seismic resistance and deterioration conditions of a condominium, the original construction drawings and specifications are checked, and construction reviews, reinforcement checks, concrete strength measurements and other inspections are conducted in collaboration with third-party surveyors. Conducting major renovation work properly based on the results of these inspections increases the life-span of the building. In addition, all of the inspection results and descriptions of the renovation work are disclosed at the time of sale. Sumitomo Forestry has a number of support programs in place, including issuing its own warranty, providing existing housing home buyer’s defect warranty insurance, and offering regular after-sales maintenance checks for the first year. Pre-renovation Post-renovation 50 Housing Safety and Quality Control | Social Report Improvement of Safety and Comfort in the Housing Business Sumitomo Forestry offers homes that integrate seismic resistance, fire resistance, thermal insulation, age-deterioration countermeasures and universal design to improve all aspects of home performance so as to offer customers homes where they can live in peace of mind and comfort for many years to come. 51 Housing Safety and Quality Control | Social Report Improved Seismic Resistance and Ensuring Safety in the Event of a Fire Durability Sumitomo Forestry's products ensure fire For newly constructed prevention and resistance while taking advantage homes, standard of the merits of wood. specifications are set at The Company is boosting its lineup of products Level 3—the highest which offer government-regulated semi-firelevel—for evaluations based resistant construction2 as standard specifications. on the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System in regards to structural stability (seismic resistance, etc.). With renovation, Sumitomo Forestry offers its dual construction method for vibration control and seismic resistance (recipient of a Good Design Award in fiscal 2013), whereby the Sumirin Reduced Deterioration and REP construction method Measures Addressing Operation and (the Company’s original Maintenance of Equipment seismic resistance technology) is used to help The Company uses the highest specifications in the to increase the seismic Japanese Housing Performance Indication System rating by at least 1.0,1 relating to deterioration alleviation, and maintenance. followed by the fitting of S-shaped vibration dampers. Universal Design Improvement of Crime Prevention Sumitomo Forestry is Capabilities driving research based on human lifestyle Based on the “crime engineering using 3D prevention” category under the motion and view-tracking Japanese Housing Performance analysis equipment. The Indication System, Sumitomo Company offers homes Forestry provides customers which take universal with proposals for crime design into consideration. prevention measures from the site survey and design stage. Preserving Air Quality inside Houses Sumitomo Forestry is working to reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which have been identified as a cause of “sick house” syndrome to below the guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, and has separate provisions for prohibited chemical substances. In accordance with the standards contained in these guidelines, F☆☆☆☆-rated timber, building materials, insulation and adhesives,—which have the lowest level of formaldehyde emissions—are used in the Company's products. Moreover, F☆☆☆☆-rated furniture, lighting and curtains are recommended in interior design proposals. 1. Seismic rating of 1.0: Level where the building will avoid complete collapse in an earthquake of intensity level 6. 2. Government-regulated semi-fire-resistant construction: A house that meets the standards prescribed by the Japan Housing Finance Agency as being a construction with fire prevention properties corresponding to semi-fire resistance prescribed in the Building Standards Act. 52 Product Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials | Social Report Product Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials Product Safety and Quality Control in the Manufacture of Wood Building Materials in Japan (Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.) Basic Policy for Product Safety and Quality Control Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. has established quality policy for fiscal 2015 based on ISO 9001 as described below. Each plant and division has formulated specific quality targets and action plans in line with this quality policy, and is committed to maintaining safety and improving quality. In fiscal 2016, the company plans to standardize its quality information management system in an effort to integrate information and improve quality and service. Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.'s Quality Policy 1. Provide products that always give first priority to customer satisfaction, from product development and manufacture, to distribution and post-construction follow-up. 2. Cooperate with internal and external partners, understand appropriate costs, and manufacture in a way that ensures safety, performance and quality. 3. Establish quality targets, and develop systems that allow all employees to make continual improvements. 53 Product Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials | Social Report Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control Since October 2010, Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. has been operating with integrated ISO 9001 at its plants nationwide. Having developed a framework for quality control based on the quality policy as well as a strict framework for process control, the company manufactures products of high quality. Furthermore, by utilizing a quality information management system, the company endeavors to reflect market feedback and demands back into the production site. Internal audits are also carried out twice a year at all plants for the purpose of following the PDCA cycle for the quality management system established under ISO 9001. In addition, in order to build the capacity of employees in quality control, the company also puts effort into education on how audits are conducted and into employees getting qualifications. As of March 31, 2015, a total of 170 employees had been certified as ISO 9001 internal auditors. Moreover, in an effort to ensure product safety, a system is in place whereby, in the event information is received about a major product fault that could result in a recall, a report will reach the President from whoever is in charge within two hours via the emergency contact network. Promotion of Quality Improvement Activities Based on Company-Wide Targets Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. has set quality targets at each plant and division, and is promoting quality improvement activities. During fiscal 2014, a Quality Improvement Committee was launched to undertake a companywide review of control systems at manufacturing locations and to review the control systems at partner plants. In fiscal 2015, the company will maintain the control systems agreed upon by the Quality Improvement Committee, and will continue to Quality check in plan improve activities, aimed at achieving a 20% reduction of complaints from fiscal 2014. 54 Product Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials | Social Report Product Safety and Quality Control in the Overseas Manufacture of Wood Building Materials (Overseas Companies Manufacturing Wood Building Materials) Basic Policy and Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control Group companies engaged in the manufacture of wood building materials overseas have acquired quality certifications such as ISO 9001, Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) and Japanese Agricultural Standards (JAS). In line with the requirements of these certifications, each company has established policies and standards for quality control, and through education and training, strives to ensure that its employees understand them well. Furthermore, each company has also built systems for production and quality control, and by means of annual audits by external organizations as well as periodic internal audits, they are making ongoing improvements to those systems. Acquisition of Quality-Related Certification Standardization of Operations, and Promoting Acquisition of ISO 9001 Certification Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. (VECO), which started commercial production of particleboard in Vietnam in May 2012, acquired ISO 9001 certification in April 2014. In conjunction with acquiring ISO certification, the company has proceeded to standardize its manufacturing operations, and has built a production system which allows it to provide products of consistent quality. Furthermore, in order to differentiate itself from its Quality control laboratory at competitors, the company attaches the product specifications VECO on the packaging of each product. This practice is still not common in Vietnam, and so by clearly stating the product specifications, the aim is to establish VECO as a high-quality brand. 55 Acquisition of Quality-Related Certification | Social Report Acquisition of Quality-Related Certification Certification of Group Companies Type of Group Company Country Date Acquired Certification Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Japan ISO9001 31/1999 Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. Japan ISO9001 9/2002 Environmental Greenification Division Sumitomo Forestry Home ISO9001 Japan 3/2006 Engineering Co., Ltd. JISQ9001 JIS 5/2003 certification(MDF) New JIS Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. Australia 9/2008 certification(MDF) CARB 4/2009 certification2 New JIS 3/2003 certification(MDF) ISO9001（MDF） 7/2003 ISO9001（LVL） 7/2004 JAS（LVL） 5/2008 Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. New Zealand New JIS 5/2008 certification CARB 10/2008 certification ISO9001 9/2011 56 Acquisition of Quality-Related Certification | Social Report Group Company Country Type of Certification Date Acquired ISO9002 9/1997 JAS 7/2000 Q-Mark 6/2010 ISO9001 8/2010 PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia CARB Indonesia 11/2012 certification(PB) CARB certification 12/2012 (plywood) CE Marking 12/2012 JIS certification 2013 ISO9001 12/1999 JIS certification(PB) 3/2007 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia Indonesia CARB certification 2/2009 SVLK certification3 12/2012 PT. Sinar Rimba Indonesia JAS 3/2012 Pasifik ISO9001 10/2002 PT. AST Indonesia Indonesia JAS 12/2012 PT. Wana Subur Timber Legality Indonesia 2/2013 Lestari Verification CARB certification 11/2012 Vina Eco Board Co., Vietnam Ltd. ISO9001 4/2014 Canyon Creek United States ISO9001 3/2007 Cabinet Company 1. Acquired first by the Kyushu plant in March 1999 and all other plants subsequently. All plants had acquired integrated certification by October 2010. 2. Air pollution regulation stipulated by the California Air Resources Board in the United States. CARB standards are stricter than federal regulations. 3. Certification under the new timber legality assurance system in Indonesia. 57 Communication with Our Customers | Social Report Communication with Our Customers Respect for and Application of Customer Feedback Operation of Sumitomo Forestry Call Centers In order to enhance customer service, Sumitomo Forestry established an after-hours call center in 1999, providing a prompt response in situations such as when customers need a lifeline in the event of an emergency. Additionally, in 2010, the Company upgraded its call centers into Sumitomo Forestry Call Centers, unified national 24-hour 365-day toll-free call centers dedicated to receiving calls for repairs and maintenance. In order to raise broad awareness of the A Sumitomo Forestry Call centers among customers, direct mail was sent to those who Center had already moved into their homes, magnets with contact details were given to new home owners at handover, and the Company has also featured them on its website and magazine exclusively for home owners. Presently the centers are located in Tokyo and Fukuoka, and are linked together, shortening wait times for customers who call via the unified national free-dial number. In addition, the system is organized to enable response in emergency situations. The system facilitates prompt response to customer requests and consultations and also strives for improved customer satisfaction. 58 Communication with Our Customers | Social Report Volume of calls to Customer Support Centers and the Sumitomo Forestry Call Center, and breakdown of those calls Customer Surveys To accurately assess customer views and customer satisfaction, Sumitomo Forestry distributes a questionnaire three times: once when an owner moves in, and then during the second and tenth year of their residence. The survey questions primarily cover specifications, design, building materials, systems and fixtures, and the support service provided by the staff. The Company then statistically processes and analyzes these results, and applies any findings to product development and employee training. Customers are also given a short questionnaire at the end of any after-sales maintenance visit or inspection, requesting feedback on such subjects as the attitude and behavior of the maintenance contractor, as well as their response speed and repair techniques. In fiscal 2014, the percentage of customers who responded “I would recommend Sumitomo Forestry Home houses” was 83.0% in the survey of new owners, and 79.9% in the survey of second-year owners. Because the benefits of improvements in customer satisfaction will only appear after ongoing efforts, Sumitomo Forestry will continue to improve its efforts, following a cycle of PDCA. 59 Communication with Our Customers | Social Report Keeping Customers Informed in the Housing Business Hosting of Sumai Haku Sumitomo Forestry has hosted its Sumai Haku housing fair every year since fiscal 1998, focused on metropolitan areas, to comprehensively promote the structural framework, design methods, systems and fixtures of Sumitomo Forestry Home houses. In fiscal 2014, the fair was held in Osaka October 18–November 16, and in Nagoya February 14–15, 2015. Following on from fiscal 2013, the Osaka fair continued for an extended one-month period. Venue for the “Sumai Haku” (interactive wooden housing fair) Sumai Haku Visitor Numbers Location Period Visitors Osaka (Nishi Umeda October 18 – November 16, Approximately 7,000 parties Square) 2014 Nagoya (Kinjofuto) February 14–15, 2015 Approximately 2,700 parties Hosting Home Building Consultation Meetings at Commercial Facilities Sumitomo Forestry hosted Home Building Consultation Meetings at a total of 13 stores, including at seven Parco department stores from November 14 to 16, 2014, and at six Daimaru Matsuzakaya department stores from December 5 to 7, 2014. The event provided a forum for people considering new construction, rebuilding, renovation or utilization of land to learn about Sumitomo Forestry’s home building technology, the quality of wooden homes, and the latest technology Home Building Consultation without having to visit model homes in a casual manner. The Meetings event site Company is considering holding such events again in the future. 60 Communication with Our Customers | Social Report Website Operation and Magazine Publication Sumitomo Forestry operates its Club Forest special website for owners of Sumitomo Forestry Home houses. As of March 2015, about 74,000 owners had registered as members. Lovely Family is a home and lifestyle magazine sent out twice a year. It also features details about Group company activities such as renovation and utilization of land. Print runs for each issue were about 260,000 in fiscal 2014. The cover of Lovely Family Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. Establishes Century-old Home Club Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. established a Century-old Home Club in July 2013 as part of its safe and reliable renovation ideas. It is a members-only club with an aim of preserving historical family homes for future generations. Members include owners of historic homes (constructed prior to 1950) renovated by the company, people currently living in a historic home, or those who plan to purchase a historic home. In 2014, the club held its first Regular meeting regular social gathering, which included touring a building designated as an important cultural property. 61 Communication with Our Customers | Social Report Appropriate Dissemination of Information and Protection of Personal Information Observance of Laws, Standards and Norms in Advertising and Publicity When creating advertisements, Sumitomo Forestry complies with relevant legislation, including the Building Lots and Buildings Transaction Business Act, the Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations, and the Copyright Act. The Corporate Communications Department, the Intellectual Property Department and the Legal Group in the General Administration Department cooperate to confirm and verify the content of advertisements The Brand Communication as required. Furthermore, the Company holds monthly Executive Committee meetings of the Brand Communication Committee, comprised of advertising personnel from relevant departments and relevant Japanese affiliates, and publicizes any matters necessary for preventing non-compliance. Through these efforts, the Company made certain of prior checks, and endeavored to ensure that unreliable information was not communicated and customers not otherwise misled. In fiscal 2014, the Group made efforts to drive a unified sense of branding within the Group. At the same time, internal training was provided on self-regulation and on laws related to advertising and labeling, such as the Act Against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations. Systems for Protecting the Privacy of Customers (Protection of Personal Information) Sumitomo Forestry has formulated internal rules to safeguard the personal information of customers, such as the Personal Information Protection Policy and the Personal Information Protection Regulations. In addition, the executive officer responsible for general administration is designated as chief executive in charge of protection of personal information. The Company has also placed an information security officer in each department. In these ways, the Company has established a protection system covering Head Office through to each office. The Company has also established a help desk for inquiries regarding the handling of personal information within the Customer Service Department. In addition, collective training is provided for the head and general administration representative for each organization. E-learning is provided for all other employees and efforts are made to increase awareness at subcontractors, in order to prevent the leaking of personal information. It is also mandatory for employees at Group companies to undertake the e-learning training. Information Security Personal Information Protection Policy 62 Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement of Timber Thorough Green Procurement The Sumitomo Forestry Group formulated the Green Procurement Guidelines in 2002. The Guidelines establish standards for procuring products from two perspectives, namely: the supplier's stance toward the environment (corporate activities assessment); and the product's impact on the environment throughout its life cycle (product assessment). Since timber is essential to the Group's business operations, the Group has also separately established the Timber Procurement Standards, and the legal compliance of timber materials handled is verified by the Timber Procurement Committee. Moreover, in order to conduct procurement that is not only lawfully and environmentally responsible but also socially responsible, in 2012, the Group commenced CSR surveys to check that all suppliers of timber and timber products directly imported from overseas are observing human rights and appropriate labor practices, and the results of these surveys have been used when screening suppliers. Following the start of the CSR survey, in January 2013, the Group published the Green Procurement Guidelines, Third Edition, in which new items were added for confirming occupational health and safety, considerations for human rights and other CSR initiatives. The Timber Procurement Standards have also been updated. 63 Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Green Procurement Guidelines (extract) (Corporate activities assessment) 1. Acquisition of ISO 14001 certification, and adoption of environmental policies and philosophy. 2. Active in global environmental conservation, such as biodiversity preservation and the prevention of global warming. 3. Committed to CSR in its entirety, such as workplace health and safety and respect for human rights. (Product assessment) 1. No use of hazardous materials which are likely to have an adverse effect on health and the environment. 2. No leaching of hazardous materials from the product during construction or use. 3. Ability to be reused or recycled after use. 4. Use of processes and materials to lengthen the lifespan of the product. Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group formulated its Timber Procurement Philosophy and Timber Procurement Policy in 2007, and since then, in cooperation with the Group's business partners, it has endeavored to procure timber from forests that have been verified as legally compliant and are appropriately managed. Timber Procurement Philosophy Timber is a renewable, natural resource. Sumitomo Forestry considers forest ecosystems and the blessings from nature provided by forests to be precious assets shared by all of humanity, and in order to realize a sustainable society in which people and forests can live in harmony, it cooperates with its business partners to procure timber that is considerate to the environment and to society. 64 Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Timber Procurement Policy 1 To procure legal and sustainable wood Observe all relevant laws and regulations and maintain a system for confirming that the timber is legal Procure timber from forests that are managed to be sustainable While promoting the use of plantation timber, carry out plantation activities that contribute to the maintenance of forest resources 2 To build a highly reliable supply chain Cooperate with business partners and work to improve the reliability of traceability measures Confirm with business partners that High Conservation Value Forests are being managed appropriately Appropriately disclose information to ensure procurement transparency Maintain dialogues with business partners to ensure that human rights and the fundamental rights of workers are being protected and to prevent corruption 3 To reduce the environmental burden and effectively use timber resources during their lifecycle To contribute to land conservation and the revitalization of the forestry industry by actively using domestic timber Utilize thinnings and wood waste, reuse and recycle wood, and develop the technologies to facilitate these actions Reduce the environmental impact of procurement, such as by increasing distribution efficiency 4 Together with our stakeholders Carry out continuous reforms in cooperation with stakeholders Respect biodiversity and the culture, traditions, and economies of regions that live in harmony with forests Communicate to stakeholders the importance of timber procurement that is considerate to the environment and society 65 Systems for Promoting the Sustainable Procurement of Timber The Sumitomo Forestry Group established the Timber Procurement Committee as an organization for promoting sustainable timber procurement. The committee is chaired by the General Manager of the Environmental Management Department. The Environmental Management Department serves as its secretariat, and its members are comprised primarily of working-level managers in departments related to the procurement of timber. The committee meets three times a year, and in addition to confirming how the Action Plan for Timber Procurement is progressing, it discusses such topics as measures for promoting activities for achieving the goals and measures for dealing with overseas timber regulations. The committee also examines the legal compliance of timber procured from each supplier based on documents certifying legality, which are submitted by the timber supplier, and on the field survey reports submitted by the Group's representatives. In addition, given the increasingly diverse and sophisticated societal demands in relation to procurement, Sumitomo Forestry reorganized and expanded the content and scope of its Timber Procurement Philosophy and Timber Procurement Policy, and in a positive move, collectively renamed them the Procurement Policy in July 2015. Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy (link to Corporate Information) Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group 66 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Sustainable Procurement of Timber Action Plan for Timber Procurement As the world’s forests continue to vanish as a consequence of illegal logging, excessive slashand-burn farming and other practices, countries around the world are proceeding to strengthen their laws and regulations to eliminate illegally logged timber from the market. Meanwhile, in Japan, development of forests, and of plantations in particular, has halted in part because of an aging and declining forestry workforce, and there are growing concerns about some forests becoming devastated. Being engaged in business centered around wood, the Sumitomo Forestry Group promotes the procurement of sustainable timber, including along its supply chain. The Group established a philosophy and policy on timber procurement, and once every three years, it formulates an Action Plan for Timber Procurement with specific action targets based on these guiding principles. The Third Action Plan for Timber Procurement, which covers fiscal 2013–2015, strengthens the initiatives advanced through the first and second action plans. For instance, it promotes verifying the legal compliance of procured timber, as well as procuring and using certified timber, plantation timber and Japanese timber. It also involves the effective use of timber resources, such as increasing the volume of fuel wood chips handled and utilizing wood left over from logging, as well as activities to spread awareness among stakeholders. Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement of Timber 67 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report 68 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Procuring Timber with Verified Legal Compliance Targets based on the Third Action Plan for Timber Procurement and FY2014 results Maintain 100% verified legality1 100% for timber and timber products handled Verify the CSR management Continued to survey suppliers situation (environmental and social considerations) of suppliers 1. Inspect all suppliers of timber and timber products in order to verify their legal compliance To prevent deforestation and forest degradation, countries around the world are proceeding to prepare legal frameworks aimed at eliminating illegal timber. At the Sumitomo Forestry Group, based on documents certifying legality which are submitted by the supplier, and on the field survey reports which are submitted by the Group’s representatives, the Timber Procurement Committee verifies whether the timber handled by the Group has been properly managed and harvested in accordance with the regulatory systems of each country and region. In fiscal 2014, reviews to confirm legal compliance were carried out at the three meetings of the Timber Procurement Committee. Also, at the time of the survey, the Group has used a questionnaire to interview suppliers in order to confirm their CSR management situation. In continuing these activities, the Group remains committed to the procurement of sustainable timber and timber products. System for Verifying Legality Based on the Timber Procurement Standards 69 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Conducting Field Surveys on the Traceability of Timber Continuing on from the field survey conducted in the Malaysian state of Sarawak in fiscal 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Group conducted individual traceability survey for the purpose of understanding the legal framework and flow of timber and to review the way it verifies legal compliance, first in December 2013 in China, and then again in April 2015 in the Malaysian state of Sarawak. An officer of the Environmental Management Department, which serves as the secretariat of the Timber Procurement Committee, visited the afforestation areas, logging and transportation sites and processing facilities used by the suppliers to conduct surveys, and reported the results of those surveys to the relevant divisions via the Timber Procurement Committee. In addition, the results have also been used to revise the evidence documents obtained for the purpose of verifying legal compliance. Field Survey in Malaysia Production of seedlings Transport Delivery of logs Procuring Timber from Sustainable Forests The Sumitomo Forestry Group regards certified timber that has been verified as sustainable by means of certification audit, plantation timber that has been planted and harvested in a systematic manner, and Japanese timber that will lead to revitalization of the Japanese forestry industry as sustainable timber, and is increasing the amount of this timber it uses and handles. Furthermore, based on this policy, companies, divisions and departments within the Group are also proceeding to obtain forest certification. 70 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Forest Certification (as of April 1, 2015) Type of Forestry Certification Name of Certified Division or Company Forestry Forestry Department, Environment and Resources Division certification (Company-owned forests) CoC International Marketing Department, Timber & Building certification4 SGEC1 Materials Division (pre-cut materials); Housing Division (Group-wide (pre-cut materials) certification) Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products Co., Ltd., and Sumitomo CoC certification Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (reforestation cooperative), Open FM certification Bay Timber Ltd. International Marketing Department and Domestic Marketing FSCTM 2 Department, Timber & Building Materials Division; Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.; Alpine MDF Industries Pty. Ltd.; PT. CoC certification Kutai Timber Indonesia; Sumitomo Forestry (Singapore) Ltd.; Nelson Pine Industries Ltd.; Open Bay Timber Ltd. PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia; PT. Sumitomo Forestry Indonesia International Marketing Department and Timber & Building Materials Department, Timber & Building Materials Division; PEFC3 CoC certification Sumitomo Forestry (Dalian) Ltd.; Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. 1. The Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council (SGEC) is Japan's own forestry certification system through which forest management is verified as sustainable by a certification audit agency. Certification is based on seven criteria that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources. 2. The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC TM ) is a global forestry certification system. Its Forest Management (FM) certification authenticates forest management, while FSC Chain of Custody (CoC) certification confirms that forest products from certified forests are appropriately separated and marked in the storage, processing and distribution processes. 3. Abbreviation of the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes. It is implemented by the international supervisory organization that inspects forest certification schemes independently created in various countries and promotes mutual recognition between these schemes. 4. Certification by a third-party organization that the operator is appropriately separating and labeling timber from certified forests during storage, processing and distribution. CSR Highlight3-Practicing Sustainable Forest Management in Japan and Overseas 71 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Increasing the Percentage of “Directly Imported Timber” That Is Certified Timber or Plantation Timber Targets based on the Third Action Plan for Timber Procurement and FY2014 results Increase the percentage of 62% directly imported timber 1, including both certified timber and plantation timber, to 68% by fiscal 2015 1. Timber and timber products directly imported into Japan Sumitomo Forestry aims to increase the ratio of certified timber and plantation timber to directly imported timber to 68% by fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2014, the percentage of certified timber and plantation timber used as a raw material in medium density fiberboard (MDF) was 99%, but the substantial rise in the price of falcata plantation timber (one of the raw materials in plywood) led to a decrease in the volume of falcata handled, and as a result the percentage of all directly imported timber, including both certified timber and plantation timber, was 62%. In fiscal 2015, the Company will increase the proportional volume of certified timber and plantation timber it handles by developing and increasing sales of new plywood products that are made with these types of timber. Sales of Environmentally Sound Plywood KIKORIN-PLYWOOD Sumitomo Forestry sells KIKORIN-PLYWOOD, an environmentally sound plywood manufactured using certified timber and plantation timber for more than 50% of the raw materials. In fiscal 2014, the volume of KIKORIN-PLYWOOD sold was 31,916 m3. Part of the proceeds from this product is used for reforestation expenses in regenerating forests, such as in the degraded forests of Indonesia. In fiscal 2014, the area of land KIKORIN-PLYWOOD reforested in line with the sales of KIKORIN-PLYWOOD was approximately 12.3 hectares, bringing the cumulative total since the initiative began in fiscal 2009 to approximately 54.6 hectares. The Company will continue putting effort into increasing the volume of KIKORIN-PLYWOOD sold. 72 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Sales Volume of KIKORIN-PLYWOOD Increasing the Percentage of Japanese Timber Handled in the Timber Distribution Business Targets based on the Third Action Plan for Timber Procurement and FY2014 results By fiscal 2015, increase the 13.5% increase percentage of Japanese timber handled in the timber distribution business by 71% compared to fiscal 2011 Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products Co., Ltd. is engaged in the timber distribution business. It aims to increase the percentage of Japanese timber it handles by 71% compared to a base year of fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2014, despite a nationwide fall in the production of Japanese timber as a consequence of the increase in consumption tax, as a result of having focused on expanding sales to exporters, there was a 9% increase compared to fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2015, Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products will aim to increase the volume of Japanese timber it handles by expanding its yarding area, cultivating new suppliers, and expanding the business of purchasing standing trees based on the condition of reforestation. 73 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Increasing the Percentage of Certified Timber, Plantation Timber and Japanese Timber Used by Domestic Manufacturers of Building Materials Targets based on the Third Action Plan for Timber Procurement and FY2014 results Increase the percentage of 65% certified timber, plantation timber and Japanese timber used by domestic manufacturers of building materials to 64% by fiscal 2015 Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. is engaged in the domestic manufacture of building materials. It aims to increase the percentage of certified timber, plantation timber and Japanese timber it uses to 64% by fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2014, in addition to increasing the percentage of plantation timber used in the core of doors and other fittings and in the base of wood flooring, as a result of promoting the use of new products made from Japanese timber, the percentage of certified timber, plantation timber and Japanese timber reached 65%. Increasing the Percentage of Japanese Timber Used in the Housing Business Targets based on the Third Action Plan for Timber Procurement and FY2014 results Increase the percentage of Reached 58% Japanese timber used in the Housing Business to 60% by fiscal 2015 Sumitomo Forestry has set a target for the Housing Business to increase the percentage of Japanese timber used for structural and non-structural timber in houses to 60% by fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2014, the Company promoted the use of Japanese timber, such as using “lattice panels,” a load-bearing wall panel made from Japanese cedar and other timber grown in Japan, in one of its methods for constructing homes, the Big-Frame Construction Method. However, as a consequence of a relative increase in the use of construction methods using a lower percentage of Japanese timber, the Company’s overall ratio of Japanese timber used remained at 58%. 74 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Supplying Homes that Actively Use Local Materials In Hokkaido, Sumitomo Forestry offers 100% “made in Hokkaido homes” that use only locally grown Japanese larch and Sakhalin fir. The Company also offers homes in Nara, Wakayama, Yamaguchi and Oita prefectures using some locally produced timber. Given the limited area from which raw materials can be harvested, the challenge with local materials is how to procure a stable volume. The Company will continue to be actively involved in areas where a certain volume of timber can be supplied. Selling Homes that Use Certified Timber Sumitomo Forestry has been marketing houses built using SGEC-certified timber since 2008 in Hokkaido, where certified timber can be procured on a stable basis throughout the year, and since April 2011 in Miyagi Prefecture. In fiscal 2014, the Company used 510 m3 of certified timber in its houses. From fiscal 2015, the Company will work to increase its use of certified timber by maintaining its endeavors in the Hokkaido area. Effective Use of Timber Resources Increasing the Volume of Fuel Wood Chips Handled Targets based on the Third Action Plan for Timber Procurement and FY2014 results Increase the volume of wood 7.8% decrease chips handled as fuel, including for biomass power generation by 10% compared to fiscal 2011 Sumitomo Forestry contributes to resource recycling through its wood chip operations, whereby offcuts generated during the timber milling process and wood waste from new housing construction and demolition sites are turned into wood chips to be used as a raw material for products such as paper and particle board, and also as a fuel for power-generating boilers or other equipment. During fiscal 2014, despite the steady operations of large biomass power plants, the volume of fuel wood chips handled by the Company decreased by 12% compared to a base year of fiscal 2011 due to a shortage of building demolition materials in the wake of the increase in consumption tax. In fiscal 2015, the Company will aim to handle a greater volume, such as by establishing new sales routes. 75 Sustainable Procurement of Timber｜Social Report Recycling of Wood Resources into Chips Promoting the Use of Unused Wood Materials Targets based on the Third Action Plan for Timber Procurement and FY2014 results Increase the handling of wood 372% increase leftover from logging and other unused wood materials by 240% compared to fiscal 2011 In fiscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products Co., Ltd. supplied approximately 111,000 m 3 of unused wood materials, primarily to power producers. Broadening the use of wood leftover from logging and other previously underutilized wood materials will lead to revitalization of the Japanese forestry industry, and also to the public functions of forests being maintained and enhanced. In fiscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products began collecting unused wood materials to be utilized as logs for producing fuel wood chips in the wood biomass power generation business being advanced by the Sumitomo Forestry Group in Mombetsu City, Hokkaido, and as a consequence, the handling of unused wood materials increased by 372% compared to a base year of fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2015, Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products plans to increase the volume of unused wood materials it handles, such as by increasing the volume supplied to the wood biomass power generation business in Mombetsu, and by also increasing the supply to biomass power generation plants operated by other corporations. Wood Biomass Power Generation Business CSR Highlight4-Expansion of Our Wood Biomass Power Generation Business Activities to Spread Awareness among Stakeholders Sumitomo Forestry believes that getting stakeholders to appreciate the importance of procuring timber in a way that takes environmental and social considerations into account is also an important activity for putting sustainable timber procurement into practice. For this reason, the Company continually holds in-house seminars and disseminates information through CSR reports. 76 Communication with Our Business Partners | Social Report Communication with Our Business Partners Communication with Sumitomo Forestry's Business Partners Sumitomo Forestry's housing-business worksites are found in every region of the country, and they rely on the many supporting partner companies that the Sumitomo Forestry Group collaborates with. The Company considers communication with these companies to be vital in order to share with them its philosophy of improving the quality of homes while protecting the environment. Main Communication Activities with the Business Partners of Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. Name / scale Description Evaluation and feedback based on Every year, the Company evaluates its main business the Supplier Evaluation Standards partners in the housing business after visiting their Response rate: 100% of main manufacturing plants. Feedback is then provided to business partners (2014) them for the future improvement of their operations. This survey is useful for detached housing building contractors to improve their operational viability, safety and technical capabilities, and as an opportunity to familiarize their employees with the concepts underlying corporate social responsibility Annual Survey on Production (CSR), such as compliance, environmental protection, Systems and CSR Response rate: respect for human rights, and contributions to local Approximately 70% of all communities. The results of the surveys and the contractors (2014) associated trends are provided as feedback to the Association of Sumitomo Forestry Safe Building Contractors and to the Matsu Association of Building Contractors, an annual social gathering of superior building contractor partners. 77 Communication with Our Business Partners | Social Report Communication with Our Timber and Building Materials Business Partners In the Timber and Building Materials Business, given that it is characterized as being a regional industry, Sumitomo Forestry maintains close communication with the supplier and purchasers of timber and building materials in each region. Main Communication Activities with the Business Partners of the Timber & Building Materials Division Name / scale Description Established in different regions around Japan as a The Sumirin club –a membership forum for communication with business partners of organization to communicate with timber and building materials. Training sessions and regional suppliers of timber and information exchange meetings are held two or three building materials times a year in each region, allowing members to 853 people nationwide (as of deepen mutual friendships, promote product R&D, February 2015) enhance production and distribution, and support improvements in the industry as a whole. With a history spanning more than half a century, this monthly magazine publishes timely information and topics regarding timber and building materials from a Publication of Building Materials distinctive perspective unique to Sumitomo Forestry. Monthly Monthly print run of Each month, the magazine focuses on a special approximately 4,200 copies theme, and in fiscal 2014, these included: remodeling and renovation; the issue of unoccupied houses; and reducing energy consumption in the home. 78 Information Disclosure and Communication｜Social Report Information Disclosure and Communication Basic Policy on Information Disclosure and Communication In the interest of greater management transparency, Sumitomo Forestry takes a proactive approach to information disclosure. At the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held every June, the Company presents reports and information as clearly as possible and publishes printed and online versions of its Annual Report in both English and Japanese, as well as Japanese reports for shareholders on business activities. It also discloses a range of other IR information on its English and Japanese websites, including financial information Annual Report Japanese reports such as the short financial statements, summary of 2014 for shareholders on financial results and forecasts, and also information business activities on monthly orders. Moreover, the Company (Year ended March publishes notifications of its Ordinary General 31, 2015) Meeting of Shareholders in both English and Japanese, in these and other ways creating opportunities to communicate with its stakeholders. The Company will continue to communicate the business operations, corporate stance and future vision of the Sumitomo Forestry Group to all investors, whether shareholders or institutional or individual investors in Japan and overseas, in a fair and appropriate manner, and it will conduct IR activities that are recognized fairly in stock markets. Investor Relations 79 Information Disclosure and Communication｜Social Report Two-Way Communication with Shareholders and Investors General Meeting of Shareholders Sumitomo Forestry holds its Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders every June. Through various initiatives, the Company endeavors to get as many shareholders as possible to participate at the meeting and exercise their right to vote. These initiatives include sending out and posting online convocation notices (in Japanese and English) earlier than legally required, scheduling the meeting to avoid the date when most other shareholder meetings are held, and accommodating shareholders who wish to cast their votes online or via their mobile phones. Explaining Business Performance and Conference Calls In its efforts to continue gaining greater trust from shareholders and investors, Sumitomo Forestry holds earnings briefings and individual meetings to explain its business performance to institutional investors and analysts following the announcement of interim and year-end results, as well as conference calls following the release of Q1 and Q3 results. Individual Meetings Sumitomo Forestry holds individual meetings for institutional investors following the announcement of its quarterly results. In fiscal 2014, the Company held about 130 of these individual meetings both inside and outside of Japan. IR Meetings for Individual Investors Sumitomo Forestry holds regular IR meetings for individual investors. During fiscal 2014, it held one each in Tokyo and Osaka, and these were attended by about 270 investors at the Tokyo meeting and by about 110 investors at the Osaka meeting. At the meetings, in addition to presenting on the business operations of the Sumitomo Forestry Group, the Company explained about the Group’s growth strategy. IR Activities for Overseas Institutional Investors and Shareholders Sumitomo Forestry distributes English versions of financial documents to institutional investors and shareholders residing overseas. In addition, in fiscal 2014, senior management visited institutional investors and shareholders in Europe, North America, and Singapore, to present the Company's business results and strategies and to exchange opinions. 80 Returns to Shareholders｜Social Report Returns to Shareholders Basic Policy on Returns to Shareholders and Retained Earnings Acknowledging that providing returns to shareholders is one of its most important tasks, Sumitomo Forestry has adopted a basic policy of paying stable and continuous returns. Going forward, in addition to improving return on equity (ROE) and enhancing shareholders’ equity by making good use of retained earnings for effective investment, research and development activities that help improve long-term corporate value, Sumitomo Forestry will continue to pay an appropriate level of shareholder returns in line with earnings while reflecting an overall balanced consideration of factors such as business fundamentals, financial conditions and cash flow. Dividends in Fiscal 2014 In fiscal 2014 (the year to March 31, 2015), a year-end dividend of 12 yen per share and an interim dividend of 9.5 yen per share were issued. This corresponds to a full-year dividend of 21.5 yen per share. Share Distribution by Shareholder Type 81 Fair Employment and Treatment | Social Report Fair Employment and Treatment Basic Policy on the Employment and Treatment of Employees Sumitomo Forestry aims to be a “truly excellent company” in housing and wood products businesses, by making efforts to put in place effective personnel systems, carrying out appropriate and efficient placement of “human assets,” developing and training personnel, and building a group of employees who are always willing to take up challenges, all in accordance with one of the Company’s action guidelines: “Respect for Humanity—We work to create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity.” With respect to the employment and treatment of employees, in addition to respecting equal opportunity and diversity, the Company has prescribed in “Our Values and Ideals,” a set of guidelines on ethical conduct, that it will not discriminate on a basis of gender, age, nationality, race, religion or disability. In its recruitment activities too, the Company emphasizes the ambition and volition of the applicant, and does not differentiate selection processes according to academic background or gender. At Group companies outside Japan, the employment of local staff is actively promoted, and talented personnel are employed and promoted to management positions, irrespective of race or gender. As for the disciplinary punishment and dismissal of employees, if there has been a compliance violation, the employee will be dealt with appropriately in accordance with Employment Regulations. Unfair dismissals are not allowed. In recent years, securing human resources has become a major management issue in Japan in view of social changes such as the falling birth rate and aging population. The Company has adopted this policy in its employment activities, and is communicating the policy extensively. At the same time, it is expanding systems that support various workstyles and participation of women in order to ensure the presence of talented human resources for the Company in the future. Our Values and Ideals (link to Corporate Information) 82 Fair Employment and Treatment | Social Report Promoting the Active Involvement of Female Employees The Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to a workplace environment where motivated employees can be actively involved irrespective of gender, age, nationality, race, religion or disability. In an endeavor to actively engage female employees in particular, the Group has sought to improve its systems relating to childcare, education and training, and at the same time, has taken a proactive stance on promoting the use of these systems. During fiscal 2013, the Group surveyed the attitude and needs of employees with respect to: work and careers; promoting the active involvement of female employees; and childbirth and parenting. A survey was conducted to gauge the awareness of all female employees at Sumitomo Forestry to assist the Group in promoting the active involvement of female employees and in supporting the workstyles of employees currently raising children. In December 2013, the Group released the “Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women.” It was issued to the entire Group under the name of the President, and formally summarizes the significance of promoting the active involvement of female employees into three policies. The Group is actively engaged in activities under the policy described in the Declaration. In December 2014, numerical targets for appointment of women to managerial posts have been set in order to foster further participation of female employees. The Company has publicly announced its goal of raising female managers to more than 5% by 2020 (2.6% as of April 1, 2015), and is working to achieve this goal. Support for Childcare Sumitomo Forestry Group’s Declaration on Empowering Women Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to creating “an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity,” as set out in its Action Guideline. We believe a diverse workforce and a business strategy developed from a wide range of ideas is important for the Company. As part of this effort, we are striving to promote the participation of women in the belief that this will meet the social needs and significantly contribute to increased corporate value. By expanding opportunities for women and by leveraging the creative power of women, we will integrate a diverse range of values that will spur innovation and enhance corporate value. 1. We will create a positive work environment for women 2. We will leverage women’s unique creative powers 3. We will spur innovation through the participation of women 83 Fair Employment and Treatment | Social Report Main Initiatives Aimed at Increasing the Motivation of Female Employees Name of seminar Date Main participants 46 female sales Knowledge-Based staff in at least Training for Female August 2014 their 2nd year of Sales Staff employment Networking Event for Female Housing Sales November 2014 5 female sales staff Staff: Joint Program by Nine Housing Builders Sales training Networking Event for Female Engineering Staff: 2 female housing November 2014 Joint Program by design staff Nine Housing Builders Talk by High-Achiever February 2015 22 Female Sales Staff Production Training Production for Female August 2014 9 training Employees Training for Female June–July 2014 3 Managers Training for Female December 2014–February Management Managerial 3 2015 training Candidates Joint CrossIndustry Business February 2014 3 Skills Training 84 Fair Employment and Treatment | Social Report Promoting the Employment of People with Disabilities Sumitomo Forestry promotes the employment of people with disabilities, giving the highest priority to matching the individuality of each person with a disability with the workplace and business activities. During fiscal 2014, the Company employed two new people with disabilities, and the ratio of disabled employees as of March 1, 2015 was 2.23 %. Furthermore, to improve the retention rates for current employees, the Company provides regular face-to-face meetings as well as phone interviews and career advice as required. Re-Employment of Retired Employees Sumitomo Forestry has a system in place whereby it re-employs personnel, who retired at 60, on temporary contracts until they turn 65, on the condition that they have had at least 10 years of continuous service, they have specific qualifications and experience, and they wish to be re-employed. The Company re-employed 33 people in fiscal 2012, 28 in fiscal 2013, and 43 in fiscal 2014. They are all actively involved in the Company, making the most of their abilities and experience. Over the past three years, Sumitomo Forestry has re-employed 76% of employees who retired, and 90% of those who sought re-employment. As an interim measure following revision of the Act on Stabilization of Employment of Elderly Persons on April 1, 2013, the Company re-employs all workers who wish to return to work. Return to Work Application System Sumitomo Forestry has operated the Return to Work Application System since fiscal 2008. The aims of the system are to meet the re-employment needs of workers to secure talented personnel who retire due to unavoidable circumstances such as caring for children or other family members. Employees register their wish to return to work at the time they retire, and applicants must have worked for three or more consecutive years. When the company receives an application for return to work from a registrant after they have retired, it goes through a selection process based on the employment needs of the Company and the skills of the applicant. Moreover, applicants hired within three years of leaving are able to return to the same grade as their former position. As of March 31, 2015, 75 people are registered under the system. 85 Fair Employment and Treatment | Social Report Direct Employment of Non-Permanent Employees In recent years, regulations for dispatched employees have been strengthened to correct disparities arising out of different forms of employment. In response, Sumitomo Forestry reviewed its personnel systems from a compliance perspective, and in April 2011, changed the status of its dispatched employees to directly employed fixed-term employees, referred to as “partner employees.” The Company also operates a system for promoting partner employees to permanent status. It promoted 18 workers to permanent employee status in fiscal 2012, 38 in fiscal 2013, and 19 in fiscal 2014. 86 Respect for Human Rights｜Social Report Respect for Human Rights Basic Policy on Respect for Human Rights The Sumitomo Forestry Group states in Our Values and Ideals, a set of guidelines on ethical conduct, that everyone belonging to the Group shall respect people in terms of diversity such as gender, age, nationality, race, religion and disability and acknowledge that everyone is equal, and that no discrimination whatsoever will be tolerated. The Group makes efforts to raise awareness of these matters, for example through training. Our Values and Ideals is available for viewing on the Sumitomo Forestry website in Japanese, English and Chinese and therefore accessible to a large number of stakeholders. Our Values and Ideals (link to Corporate Information) Measures against Human Rights Risks Since fiscal 2011, Sumitomo Forestry has carried out a survey on the CSR initiatives at each Group company. In doing so, it also verifies each Group company’s efforts with respect to human rights. Furthermore, the Sumitomo Forestry Group is a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, and has posted this on the Company’s website in both Japanese and English. For the purpose of more widely disseminating the Global A poster promoting the UN Compact’s ten principles in four areas (human rights, labor, Global Compact the environment and anti-corruption), in April 2014, the Company also prepared a poster in English, Chinese and Indonesian, and has distributed it for display to all Group companies overseas. Basic Policy on Respect for Human Rights In order to ensure that everyone respects human rights and works to create workplaces free of discrimination, since fiscal 2011, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has made it compulsory for all Group employees in Japan with access to its intranet to take the “Work + Human Rights” e-learning course on an annual basis. In fiscal 2014, 9,888 employees took the course. The Company will continue to utilize e-learning to further raise human rights awareness among employees. 87 Respect for Human Rights｜Social Report Prevention of Sexual Harassment and Workplace Bullying Sumitomo Forestry makes its policy on sexual and power harassment in the workplace clear, having included in its Employment Regulations, under one category of rules to be observed by employees (discipline on the job), a provision prohibiting such harassment as well as disciplinary standards. “Our Values and Ideals,” a set of guidelines on ethical conduct, also prohibits all forms of harassment and this is communicated via the in-house Web and pamphlets. In addition, awareness within the Company is fostered by providing information with case examples and implementing regular awareness promotion notices, through human rights and ethics training and other activities. Furthermore, a framework for appropriately handling of inquiries and complaints was put in place in fiscal 2000 with the establishment of the Sexual Harassment and Power Harassment Consultation Hotline within the Personnel Department and Compliance Hotlines both inside and outside the Company. When handling a case of harassment, the Sexual Harassment and Power Harassment Consultation Hotline promptly and appropriately verifies the facts and gathers information with the accused, the complainant, and third parties, and then takes the necessary procedures with those concerned. The privacy of all those involved is protected and every effort is made to ensure that neither the complainant nor those cooperating are treated detrimentally. Our Values and Ideals (link to Corporate Information) 88 Occupational Health and Safety｜Social Report Occupational Health and Safety Basic Policy on Occupational Health and Safety Sumitomo Forestry has established Rules for OHS Management with an aim of fostering a workplace environment in which employees can perform their jobs in a safe and healthy manner. The rules prescribe that a general OHS manager is to be stationed at each place of business regardless of how big it is, and every year, the Company checks on the status of the officer and OHS committee meetings. With an aim of preventing accidents at construction sites and maintaining the health of their workers, each division, such as the Environment and Resources Division and the Housing Division, has also established separate OHS management policies and manuals in view of the distinctive characteristics of their respective businesses. Occupational Health and Safety Management System In addition to developing occupational safety and health management systems in accordance with the laws and regulations of the respective country, each Sumitomo Forestry Group company also promotes acquisition of certifications such as OHSAS1. 1. Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS): An international standard developed for the purpose of reducing occupational health and safety risks and clarifying where responsibilities lie. 89 Occupational Health and Safety｜Social Report Acquisition of Occupational Safety-Related Certification Company Country Type of certification Date acquired Sumitomo Forestry Japan OHSAS18001 February 2013 Crest Co., Ltd. PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia OHSAS18001 March 2013 Indonesia PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia OHSAS18001 October 2013 Indonesia AS/NZS4801 December 2012 Nelson Pine New Zealand Industries Ltd. ACC WSMP Tertiary November 2009 Alpine MDF Australia AS/NZS4801 August 2010 Industries Pty. Ltd. Initiatives in the Forestry & Environment Business In Japan, Sumitomo Forestry Group manages 46,247 hectares of Company-owned forests and 698 hectares of forests contracted for management. Contractors conduct planting, weeding, improvement cutting, thinning and clear cutting operations. For the purpose of preventing occupational injuries to these contractors, the Group conducts safety patrols and holds Workplace Safety Conferences at each forestry office once every half year. A safety patrol In fiscal 2014, there were two occupational injuries 1 involving contractors at forestry work sites in Company-owned forests. In response, measures to prevent recurrence were studied and confirmed with the contractors involved. Additionally, warnings were issued to other contractors through the Workplace Safety Conferences. 1. Indicates the number of injuries eligible for compensation benefits for a temporary absence from work under the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act of Japan. 90 Occupational Health and Safety｜Social Report Lectures Given by External Experts The Sumitomo Forestry Group in Japan has enhanced awareness-raising activities at its Workplace Safety Conferences, including occupational safety education using examples of common forestry accidents, as well as environmental education, lectures given by experts on such topics as emergency first aid, and on-site safety guidance. Furthermore, so as to prevent lack of concentration when performing dangerous work by becoming accustomed to the On-site guidance by experts work, the Group conducts safety education repeatedly. (Hyuga Forestry Office) At the Workplace Safety Conferences held at various forestry offices in fiscal 2014, experts have been invited from the Forestry and Timber Manufacturing Safety & Health Association to hold lectures on accident prevention measures based on analysis of causes of recent forestry occupational injuries, and on-site work safety guidance was conducted. Initiatives in the Manufacture of Wood Building Materials Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.’s basic policy is to move “from zero accidents to zero danger.” Its goal is to achieve zero occupational injuries by nipping danger in the bud. To achieve this, Sumitomo Forestry Crest began operating an Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) in July 2012, and acquired OHSAS 18001 certification in February 2013. Through repeating the PDCA management cycle with near-miss incident reports submitted voluntarily employees and sharing opinions through small-circle activities at each workplace, efforts are being made to reduce risks while engaging in production. There were no occupational injuries in fiscal 2014. 1 1. Indicates the number of injuries eligible for compensation benefits for a temporary absence from work under the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act of Japan. Safety Patrols and Risk Assessments With an aim of “zero danger,” Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. conducts regular workplace safety patrols at each of its plants. If any burgeoning risks are discovered during a patrol, safety measures are promptly implemented to prevent the risk from being realized. Furthermore, the Company is committed to ensuring the safety of its workplaces, by identifying operations and facilities at risk, such as of workers getting caught in A safety patrol machinery, and by focusing on reducing those risks. 91 Occupational Health and Safety｜Social Report Initiatives in the Housing Business At the beginning of every fiscal year, a notice on the OHS Management Policy is sent to all branches under the name of the Housing Division head. Based on this, each branch sets specific targets for reducing the risk of occupational injury, and promotes activities for enhancing awareness for the prevention of occupational injuries and for reducing risk. Subcontractors are also advised about these branch-specific targets, and they are requested to manage the targets and Safety check at construction prevent accidents. Furthermore, the results of each branch’s site activities are verified at monthly OHS meetings, and efforts are made to reinforce the activities by reviewing them every month. At the same time, flow charts of emergency contacts have also been prepared in case of an accident, and systems have been developed so that quick action can be taken 24 hours a day in case of an emergency. In addition, a Worksite Access Control System has been introduced for all construction sites, and the certainty of on-site management has also been enhanced, such as checking the safety of workers and allocating qualified workers appropriately. In the unlikely event an accident occurs, an OHS meeting for accident countermeasures is held, at which an investigation is conducted to determine the cause of the accident and to consider countermeasures from the perspectives of people, objects and management, and the findings of this investigation are shared with all branches. During fiscal 2014, there were 11 occupational injuries 1 involving contractors at housing construction worksites. Sumitomo Forestry will continue to use onsite guidance to lead to a reduction in occupational injuries, and will strive to improve both health and safety and quality by continually holding training sessions. 1. Indicates the number of injuries eligible for compensation benefits for a temporary absence from work under the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act of Japan. Lost-time injury frequency rate for contractors on housing construction sites FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Lost-time injury 2.75 2.34 2.16 1.98 3.63 frequency rate1,2 1. Lost-time injury frequency rate = Number of occupational fatalities or injuries resulting in an absence from work of at least one day ÷ Total number of working hours 1,000,000 2. After review into housing construction-related working hours in fiscal 2014, the total working hours have been reduced in comparison to fiscal 2013 and earlier. The lost-time injury frequency rate for working hours in fiscal 2014 prior to the review was calculated to be 2.74. About symbol for third party assurance (link to Third Party Assurance Report) 92 Occupational Health and Safety｜Social Report Training Designed to Improve Awareness for Occupational Health And Safety Based on the results of the monthly safety patrols and worksite surveys, the Housing Division organizes training programs with specific cases promoting health and safety, targeting the OHS managers of each branch or region, as well as the leaders (subcontractors) in each job category on construction sites. In addition, training is provided for branches nationwide, designed for maintaining safety such as when workers use grinders, which are fraught with great Training for circular saw work hazard, and when they work with circular saws, which are susceptible to accidents due to misuse despite being simple and easy to use. 93 Human Resources Development｜Social Report Human Resources Development Basic Policy on Human Resources Education Guided by the policy for human resources development of “autonomy” and “support,” Sumitomo Forestry aims to realize its Corporate Philosophy by developing employees with a strong sense of pride and motivation, and by creating a culture that is open and inclusive. Development of the Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute In an effort to strengthen the Sumitomo Forestry Group's development of human resources, the Group has been improving and expanding the Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute since fiscal 2011 as a common Group platform for human resources development. Under a theme of “Supporting Motivated People,” since its establishment, the Institute has shifted emphasis, from “training for each level,” which had previously been advocated across-the-board, to more “selfdevelopment” and “selective” training, and the content of e-learning has been expanded. Since fiscal 2013, a Skills Development Sheet has been utilized in the goal-setting interview conducted every half year in an effort for supervisors to strengthen their educational support, and for employees to improve themselves. In addition, the Group is focusing on providing training programs available to Group company employees in Japan. The Group aims to continue improving its overall capacity for human resources development. 94 Human Resources Development｜Social Report Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute Training Structure and Training Program (Fiscal 2014) 95 Human Resources Development｜Social Report Number of Employees Attending Main Training Programs (Fiscal 2014) Number of people attending Number of people attending Training program (non-consolidated) (Group companies) Follow-up training for management 25 46 (6 courses) Training for specific levels 958 158 (6 courses) Selective training 73 31 (6 courses) Self-development training 717 61 (27 courses) e-learning 5,151 4,156 (6 mandatory courses only) Support for Obtaining Qualifications and Attending External Education Sumitomo Forestry promotes independent efforts for capacity building and career development. For instance, the Company's Regulations for Assistance in Obtaining Qualifications and Attending External Education include provisions for assistance when an employee seeks to obtain qualifications or use an external educational institution. With regard to obtaining qualifications needed for managing operations and qualifications recommended for capacity building, the regulations prescribe assistance limits for preparation costs, examination fees, registration costs, renewal costs and transportation costs for each qualification. As for using external educational institutions approved by the Company, in addition to contributing up to 50,000 yen per person each fiscal year, the regulations also state that the Company will bear the costs of admission fees and tuition fees incurred by an employee who enrolls into a graduate school while continuing to work their scheduled working hours. Furthermore, the Group has also established Regulations for External Study Opportunities for cases when an employee remains employed, but leaves their workplace to enroll in a graduate school in Japan or overseas. In fiscal 2014, one employee used this system to study at graduate school. 96 Human Resources Development｜Social Report New Business Proposition Program—Power for the Future Project Sumitomo Forestry has established the Power for the Future Project, a program for soliciting new business proposals, harnessing the ambitions and skills of employees to create new businesses. The project enables everyone who works in the Sumitomo Forestry Group in Japan to make new businesses proposals based on their own ideas. Four programs have been organized since the inaugural program in fiscal 2006. Up until fiscal 2014, there have been six projects, including a day care service project, started. Handing Down the Techniques Used in Building Wooden Houses Sumitomo Forestry recognizes that in order to preserve the way of building houses that makes best use of the traditional Japanese wooden post-and-beam construction method, it is important to pass on these skills and techniques to the next generation of workers. The Sumitomo Forestry School of Professional Building Techniques is an in-house educational institution certified by the governor of Chiba Prefecture, and was founded by the Company in 1988 as a corporate boarding school for vocational training. Implementation of a one-year training curriculum, the school provides training for new employees at Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering Co., Ltd. who aspire for a job in carpentry. In terms of construction-related subjects, students study classroom-based subjects such as an introduction to building, structure, drawing, methods of construction, materials and supervision, as well as practical subjects, such as tool operation and maintenance, the traditional technique of marking timber with sumi ink and a carpenter's square, processing, safety work, model-based practical training, demonstration-based practical training and computing. On completion of their training, graduates are assigned to places all around Japan, and after a few years, they return to the school to undertake 7–10 days of training in Japanese rooms1 and in a preparatory course for acquiring certification as a certified specialist. In fiscal 2014, there were 58 new enrolments and 56 graduates. In fiscal 2015, the school welcomed another 64 new enrolments, including carpenters employed at partner firms outside the Company. 1. Training designed to hand down time-honored techniques used around the tokonoma alcove, from generation to generation. Studies include fitting cedar posts and cross-pieces. Practical training in building 97 Work-Life Balance｜Social Report Work-Life Balance Basic Policy on Employee Work Styles Sumitomo Forestry recognizes employees' diverse work styles and strives to create a workplace where they can be motivated in their jobs, and still enjoy a fulfilling private life. Reflecting these aims, the Company has worked on such initiatives as providing childcare and family care programs, promoting greater participation by women, and reducing overtime. In fiscal 2013, the Workstyle Diversification Department was established within the Personnel Department, bringing together support desk functions relating to work styles and careers, including childcare and family care, career support, mental health and post-retirement re-employment. In developing a counseling system which is easier for employees to access, the Company supports diverse work styles. Supporting the Workstyles of Employees Currently Raising Children Sumitomo Forestry has put in place a number of support programs that allow employees to work while also raising children. For example, interviews are arranged for employees who are planning to take childcare leave, allowing them to discuss with their supervisors and Personnel Department staff about childcare leave programs and work style options when returning to work, as well as to hear about the experiences of other employees who are balancing both work and parenting. Working Group on Balancing Work and Parenting During fiscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry established a working group on balancing work and parenting targeting those personnel raising children. Meetings with customers may start after work hours, and it is difficult for those personnel working at the branch offices of Housing Division to control their own work hours. The working group discussed issues and areas for improvement related to the working hours and styles for those personnel to play more active roles. In fiscal 2015, the Company will continue this discussion through the working group, and will proceed to develop a workplace environment that better facilitates employees who are raising children. 98 Work-Life Balance｜Social Report Family Open Day In July 2014, Sumitomo Forestry held a “Family Open Day,” an event for the families of employees to visit the Sendai Branch of the Housing Division. The aim of this event is for the Company to express its appreciation for the support which families provide, to facilitate their better understanding of the work, and to deepen mutual understanding between employees themselves. House modeling The day was attended by a total of 28 people —compromised of eight Sendai Branch staff and their family members, including children ranging from pre-school age through to first year junior high school. The children took part in the morning briefing, exchanged “business cards,” and interviewed employees about their work. They also toured the showroom and experienced 3D house modeling. Sumitomo Forestry plans to continue this initiative in 2015, expanding it to multiple branches. The 5th Next Generation Law Action Plan (for Fiscal 2013 to 2014) Sumitomo Forestry formulates and implements action plans for supporting employees who are raising families, in accordance with the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children (Next Generation Law). From fiscal 2013, the Company acted based on the three goals set forth in its 5th Action Plan (for fiscal 2013 to 2014): create new intranet content encouraging employees to take paid leave; establish a new childcare grant program to support employees who are raising children; and create The Kurumin mark of workplace environments that facilitate employees in using certification childcare support programs. Based on this action plan, during fiscal 2013, the Company redesigned its intranet, and created a lump-sum childcare assistance program. Furthermore, in fiscal 2014, with an aim of “creating workplace environments that facilitate employees in using childcare support programs,” the Company held a Family Open Day at the Sendai Branch of the Housing Division. Sumitomo Forestry has also formulated its 6th Action Plan (for fiscal 2015 to 2016), and is continuing these measures. 99 Work-Life Balance｜Social Report Main Childcare Support Programs and Usage (FY2014) (Non-Consolidated) Program Description Usage in FY2014 Childcare leave may be taken by employees for the longer of the first 18 months of the Childcare leave child’s life or until March 31st immediately following the child’s first birthday. Until the child completes the sixth grade of elementary school, employees may begin Shorter working hours or end work earlier or later, work shorter hours, or work a four-day week, and be No. of female employees exempted from overtime work. giving birth who took childcare leave: 33 (100%) Employees may take the No. of male employees who equivalent of ten days a year took childcare leave: 7 in one-hour increments (with full pay) to care for a sick or injured child until their children have completed the Leave to care for child and sixth grade of elementary attend special events school. Of these ten days, up to five days may be used for attending special events with their children. Employees with two or more children are granted an additional five days. 100 Work-Life Balance｜Social Report Supporting Workstyles for Employees Caring for Family Members Sumitomo Forestry provides support to employees who are working while also nursing family members. In fiscal 2010, family care leave was revised so that employees may take up to 365 days of leave per applicable family member, and provisions were introduced enabling employees to begin and end work earlier or later, work shorter hours, or work a four-day week. The Company has also established family illness and injury leave, enabling employees to take up to 10 days of leave each year in hourly increments. 101 Work-Life Balance｜Social Report Main Family Care Support Programs and Usage (FY2014) Program Description Usage in FY2014 This system allows up to 365 cumulative days of leave per Family care leave family member requiring care, and is available to employees and contract employees. Participants may also begin and end work earlier or later, Shorter working hours work shorter hours, or work a No. of family care support four-day week. program users: 2 (earlier starting and finishing times; Regular and contract reduced overtime) employees may take the equivalent of ten days a year No. of employees who took (measured by the hour) to family care leave: 1 care for their family. Five of the days annually may be Family illness and injury: used to care for family members who are ill or injured. Employees with two or more family members requiring care are granted an additional five days. 102 Work-Life Balance｜Social Report Refresh Leave and Family Friendly Day Leave So that employees can engage energetically in their jobs with healthy body and mind, Sumitomo Forestry is developing workplace environments that allow employees to take leave as they wish. As part of those efforts, employees are encouraged to take consecutive days of “refresh leave” at a time that suits them in addition to the summer and New Year holiday periods. Each workplace is required to draw up refresh leave schedules for individual employees, and ratios showing the percentage of schedules formulated and the percentage of employees who take refresh leave are tabulated for each department and posted to the in-house Web. This has created an environment making it easy for employees to take leave. At housing business branches, which are regularly closed on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, employees often meet with customers on the weekends, which sometimes makes it hard to take time off to participate in family events and other private occasions. This has been addressed with the introduction of Family Friendly Day leave, which allows employees to take either one Saturday or one Sunday off each month to spend with family or on a chosen pursuit. Branch employees are encouraged to cooperate on adjustment of job responsibilities and meeting schedules, thereby helping to create a workplace environment that makes it easy to take leave on the weekends. The percentage of employees who made use of refresh vacation was 42% in fiscal 2013 and 50% in fiscal 2014, and the percentage of employees who made use of Family Friendly Day leave was 26% in fiscal 2013 and 29.5% in fiscal 2014. Encouraging Employees to Take Paid Leave Sumitomo Forestry encourages employees to take at least 10 days of planned paid leave each year, inclusive of refresh leave and the summer holiday period. Each business site draws up an Annual Vacation Schedule every January, and periodically reports to the Personnel Department on how much paid leave has actually been taken. Based on this, the results for each site are published on the intranet to encourage employees to take their paid leave. The percentage of paid leave taken was 31.6% in fiscal 2013 and 35.2% in fiscal 2014. The Company has listed “take at least 10 days of paid leave” in its Mid-Term CSR Management Plan, and will continue to further promote this initiative during fiscal 2015. 103 Work-Life Balance｜Social Report Mental Health Care Based on the Guidelines for Maintaining and Improving Workers' Mental Health formulated by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in August 2000, Sumitomo Forestry implements four types of care for mental health: self-care; care provided by line managers; care provided by occupational health staff within the workplace; and care using resources from outside the business. In April 2013, the Company established the Workstyle Mental health education for Diversification Department within the Personnel Department. It management is responsible for providing support related to childcare and family care, career support and support for mental health. In order to further enhance mental health care, the Company put effort into providing mentally ill individuals with follow-up support and help in returning to work. The Company assigned an employee, who is a qualified clinical psychologist, to the Workstyle Diversification Department, and it worked in close cooperation with Medical Consultation and Treatment for Mind and Body, an external provider of the employee assistance program (EAP). 1 Furthermore, since fiscal 2013, as part of its prevention of mental health disorders, the Company has offered an online Mental Health Checkup (Self-Check) to employees covered by health insurance (excluding those employees on long-term leave, such as maternity leave or convalescence leave). The percentage of eligible employees who took the checkup was 85.8% in fiscal 2013 and 92.8% in fiscal 2014. The Company has also provided an education program for managers run by the company counselor (clinical psychologist). The aim of this program is for those employees in managerial positions to appreciate the importance of mental healthcare and to implement appropriate prevention measures in their respective workplaces. 187 managers participated in the program in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, the Company plans to continue with the Mental Health Checkup (Self-Check) and with the mental health education program for management. 1. Employee assistance program (EAP): A workplace mental health service 104 Work-Life Balance｜Social Report Telework Program Sumitomo Forestry introduced the telework option in fiscal 2009 for such reasons as the time saved from commuting can be spent on work or family activities, and employees can concentrate when working in a quiet home environment. The program is limited to employees who are paid based on a deemed number of working hours and excludes managers and supervisors, but there is no limit to the length of the period of use. The program was used by 15 employees in fiscal 2012, 21 in fiscal 2013, and 19 in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, in order to promote diverse workstyles further, the Company will again work to expand use of the program, such as by explaining the program details and recommending its use to employees on an individual basis when they appear for childcare interviews or work style consultations. Transfer Request Application Systems (Spouse Relocation / Family Care) In fiscal 2008, Sumitomo Forestry established a program facilitating the transfer of employees to a certain destination for reasons limited to marriage or a spouse transfer accompanied by a change of residence. The program enables employees to continue working for the Company even after marriage or their spouse being transferred. In fiscal 2014, with the new addition of “childcare” to the reasons for application, transfers are now considered in cases where an employee wants to live with their spouse for the purpose of balancing work and parenting. Again during fiscal 2014, a new system was established whereby employees can submit a transfer request for reasons of “family care.” Transfers are now also considered in cases where the location of employment restricts the employee from balancing work with family care. To date, a total 22 employees have made use of these programs to transfer to a different location. 105 Communication with Employees | Social Report Communication with Employees Basic Policy on Communication with Employees Sumitomo Forestry strives to create an environment that facilitates free and vigorous expression and exchange of opinions by employees, where they can perform their responsibilities with vigor, integrity and consideration for others. The Company wants each and every employee to grow within a corporate culture of respect for individual employees, and fair evaluation of accomplishments and efforts. Communication in Employee Evaluation and Job Execution Sumitomo Forestry has a policy of providing all employees feedback on their evaluation results, with the main objective of nurturing and developing human resources through employee evaluations. Meetings between individual employees and supervisors must be held once every six months, providing an opportunity to set targets and receive an explanation of evaluation results. In addition, the Personnel Department conducts direct self-report hearings of all employees once a year to ascertain opinions on jobs and workplaces, transfer requests and family circumstances, among other matters. Open Discussions Open Discussions have been held on a regular basis since 2007 as a platform for discussion between the President and employees, with an aim of facilitating new ideas for the Sumitomo Forestry Group. In two discussions held during 2014, dialogue on a wide range of subjects unfolded on a theme of “How can we make Sumitomo Forestry better?” As an opportunity for face-to-face dialogue between management and employees, discussions will be organized again in 2015. An open informal discussion 106 Communication with Employees | Social Report Employee Satisfaction Survey In July 2013, Sumitomo Forestry conducted its sixth Employee Satisfaction Survey, targeting 4,814 employees. The response rate was 90.6%. The level of employee satisfaction was 79.1%, marking the second consecutive increase in satisfaction. In light of the survey results, the “Skills Development Sheet,” which is designed for personnel development, was partially revised, and the Company has also promoted self-development efforts and supervisor-led support. In addition, the Workstyle Improvement Committee was established within the Housing Division to work on reducing long working hours. The next survey will be conducted in July 2015. Relations with the Labor Union As of April 1, 2015, all 3,466 employees eligible under the collective labor agreement to join the Sumitomo Forestry Labor Union had done so. Within the labor agreement completed between the Company and the Sumitomo Forestry Labor Union, the Company recognizes the Labor Union’s right to freely engage in activities and to collective bargaining, and promises to guarantee the stable livelihoods of labor-union members, and to maintain and improve labor conditions by establishing an OHS Committee comprised of both labor and management members. In 2014, joint labor-management discussions were held on 17 occasions, and following on from last year, consideration was given to measures aimed at reducing long working hours. With an aim of further improving the Company, views were also exchanged at regular meetings and other forums on revising the various employee programs. 107 Employee Data | Social Report Employee Data Employee Data Trends Number of Employees FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Non-consolidated 4,470 4,452 4,416 4,486 4,499 Consolidated 13,778 14,736 14,890 17,413 18,137 Employee Breakdown (Non-Consolidated) FY2014 Management level 2,047 Non-management level 2,297 Contract employees 1 (interior coordinators) Contract employees 124 (non-interior coordinators) Hosted from other companies 30 Total 4,499 Employee Breakdown (By Age, Non-Consolidated) FY2014 Younger than 30 707 30-50 2,881 Older than 50 911 108 Employee Data | Social Report Number of New Employees — New Graduates 1 (Non-Consolidated) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Male 71 56 55 55 60 73 Housing sales Female 16 15 15 16 13 17 Male 22 16 19 22 23 22 Housing engineering Female 7 4 6 7 8 13 Male 21 20 14 20 14 17 General manageme nt Female 9 5 6 7 6 5 Male 0 0 0 0 0 0 Clerical Female 1 6 1 0 13 6 Total 147 122 116 127 136 153 1. Calculated based on the number of new graduate recruits as of April 1 each fiscal year. Employment and Promotion of Women 1(Non-Consolidated) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Female employees including contract 16.8 17.2 17.7 18.4 19.2 employees (%) Female employees in management 1.4 1.5 1.8 2.2 2.6 positions (%) Female new 24.6 24.1 23.6 28.7 26.8 graduates 1 (%) 1. Calculated based on the number of new employees joining on April 1 the following year. About symbol for third party assurance (link to Third Party Assurance Report) Average Length of Service (Non-Consolidated) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 12 years 13 years 14 years 14 years 14 years Average length of and and and and and service 8 months 6 months 0 months 3 months 6 months 109 Employee Data | Social Report Job Separation Rate1 (Non-Consolidated) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Voluntary separation 3.0 3.4 3.3 2.3 2.6 rate (%) Separation rate2 (%) 4.6 4.2 4.2 2.9 3.2 1. Calculated by dividing the number of people who left during the year by the number of employees at the beginning of the year. 2. The separation rate includes voluntary separations. Employment of People with Disabilities (Non-Consolidated) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Ratio of Disabled 2.04 1.93 1.95 2.18 2.24 Employees (%) Rate of Local Employment in Group Companies Outside Japan1 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Rate of local employment in Group 99.2 99.3 99.3 99.2 99.3 companies outside Japan (%) 1. Calculated by dividing the number of employees hired locally by consolidated subsidiaries and working for the company at the end of the year by the total number of employees at the end of the year. Hours of Training and Expenditure on Training (Non-Consolidated) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Hours of training received per 2.6 4.7 6.9 7.5 6.8 employee Expenditure on training per employee 98,000 105,000 103,000 91,000 91,000 (yen) 110 Employee Data | Social Report Work-Life Balance Program Usage (Non-Consolidated) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 No. of Male 20 15 6 12 7 childcare leave users Female 20 20 15 29 33 No. of reduced hours 18 24 29 29 32 program users1 No. of telework 10 12 15 21 19 program users 1. Calculated by adding the number of reduced hours program users and the number of four-day week program users. Paid Leave Usage Ratio (Non-Consolidated) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Paid leave usage 32.4 30.7 30.4 31.6 35.2 ratio1 (%) 1. Paid leave entitlements are issued each year in January, therefore the table shows figures for December 31. Calculated by dividing the number of days of paid leave taken by the number of days of paid leave issued. Occupational Injuries (Non-Consolidated)1 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 No. of work-related 3 6 0 6 1 accidents2 Lost-time injury 0.45 0.80 0 0.28 0.19 frequency rate3 1. No work-related accidents resulting in death occurred during the reporting years shown. 2. The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation benefits for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. 3. Lost-time injury frequency rate = Number of occupational fatalities or injuries resulting in an absence from work of at least one day ÷ Total number of working hours × 1,000,000 The frequency of occupational diseases during the above reporting year was 0 Labor Union Membership (Non-Consolidated)1 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Labor union 100 100 100 100 100 membership rate (%) 1. The scope of eligibility for labor union membership is stipulated in the labor agreement. 111 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities｜Social Report Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Policy on Social Contribution Activities The Sumitomo Forestry Group advances a wide range of social contribution activities to protect abundant forests into the future and to contribute to sustainable use of wood resources and local community development. Fostering greater understanding about forests over a large section of society is particularly important for forest conservation. This motivates Sumitomo Forestry to dedicate itself to environmental education for elementary and junior high school students, such as lectures and hands-on learning in forests. The Company is also actively involved in activities which make a contribution to the wider society, such as the restoration of forests damaged by disaster. Sumitomo Forestry also supports volunteer activities undertaken by individual employees in local communities to create a workplace environment that encourages people to contribute to their local communities. Introducing a Volunteer Leave Program To support its employees' volunteering activities, in May 2011 the Company established a volunteer leave program that allows employees a total of five days of leave a year for volunteer activities. Moreover, the Company provided special support for volunteer activities for the Great East Japan Earthquake, for a specific time period, it paid the travel expenses and volunteer insurance premiums of employees who wanted to help. In fiscal 2012, 2013 and 2014, the number of employees who took leave to participate was 2, 6 and 9 respectively. 112 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities｜Social Report Social Contribution Donations Breakdown of Social Contribution Donations by Category (FY2014) Expenditure on Social Contribution Activities Breakdown of Expenditure on Social Contribution Activities (FY2014) Contributions to Public Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group coordinates and cooperates with national and local governments, the business community and others, making recommendations toward the improvement and resolution of worsening environmental and social issues. 113 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities｜Social Report Main Public Policy Contributions in FY2014 Name of organization Position Name Wooden Home Builders Ryu Yano, Chairman of the Chairperson Association of Japan Board Japan Federation of Ryu Yano, Chairman of the Vice-chairperson Housing Organizations Board The Building & Housing Ryu Yano, Chairman of the Outside director Center of Japan Board The Machinami Foundation Director Japan 2x4 Home Builders Director Association Japan-China Association for Building and Housing Director Industry Serviced Housing for the Auditor Elderly Association Japan-Myanmar Association Ryu Yano, Chairman of the for Industry of Housing and Chairperson Board Urban Development Organization for Landscape Ryu Yano, Chairman of the and Urban Green Chairperson Board Infrastructure Ryu Yano, Chairman of the Greenery by Golf Group Chairperson Board Japan Greenery Research Director and Development Center National Land Afforestation Director Promotion Organization National Conference for Ryu Yano, Chairman of the Promoting Forestry Revival Vice-chairperson Board and Reforestation Keidanren Committee on Akira Ichikawa, Vice-chairperson Nature Conservation President/Director Japan Federation of Housing Organizations – Committee chairperson Hideki Nose, Adviser Environment Committee 114 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities｜Social Report Name of organization Position Name Forest Management Vice-chairperson Shigehiko Shiozaki, Adviser Association of Japan Sustainable Green Director Ecosystem Council The Forest Culture Director Associaton Institute for Building Environment and Energy Director Conservation Japan Overseas Plantation Director Center for Pulpwood Japan Lumber Importers’ Akira Sekimoto,Executive Vice-chairperson Association Officers Japan Southsea Lumber Akira Sekimoto,Executive Chairperson Conference Officers Central Japan Plywood Chairperson Manufacturers’ Association Japan Composite Flooring Director Industry Association Japan Printed & Colored Plywood Industry Director Association Keidanren (Japan Business Permanent member・Director Federation) Japan Association of Corporate Executives, Akira Ichikawa, Project team for Committee chairperson President/Director Communities, People & Jobs Rebirth Japan Association for the Council member World Food Programme The Japan Chamber of Special adviser Commerce and Industry The Tokyo Chamber of Special adviser・Council Commerce and Industry member 115 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities｜Social Report Name of organization Position Name The Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry – Akira Ichikawa, Japan Committee for the Vice-chairperson President/Director Japan-New Zealand Business Council 116 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori Project National forest cloaking the foothills of Mt. Fuji was extensively damaged when a typhoon struck southern parts of the Kanto region in 1996. In 1998, setting out to restore the vitality of the original forest, Sumitomo Forestry launched a natural forest restoration project to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Company’s establishment; encompassing around 90 hectares of the damaged forest named Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori. The Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori is opened up not only for the volunteer activities and environmental education programs, but also for NPOs and other organizations. Between the start of activities in 1998 and the end of fiscal 2014, a total of 22,428 people had visited the Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori; in fiscal 2014, a total of 1,880 people from both inside and outside the Company visited the Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori. Volunteer Activities (Planting, Underbrush Clearing, Thinning, Etc.) Tree-planting activities carried out by many volunteers from both inside and outside the Company since the start of the project in 1998 have already been completed and the project is now in the cultivation stage. Cultivation activities such as underbrush clearing, pruning and thinning will be continued. Volunteer activities were implemented on 12 occasions in fiscal 2014, with participation by a total of 538 visitors. Underbrush clearing Environmental Education Program Sumitomo Forestry has been implementing an Environmental Education Program for local elementary and junior high school students since fiscal 2006 in collaboration with the NPO Whole Earth Institute. Activities include nature observation and games incorporating the five senses. The aim of these opportunities to rediscover the natural world is for the students to learn about the importance of nature and encourage them to consider new ways in which people can Environmental Education coexist with nature in the future. In fiscal 2014, a total of 769 Program students participated in the program. Since fiscal 2007, Sumitomo Forestry has also supported an Environmental Education Program for children living in children's home, and in fiscal 2014, 18 children participated in the program. 117 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Vegetation Monitoring and Wildlife Censuses Experts have been carrying out surveys, including vegetation monitoring and wildlife censuses, since fiscal 2000, providing valuable data for understanding the biodiversity of the region. Cultivating a forest is a never-ending job and Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori, too, is a 100-year project. To ensure that the project is still running 100 years from now, forest management and environmental activities will be continued as a way to communicate the importance of nature to as many people as possible. Forest Maintenance Activities at Gunma Manabi no Mori In July 2012, Sumitomo Forestry and Gunma Prefecture signed a prefectural forest maintenance partnership agreement, and are working with the prefectural authorities to promote the maintenance of forest at the foot of Mt. Akagi. Located within the jurisdiction of Maebashi City, Akagi Forest is owned by Gunma Prefecture, which promotes maintenance and conservation of its forests in cooperation with companies and organizations. During fiscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry held Gunma Manabi no Mori Gunma Manabi no Mori forest maintenance activities twice, in July and October. Around 100 people participated, including Sumitomo Forestry Home houses owners, employees of Sumitomo Forestry and partner building contractors, and their families, and with guidance from the local forestry cooperative, they planted Japanese cypress seedlings. Maintaining and conserving forests requires ongoing care, and so two activities are planned again for fiscal 2015. Development of Technologies to Ensure the Survival of Heritage and Precious Trees To help ensure the survival of heritage trees and precious trees into the future, Sumitomo Forestry is directing efforts into the development of cloning techniques that enable the qualities of trees to be passed down as-is. Sumitomo Forestry is working toward propagation of historically and culturally important trees around Japan, particularly cherry trees using the latest clone propagation technique, plant tissue culture, in addition to cloning techniques already acquired, such as cutting and grafting. The Company is also working with the Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute (FFPRI, an incorporated administrative agency), the National Institute of Genetics (NIG, an inter-university research institute corporation) and the Association for Propagation of the Knowledge of Genetics (a public interest incorporated foundation) to build a DNA database for cherry trees and advancing a sophisticated program to identify individual varieties. A proper understanding of individual varieties, species diversity, history and other aspects can be used to preserve precious trees for future generations. 118 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Omurozakura Research Project—First Blooming of Cloned Omurozakura following Their Return to Ninna-ji Temple The Omurozakura Research Project, commenced in January 2007, is a collaboration among Sumitomo Forestry, Chiba University and Ninna-ji temple, headquarters of the Omuro school of the Buddhist Shingon Sect and a UNESCO World Heritage Site, under the guidance from the Municipality of Kyoto Cultural Properties Protection Section. The biology of the Omurozakura variety of cherry only grows on the temple grounds. The variety hides many secrets. Compared with other varieties, they are late blooming, and shorter, growing to the height of an adult human. But to ensure their survival for future generations, it was necessary to develop management technology rooted in scientific knowledge. The first Omurozakura In February 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Tsukuba Research cultivated from tissue culture Institute successfully used tissue culture to clone and planted on the grounds of Omurozakura, returning the first trees to Ninna-ji temple, and Ninna-ji temple in April 2014, the trees produced their characteristic multilayered blossoms. The blooming of these tissue-culture seedlings not only significantly contributes to the preservation of the renowned Omurozakura, which are aged 360 years old or more, but also to maintaining the scenery of Kyoto and the transmission of culture. Sumitomo Forestry believes the project to hold social significance, and will continue in its investigations and research. Support for “Kyo-no-Mori Project—Cherry Trees Linking People Together. The “Kyo-no-Mori Project—cherry trees linking people together,” is run by Sumitomo Forestry in collaboration with Daigoji Temple, the head temple for the Daigo school of Shingon Buddhism. In March 2014, a tree-planting ceremony was held to donate Taiko weeping cherry tree clone saplings, which had been reared for a year by students at Daigo Elementary School, Kyoto, to Sakiyama Elementary School in Miyako City, Iwate Prefecture, an area devastated by the Tree-planting ceremony 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake. The project aims to make effective use of fallen leaves, which are in abundance at temples and shrines in Kyoto. The children of the Daigo Elementary School are in charge of gathering fallen leaves, producing fertilizer, and raising the cherry trees. Once the trees have grown, the Daigoji temple sends them to the elementary school in Miyako City, Iwate Prefecture, with which the temple shares ties. The project has been underway since November 2012. Sumitomo Forestry has support the Daigo Elementary School students in their efforts to raise the cherry trees, such as by getting employees to participate in leaf collection, donating two pots of 119 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Taiko weeping tree seedlings, organizing environmental workshops run by employees, and through activities to promote the project on the radio. In March 2015, four student representatives from Daigo Elementary School accompanied monks from Daigoji temple, visiting Miyako City. They joined the students of Miyako Elementary School in disaster prevention education, a memorial service for victims of the 2011 disaster, and a tree-planting ceremony for the cherry tree. The Company intends to continue supporting exchange between the elementary school students from Kyoto and Miyako cities, through assisting with raising the donated trees. Success in Propagating a Sapling Using Tissue Culture from a “Sacred Plum Tree” in front of the Kitano Tenmangu Main Shrine Sumitomo Forestry has conducted research and development in relation to the breeding of saplings for the purpose of protecting and preserving the plum trees in front of the Kitano Tenmangu Honden (Main Shrine) in Kyoto that are worshipped as sacred trees. In February 2015, the Company succeeded in using tissue culture, a biotechnological technique, to propagate saplings that will ensure this valuable plum tree is passed down to future generations. This Sacred plum tree successful propagation from old plum trees and the research and development envisaging seedling production and other practical applications are world firsts. 1 The “sacred plum tree” from which tissue culture was used to propagate seedlings is estimated to be more than 300 years old. Besides protecting and preserving this tree, it is hoped that the seedlings will contribute significantly to maintaining the Kyoto landscape and carrying on its culture. In addition to conducting studies of plant varieties through DNA identification, the Company will also promote the use of tissue culture technologies to protect and preserve other plum trees at the shrine. 1. Search of sites providing access to academic materials: Web of Science / Google Scholar / J Dream III 120 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Social Report Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities Contributing to Communities Where Sumitomo Forestry Operates Sumitomo Forestry aims to contribute to sustainable local development through its operations. When starting new businesses or expanding its overseas business sites, the Company's policy is to consider the environment, revitalize local economies and promote employment and thereby operate in harmony with local communities. Activities Which Contribute to Local Communities in Indonesia Support for Children Through the KTI Educational Foundation To commemorate the 30th anniversary of its founding, Sumitomo Forestry Group company PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) established the KTI Educational Foundation in 2000 to provide scholarships to elementary and middle school students living in the vicinity of the KTI plant and plantation forests. The Foundation also provides relief donations for natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. In fiscal 2014, the Foundation provided 330,000 yen to 31 Children at a kindergarten that elementary, middle, and high school students. received desks and other items donated by the KTI Educational Foundation Community Development through Project EARTH Initiatives Sumitomo Forestry has implemented its Project EARTH carbon-offset initiative in Indonesia since 2009, involving reforestation work in collaboration with local residents. The project also encompasses activities leading to enhanced regional infrastructure, such as the preparation of roads necessary for the reforestation work, thereby contributing to improvement of the livelihoods of residents. The project also regularly donates study tools to local elementary schools and Kindergarten at the town of kindergartens. Supit Ulan, which has commenced reforestation News Release “Sumitomo Forestry ’Project EARTH’ Environmental Initiative Three Year Extension” 121 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Social Report Contributing to the Community through Free Seedling Distribution and Support for Infrastructure Provision PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia, which conducts the manufacture and sales of particle board, distributes free seedlings to local residents and purchases the mature trees to use as raw material, which helps the community economically and in terms of greening. In addition, the company continues to support mosque repair work and in road surfacing, making use of donated roadbed materials. Donation of saplings to the local Kendal Regency Provision of Infrastructure and Opening a Hospital at an Business Site PT. Wana Subur Lestari, which conducts large-scale forest plantation, cooperates with local communities in the conduct of sustainable business. To this end, they provide assistance for construction of kindergartens, schools and roads in areas with insufficient infrastructure. In addition, they opened the hospital at their afforestation business site for local residents. During fiscal 2014, other activities included construction of a church and construction of a poultry and fish farm to help improve the livelihood of local residents. Church Constructed fish farm Constructed poultry farm 122 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Social Report Exhibition as Part of a Green Forestry Expo in Indonesia In April 2015, five Sumitomo Forestry Group companies 1 based in Indonesia collaborated to exhibit at the IndoGreen Forestry Expo. They were awarded third prize in the private industry category of a competition for exhibitors. At the exhibition, panels of photographs were used to introduce visitors to how the Group is developing a sustainable forestry industry in Indonesia of “harvesting, using and replanting,” which contributes to the environment and Environment and Forestry society. Topics included social contribution through Minister Dr. Siti Nurbaya afforestation, manufacturing business and zero emission making an inspection of the efforts. booth Visitors to the exhibition were given seedlings of Acacia, Gmelina and fruit trees. In addition, local children, Environment and Forestry Minister Dr. Siti Nurbaya and other visitors were given the opportunity to feel the timber for themselves, in the form of blocks made of balsa. It was a valuable forum to deepen people’s understanding of reforestation and timber and engage their interest in the Sumitomo Forestry Group. Children playing with balsa blocks at the exhibition 1. Five companies: PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia, PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia, PT. Sumitomo Forestry Indonesia, PT. Wana Subur Lestari, and PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industries 123 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Social Report Sumitomo Forestry Participates as Main Sponsor at the Jakarta “Kizuna” Ekiden Promoting Friendly Relations between Indonesia and Japan On May 31, 2015, the Jakarta “Kizuna” Ekiden was run on the streets of Jakarta, Indonesia, with an aim of promoting friendly relations between Indonesia and Japan. The Jakarta “Kizuna” Ekiden is a running race competed by mixed teams of four, made up of Japanese and Indonesian nationals such as those working at Japanese companies or organizations. Having a large number of Group companies in Indonesia, Sumitomo Forestry has supported the race as a main sponsor since fiscal 2014. This year, the Sumitomo Forestry Group was represented by 44 employees in 11 teams, with a team from PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia running superbly to take out fourth place. Athletes from the Sumitomo Forestry Group all wearing the same uniform Improving Social Infrastructure in Papua New Guinea Open Bay Timber Ltd. (OBT), which is engaged in plantation forestry in Papua New Guinea, started plantation forestry operations in 1984 and has made significant contributions to the economic development of the local community. OBT became a member of the Sumitomo Forestry Group in April 2007 and continues to develop plantation timber resources in a responsible manner and to use those resources effectively. OBT also runs a medical center, a kindergarten and a Children at the kindergarten supermarket for use by employees and local children to operated by OBT supplement government-provided social infrastructure. In addition, OBT nurses make regular monthly rounds at nine villages located in the vicinity of the plantation forests, performing infant health checkups and providing advice to the sick. On World Environment Day on June 5, 2014, OBT also participated in cleanup activities together with local elementary school students, at the public market area and around coastal areas. 124 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Social Report Support for Children’s Hospitals in Australia and the United States The Henley Properties Group builds and sells detached and multi-unit housing and spec homes in Australia and the United States. The Group’s social contribution activities include the Good Friday Charity Auction, whereby the auctioning of a spec home, built with residential land developer, materials supplier and other business partner cooperation, raises money which is donated to children’s hospitals and other facilities. Combined with business partners, more than 200 people participate in this activity, for example through the provision of land, cost estimation, manufacturing and procurement of materials, work management and construction. The total value of donations made since the activity began in 1993 now amounts to more than 2 million Australian dollars. A proportion of the donations go toward coverage of medical costs for children suffering from intractable diseases. In 2015, Detached house auction the 22nd year of the activity, a two-story house in Mickleham in northern Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, was auctioned in March, raising 646,000 Australian dollars. Support for the Next Generation in the United States Through Joint Efforts with Local Residents The Canyon Creek Cabinet Company, which manufactures and sells cabinets in the United States, is actively supporting students in its local area. It provides scrap timber to local boy scouts to help them practice and improve their carpentry skills. In addition, on facility tours, local students perform tasks together with factory employees, giving the students a better understanding of the work. Canyon Creek Cabinet Company A facility tour for local also supports young people to learn business skills through students the regional Business Week program, for which it offers bursaries. In addition, it also provides offcuts to a local toy manufacturer which uses them to make wooden toys and puzzles to donate to a local childcare facility and a children’s hospital. 125 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Social Report Construction of Monastic Schools in Myanmar Sumitomo Forestry is involved in the Myanmar Monastic School Support Team, a body which it established to support the construction of monastic school-style community schools in Myanmar. At the end of October 2014, the first monastic school was completed through the generosity of 18 companies and four individuals who endorsed the aim of the initiative. The three-story building, constructed in the Mingaladon district in northern Yangon, is presently attended by around 260 eager students, ranging in age from 5 to 16 years old. The building can also act as a refuge for members of the local community during heavy rains. In March 2015, a ceremony to open the school was held, and an opportunity was provided for 20 representatives from 12 of the supporting businesses to visit the monastic school and mingle with the children. Moving forward, the Myanmar Monastic School Support Team will continue to provide support with a goal of building one school per year. The monastic school Ceremony to open the completed monastic school in the Mingaladon district 126 Environmental Philosophy and Environmental Policies｜Environmental Report Environmental Philosophy and Environmental Policies Environmental Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group The Sumitomo Forestry Group lists “Environmental Responsibility” as one of the Action Guidelines of its Corporate Philosophy and states, “We are dedicated to effectively addressing environmental issues with the aim of achieving a sustainable society.” The Group established its Environmental Philosophy in December 1994 and Group-wide Environmental Policies in October 2000. In fiscal 2009, the Group formulated a Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan setting out medium-term environmental targets. The plan is incorporated into environmental budgets as numerical targets for each fiscal year and environmental activities are steadily enhanced through implementation of the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle at each organization.To share and raise awareness of the Environmental Philosophy and Environmental Policies among Group employees, they are printed in employee handbooks. Opportunities to read through and discuss them are also arranged, for example as part of new employee training, ISO 14001 internal environmental auditor training courses or departmental meetings. In July 2015, the Group initiated the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy, bringing together the Environmental Philosophy, the Environmental Policies, the Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration of Biodiversity, and the Sumitomo Forestry Group’s Biodiversity Action Guidelines. Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy(link to Corporate Information) Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group 127 Environmental Philosophy and Environmental Policies｜Environmental Report Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Philosophy Framework (in operation since July 2015) 128 Environmental Management Structure Environmental Management Structure To ensure that management is practiced in accordance with the Environmental Policies, whose objective is to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has established an environmental management structure with the President of Sumitomo Forestry assuming overall responsibility. Beneath the President are the Executive Officer in Charge of CSR and the General Manager of the CSR Department. 1 Regular checks on the progress of environmental activities advanced by divisions and departments within the Group and related issues are conducted against the “environment budget,” which sets forth numerical targets for each fiscal year, to raise the effectiveness of those activities. 1. The new CSR Department was established on April 1, 2015 as a result of integrating the Environmental Management Department together with the CSR Group within the Corporate Communication Department. 129 Environmental Management Structure (as of April 2015) Roles of Environmental Management Personnel Group Overall Environmental Representative: President Group Environmental Management Officer: Executive Officer in Charge of CSR Group Environmental Manager: General Manager, CSR Dept. Division Environmental Management Officers: General Manager, Administration Dept. (Timber & Building Materials Div.); General Manager, Administration & Planning Dept. (Housing Div.); General Manager, Overseas Administration Dept. (Overseas Business Div.) Department Environmental Managers: General managers,presidents of group company,etc. Environmental activity personnel: Environmental promotion personnel 130 ISO 14001 Certification Sumitomo Forestry introduced an environmental management system in fiscal 1995 and acquired ISO 14001 certification for its housing operations in fiscal 1997 ahead of other players in the housing industry. Certification was subsequently acquired for other operations with all departments and divisions in the Company achieving integrated ISO 14001 certification in fiscal 2002. Integrated certification is also being extended to Group companies, and in August 2014, the Japan Bio Energy Co., Ltd. was added into the scope of certification. As a consequence, now, Sumitomo Forestry and five Group companies in Japan have gained certification. Progress is also being made on certification of overseas Group companies, focused on manufacturing companies, with six companies having acquired certification. As of March 2015, the certification rate for consolidated organizations was 74.3% (based on sales). Sumitomo Forestry Group ISO 14001 Certification Company Date acquired Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. (excl. overseas August 20021 operations) Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. November 2002 2 Sumitomo Forestry Home Service Co., Ltd. November 2002 2 September Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. 2003 2 Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. March 20132 Japan Bio Energy Co., Ltd. August 20142 PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) July 2001 Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL) July 2003 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) October 2005 PT. AST Indonesia (ASTI) January 2007 Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. (Alpine) February 2007 Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. (VECO) March 2014 1. Certification was acquired by individual departments and divisions from 1997 before integrated certification was acquired for the entire Company. 2. Acquired by inclusion in Sumitomo Forestry’s integrated certification 131 Environmental Management Structure｜Environmental Report Audits by External Certification Bodies Companies covered by the integrated ISO 14001 certification in Japan undergo routine reviews conducted once a year by certification body JIC Quality Assurance Ltd. In fiscal 2014, 44 departments of five companies underwent routine reviews (surveillance reviews) between June and July. The reviews recommended 33 improvements, but found no irregularities. In addition to examining methods of improvement and taking action for each of the recommendations, notices were issued by the CSR Department to share information on any issues common to the Group companies, and internal environmental audits were conducted to check the implementation of preventive measures. Internal Environmental Audits In addition to reviews conducted by external certification bodies, companies covered by the integrated ISO 14001 certification periodically carry out internal environmental audits. These audits are implemented by employees who have passed an exam upon completion of an in-house training course to become internal environmental auditors. In fiscal 2014, internal environmental auditors evaluated initiatives, recommended improvements and checked compliance systems for 96 departments. No major irregularities were discovered. In regard to minor irregularities and improvement recommendations, audited departments took corrective action and submitted reports on those actions to the audit department. Audit results were reported to management by the General Manager of the CSR Department and a review was conducted. Also in fiscal 2014, internal environmental auditor training courses were held on three occasions, with 85 employees completing the program. A total 1,441 employees (including 529 Group company employees) had completed the course as of the end of fiscal 2014. 132 Environmental Risk Management｜Environmental Report Environmental Risk Management Environmental Risk Countermeasures The Sumitomo Forestry Group is striving to reduce and to prevent the manifestation of the risks and impact which business activities have upon the global environment and society such as the disposal of industrial waste, soil and water pollution caused by toxic substances, noise and vibration. In fiscal 2014, there were no significant violations of any environment-related laws or ordinances. Processing of Industrial Waste It is said that around 77% of illegally dumped industrial waste in Japan is construction waste. Viewing the environmental risks presented by the processing of industrial waste as one of the biggest in terms of the potential impact on society and business, the Sumitomo Forestry Group works to ensure that industrial waste is disposed of appropriately. Specifically, the Group complies with the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act and other related laws and regulations and has established a set of industrial waste management regulations covering appropriate disposal, reduction, recycling and reuse of industrial waste. In keeping with these regulations, voluntary audits of waste manifests and terms of outsourcing agreements with waste processors are carried out twice a year for each Group company office in Japan emitting industrial waste. If an audit concludes that corrective action is required, appropriate action is taken and it is subsequently confirmed through reports submitted in line with the industrial waste management system that waste is being properly treated. In addition, industrial waste managers at each office conduct site checks of contractors’ waste treatment plants at least once a year. In fiscal 2014, personnel from the Housing Division carried out site checks of around 550 waste treatment plants across Japan. Divisions other than the Housing Division and offices of Group companies are being instructed to continue using waste treatment plants which the Housing Division has already inspected. To be able to determine whether industrial waste is being processed in an appropriate manner, the Group asks waste treatment contractors to employ electronic manifests. All branches of the Housing Division and all contractors accepting industrial waste from new housing construction sites have already introduced electronic manifests. In fiscal 2014, 99.9% of all manifests, including those for housing demolition waste, were electronic. In conjunction with this, training is also provided for employees who coordinate the processing of industrial waste. In fiscal 2014, a total of 81 people participated in the training, including newly appointed personnel in charge of industrial waste processing at Group companies as well as trainees from the Sumitomo Forestry School of Professional Building Techniques. Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste 133 Soil Contamination Soil contamination is difficult to discover as contaminants build up and spread underground out of sight. The Sumitomo Forestry Group implements soil contamination countermeasures for land owned or administered by the Group and conducts voluntary soil contamination studies prior to new land purchases in the condominiums business. Water Pollution Water pollution creates the risks of human health being directly affected by contamination of drinking water and of contamination affecting the habitats of organisms living in rivers, lakes and seas. The No. 2 Kyushu Plant of Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd., which is a specified office under the amended Water Pollution Control Act of Japan, performs its own water quality inspections twice a week on wastewater emitted by the plant’s wastewater treatment facility and has a third-party organization conduct inspections twice a month. Inspection results are reported to local government authorities every six months. Water is also sampled and inspected by the prefecture once a year and by the city three times a year. In fiscal 2014, all inspections found the level of water pollution to be within the statutory limit for wastewater. Leak response drills are also carried out as part of annual emergency response training. The Tsukuba Research Institute is also a specified office under the amended Water Pollution Control Act of Japan. As well as replacing some laboratory equipment pertaining to the act, in June 2015, the institute submitted a notice of disuse to the Tsukuba City Hall for some old equipment that was no longer required. Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances Contamination by Hazardous Chemicals Contamination caused by hazardous chemicals leads to risks of a major impact on human health or the environment and the risk of a disaster. The Sumitomo Forestry Group ascertains the amount of hazardous chemicals it uses and emits and makes an effort to manage such chemicals appropriately and reduce usage. The Group also takes appropriate action in response to the Air Pollution Control Act. The Niihama and Kyushu Plants of Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd., which are both equipped with boilers, comply with the law by regularly measuring emission volumes and concentrations of NOx, SOx and soot and dust and confirming that they are less than the statutory limits. Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances 134 Noise and Vibrations Sumitomo Forestry makes an effort to prevent noise and vibrations during housing construction. When complaints about noise or vibrations are received, the circumstances are recorded and the information is shared with the rest of Group to prevent the occurrence of similar incidents. Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. confirms that noise levels within the site boundaries of plants are below the statutory limit by taking regular measurements. No complaints about noise or vibrations having a major impact on the environment were received from local residents during fiscal 2014. Global Warming (Addressing the Amended CFC Act) In April 2015, the Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law came into force for the purpose of promoting drastic measures over the entire lifecycle of chlorofluorocarbons that have a strong greenhouse effect, from manufacture to disposal. In most cases, the Sumitomo Forestry Group leases its offices in buildings, and since the Group is primarily engaged in the construction and sale of housing and the manufacture and distribution of processed wood products, it does not own (or manage) that much commercial refrigeration and air conditioning equipment (air-conditioners, refrigerators, etc.). Nevertheless, following enforcement of the law, the Group has held seminars to explain the gist of the law and regulations to those divisions that might possibly own (or manage) such equipment that uses chlorofluorocarbons as a refrigerant. The Group has also compiled a list of relevant equipment. Going forward, the Group will carry out simple inspections for commercial refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, and will carry out both simple inspections and periodic inspections for any equipment comprising a compressor with a rated output of 7.5 kW or greater. Understanding Environmental Risks The Sumitomo Forestry Group is aware of the risk upon our business activities from environmental changes such as climate change or reduced biodiversity and works to gather related information. The Group analyzes the information as required for the purpose of assessing business risks. 135 Risks Related to Climate Change Natural Disasters Damage from a major earthquake, windstorm, flood or other natural disaster could result in significant costs arising from restoring operations at facilities, verifying the safety of delivered housing products, delays in the completion and handover of contracted properties, or other events. Such costs could influence the Group’s operating results and financial position. Establishment of Emission Reduction Obligations As the move towards reduction of greenhouse gases takes shape globally, there is the possibility that reduction obligations will be imposed upon businesses in countries where the Sumitomo Forestry Group has bases. If Group companies with bases in these countries are unable to meet reduction obligations, they will be required to purchase emission credits, creating the risk of increased business costs. In Japan too, future changes in new international frameworks could result in adjustments to domestic systems, which could influence business activities and costs. Environmental Adaptation of Products and Services With the revision of Japan’s energy efficiency standards in fiscal 2013 (from fiscal 2020, houses will be required to comply with energy efficiency standards), it is expected that demand will grow for life cycle carbon minus (LCCM) housing. If the Sumitomo Forestry Group does not respond swiftly, we risk losing market share. There is also a risk that, if significant climate change occurs, we will be expected to change housing specifications or provide after service to adapt to these changes. Changes to Suppliers and the Impact upon Operation of Company-owned Forests Because Sumitomo Forestry positions timber as its principal material and product, the risk exists of having to change suppliers in the event of limitations being imposed due to the depletion of timber resources or changes to habitats resulting from climate change. Climate changes, including average temperature or annual rainfall, damage due to storm or flood, and ecosystem changes also pose risks to company-owned forests by impacting upon forest preservation, tree growth and upon vegetation. Energy Supply Shortages In countries like New Zealand, where hydroelectric power is used, there is a risk that a change in the amount of rainfall will cause dam levels to fall and lead to a disruption of supply from hydroelectric power stations, forcing Sumitomo Forestry Group sites in those countries to suspend plant operations. 136 Risks Related to Biodiversity Change Changes in Timber Quality and Volume The Sumitomo Forestry Group is among the top Japanese procurers of forest timber by volume. Trees represent the blessing of biodiversity which, if lost, poses a risk to the foundation of our business. Furthermore, should the quality or volume change, The required response may lead to significant cost increases. Strengthening of Related Laws and Regulations The establishment and strengthening of laws and regulations for preventing loss of biodiversity continues, typified by the Nagoya Protocol. Anticipated risks include effects on operation of Company-owned forests, having to adapt timber procurement in terms of regions, tree species and volume, and having to adapt housing construction business in terms of regions, scale and greening. Should the Group fail to deal with the associated laws and regulations, compliance risks will emerge. Corporate Image Deterioration Any mistake in addressing biodiversity may be detrimental to the corporate image, directly affecting sales and other performance indicators. Impact upon Fund Procurement Financial institutions and similar organizations are making the implementation of environmental assessments and biodiversity initiatives a condition of lending. Corporate credit rating agencies and investors, too, are adopting increasingly detailed assessment criteria for credit rating and socially responsible investment (SRI), including biodiversity initiatives as an assessment category. These growing trends may potentially affect funds procurement. Risks Associated with Illegal Logging Strengthening of Related Laws and Regulations Illegal logging of forests is recognized as a crucial issue globally, and progress is being made to strengthen related laws and regulations in a number of countries and regions. If the Sumitomo Forestry Group does not respond appropriately to such laws and regulations in its harvesting and procurement, there is the potential of compliance risk arising or indemnity being incurred. Corporate Image Deterioration Should the Sumitomo Forestry Group deal in illegally logged timber due to a neglect to exercise the appropriate duty of care, there is the potential of damage to our corporate image which could have a direct impact upon sales and other business results. 137 Environmental Impact of Business Activities｜Environmental Report Environmental Impact of Business Activities Balance of Input and Output About symbol for third party assurance (link to Third Party Assurance Report) 138 Environmental Impact of Business Activities｜Environmental Report Scope and Method of Data Aggregation 139 Environmental Impact of Business Activities｜Environmental Report Environmental Impact from the Construction of a New House 140 Environmental Impact of Business Activities｜Environmental Report Implementation of Life Cycle Assessments In fiscal 2006, the Sumitomo Forestry Group carried out life cycle assessments (LCA) 1 at each of its businesses with the help of the Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology (TUAT) to ascertain the environmental impact of its products. Since then, the Group has introduced carbon footprint (CFP) 2 labels for individual products and carried out life cycle assessments of detached housing among other initiatives. For example, Group company PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) conducts LCAs of particle board (PB) that it manufactures and sells, covering the production and transportation of the raw materials through to manufacturing of the products. The company also voluntarily displays CFP labels on PB products based on LCA results. During fiscal 2014, the Group carried out LCA on the recycling of waste generated during construction and RPI started displaying CFP demolition. The effects of an improved recycling ratio when labels on PB products in 2009 constructing new houses as a consequence of Sumitomo (a first for an Indonesian Forestry’s Metropolitan Area Recycling Center beginning company in the timber full-scale operation, and the effects of recycling at demolition products market) sites in Tokyo when demolishing houses were measured, and each was compared against disposing the whole amount of waste to landfill. The results of these comparisons showed that the Group’s environmental impact has been significantly reduced. In fiscal 2015, the Group plans to conduct LCA on renovated properties. Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Residence Period 1. A method of evaluating the overall environmental impact of a product throughout its life cycle (all stages, including raw material procurement, manufacturing, transportation, sale, use, reuse and disposal). 2. A measure indicating of the amount of greenhouse gases emitted over the entire life cycle of a product or service converted into CO 2 . 141 Scope and Method of Data Aggregation｜Environmental Report Scope and Method of Data Aggregation 1. Boundaries (range of organizations included in aggregate) Disclosure classification Boundary All business activities All Sumitomo Forestry Group companies* Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. [Kashima Plant, Shizuoka Plant, Nagoya Plant, Niihama Plant, Kyushu Plant, No. 2 Kyushu Plant], Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd. [Sakura Plant,* Shinshiro Plant, Tobishima Manufacturing in Plant] Japan 1. Based on shipment data until end of April 2014, and on energy consumption for restoring site to original condition in May. Complete withdrawal from site on May 28, 2014. PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia, Alpine MDF Industries Manufacturing Pty Ltd., PT. AST Indonesia, PT. Kutai Timber Segment overseas Indonesia, Nelson Pine Industries Ltd., Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. [Housing Division], Sumitomo Forestry Residential Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Housing design, Forestry Home Service Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Forestry construction and Home Tech Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Forestry Home sale Engineering Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Forestry Archi Techno Co., Ltd. Divisions of Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. and other Offices and other Group companies not listed above Sumitomo Forestry Group (link to list of Group companies) 142 Scope and Method of Data Aggregation｜Environmental Report 2. Assumptions Disclosure Assumptions classification Energy consumption and CO2 Energy CO2 emissions at each plant Raw materials used in building Raw materials materials and potting mix, etc. Manufacturing in Water usage in the production of Japan Water building materials and potting mix, etc. Waste generated in the Waste production of building materials and potting mix, etc. Energy consumption and CO2 Energy CO2 emissions at each plant Raw materials used in timber Raw materials products, etc. Manufacturing overseas Water usage in the production of Water timber products, etc. Waste generated in the Waste production of timber products, etc. Energy consumption and CO2 emissions at offices related to Energy CO2 the housing business (including model homes) Materials committed to housing Raw materials Housing design, construction construction and sale Water usage at offices related to Water the housing business Waste generated during housing Waste construction (including renovations) and demolition 143 Scope and Method of Data Aggregation｜Environmental Report Disclosure Assumptions classification Energy consumption and CO2 emissions at offices of Sumitomo Forestry and other Group Energy CO2 companies not involved in manufacturing in Japan or overseas, or in housing design construction and sale Water usage at offices of Sumitomo Forestry and other Offices and other Group companies not involved in Water manufacturing in Japan or overseas, or in housing design construction and sale Waste generated at offices of Sumitomo Forestry and other Group companies not involved in Waste manufacturing in Japan or overseas, or in housing design construction and sale 3. Method of Aggregation CO2：See webpage below Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation Waste: Emissions calculated based on data collected from manifests 144 Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan Positioning of the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan In December 2009, the Sumitomo Forestry Group set out its environmental management targets in the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan, replacing the Medium-Term Environmental Management Policy established in December 2005. Having determined where the Group should be in five years' time, the plan, unlike the earlier “policy,” specified targets that the Group as a whole, Sumitomo Forestry individual divisions and the main Group companies needed to achieve. In fiscal 2014, the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan concluded, and the Group achieved many of its targets. From fiscal 2015, the Group will promote initiatives in accordance with the Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan, which sets targets to achieve by fiscal 2020. Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan 145 Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan (Excerpt of Major Objectives) Sumitomo Forestry Group(shared targets) Area of Evaluation Basic PerforEnvironMetrics / Responsibility Strategy FY2014 5-year mance mental Targeted FY2014 (Objectives) Targeted actual measure Impact Values Results Values average Reduction of Percentage CO 2 of reduction -12% emissions of total CO 2 (2010 target (Offices; emissions -19.2% -12.6% value excluding compared continues) manufacturing with FY2006 companies) (%) Percentage of reduction of total CO 2 Reduction of emissions CO 2 compared emissions with FY2006 -19.8% -12% -13.4% Environmental (manufacturing (%): All Global Management companies in manufacturing warming Department Japan) companies in Japan, including offices Set for each company in Reduction of consideration CO 2 of national emissions policy on (manufacturing CO 2 companies reduction outside targets, etc., Japan) in each country. Resource consumption, Environmental resource Achieve zero Achieve zero Achieve zero Management 92.4% recycling, emissions emissions 1,2 emissions Department and industrial waste 1. Definition: No incineration or landfill of industrial waste generated by domestic manufacturing facilities and new construction sites. 2. Target units: Housing Division, Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. (residential greening), Sumirin Sash Co., Ltd., Sumikyo Co., Ltd, Sumikyo Wintec Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd., Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering Co., Ltd. About symbol for third party assurance (link to Third Party Assurance Report) 146 Results of Efforts to Reduce CO 2 Emissions Targets were achieved at both offices and manufacturing companies in Japan. At offices, CO 2 emissions were reduced by 12.6% compared to the base year on a 5-year actual average basis. This was partly the result of power-saving measures following the great earthquake of 2011, as well as a switch in vehicles used in the housing business to ecocars. At manufacturing companies in Japan, CO 2 emissions were reduced by 13.4% compared to the base year on a 5-year actual average basis. This was partly the result of introducing highly energy-efficient equipment and improving production efficiency at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Results of Promoting a Zero-Emissions Policy The recycling rate was 92.4%, meaning that the target for zero emissions was not achieved within the defined range. Within the defined range, zero emissions was achieved for industrial waste generated at new housing construction sites in the Tokyo metropolitan area in November 2012 due to operations commencing at the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center. Subsequently, efforts for waste recovery utilizing certification under the National Permit System were widened, but the recycling rate for all new housing construction sites remained at 91.4%, and the target for zero emissions was not achieved. On the other hand, at manufacturing plants in Japan, zero emissions was achieved in fiscal 2009 and has since been maintained. 147 Environment and Resources Division Evaluation Area of Basic Strategy Metrics / Performance Responsibility Environmental FY2014 (Objectives) Targeted FY2014 measure Impact Targeted Values Results Values Percentage of Resource certified forests consumption, Promotion and in newly resource expansion of acquired 100% 100% recycling, sustainable forests biodiversity, forests managed by and others the Group Implement monitoring surveys in Monitoring was Establishment Company-owned carried out in 4 Forestry of forestry forests (Collect out of 4 Department management and review locations until that enables fundamental fiscal 2014 4 out of 4 both materials: (Mombetsu locations Biodiversity, Forest in fiscal Set specific preservation 2008-2011)From and others 2014) and 2012, set numeric targets conservation of specific Since 2012, from 2012. biodiversity numeric targets numeric targets and forestry by region have been set businesses based on for 3 of the monitored comparative locations analysis of data collected. 148 Timber & Building Materials Division and Major Affiliated Companies Evaluation Area of Basic Strategy Metrics / Performance Responsibility Environmental FY 2014 (Objectives) Targeted FY2014 measure Impact Targeted Values Results Values All directly All directly imported imported timber: 68% timber: 62.0% (FY2015) Logs: 80% Logs: 64.3% Percentage of (FY2015) Resource Increase certified timber consumption, sustainable handled and Products: Products: 70% and timber percentage of 72.9% (FY2015) biodiversity handled 1 plantation timber handled. Imported Imported plywood: plywood: 50% International 30.9% (FY2015) Marketing Department MDF MDF: 97% (plantation (FY2015) timber): 98.5% Volume of wood chips handled as Make effective fuel, including Resource 10% increase use of wood for biomass -7.8% consumption (FY2015) resources 1 power generation (compared to FY2011) Global Increase Volume of Timber & warming, environmentally environmentally Building resource 2,254 EcoCute 6,000 EcoCute sound building sound building Materials consumption, units units materials materials Department and resource handled handled recycling Sumitomo Resource Promote use of Volume of Forestry Wood consumption, 71% increase Japanese Japanese 13.5% increase Products Co., and global (FY2015) timber 1 timber handled Ltd. warming Percentage of Global plantation Sumitomo Promote use of warming, timber, certified 64% Forestry Crest sustainable 64.7％ resource 1 timber and (FY2015) Co., Ltd. timber consumption Japanese timber used 1. The year for achieving targets for these strategies is fiscal 2015 as they are the same as under the 3rd Action Plan for Timber Procurement. 149 Overseas Business Division and Major Affiliated Companies Evaluation Area of Basic Strategy Metrics / Performance Responsibility Environmental FY2014 (Objectives) Targeted FY2014 measure Impact Targeted Values Results Values Expand use of sustainable raw materials Percentage of sustainable Resource 1. Sustainable Overseas timber used for consumption, raw Resources & wooden raw resource materials: 99% 100% △ Manufacturing materials 1 recycling, and plantation Department (total for NPIL, biodiversity timber, Alpine, RPI, certified VECO) timber, and waste wood Percentage of houses sold that meet certain environmental standards (total for SFC Homes, Paragon, Resource Henley) consumption, Overseas Promote resource Housing & environmentally 2. Certain recycling, and 99.9% 90% Real Estate friendly environmental living Department housing standards: environments North (others) America, Australia: Standards in each country China: Company's own standards 1. Boards such as particle board and MDF 150 Housing Division and Major Affiliated Companies Evaluation Area of Basic Strategy Metrics / Performance Responsibility Environmental FY2014 (Objectives) Targeted FY2014 measure Impact Targeted Values Results Values Percentage of Building Japanese Materials timber used in Procurement & all products Logistics Global (based on the Department warming, Promote and total volume of resource expand the use timber used) 60% Marketing consumption, 58% of Japanese Scope: Timber (FY2015) Strategy resource timber 1 used for Department recycling, and custom-built others detached Product housing Development (structural Department members+posts) Percentage of housing units Promotion of using Resource Residential environmentally next-generation consumption, 100% Property symbiotic energyresource (244 out of 100% Development residential conservation recycling, and 244 houses) Department property standards global warming development (Base: construction starts) Number of Biodiversity, Promotion of Sumitomo garden and living residential Forestry vegetation environments greening 36,847 trees 35,000 trees Landscaping trees of native (residential conscious of Co., Ltd. species in the greening) biodiversity region Resource Sumitomo Number of consumption, Promotion of Forestry Home SumStock resource re-use of 15 units 12 units Service Co., house recycling, and housing Ltd. transactions industrial waste 1. The year for achieving targets for these strategies is fiscal 2015 as they are the same as under the 3rd Action Plan for Timber Procurement. Performance measures ・For each initiative, = target achieved, △ = at least 70% of target achieved, = less than 70% of target achieved ・Targets based on the 3rd Action Plan for Timber Procurement are FY2015 targets, and so have been indicated as “-.” 151 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities Reducing CO2 Emissions from Offices At offices (non-manufacturing Group companies inside and outside Japan), CO 2 emissions in fiscal 2014 were 29,771 t-CO2 , a 19.2% reduction compared to the base year. At offices, CO2 emissions attributable to gasoline used in business vehicles and so on account for about 58% of total emissions. Therefore, in addition to proceeding to introduce fuel-efficient vehicles, the Group has encouraged employees who drive on the job at offices and business sites of Group Environmentally conscious companies in Japan to participate in the Eco Training course lighting run by the Japan Automobile Federation (JAF). 91.3% of the company-owned vehicles replaced during fiscal 2014 were replaced with fuel-efficient vehicles, and CO2 emissions attributable to using gasoline decreased by 4.5% compared to the previous fiscal year. The Group has also worked to reduce power consumption. In the Housing Division, power consumption has been reduced by moving to a “free address” office system (where personnel are not assigned to fixed desks) to make more efficient use of office space. In addition, the division has also proceeded to install solar power generation systems and LED lighting at its model homes and other business sites. The Group will continue to reduce CO 2 emissions, such as by implementing eco-drive programs to raise awareness among employees. Emissions at offices (t-CO 2) FY2006 (base FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 year) 37,302 35,266 33,556 34,265 32,672 32,343 31,935 29,771 36,855 （+1.2%） （-4.3%） （-9.0%） （-7.0%） （-11.4%）（-12.2%）（-13.4%）（-19.2%） 1. Figures in parentheses indicate the percentage change compared with FY2006. 2. Figures are aligned with organizations in the base year (FY2006). Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan 152 Reducing CO2 Emissions from Manufacturing Companies in Japan In fiscal 2014, CO 2 emissions from manufacturing companies in Japan (Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. and Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd.) decreased by 19.8% relative to the base year. Manufacturing companies in Japan have worked hard to reduce CO 2 emissions, such as through upgrading production facilities with highly energy-efficient equipment and improving production efficiency. Sumitomo Forestry Crest also managed to reduce its CO 2 emissions by 19.2% relative to the base year, by switching to environmentally friendly lighting and by promoting efficient production schedules. Sumirin Agro-Products achieved a 29.0% reduction in CO 2 emissions relative to the base year as it revised its manufacturing processes. CO2 emissions at manufacturing companies in Japan (t-CO 2) FY2006 (base FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 year) 9,419 8,867 8,097 8,412 8,344 8,385 9,064 7,784 9,701 （-2.9%） （-8.6%） （-16.5%）（-13.3%）（-14.0%）（-13.6%）（-6.6%） （-19.8%） 1. Figures in parentheses indicate the percentage change compared with FY2006. Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan Reducing CO2 Emissions from Manufacturing Companies outside Japan At manufacturing companies outside Japan, 1 each company has set its own reduction targets in accordance with the relevant country’s targets for reducing CO 2 emissions. At Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. in Australia, CO2 emissions in fiscal 2014 decreased by 7.9% compared to the previous fiscal year, following an improvement in production efficiency as a result of changing its production schedule for presswork in October 2013, from a conventional “5-day workweek” to a “20 days on, 10 days off” rotation. At Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. in New Zealand, CO 2 emissions in fiscal 2014 decreased by 3.8% compared to the previous fiscal year, following an improvement in energy efficiency attributable to using fan motors more efficiently in the process of drying medium density fiberboard (MDF), and as a result of switching to LED lights in its plants. 1. PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia, Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd., PT. AST Indonesia, PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia, Nelson Pine Industries Ltd., Vina Eco Board Co.,Ltd. 153 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities｜Environmental Report Reducing CO2 Emissions from Transportation Under the revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy in Japan, consigners are required to reduce per-unit energy consumption by an annual average of 1% or more in the medium to long term in relation to the transportation of goods. Sumitomo Forestry and Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. fall under the category of “specified consigner” (annual freight transportation volume is 30 million ton-kilometers 1 or more), obligating them to submit reports to the Japanese Government. Sumitomo Forestry therefore sets a target each fiscal year to reduce per-unit energy consumption2 in transportation by 1% or more compared to the previous year. Sumitomo Forestry Crest also sets targets to reduce per-unit energy consumption compared to the previous year. In fiscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry's per-unit energy consumption was 93.4% compared to the previous year and Sumitomo Forestry Crest's was 95.2%. Ongoing efforts will be made to reduce CO 2 emissions through cooperation with transportation partners on such measures as improving loading efficiency, shifting from land to sea transportation, and utilizing the return leg of construction material deliveries to transport waste. Efforts will also be made in ascertaining CO 2 emissions across the entire supply chain, which includes both domestic and international transportation. 1. Freight transportation volume (ton-kilometers) = freight weight (tons) distance travelled (km) 2. Sumitomo Forestry measures energy consumption per unit of volume handled. Sumitomo Forestry Crest measures energy consumption per unit of net sales. Energy consumption from transportation, CO2 emissions and per-unit energy consumption (FY2014 Results) Energy consumption Per-unit energy (crude oil CO2 emissions consumption equivalent) 0.00196kL/m 3 Sumitomo Forestry 2,602kL 6,945t-CO 2 (6.6% decrease from Co., Ltd. FY2013) 0.0000614kL/1,000 Sumitomo Forestry yen 2,302kL 6,117t-CO 2 Crest Co., Ltd. (4.8% decrease from FY2013) 154 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities｜Environmental Report Establishment of an Efficient Delivery In 2007, Sumitomo Forestry made improvements to the system it uses to deliver materials for Sumitomo Forestry Home houses respectively from the manufacturer to individual construction sites. Seeking to reduce the amount of CO 2 emitted during transportation, the Company established a system whereby materials from multiple manufacturers would first be gathered at relay centers, of which there are 30 nationwide, and then delivered together in mixed loads. In April 2010, the Company established Home Eco Logistics Co., Ltd., leveraging the distribution efficiency know-how it had acquired over the years. Home Eco Logistics takes on logistics operations for the Sumitomo Forestry Group's housing business and also actively puts forward proposals for efficient logistics operations to material manufacturers, housing manufacturers, housing construction companies and building material distributors. As of March 2015, Home Eco Logistics provided logistics operations to more than 40 companies. The company will continue to actively put forward proposals aiming for standardization of logistics functions in the industry, while at the same time contributing to further reductions in CO 2 emissions through improved efficiencies in transportation. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Per Scope Based on the GHG Protocol Since fiscal 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has ascertained the volume of its CO 2 emissions according to different scopes 1 based on the GHG Protocol, a set of widely used international accounting tools for quantifying GHG emissions. The Group plans to gradually expand what is included in the calculation for Scope 3, that is, CO 2 emissions occurring in the supply chain. 1. The GHG Protocol requires businesses to disclose their greenhouse gas emissions according to the following categories. Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions of a company, including emissions from fuel consumption. E.g. CO 2 emissions from the use of gasoline for company vehicles. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and heating. E.g. CO 2 emissions from the use of electricity by offices. Scope 3: GHG emissions occurring in the supply chain. E.g. CO 2 emissions generated during the use of products sold. 155 Sumitomo Forestry Group CO 2 Emissions (Fiscal 2014) Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO 2 Emission Trends 1. The Sumitomo Forestry Group offsets its CO 2 emissions from model homes, which were 1,590 tons in FY2010, 2,542 tons in FY2011 and 3,056 tons in FY2012 and 2,835 tons in FY2013, using forest sink credits issued under the Offset Credit (J-VER) Scheme. About symbol for third party assurance (link to Third Party Assurance Report) 156 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities｜Environmental Report Scope 3 Emissions by Category (Fiscal 2014) Category Scope of calculation for the Company Emissions Transportation from timber logging sites and transportation in timber distribution Category 4 businesses at Sumitomo Forestry; and (Upstream transportation 11,604t-CO 2 transportation of lumber to plants and and distribution) transportation of products to customers at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Category 11 During occupancy of detached houses 2,163,805t-CO 2 (Use of sold products) (60 years) Category 12 Dismantling and disposal of detached (End-of-life treatment of 53,416t-CO 2 houses sold products) 1. Of the 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has, to begin with, commenced calculation of categories with the greatest relevance to the Group's business. Boundaries and Methods of CO 2 Emissions Calculation 157 Boundaries and Methods of CO 2 Emissions Calculation 1. Boundaries relating to CO2 emissions (range of organizations included in aggregate) Except where special explanatory notes are added, all Group companies both in Japan and overseas are included in the aggregates for CO 2 emissions stated in this report. The range of applicable organizations and the bounds of the calculation for each scope are as described below. Scopes 1 and 2 All Group companies, including affiliates in Japan and overseas Scope 3 Category 4: Transportation of harvested wood from company-owned forests to purchasers, etc. and transportation of imported timber from storage to purchasers, etc. at Sumitomo Forestry; and transportation of lumber to plants and transportation of products to customers at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Categories 11 and 12: During residence period and during the demolition and disposal of detached wooden houses sold by Sumitomo Forestry’s Housing Division (see 4. for further details) List of applicable companies (link to list of Group companies) 2. Scope 1 CO 2 Emissions CO2 emissions inside and outside Japan are calculated using the calorie conversion factors and the carbon emission factors prescribed in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. 158 3. Scope 2 CO 2 Emissions CO2 emissions from using purchased electricity in Japan are calculated using the emission factor for each power company in each fiscal year as prescribed in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures (using the actual emission factor for fiscal 2008 and earlier, and using the adjusted emission factor for fiscal 2009 and later). CO2 emissions from using purchased heat are calculated using the CO 2 emission factor prescribed in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. CO2 emissions in fiscal 2014 from using purchased electricity overseas are calculated using the following CO 2 emission factors for each country. Australia: 0.749kgCO2/kWh, United States: 0.446kgCO 2/kWh, China: 0.703kgCO 2/kWh, Indonesia: 0.767kgCO2/kWh, Vietnam: 0.326kgCO 2/kWh, New Zealand: 0.147kgCO 2/kWh, Singapore: 0.405kgCO2/kWh, Malaysia:0.639kgCO 2/kWh 4．Calculation of Scope 3 “CO 2 emissions during occupancy and during demolition for houses sold in fiscal 2014” CO2 emissions during occupancy (Annual energy usage per house CO2 emission factor for each type of energy) Years of residence period Number of houses completed in FY2014 1. Regarding the amount of emissions during occupancy, emissions related to “renovation” have been excluded since some of the Scope 1 and 2 emissions of the affiliates engaged in the business of renovations (Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd.) could be double-counted. 【Conditions and details】 Energy (electricity and city gas) usage per house: Calculated using the Building Research Institute’s Program for Calculating Primary Energy Consumption (Residential) according to the following conditions. Plan: Sumitomo Forestry standard plan (total floor area 147m 2) 1. Slightly larger than Sumitomo Forestry’s average total floor area (134m 2) Specifications: Standard MyForest specifications for 2010 Sumitomo Forestry’s main product Structure: Multi-Balance Construction Method, Big-Frame Construction Method, Two-by-Four Construction Method Building site: Tokyo 1. According to a survey conducted by the Architectural Institute of Japan on actual energy consumption, the figures for Tokyo are almost the same as the national average Heat loss coefficient (Q-value): 1.93W/m 2K for the Multi-Balance Construction Method, 2.01 W/m 2K for the Big-Frame Construction Method, and 1.80 W/m 2K for the Two-by-Four Construction Method 159 1. Calculated separately using the Heat Loss Coefficient Calculation Chart. 2. For the basic unit of emissions, reference was made to the LCA database “IDEA” published by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry and to data published by the Ministry of the Environment. CO2 emission factor Electricity: Calculated using the weighted average of the electricity sales of nine power companies, excluding the Okinawa Electric Power Company which does not service the areas where any Sumitomo Forestry Group business sites are located, based on the FY2013 Emission Factors for Electricity Power Companies (Adjusted Emission Factors) published by the Ministry of the Environment. City gas: 2.23kgCO 2/m3 1. Source: Manual for Calculating and Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Ver. 3.5), Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Years of occupancy: 60 years 2. Sumitomo Forestry uses its 60-Year Support Program as standard, and assumes houses will be occupied for 60 years. Number of houses completed in fiscal 2014: 8,720 (number of houses completed, excluding 20 non-wooden properties) CO2 emissions during demolition (Fuel usage during demolition per house CO 2 emission factor for each type of fuel) Number of houses completed in FY2014 【Details】 Fuel usage during demolition per house (diesel, gasoline): Fuel usage for demolition of Sumitomo Forestry model home (Estimates calculated from standard plan and floor area and based on 2006 survey of use of heavy equipment in demolition (diesel) and vehicles for transport of workers (gasoline). CO2 emission factor: Diesel 2.58kgCO 2/L Gasoline 2.32kgCO 2/L 1. Source: Manual for Calculating and Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Ver. 3.5), Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Number of houses completed in fiscal 2014: 8,720 (number of houses completed, excluding 20 non-wooden properties) 160 CO2 emissions during disposal (including transportation) (Amount of waste generated during demolition per house Reduction ratio / final disposal ratio / recycling ratio for each type of waste GHG emission factor for each type of waste and for each method of disposal) Number of houses completed in FY2014 【Details】 Amount of waste generated during demolition per house: Calculated by estimating an average value per unit of area based on the annual amount of waste generated during demolition by Sumitomo Forestry in fiscal 2006, and converting it to a building weight equivalent for the Sumitomo Forestry standard plan (floor area: 147m2) in fiscal 2010. Reduction ratio / final disposal ratio / recycling ratio for each type of waste: recycling ratio for final disposal Type of waste Reduction ratio each type of ratio waste Glass/ceramic 4.6% 24.8% 70.6% Concrete rubble1 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% Metal waste 1.0% 2.3% 96.7% Paper waste 40.8% 4.3% 54.9% Wood waste1 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% Waste fiber 33.5% 12.0% 54.5% Composite waste 2 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% Waste gypsum 3 4.6% 24.8% 70.6% Waste plastic 27.9% 17.0% 55.1% Sludge 86.0% 3.0% 11.0% Source: Emission and Processing of Industrial Waste, etc. (Actual Results for FY2012), Ministry of the Environment 1. Recycling ratio was assumed to be 100% since subject to the Construction Material Recycling Act. 2. Composite waste, such as swept up refuse, comprises a mixture of items that cannot be individually separated. Assumed to be 100% because it eventually ends up in landfill. 3. Assumed to be same value as “glass/ceramic.” 161 GHG emission factor for each type of waste and for each method of disposal (tCO 2/t): Type of waste Incineration Landfill Recycling1 Glass/ceramic 0.0806 0.0851 0.05628 Concrete rubble 2 0.0806 0.0851 0.05628 Metal waste 0.0806 0.0851 0.05628 Paper waste 0.0837 2.5127 0.05628 Wood waste 0.0837 1.8292 0.05628 Waste fiber 0.0837 2.7626 0.0390 Composite waste 2 0.0806 0.0851 0.05628 Waste gypsum 2 0.0806 0.0851 0.05628 Waste plastic 2.6833 0.0851 0.246 Sludge 0.2203 0.7275 0.0130 Source: Database of GHG emission factor for Calculating an Organization’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions through the Supply Chain, Ver. 2.2 complied by the Ministry of the Environment 1. Regarding the GHG emission factor in the Ministry of the Environment database for the transportation stage only (namely, “0.0472 tCO 2 /t”), which does not include emissions during the recycling preparation stage, this has been used by adding the basic unit “0.00908 tCO 2 /t” for crushing contained in the Carbon Footprint (CFP) Communication Program, Basic Database Ver. 1.01 (Japan data) published by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry (JEMAI). 2. Applied the same factors such as “glass/ceramic” and “rubble” which have similar properties. Number of houses completed in FY2014: 8,720 (excluding 20 non-wooden properties) 162 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Residence Period｜Environmental Report Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Residence Period Green Smart Proposals With CO 2 emissions in Japan’s household sector increasing year by year, the Japanese Government revised 1 the energy efficiency standards for housing and other buildings in October 2013, and these have been in full force since April 1, 2015. Compliance with the energy efficiency standards will gradually be made compulsory for all new houses and buildings by 2020. In response, as a provider of about 9,000 custom-built detached houses a year to the Japanese market, Sumitomo Forestry offers “Green Smart,” a housing development concept that meets these new standards. Wood is a renewable natural resource that absorbs and stores CO 2 during its growth process. As well as using wood for its principal structural members, Sumitomo Forestry has offered housing proposals where residents can live comfortably all year round by incorporating its Ryouonbou design , which takes advantage of natural blessings such as the wind and sun. “Green Smart” fuses the Company’s expertise in utilizing these “unique characteristics of wood and blessings of nature” together with its technologies for the “reduction of energy consumption” (such as improvements in thermal insulation) and its technologies for the “smart use of energy” (such as equipment for generating and storing energy, and HEMS 2). By boosting energy efficiency in the house, the Company seeks to reduce CO 2 emissions during occupancy. 1. As a consequence of the revisions, the evaluation now covers comprehensive energy efficiency, including thermal insulation, the use of natural energy and installation of energy-efficient devices. 2. Home Energy Management System—a system whereby residents can visualize the amounts of energy they generate and use. 163 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Residence Period｜Environmental Report Features of Green Smart Improves the thermal insulation performance of ceilings, external walls, floors, windows, etc. Uses low-emissivity (low-E) double glazing filled with argon gas for large windows where the greatest heat is lost Thermal insulation using low-E glass Uses wood, which has lower CO2 emissions during the processing stage, and which has better thermal insulation compared to iron and concrete The Ryouonbou design utilizes a sense of comfort brought about by nature Thermal conductivity of different materials Installs solar power generation systems and residential fuel cell units (Ene-Farm) Also installs household storage batteries and HEMS, which allows residents to visually gauge their energy usage The HEMS screen Link to the Ryouonbou design Link to the Green Smart website News release：Full Roof-Mounted Large 10kW-plus Capacity Solar Power Generation System Sumitomo Forestry Launches Green Smart Solar Z CSR Highlight1-Developing Reliable and Comfortable Housing with Low Environmental Impact 164 Solar Power Generation System and Ene-Farm Installation Rate Trends (for New Orders) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Solar power generation 22% 28% 36% 45% 51% 43% systems Ene-Farm units 3% 11% 30% 41% 53% 51% Environmentally friendly 23% 34% 51% 62% 72% 66% equipment installation rate Overseas Development of Energy-Efficient Housing In April 2010, Henley Properties (QLD) Pty Ltd. a Group company of Australia became the first company in Australia to make available a zero-emissions demonstration house that is expected to achieve energy-saving benefits of more than 70% compared to existing homes of a similar size. In March 2012, the company constructed a community place, under a zero-emissions model, in a residential Community place based on the lot in Southeast Melbourne in cooperation with local zero-emissions model government. The building features a solar power generation system, a solar hot water heater, a 6,000-liter rainwater tank, and a home energy management system (HEMS). Combined with doubleglazed windows and a concrete slab and walls providing excellent thermal insulation, the building has earned an eight-star energy rating 1. In December 2012, the company completed a house for a general customer with a nine-star energy rating. With environmental awareness increasing, the need for energy efficiency in Australia is mounting. Henley Properties is working to promote the widespread adoption of these homes. 1. An evaluation of the energy burden for heating and cooling the inside of a building in Australia. Insulation, windows, the type, size and orientation of the building, and the climatic zone are all factors. The highest rating of 10 stars indicates that no heating or cooling whatsoever is needed to maintain a comfortable indoor living environment. Five stars indicates that the building has high insulation performance, but that a minimum of energy is required for heating and cooling. 165 Proposals for Energy-Saving/Environmental Renovations Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. promotes renovations from an energy-saving and environmental point of view. It provides customers with renovation proposals for reducing their environmental impact during occupancy by drawing up a “performance evaluation chart” at the planning stage which allows customers to easily and visually gauge performance improvements relating to earthquake resistance, energy efficiency, barrier-free design and other parameters. Number of energy-saving/environmental renovations 1 166 Research and Development of Life Cycle Carbon Minus (LCCM) Housing Sumitomo Forestry is engaged in the development of Life Cycle Carbon Minus (LCCM) housing to achieve negative CO 2 emissions across the entire life cycle of a home—from construction, occupation and renovation through to demolition and disposal—by using environmental sound equipment such as solar power systems. In fiscal 2014, the Company used its experimental house completed in 2013 to check the energysaving effects of various types of technology during winter and summer. The experimental house was also fitted with internal and external sensors. By measuring changes in temperature, humidity, luminance and other parameters, the Company proceeded to develop and verify ways of using air-conditioning and lighting equipment more efficiently, as well as technologies for controlling these automatically. Some of the findings of this empirical research have already been turned into commercial products. Sumitomo Forestry will continue to work on developing new technologies with an aim of realizing LCCM housing. Environmental Impact of Business Activities Offsetting CO2 through Project EARTH The volume of CO 2 emitted during the process of harvesting timber used for principal structural members through to the processing, transportation and construction of Sumitomo Forestry Home houses is around six tons per home. Sumitomo Forestry is implementing an initiative called “Project EARTH” in which this CO2 is offset through reforestation activities. The initiative will offset CO 2 emissions for all custom-built and spec homes sold between fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2016, and involves planting around 4.8 million trees on a total 2,400 hectares of land and managing cultivation of those trees for 10 years after planting. Reforestation will take two forms—environmental reforestation aiming to revive ecosystems on degraded land, and industrial reforestation to be advanced together with the community to both realize sustainable forest management and contribute to the region. News release: Sumitomo Forestry “Project EARTH” Environmental Initiative Three Year Extension 167 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Residence Period｜Environmental Report Environmental Reforestation in an Indonesian National Park Since fiscal 2009, Sumitomo Forestry has been carrying out an environmental reforestation project on degraded land in Bromo Tengger Semeru National Park, located in East Java, Indonesia. This had involved developing a 6-meter firebreak in the plantation forest stretching a total length of 12 km, as well as improving firefighting equipment and conducting patrols. However, in October and November 2014, fires broke out in areas outside the plantation forest. The fires spread, Site of the environmental affecting about 400 hectares of previously afforested land, reforestation project in Bromo and the situation was that about half of the planted trees Tengger Semeru National Park would wither and die. A decision was made to reforest all of the planted trees that had withered, and this operation is underway. Going forward, Sumitomo Forestry plans to apply the lessons learned from the fires, and with the cooperation of officials from the Indonesian government, aims to establish a fire-prevention / fire-fighting system to combat the risks of forest fires that are caused by abnormal weather which would otherwise be largely difficult to project. News release: Project EARTH Update on Plantation Industrial Reforestation in East Java, Indonesia Since fiscal 2010, Sumitomo Forestry has been carrying out an industrial reforestation project in collaboration with the community, centered on Supiturang village at the foot of Mt. Semeru in Lumajang Regency, East Java, Indonesia. This is a sustainable forestry project whereby part of the profits from harvesting matured trees will be distributed to improve the livelihoods of community residents, while the remainder is used to cover the costs of replanting and cultivation and other Site of the industrial expenses. By fiscal 2014, a total 1,370 hectares of forest had reforestation project in been planted. Lumajang Regency 168 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Report Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business Wood Biomass Power Generation Business The Sumitomo Forestry Group operates wood biomass power generation facilities which are fueled by recycled chips made by using scrap timber primarily left over from construction and woodchips made by using previously unutilized wood left over from logging. The CO 2 released as a consequence of burning the woodchips had previously been absorbed from the atmosphere via photosynthesis as the trees grew. Therefore, Facilities at the Kawasaki when viewed over the entire life cycle of the trees, Biomass Power Plant combusting the woodchips does not result in an increase in CO2 in the atmosphere. For this reason, the Group has been engaged in wood biomass power generation as a new type of business that contributes greatly to the advancement of forestry, such as the effective use of wood, reductions in CO 2 emissions and the maintenance of local forest environments. During fiscal 2014, the Group decided to invest in biomass power generation companies in Hachinohe City, Aomori Prefecture and in Tomakomai City, Hokkaido. Together with its already operational Kawasaki Biomass Power Plant and its planned Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant, this brings to four the number of wood biomass power generation businesses in which the Group participates in Japan. Drawing on its past experience in the wood biomass power generation business, the Group will continue to expand business operations utilizing renewable energy suited to local conditions and other requirements. 169 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Report The Group’s Wood Biomass Power Generation Business Power tart of Business Location generation Main features operations capacity Largest power generation facility in Japan to burn biomass exclusively Utilizes recycled chips produced by using construction debris and waste pallets from Tokyo and surrounding Kawasaki Biomass suburbs, as well as Power Generation thinnings and 33MW annual Business Kawasaki pruned branches power (Joint investment with City, February generation of Equipped with Sumitomo Joint Electric Kanagawa 2011 approximately environmental Power Co., Ltd. and Prefecture 200,000MWh mechanisms, such Fuluhashi EPO as flue gas Corporation) desulfurization equipment, an exhaust gas denitrizer and a bag filter, the urbanoriented biomass power generation facility clears Kawasaki City’s strict environmental standards 170 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Report Power tart of Business Location generation Main features operations capacity Thinnings, wood left over from logging and other materials are procured from Mombetsu Biomass within a 75km radius 50MW annual Power Generation of the power plant Mombetsu power December Business and turned into City, generation of 2016 (Joint investment with chips at an adjacent Hokkaido approximately (scheduled) Sumitomo Joint Electric plant before being 300,000MWh Power Co., Ltd.) used as fuel Will also use palm kernel shell, plus some coal as an auxiliary fuel Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation 5.8MW Will use 100% of Business Tomakomai annual power December unused forest (Joint investment with City, generation of 2016 materials from Mitsui & Co., Ltd., Hokkaido approximately (scheduled) Hokkaido in wood Iwakura Corporation and 40,000MWh chips Hokkaido Gas Co., Ltd.) Thinnings from the Sanpachi-KamikitaShimokita region of Hachinohe Biomass Aomori Prefecture, Power Generation 12MW annual timber offcuts, and Hachinohe Business power December railway forest City, (Joint investment with generation of 2017 thinnings from the Aomori Sumitomo Osaka Cement approximately (scheduled) nearby railway lines. Prefecture Co., Ltd. and East Japan 85,000MWh are gathered and Railway Company) used as the main source of fuel Will also use some palm kernel shell News release: Equity Participation in Wood Biomass Power Generation Business in Tomakomai City, Hokkaido News release: Equity Participation in Biomass Power Generation Business in Hachinohe City, Aomori Prefecture CSR Highlight4-Expansion of Our Wood Biomass Power Generation Business 171 Solar Power Generation Business In November 2013, Sumitomo Forestry launched operations at an 876 kW solar power generation facility that it had constructed in Kashima City, Ibaraki Prefecture. In fiscal 2014, the facility generated about 1,260MWh. Consideration has been given to reducing the environmental impact of the power generation facility, with some of the frames that hold the solar panels being wooden frames using mainly domestically produced Japanese cedar. Solar panels and In fiscal 2015, there are plans to extend the power generation environmentally friendly facilities. wooden frames Contributing to Reductions in Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Utilizing Forest Management and Reforestation Know-How The Sumitomo Forestry Group applies its expertise in areas such as sustainable forest management and reforestation to projects that contribute to the reduction or absorption of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The Group will make positive efforts to advancing projects that comply with new systems, such as REDD+, 1 which is currently under consideration by the United Nations, and the Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM), which is being proposed for introduction by the Japanese Government, as well as to gathering knowledge required for those projects. 1. The developed version of REDD, Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation. The concept REDD+ includes, besides that of REDD, the positive emission reduction of GHGs through sustainable management and conservation of forest and enhancement of forest carbon stocks. Feasibility Studies for Overseas Projects to Regenerate Forests and Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions Sumitomo Forestry is conducting feasibility studies of projects designed to reduce and inhibit GHG emissions through the preservation and regeneration of forests that are facing devastation and annihilation in Vietnam and Indonesia. These are highly promising projects that should contribute to ongoing deliberation of REDD+ and the Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM). 172 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Report Investigating New Mechanisms for Regeneration of Forests and Biomass Power Generation in Vietnam Japan’s Ministry of the Environment has contracted the Global Environment Centre Foundation (GEC) to implement a Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM) feasibility study program, and in fiscal 2013, Sumitomo Forestry was awarded a contract to conduct a study. Since then, the Company has conducted a feasibility study for a project in Dien Bien Province, northwestern Vietnam that would preserve and regenerate forests that had been degraded due to slash-and-burn Study being conducted in cultivation, improve the livelihoods of local residents, and Vietnam reduce GHG emissions through biomass power generation using timber supplied from those sustainable forests. The region is vital as a water source with the area being home to a number of dams used for power generation. It is also one of Vietnam’s poorest regions. The project will contribute to environmental conservation and sustainable community development, and will also lead to establishment of a bilateral credit mechanism whereby any reductions achieved through the business are counted as Japan’s reductions. The Company will continue to conduct studies while coordinating and cooperating with Japanese Government officials, government authorities in Vietnam, Vietnam Forestry University, the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), ASKUL Corporation, and Yanmar Co., Ltd. Measures to Regenerate Forests in Indonesian Peatlands Indonesia has much peatland, where large volumes of carbon have accumulated. However, as the land dries due to drainage of water to develop the land for agriculture, decomposition by micro-organisms progresses and releases the stored carbon into the atmosphere as CO 2. The risk of dried peatland catching fire is high, and if a fire did break out, it would result in a large volume of CO 2 emissions. On the other hand, if degraded peatland especially in the vicinity of villages can be turned into agroforests or otherwise used properly, it is likely that this could inhibit fires from Revegetation study in breaking out, and consequently prevent any emissions of CO 2 Indonesia attributable to fire. Therefore, since fiscal 2012, in the degraded peatlands of Central Kalimantan, in collaboration with Hokkaido University and the local University of Palangka Raya, Sumitomo Forestry has been engaged in developing revegetation methods that incorporate considerations for local residents and the local economy. In cooperation with the Mitsubishi Research Institute, this project to establish new mechanisms that contribute to global warming mitigation through the preservation and appropriate use of peatland has been selected in the FY2014 Program to Reduce Global Warming Emissions from Non-Energy Related Activity Overseas, which is organized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). 173 Participation in the Japan Public-Private Platform for REDD+ The Japan Public-Private Platform for REDD+ was established in November 2014 by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute, an independent administrative corporation. Sumitomo Forestry joined the platform as a member of the Executive Committee, in a move to conserve forests in developing nations and to contribute to sustainable development such as mitigating climate change, preserving biodiversity and reducing poverty. The aim of the platform is to promote REDD+ activities, and moving forward, by expanding its circle of activities, it will contribute to global warming countermeasures through public-private collaboration. News release: Participation in the Japan Public-Private Platform for REDD+ 174 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste｜Environmental Report Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste Zero Emissions at Domestic Manufacturing Facilities and at New Construction Sites Aiming to reduce its environmental impact and to use resources effectively, the Sumitomo Forestry Group promotes zero emissions initiatives based on the reduction, recycling and reuse of industrial waste. The Group’s Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan defines “zero emissions” as no incineration or landfill of industrial waste generated by domestic manufacturing facilities and new construction sites. Based on this definition, the Group achieved zero emissions at domestic manufacturing facilities in fiscal 2009. As for new construction sites, including exterior greening, the Group achieved zero emissions in the Tokyo metropolitan area in fiscal 2012. Going forward, in addition to maintaining zero emissions at domestic manufacturing facilities, with regard to new construction sites, the Group will analyze the content of the generated waste and the extent to which it is being recycled, and continue striving for zero emissions, such as by developing environmentally conscious products, adopting rational design techniques and ensuring that waste is thoroughly sorted at production sites. Recycling Rate Trends Under the Sumitomo Forestry Group’s Definition of Zero Emissions 175 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste｜Environmental Report How Waste, etc. is Processed under the Sumitomo Forestry Group’s Definition of Zero Emissions (FY2014) Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan Initiatives at Domestic Manufacturing Facilities Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. and Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd. managed to achieve zero emissions again at all plants in fiscal 2014 as a result of each plant continuing with efforts to reduce waste emissions, for example by tightening the sorting of industrial waste and selling it for a profit. Volume of Waste etc. from Plants (FY2014) About symbol for third party assurance (link to Third Party Assurance Report) 176 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste｜Environmental Report Initiatives at New Construction Sites Although emissions of industrial waste generated at new construction sites have decreased as a consequence of a fall in the number of completed buildings, the recycling rate has been improving year by year. Moving forward, the Group will proceed with initiatives to reduce the volume of industrial waste per building. Volume of Waste etc. from New Detached Housing construction sites (FY2014) Recycling Rate for New Housing Construction Sites 177 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste｜Environmental Report Operations at the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center In December 2010, Sumitomo Forestry obtained the National Permit System for waste processing 1 from the Ministry of the Environment. This made it possible to use the return journey of trucks transporting materials to new housing construction sites to recover waste and collect it at relay centers registered as collection points under the National Permit System. The Company took advantage of the system to establish the The Metropolitan Area Metropolitan Area Recycling Center with capability for Recycling Center advanced sorting of waste in Kazo, Saitama Prefecture. The center started operating in fiscal 2012 and covers all areas of the seven prefectures of Tokyo, Kanagawa, Chiba, Saitama, Ibaraki, Tochigi and Gunma. The recycling center’s establishment makes it possible to collect and analyze wasterelated data. Data, including information on the amount of waste generated according to the product, specifications or contractor, are provided to departments of product development, materials, design, production and logistics to promote the reduction of waste emissions. Since fiscal 2014, the Group has expanded its efforts for waste recovery under the National Permit System to 16 branches in 14 prefectures outside the Tokyo metropolitan area. 1. A special system under the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act, removing the need for manufacturers to have a permit for waste collection and haulage if they are collecting waste across a wide area for the purpose of recycling. 178 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste｜Environmental Report Flow of materials distribution and collection of industrial waste Initiatives for Zero Emissions at Overseas Manufacturing Facilities The five main manufacturing companies outside Japan 1, besides complying with local laws, are advancing initiatives based on the Sumitomo Forestry Group’s definition of zero emissions. For example, in Indonesia, PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia collects wood waste generated during the particle board manufacturing process and reuses it as boiler fuel or in wood building materials. In fiscal 2014, three of the five companies—PT.Kutai Timber Indonesia, PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia and Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd.—achieved zero emissions. The other two companies, PT. AST Indonesia and Nelson Pine Industries Ltd., will make additional efforts to reduce waste emissions, reuse materials and ensure thorough sorting and collection. 1. Indonesia: PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia, Rimba Partikel Indonesia, PT. AST Indonesia Australia: Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. New Zealand: Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. 179 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste｜Environmental Report Proper Disposal of Demolition Waste Sumitomo Forestry was promoting resource recycling even before the enactment of the Construction Material Recycling Act implemented in 2002 by ensuring that materials were properly sorted during demolition prior to the construction of a new house and that waste remained sorted for processing afterwards. Since the enactment in 2002, the Company has recycled the items required under the Act (wood waste, concrete, etc.), sorting them at the sites where the waste is generated. The recycling rate for concrete and metal waste was almost 100% in fiscal 2014, as it was the previous year. A 100% recycling rate was achieved for wood waste through measures including the thorough removal of extraneous matter. Efforts will now be made to develop recycling routes for roofing tiles, glass, ceramics, gypsum board and other composite waste for even further improvement of recycling rates. Volume and Breakdown of Demolition Waste (FY2014) Strengthening Waste Management through Construction Process Management Systems Sumitomo Forestry has built a system whereby the emission of waste at sites and the delivery status of waste to waste treatment plants can be confirmed on a mobile phone. By checking the images collected in the system against the categories and volumes of demolition waste lodged by waste processors based on electronic manifests, the Company has strengthened its system for managing demolition waste. By the end of fiscal 2013, introduction of this system had been completed for almost all demolition contractors, allowing the Company to check that waste emitted from the Company’s sites is being taken properly to waste treatment plants. 180 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste｜Environmental Report Recycling wood waste materials from renovation sites In fiscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co.,Ltd. began recycling wood waste materials generated at its renovation sites.The recycled wood waste is used as a raw materials for particle board, and is processed into wall surfaces, entrance hall storage areas and other products at the Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. manufacturing site. These interior materials are then used at the renovation sites. Particle board used recycled wood waste from renovation sites at the Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. Recycling of Wood Resources into Chips The Sumitomo Forestry Group contributes to resource recycling through its wood chip operations, whereby offcuts generated during the timber milling process and wood waste from new housing construction and demolition sites are turned into wood chips to be used as a raw material for products such as paper and particle board, and also as a fuel for power-generating boilers or other equipment. Looking at the volume of wood chips handled in fiscal 2014, the Group began dealing in wood chips for export and so there was an increase in the volume of wood chips used as raw material (from demolition waste) compared to the previous fiscal year. On the other hand, the amount of raw materials declined as a backlash from the last-minute surge in demand prior to the consumption tax increase, and so the volume of wood chips for use as fuel (from demolition waste) also decreased. In fiscal 2015, the Group expects to handle the same volume of wood chips used as a raw material for paper and particle board as in fiscal 2014. In addition, the Group expects that the volume of wood chips it handles for use as fuel will further increase through meeting the growing demand for fuel used in biomass power generation. 181 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste｜Environmental Report Volume of Wood Chips Handled Effective Utilization of Used Activated Carbon from Water Purification Plants The Tokyo Metropolitan Government (TMG) Bureau of Waterworks uses an advanced water treatment system combining ozonation and the use of biological activated carbon. The system used as much as around 7,800m 3 of activated carbon in fiscal 2014 for reduction of organic matter and deodorization. Group company Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd. is making effective use of this used activated carbon to develop and market potting media for agriculture and horticulture and a soil improvement agent for greening. Joint research conducted with the TMG found that these items were effective in promoting plant growth, and the two parties applied for a joint patent based on the research results. In fiscal 2014, as a result of increasing sales especially of potting mix products which utilize used (Top) Used activated carbon activated carbon, some 2,697m 3 of used activated (Bottom) Farming and garden carbon was put to good use, a 22% increase products made from it compared to fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, this volume is expected to reach 2,750m 3 , or a 2% increase compared to fiscal 2014. 182 Sustainable Forest Management｜Environmental Report Sustainable Forest Management Sustainable Forest Management Forests perform a variety of functions for the public good, such as storing and purifying water, preventing floods and landslides, absorbing and retaining CO 2 which is linked to global warming, and preserving biodiversity. On a basis of appropriate management, the Sumitomo Forestry Group advances sustainable forest management both in Japan and overseas to ensure that timber resources will be available in perpetuity while preserving the public functions of forests. Forest Management and Timber Usage 183 Sustainable Forest Management｜Environmental Report Cultivation —Preserving the Public Functions of Forests Through Appropriate Management The Sumitomo Forestry Group manages a total 46,247 hectares of its own forests in Japan and a total of around 200,000 hectares of plantation forests overseas. The Group works to maintain and enhance the public functions of these forests by carrying out underbrush clearing, pruning, thinning and other appropriate management required for them to grow. Carbon stocks 1 of the Group's forests in Japan were 12.19 million t-CO 2 in fiscal 2014, and that of overseas plantations were 4.54 million t-CO 2. 1. The amount of CO 2 absorbed by forests and stored as carbon Carbon Stock of Forests in Japan and Overseas 184 Sustainable Forest Management｜Environmental Report Harvesting —Supplying Timber Products Through Systematic Harvesting In fiscal 2014, the Sumitomo Forestry Group harvested 39,014 m 3 of trees in Japan and 328,098 m 3 of trees overseas based on mediumto long-term harvesting plans. Harvested trees are milled and processed before finally reaching the market as products such as housing and furniture. In the case of timber turned into structural members for housing, the products are used for several decades. Trees retain CO 2 as carbon even after they are turned into Carbon stock of the timber products. Using timber products and constructing wooden used in the construction of houses can therefore be likened to building forests in the city. houses in fiscal 2014 The Sumitomo Forestry Group helps to increase carbon stocks even in cities by advancing MOCCA (wood use integration) 1 activities, thereby contributing to global warming prevention efforts. 1. A collective term for Sumitomo Forestry Group activities that aim to expand the use of timber resources through the promotion of wood construction and wood materials in residential and non-residential buildings and structures. Usage —Wood Can Be Reused and Does Not Increase CO 2 Even after being dismantled or at the end of their product life, wooden houses and timber products can be reused as fiberboard or other wood materials in construction or as raw material for making paper, and all that time it will continue to retain CO 2. The CO 2 released when timber is ultimately burned as a wood fuel is what has been absorbed from the atmosphere as trees grow, and therefore it does not represent an increase in CO 2 in the atmosphere over the life cycle of the tree. Planting–Preparing for the Next Cycle Harvesting and using timber alone will lead to a diminishing of forest resources. The Sumitomo Forestry Group therefore promotes sustainable forest management by always planting new trees after harvesting. In fiscal 2014, the Group planted approximately 101 hectares of forests in Japan and around 5,745 hectares overseas. The newly planted trees will absorb CO 2 during their growth and retain it as carbon. 185 Forest Management in Japan｜Environmental Report Forest Management in Japan Preserving and Increasing Forest Resources through Management of Company -Owned Forests Sumitomo Forestry owns a total Distribution and Area of Company-Owned Forests (as 46,247 hectares of forest in Japan of March 31, 2015) (around 1/900 of the country’s land area). Company-owned forests are categorized as either “commercial forests,” where the production of timber is the priority, or “environmental forests,” where conservation of the environment is the focus. Sumitomo Forestry acquired forestry certification from Japan’s Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council (SGEC) 1 for all Company-owned forests 2 in 2006 and third-party evaluations have confirmed that the forests are being properly managed, including with regard to measures to conserve biodiversity. Forest operations include appropriate thinning, which helps to preserve and increase forest resources, while taking into consideration the surrounding environment including the ecosystem. Sumitomo Forestry also aims for highly productive management of its forests based on operations plans that follow the principle of performing the appropriate management for the appropriate tree species on the suited land. 1. Japan's own forestry certification system through which forest management is verified as sustainable by third parties. Certification is based on seven criteria that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources. 2. The forests owned by Sumitomo Forestry exclude the lands leased to Kawanokita Development Co., Ltd., which is a Group company responsible for operating a golf course. 186 Forest Management in Japan｜Environmental Report Forest Management Consulting Business in Japan Sumitomo Forestry helps promote Japan’s domestic forestry industry by developing its consulting business for forestry management in Japan, applying know-how acquired through management of its own forests. Consulting in Kyotamba, Kyoto During fiscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry was contracted by Kyotamba Town, Kyoto Prefecture, to build a geographic information system (GIS) 1 for use in forestry management. The objective is to develop a “quantitative analysis system for forestry resources” which uses conventional analog aerial photographs and digital aerial photographs as well as next-generation survey technologies, such as aerial laser survey, 2 to acquire, manage and analyze highly accurate data on the dynamic changes, density, topography and other aspects of forest resources. Through these consulting activities, the Company will continue to support the efforts of governments aspiring to manage and utilize forest resources efficiently and effectively. 1. A system independently developed by Sumitomo Forestry, enabling the integrated management of numeric data and mapping data for forests, such as tree species, age, height, density and management history 2. A survey method whereby a laser beam is sent from an aircraft to the ground enabling the precise survey of elevation and forest conditions Image produced by the quantitative analysis system for forestry resources Aerial photograph Aerial laser survey Classify forest type based on forest Use tree top data to calculate tree height physiognomy criteria and population Build a new unique database on current forest conditions 187 Forest Management in Japan｜Environmental Report Consulting in Totsukawa, Nara Totsukawa Village in Nara Prefecture has some 64,000 hectares of forest, corresponding to 96% of its total land area. Typifying low uplands in Japan, the mountainous region is remote and beset with steep terrain. Consequently, developing road networks has been difficult and the village had been unable to take full advantage of its plentiful forest resources. In response, the village administration and forest owners’ cooperatives have partnered together to promote Building road networks in various initiatives, including development of a processing and steep terrain distribution hub for timber, based on a vision of “moving the forestry and wood industry to a sixth-order industry.” 1 Sumitomo Forestry has provided consultation to Totsukawa Village on using forest resources to revitalize the local economy since fiscal 2011. Particularly with respect to the production of timber, the Company has worked on proposals that make full use of its own unique expertise and technologies. This has included introducing the “in-vehicle-type tower yarder,” developed to improve the efficiency of harvesting wood on sloping terrain, as well as Onsite seminar on yarding providing support for the development of the road network wood with a tower yarder infrastructure in order to make good use of the yarder. The in-vehicle-type tower yarder is the outcome of the Sumitomo Forestry taking a tower yarder made by Austrian company, Konrad, and modifying it to suit Japan’s steep, hard-to-access forests. It demonstrates that the Company is also utilizing the technologies gained from its Company-owned forests in Kyushu in promoting the forestry industry in other regions, including in Totsukawa. In November 2014, together with the Japan Forest Engineering Society and the Forest Production System Study Group, Sumitomo Forestry jointly hosted the 19th Workshop on Forest Production Systems in Totsukawa. Topics for the workshop included the development of forest road networks using tower yarders and other heavy machinery as a means for the competitive production of materials in remote, mountainous locations. The program included onsite seminars and meetings to exchange opinions, and was attended by 154 participants from all around Japan. 1. Sixth-order industry: The shift by businesses operating in the primary industry, such as agricultural producers and forestry operators, to also branch out into the secondary industry (processing, manufacture, etc.) and tertiary industry (distribution, sales, etc.) 188 Forest Management in Japan｜Environmental Report Low-Density Reforestation Using Tree Shelters Sumitomo Forestry is developing a new approach to forestry called “low-density reforestation” which involves the use of tree shelters whereby seedlings are covered by plastic tubes. Damage caused to seedlings by deer feeding on them has become a problem in recent years, but this new type of afforestation using tree shelters will prevent such damage without having to remove the deer from their habitat. As a result, even assuming the same production of timber, it will be Tree shelters employed in a possible to reduce the number of trees planted per unit area privately-owned forest in of land compared to conventional methods, and given this, Sukumo City, Kochi Prefecture there is potential for a reduction in forestry labor, such as for cutting and thinning. In fiscal 2013, Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products Co., Ltd., which is responsible for managing forests owned by the Company, commenced full-scale external sales of Height Shelter S, a tree shelter developed in cooperation with Sumitomo Forestry and Phytoculture Control Co., Ltd. As a result of presenting product proposals, such as to the companies supplying logs to Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products and to forestry cooperatives struggling with the damage caused by deer, sales of the product reached 35,000 in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products aims to increase sales to over 168,000, thereby helping to make forestry labor more efficient. 189 Forest Management in Japan｜Environmental Report Agreement Concluded with Gifu Prefecture on the Supply of Seedlings In March 2015, Sumitomo Forestry signed a “Business Agreement Concerning the Gifu Prefecture Project for the Development of Seedling Supply System” with Gifu Prefecture. Amid calls nationwide for increased log production, there is currently a severe shortfall of seedlings needed for replanting after the logs are harvested. Leveraging the technologies for producing container seedlings, 1 which were developed independently by Sumitomo Forestry, the Company will contribute to revitalizing the domestic forestry industry and to the sustainable and active production of forest resources. 1. A container seedling is a seedling with soil attached to its roots, grown in a special receptacle containing soil for raising the seedling. This makes year-round planting possible, in contrast to conventional bare seedlings without soil. Moreover, by setting several seedlings into a single tray, it reduces the effort required to transport them Container seedlings to be Guidance by Sumitomo Forestry’s produced seedlings specialist News release: Agreement Concluded with Gifu Prefecture on the Supply of Seedlings CSR Higlight3-Practicing Sustainable Forest Management in Japan and Overseas 190 Forest Management Overseas｜Environmental Report Forest Management Overseas Sustainable Plantation Forest Operations Overseas As populations increase and standards of living improve in Southeast Asia and in emerging countries across wider Asia, demand for wood as a raw material for building materials and paper and as a biomass fuel is increasing, and securing sources of supply is a global challenge. In many cases, land suited for forest plantation is in competition with food production, and therefore not enough plantation forests have been developed to satisfy global demand. In order to ensure a stable supply of raw materials for wood products, such as lumber, wood panels and pulp, while still taking the environment into consideration, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has been increasing its use of plantation timber to reduce its procurement of raw materials from natural forests. In addition, the Group has been promoting sustainable forest plantation operations, especially in such countries as Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. During fiscal 2014, overseas Group companies planted a total area of 5,745 hectares. Reforestation Results 191 Forest Management Overseas｜Environmental Report Reforested Area CSR Higlight3-Practicing Sustainable Forest Management in Japan and Overseas 3 Approaches to Plantation Forest Operations The Sumitomo Forestry Group has taken three approaches to conducting plantation forest operations. The purpose of “industrial plantation” is to produce wood and increase the supply of plantation timber (raw material). By zoning its managed land appropriately, the Group aims to achieve both the conservation of valuable ecosystems and the development of local communities through plantation forest operations. In addition, the Group also conducts “environmental reforestation,” aimed at planting trees for the environmental conservation. It aims to contribute to environmental conservation through the expansion of forested areas and the fulfillment of the ecosystem services function of forests, by actively planting trees on land where natural regeneration would otherwise be difficult. The Group has also been engaged in “social forestry” which shares the economic benefits of forest plantation with local communities while enlisting the cooperation of local residents. Acquisition of Forestry Certification in Collaboration with Local Residents Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) formed a reforestation cooperative together with local residents in fiscal 2007, and acquired FSC TM-FM certification for 152 hectares of plantation forest in December 2008. Certification was obtained for an additional 179 hectares of plantation forest in 2011 and 673 hectares in 2012, taking the total area of certified plantation forest to 1,005 hectares. 192 Forest Management Overseas｜Environmental Report Large-Scale Commercial Forest Plantation Business in Collaboration with ALAS Kusuma Group Since 2010, under the license from Indonesia's Ministry of Forestry permitting utilization of timber from commercial forests, 1 Sumitomo Forestry has been committed to a large-scale forest plantation business conducted in cooperation with the ALAS Kusuma Group, a company involved in forestry management and plywood manufacturing in Indonesia. Even though illegal logging and slash-and-burn farming practices have persisted, effective countermeasures have not been implemented in the lands earmarked for this business. As a consequence, this area is at risk of losing natural forest and many invaluable plant and animal species that should be protected and conserved. In order to stop any further loss of natural forests to illegal logging or excessive slash-and-burn farming, it is crucial to provide local residents with an economic basis so as to prevent such behavior. The aim of the Company's industrial plantation is to provide local residents with employment opportunities by getting them to participate in sustainable forestry management, and to reduce the burden of human activity on precious natural forests. This project classifies and manages degraded forests (some of which contain degraded peat-swamp forests 2) devastated by illegal logging, slash-and-burn farming and the ensuing forest fires into three areas: (1) forest conservation zones, (2) buffer zones, and (3) plantation zones. With respect to the (1) forest conservation zones, in addition to setting (2) buffer zones to prevent any direct impact of plantations, the project also preserves corridors so that the conservation zones do not become isolated. As for the (3) plantation zones, based on the long-held philosophy that there is a “right tree for the right site,” the project aims to plant numerous species of trees that are suited to each location by considering the differences in environmental factors, such as soil composition and moisture content. At the same time, the project also actively contributes to preventing deforestation caused by illegal logging and disorderly slash-and-burn farming practices and to controlling the emission of greenhouse gases. The planted seedlings are produced, planted, nurtured, felled and replanted using the Company's technologies, allowing for sustainable forest management to be conducted. In fiscal 2012, the project concluded an advisory agreement with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), which is part of the World Bank Group. With a view to realizing plantation forest operations that are further conscious of the natural and social environment, the Company conducted a joint survey of the project site together with the IFC in accordance with the “high conservation value forest” (HCVF) approach, 3 on which there has been an emergent emphasis in recent years. The survey investigated whether the project site's land-use plan is being implemented appropriately and whether sufficient considerations have been given to biodiversity conservation and to the livelihoods of community residents. In September 2013, a local public consultation meeting was convened inviting various stakeholders (local residents, nearby businesses, academic experts, NGOs and government officials) to share the survey outline and results. The survey report has also been reviewed by a third-party organization, and future plans will be updated to reflect this review plus the valuable comments provided by the stakeholders. 193 Forest Management Overseas｜Environmental Report In addition, during fiscal 2013, the Group also acquired PHPL (Sertifikat Pengelolaan Hutan Produksi Lestari), a certification of the Ministry of Forestry of Indonesia for sustainable forest management. In collaboration with relevant stakeholders, the project will continue to conduct monitoring and surveys on the project based on the most up-to-date knowledge and information, and armed with this, will make improvements to its plantation management plans as required. 1. Issued by the Indonesian government, this is a business license to engage in industrial timber plantation operations in Indonesia. The license is valid for 100 years. 2. Peat soil is one of the defining attributes of peat swamps. It is known for releasing large quantities of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane, etc.) into the atmosphere if such areas are improperly developed or exploited. Through joint research with academic institutions in Japan and Indonesia, the project gives careful attention to minimizing the decomposition of peat due to development and the resultant release of greenhouse gases. 3. An approach used when considering the value of forests which goes beyond merely their value as a carbon sink for greenhouse gases. It takes into account the multifaceted value of forests, such as containing habitats for rare, endangered species, providing basic services of nature including watershed protection and erosion control, and being important for the traditional cultural identity of local communities. 194 Forest Management Overseas｜Environmental Report Reforestation project in collaboration with the ALAS Kusuma Group 195 Forest Management Overseas｜Environmental Report Past method of tree planting on peat swamps have started with establishing many water drainage canals, and drying-out the land. However, land drying-out results in the decomposition of underground organic matters that leads to releasing greenhouse gases and to global warming. Dried peat, once ignited, is very difficult to extinguish, creating the risk of large-scale forest fires. In order to sustain the water level even to keep the soil wet, it is important to conduct appropriate control and monitoring of groundwater level. Therefore, when drawing up forestation plans, the project uses the advanced satellite information technology acquired through joint research under the Space Open Lab program provided by the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) to establish appropriate reserves, including (1) forest conservation zones and (2) buffer zones, before identifying (3) lands suited to plantation. In the plantation area within peat swamps, water routes have functions of timber transportation, water level regulation, and firebreaking. The water routes are kept disconnected with rivers in order to prevent water drainage which causes emission of greenhouse gases. Contribution to Local Communities through Social Forestry In Indonesia, Sumitomo Forestry has been conducting social forestry since 2000, whereby seedlings are distributed free of charge to local residents to plant, and then PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) and PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) promise to buy back the grown trees in six to seven years, when the trees are ready for harvesting. As well as being a venture to support the self-reliance of local residents, social forestry also fosters communication to build strong relationships with local communities. Forest Management Consulting Business Overseas Corporate needs for forest management are diverse. In recent years, there has been a considerable number of companies conducting forest conservation activities and planting activities in developing countries, for the purpose of mitigating the impact on forests in overseas countries and regions where they are doing business, or for the purpose of fulfilling their corporate social responsibility. Drawing on its knowledge of forest management in Japan and overseas, Sumitomo Forestry implements its consulting business for restoration of degraded forests in tropical regions, the rehabilitation of biodiversity, and for the protection and cultivation of forests that takes into account local communities. The Company plans to enhance the value of existing projects in cooperation with local governments and relevant organizations, and to promote the proposal of new mechanisms such as REDD+ as well as ongoing projects that contribute to local economies through forest management and agricultural production. 196 Forest Management Overseas｜Environmental Report Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd.'s Project for the Rehabilitation and Regeneration of the Paliyan Wildlife Sanctuary Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. has been involved in efforts for restoring the devastated forests in the Paliyan Wildlife Sanctuary (Gunung Kidul Regency in the Special Region of Yogyakarta) in Indonesia since 2005. Sumitomo Forestry has provided associated consulting services. During the first phase of activities to March 2011, around 300,000 trees were planted on 350 hectares of land. Since April 2011, with a goal of creating a framework for local Residents receiving people to voluntarily protect their abundant forest areas, agricultural guidance Sumitomo Forestry has provided support for an agricultural guidance program aimed at improving the livelihoods of local residents, the establishment of an inclusive organization to examine ways of managing protected forests, and an environmental education program in cooperation with local schools. In fiscal 2014, the resident groups that had received support through this project in gaining registration as agricultural cooperatives obtained regency approval. As part of this project, the Company has also opened the doors to its plantation forests, seminar house and other related facilities in a positive effort to make information on its experiences and know-how on forest restoration available to the public. These have been well attended by local elementary and middle school students, by Indonesian and foreign university students and experts in such fields as forestry, the environment and education, as well as by many government officials. 197 Forest Management Overseas｜Environmental Report Revegetation Project in Gunung Merapi National Park in Cooperation with JICA Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. and PT. TS Tech Indonesia have been running a project for the restoration of ecosystems in Indonesia's Gunung Merapi National Park (Central Java) since fiscal 2012. Sumitomo Forestry has teamed up with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to provide support for implementation of the project. Two of the aims of the project are to regenerate the national park forests that were devastated by illegal digging for gravel, Plantation forest in the and to contribute to the capacity building of national park Gunung Merapi National Park personnel through practical revegetation activities. The knowledge gained through Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance's project for the rehabilitation and regeneration of the Paliyan Wildlife Sanctuary has also been applied to forest regeneration in this project. During fiscal 2014, the project activities included managing the planted trees, such as clearing away underbrush and applying fertilizer, as well as conducting patrols to prevent illegal digging for gravel and other activities. Moving forward, efforts will be undertaken in cooperation with the national park so that the plantation forest can be properly managed. Procuring Timber from Sustainable Forests in Accordance with the Action Plan for Timber Procurement These initiatives are reported under Sustainable procurement of timber. Sustainable Procurement of Timber 198 Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation｜Environmental Report Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation Declaration of Biodiversity and Biodiversity Action Guidelines Sumitomo Forestry established its Policy on Biodiversity Conservation in Company-owned Forests in Japan in fiscal 2006, and its Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy in fiscal 2007. The Company also revised its Environmental Policies in fiscal 2007 to incorporate biodiversity considerations. Then in March 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Group established its Declaration of Biodiversity, setting out the Sumitomo Forestry Group’s understanding of and stance on biodiversity; Biodiversity Action Guidelines, specifying an internal set of guidelines; and Biodiversity Long-Term Targets as specific goals of activity. In July 2015, the Group initiate the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy, bringing together the Environmental Philosophy, the Environmental Policies, the Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration of Biodiversity, and the Sumitomo Forestry Group’s Biodiversity Action Guidelines. Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy(link to Corporate Information) The Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration of Biodiversity The forefather to the Sumitomo Forestry Group was founded more than three centuries ago, and since then we have developed our businesses while conserving forests, whose clear water, air, and soil are the source of life for many living creatures. Going forward, we at Sumitomo Forestry will continue to place the greatest importance on preserving biodiversity through our forestry business for providing timber, which is a renewable and natural material, and for managing forests, which support diverse ecosystems. We shall also strive to help realize a sustainable society that exists in harmony with nature. The Sumitomo Forestry Group’s Declaration of Action Guidelines 1. Position biodiversity as a key issue with the goal of coexisting with the environment and, together with its stakeholders, pursue initiatives to protect and promote biodiversity. 2. Ensure that each and every employee in the Group understands the importance of biodiversity and acts while considering both the direct and indirect consequences of their actions on biodiversity. 3. Minimize the impact of all Group activities on biodiversity. 4. Through its timber and forest-related businesses, provide to society the gifts acquired from forest ecosystems and contribute to the improvement of people’s lives. News release: “Sumitomo Forestry Group Announces Declaration of Biodiversity” 199 Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation｜Environmental Report Biodiversity Long-Term Targets As well as advancing biodiversity preservation initiatives, the Group established the Biodiversity Long-Term Targets in March 2012 as a way of contributing to the international community in respect to attainment of the Aichi Biodiversity Targets adopted at the 10th Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP10) in 2010. Rough schedules for achieving each of the long-term targets were put in place covering the period up until 2020 and serve as a guideline for advancing initiatives. The Sumitomo Forestry Group’s Biodiversity Long-term Targets: Summary Group-wide targets 1 (Aim to achieve sustainable forests) In all timber-related businesses, from upstream to downstream, work to prevent any reduction in forest areas and aim to achieve sustainable forests. Regenerate forests through reforestation and the recharging of natural resources and maintain logging to less than grown volume of the forest. Increase the procurement and use of sustainable timber, including forest certified timber, plantation forest timber, and Japanese timber. Promote the efficient use of timber and, recycle, and reuse timber. 2 (Increase the amount of CO 2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber) In order to increase the amount of CO 2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber, promote the use of timber by cultivating healthy forests and encouraging the use of timber construction materials and the construction of wooden buildings. In this way, contribute to the protection of biodiversity and help alleviate climate change. Individual targets 3 (Forests) Promote forest management that regenerates, maintains, and increases biodiversity Carry out zoning that protects ecosystems and the habitats of living creatures. Maintain to 20% or above the percentage of the environment protection priority forests area of Company-owned forests in Japan. 200 Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation｜Environmental Report Maintain to 100% the percentage of Company-owned forests in Japan that are forest certified. Establish targets for protecting endangered species based on the results of the biodiversity monitoring conducted within Company-owned forests in Japan starting 2012. Conduct operations at plantation forests overseas while considering how best to contribute to local communities, economies and education. 4 (Products) Provide products and services that are considerate to biodiversity, such as forest-certified timber and products and services that have received an environmental assessment. 5 (Construction) Work to develop homes and communities that are in harmony with the natural environment and their surrounding urban landscapes. 6 (Design) Manage and minimize the generation of waste through promoting a zero-emissions policy in construction operations. 7 (Greening) Be considerate to the surrounding ecosystems and tree species and actively cultivate native species. 8 (Plants) Manage and minimize the generation of pollutants, waste, and noise pollution, and reduce their impact on biodiversity. 9 (Public relations) Actively communicate the importance of biodiversity to all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, and local communities. 10 (Research) Collect the latest information and develop conservation technologies in order to implement measures to protect biodiversity. 11 (Social contribution) Protect those trees that are historically and culturally important and also preserve their genetic material. 201 Biodiversity Conservation in CompanyOwned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan The Policy on Biodiversity Conservation for Company-owned forests in Japan calls for efforts to promote diversity of ecosystems, through proper management of protected areas and consideration toward the continuity of forests; diversity of species, through protection of rare flora and fauna; and genetic diversity, through the maintenance of populations. In keeping with these policies, forests are subject to appropriate zoning and management according to certain criteria, such as the increment of trees. Sumitomo Forestry is also making efforts to create endangered species lists and manuals, conduct surveys to monitor wildlife, and develop materials for protecting saplings. Policy on Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan (Excerpt) (Formulated June 2006) 1．Diversity of ecosystems We will properly manage strictly protected areas designated under the Natural Parks Law and other legislation in a manner stipulated by the law. In other areas, we will ensure continuity of forests by limiting the area of forest harvested, particularly when clear cutting is conducted. 2．Diversity of species We will work to prevent a decline in the number of species existing in natural forests by refraining from expansive planting projects and other extreme activities involving the replacement of species that would have a major impact on existing ecosystems. We will also give the utmost consideration to the protection of rare flora and fauna in all operations, making reference to the Sumitomo Forestry Red Data Book. 3．Genetic diversity Genetic variation and the maintenance of populations to support them will become issues in the future. However, analysis is complicated and therefore we will closely watch monitoring activities carried out by government and public institutions and their findings. 202 Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas｜Environmental Report Red Data Book and Riparian Forest Management Manual Sumitomo Forestry creates a Red Data Book listing flora and fauna at threat of extinction which may exist in Company-owned forests and distributes it to employees and contractors involved in forest management. By carrying the book with them during operations, personnel can refer to the opinions of specialists when they come across flora and fauna included in the book and take action. The Company has also created the Riparian Forest Sumitomo Forestry’s Red Data Management Manual to ensure the appropriate management Book and preservation of areas around bodies of water that are rich in biodiversity. The Red Data Book and Riparian Forest Management Manual are reviewed and updated as required. Wildlife Monitoring Surveys Sumitomo Forestry monitors wildlife inhabiting Company-owned forests. Every year, surveys are conducted in one of four areas— Mombetsu (Hokkaido), Niihama (Shikoku), Hyuga (Kyushu) and Wakayama. Data for each area is therefore accumulated in four-year cycles. This is used to create basic reference materials relating to biodiversity and to ascertain the impact of forestry on the surrounding environment over the long-term. In fiscal 2014, monitoring surveys were conducted in Company-owned forests in Hokkaido. They included surveys of mammals and birds and fixed-point photography. Species of mammals and birds confirmed by past surveys Surveyed forest Mammals Birds Year Niihama Forest 14 31 2008 Hyuga Forest 11 33 2009 Mombetsu Forest 10 38 2010 Wakayama Forest 12 25 2011 Niihama Forest(2nd 11 34 2012 survey) Hyuga Forest(2nd 12 29 2013 survey) Mombetsu 9 40 2014 Forest(2nd survey) 203 Value of Ecosystem Services Generated by Company-Owned Forests Using data on forest registers 1 and maps stored in the Company’s own independent forest management system, Sumitomo Forestry is working to quantify 2 the diverse ecosystem services 3 provided by its company-owned forests, and to render a visual representation of the environmental value of managing those forests. Through quantifying the ecosystem services and calculating the economic value, the Company will contribute to the establishment of forest management techniques that enhance ecosystem services, and to the development of techniques for evaluating ecosystem services in forests. 1. A register on the forest resources of privately-owned forests. Each register records the species and ages of trees, as well as the size of the forest and its management history. 2. Of the different categories of ecosystem services, quantification of the regulating services (purification of water, climate regulation, protection from natural disasters, etc.). 3. All of the functions derived from ecosystems that are of benefit to humankind. There are a variety of functions, from the production of food and wood, to purification of air and water, the water cycle, and the conservation of biodiversity. Topics: President Ichikawa Attends COP12 The 12th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 12) was held in Pyeongchang in the Republic of Korea, October 6–17, 2014. It was attended by more than 3,000 representatives from the governments of the world, relevant international organizations, private enterprises and NGOs. The Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation, which is an organization associated with the Japan Business Federation, sent a business mission comprised of three corporate members (12 people in total) which included Sumitomo Forestry. Akira Ichikawa, President of Sumitomo Forestry, served as the mission leader. President Ichikawa took the rostrum at the Business and Biodiversity Forum, and spoke of how Japanese companies have incorporated the conservation of biodiversity into their management policies and environmental policies, and how they are actively engaged in conservation activities. Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation 204 Biodiversity Conservation in Plantation Forests Overseas Indonesia has the third largest area of rainforest in the world, however, it is said that around 700,000 hectares of forest are lost each year due to such factors as forest fires, illegal logging and slash-and-burn farming. The Sumitomo Forestry Group runs a large-scale plantation in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. The forests are planted and managed using methods suited to each area based on appropriate zoning that takes into account biodiversity considerations. In fiscal 2012, for the purpose of objectively reviewing the methods used for selecting and managing protected areas set up within the boundary of the plantation site, the Group entered into an advisory agreement with the International Finance Cooperation (IFC), an independent organization and member of the World Bank Group, and in fiscal 2013, identified high conservation value forests (HCVF) areas within the site. The results of this review will be reflected in future business plans. Also in fiscal 2013, the Group acquired PHPL (Sertifikat Pengelolaan Hutan Produksi Lestari), a certification of the Ministry of Forestry of Indonesia for sustainable forest management. Forest Management Overseas 205 Conservation of Biodiversity through Business and Services Conservation of Biodiversity through the Greening Business Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. makes comprehensive proposals for the landscaping and greening of many different environments, from houses, parks and residential property development through to regeneration of the natural environment. Areas designated for planting are categorized into four areas according to their conservation level—protected areas, conservation areas, satoyama areas (countryside close to rural communities) and town areas and local seeds, seedlings and saplings, native plants, and cultivars are planted after considering their effect on ecosystems. In a conservation area such as a nature park, for example, only local seeds, seedlings or saplings are used. In the landscaping of residential gardens in town areas, consideration is also given to color in the space by planting not only native species, but also cultivars and certain introduced species (introduced since the Meiji era) which have no effect on the local ecosystem. The Group actively promotes use of these plants for landscaping and greening as Harmonic Plants ® that are chosen based on biodiversity considerations. The Group also has in place a policy of not using species that clearly have an adverse impact on local ecosystems 1 and a division responsible for coordinating technology at Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. checks that such species are not used. 1. Specified alien species and alien species requiring caution as stipulated by the Invasive Alien Species Act The Thinking behind “Harmonic Plants” ® 206 Conservation of Biodiversity through Business and Services｜Environmental Report Approach to Planting Areas Efforts for the Entrenched Widespread Use of Harmonic Plants ® Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. has adopted a biodiverse approach to tree-planting for Sumitomo Forestry custom-built detached houses and subdivision homes. For instance, it used Harmonic Plants ® in the exterior landscaping for all 621 subdivision homes completed during fiscal 2014. It also used Harmonic Plants ® in landscaping at all 35 Sumitomo Forestry model homes that opened during fiscal 2014, in an effort not only for Harmonic Plants ® to be incorporated into planting proposals for customers, but also to raise awareness among employees. Furthermore, in October 2014, in conjunction with Sumitomo Forestry, the Company launched a new concept of complete garden proposals called “Sumitomo Forestry Gardens.” The “Sumitomo Forestry Gardens” proposals, which integrate home and garden design, include plans for planting that take biodiversity into account based on Harmonic Plants ®. Native species are one class of Harmonic Plants ®. Targets for the number of native species planted have been established in the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan, and in fiscal 2014, 36,847 native species were planted at Sumitomo Forestry’s custom-built detached houses and subdivision homes. Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan 207 Biodiversity Consulting Business Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. set up a biodiversity consulting team, the Eco-Asset™ Consortium, with InterRisk Research Institute & Consulting, Inc. and Regional Environmental Planning Inc. Sumitomo Forestry joined the consortium in 2011 and engages in consulting services regarding the incorporation of biodiversity considerations into urban regeneration projects, upgrading of existing green zones, satoyama regeneration and other projects. Biodiversity conservation-related needs are expected to climb and the Sumitomo Forestry Group plans to utilize expertise from achieving coexistence of forests with the environment in providing a particular kind of consulting service that is unique to the Group, thereby expanding environmental business and contributing to the coexistence of communities and corporations with the natural environment. Park Renovation Project at Kyukamura Irako, Aichi Prefecture Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. was awarded a contract from the Aichi Prefectural Government in September 2013 for a renovation project at Kyukamura Irako in collaboration with the participants of the Eco-Asset TM Consortium. The Kyukamura Irako hotel is located in the city of Tahara, Aichi Prefecture. As a lodging facility operated by the prefectural government, it contributed to the expansion of tourism and recreation for the public, but it faced various challenges, including a fall in tourist numbers. At the same Illustration of the renovated time, the neighboring beach plays an important role in the park at Kyukamura Irako ecosystem network, including serving as a spawning ground for green sea turtles and as a migratory point for hawks such as the gray-faced buzzard and the honey buzzard. In addition to removing the pool and other outdated facilities, the project involves developing the Irago Salala Park, Japan’s first garden for observing coastal flora. In October 2014, approximately 2.5 hectares of the total 5 hectares were opened for the sightseeing area which will be the main facility. In promoting this project, various methods have been adopted for regenerating the vegetation, for instance attempting to restore the coastal vegetation that had originally been there by turning the soil over and reviving the buried seeds that had been dormant underground. The park is scheduled for completion in fiscal 2017. 208 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances｜Environmental Report Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances Management of Chemical Substances at Research Institute and Plants Although chemical substances are used in laboratory work and production at the Sumitomo Forestry Tsukuba Research Institute and at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. plants, the Group complies with revised laws and endeavors to identify and properly manage any hazardous chemical substances. Management of chemical substances at the Tsukuba Research Institute At the Tsukuba Research Institute, the Chemical Substances Handling Manual prescribes procedures from the receipt to disposal of chemical substances, and the Manual for Responding to Disasters Involving Chemical Substances prescribes procedures for preventing and dealing with accidents in the event of a disaster. Based on these two manuals, the institute is committed to the safe handling of chemical substances, and twice a year, it takes an inventory for the purpose of identifying the chemical substances in its possession and disposing of any unnecessary stock. Particularly with regard to hazardous chemical substances, the institute has implemented various measures in preparation of a disaster, such as installing dedicated storage lockers and keeping the substances under lock and key, as well as installing partitions where liquid substances are stored to prevent them from tipping over. Management of chemical substances at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. At Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. plants, environment-related work manuals and regulations have been established to prevent chemical leaks and other environmental accidents. In accordance with these provisions, the plants regularly measure the concentrations of air pollutants, water pollutants and organic solvents in exhaust gas to check that there are no problems. At the No. 2 Kyushu Plant, where a large amount of chemical substances are handled, leak response equipment is always on hand and emergency training is practiced as measures for preventing spills. 209 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances｜Environmental Report PRTR Substances (Data covers Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.) Unit: kg (excluding dioxins, which is shown in mg-TEQ) D e s i g n a t e d c h e Designated Relea m chemical Rele ses i substance ases to soi c Total Total Transfers Transf a Releases to l at re On-site releases transfers to er as l to air public levant landfill sewage waste s sewage busin u system ess si b te s t a n c e # Acrylic acid and its 4 22.0 0.0 22.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 water-soluble salts 7 n-Butyl acrylate 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 33.0 0.0 33.0 84 Glyoxal 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.2 0.0 5.2 134 Vinyl acetate 2,289.0 2,200.0 89.0 0.0 0.0 23.0 0.0 23.0 186 Methylene chloride 65,000.0 65,000.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 4,290.6 0.0 4,290.6 243 Dioxins 114.4 114.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 349 Phenol 1.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 590.0 0.0 590.0 392 n-hexane 500.0 500.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 The water-soluble 395 salts of 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.0 0.0 7.0 peroxydisulfuric acid 407 POAE (C=12〜15) 1 14.0 0.0 14.0 0.0 0.0 5.2 0.0 5.2 411 Formaldehyde 49.0 49.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 780.0 0.0 780.0 415 Methacrylic acid 4.7 0.0 4.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Methylenebis 448 (4,1phenylene) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 121.0 0.0 121.0 diisocyanate 1. Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether (limited to where the carbon number of the alkyl group is between 12 and 15, and compounds thereof). About symbol for third party assurance (link to Third Party Assurance Report) 210 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances｜Environmental Report Emissions of NOx and SOx (Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.,) Substance Emissions(Unit: kg) SOx (Sulfur oxide) 2,609 NOx (Nitrogen oxide) 2,001 Soot and dust 1,397 Effluent Water Quality Survey Results Effluent Water Quality Survey Results (No.2 Kyushu Plant) (Tsukuba Research Institute) Effluent Effluent Item 1 Unit Measured Item Unit Measured Standards 2 Standards 3 pH 7.5 5.0〜9.0 pH 7.9 5.8〜8.6 COD mg/L 28.6 40 BOD 4 mg/L 13.0 160 SS mg/L 4.0 50 SS mg/L 7.0 200 TN mg/L 1.7 60 Total n-hexane TP mg/L 0.02 8 extract Less than substances mg/L 5 1 (total mineral oils) Total n-hexane extract substances mg/L 1.0 30 (total plant and animal fats/oils) Total Less than mg/L 0.5 or less Phenols 0.025 1. pH = concentration of hydronium ions, COD = Chemical Oxygen Demand, SS = Suspended Solids, T-N = Total Nitrogen, T-P = Total Phosphorous 2. Effluent Standards uses values stipulated by prefectural ordinance. 3. Effluent Standards uses values stipulated by the Water Pollution Control Act. Total Phenols uses standards required by the Tsukuba City Pollution Prevention Agreement. 4. BOD = Biological Oxygen Demand 211 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances｜Environmental Report Proper Treatment of Building Materials Containing Asbestos The Sumitomo Forestry Group has secured appropriate disposal routes for asbestos. At Sumitomo Forestry, a Guide for Appropriate Measures during Demolition Work has been formulated, and it endeavors to prevent asbestos being released into the air during home demolition work. At each of Sumitomo Forestry’s office buildings as well, any asbestos is disposed of properly in accordance with the law. Storage and Proper Treatment of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) At Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd., polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) waste, such as that contained in used high-voltage capacitors, is properly managed and disposed of in accordance with the PCB Special Measures Law. Disposal of PCB Waste FY2013 FY2014 Change Decrease of 10 units 235 Units 225 Units (4,307 kg) 212 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances｜Environmental Report Project for Soil Purification Technology and Environmental Remediation Aided by Plants An issue in re-using the site of an old factory is the environmental impact associated with soil contamination and the cost burden of any remedial measures. For example, under the revised Fire Service Act of Japan, gasoline stations are now obliged to repair any underground tanks that have laid under the ground for more than 40 years, and as a consequence of this, it is expected that between 1,000 and 2,000 stations will close down each year. Grass laid on the site where a In order to meet the demand for environmental remediation gasoline station once stood and measures dealing with soil contamination, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has been working on cleansing contaminated soil by using the functions of plants (phytoremediation). As part of this, during fiscal 2012, in collaboration with JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, the Group developed a method for purifying soil contaminated with oil using Burning Field, a variety of Japanese lawn-grass independently registered by the Group. One of the functions possessed by the variety of Japanese lawn-grass used in this method is that the nutrients transpiring from its roots activate microorganisms in the soil, and the upshot of this is that it has the potential to inexpensively reduce the oil content in polluted soil. This method has been adopted at nine sites so far to purify areas where gasoline stands or oil depots once stood, with purification at three sites now complete. In fiscal 2013 and 2014, the Ministry of the Environment conducted a study on low-cost, low-impact technologies for surveying and for counteracting contaminated soil. The study found that oil-degrading microorganisms tend to become more active, and were recognized as having potential to be applied at sites heavily contaminated with oil. Moving forward, by steadily producing results in soil purification based on this technique, the Group will continue to help resolve the nationwide problem of oil contamination. News release: Development of technique to cleanse contaminated soil using phytoremediation Received the FY2012 Environment Minister Award for the Model Initiatives on Environment Measures 213 Efficient Use of Water Resources｜Environmental Report Efficient Use of Water Resources Reduction of Water Consumption in Business Activities Around the world, there is a growing sense of crisis over water shortages. It is expected that this problem will become more and more urgent as the demand for water rises with population increase and economic growth in developing countries. Previously, the Sumitomo Forestry Group had gauged water consumption at its plants inside and outside Japan, but in fiscal 2012, the Group began examining the consumption and the associated sources at bases where actual water usage is measurable, such as at buildings owned by the Sumitomo Forestry Group. Plants in Japan primarily manufacture processed wood products, such as interior materials for housing, and thus do not use large amounts of water. Nevertheless, in order to use water resources as effectively as possible, the Group employs water-saving initiatives at each plant. Water Consumed by Group Companies in Japan 1 （FY2014） Total Figures in Manufacturing Offices in parentheses companies in Japan indicate percentage Japan change since FY2013 86,556m 3 Clean water 64,064m 3 22,492m 3 （-8.6%） 3,171m 3 Groundwater 2,970m 3 201m 3 （+10.5%） Industrial 282,968m 3 109,500m 3 2 173,468m 3 water （-10.3%） 372,695m 3 Total 176,534m 3 196,161m 3 （-9.7%） 1. Covers bases where actual water usage is measurable, such as at buildings owned by the Sumitomo Forestry Group. 2. Used by Kawanokita Development Co., Ltd. at a golf course it manages for watering the turf and otherwise maintaining the course. About symbol for third party assurance (link to Third Party Assurance Report) 214 Efforts at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.’s No. 2 Kyushu Plant manufactures synthetic resin adhesives and other products. It primarily promotes three measures for reducing water usage. First, it uses industrial water to cool manufacturing equipment. Then, it reuses the water to dilute plant effluent. In fiscal 2014, the volume of industrial water used decreased by 6% compared with the previous fiscal year. Measuring the COD of effluent Measures Used at the Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.’s No. 2 Kyushu Plant for Saving Water 1. Collect some of the water used for washing equipment, and reuse it as a raw material. 2. Improve the proportion of rainwater used, such as by upgrading the pumps used for collecting rainwater. 3. Maintain water-quality control by measuring COD 1 and treat wastewater using only the minimum amount of water necessary. 1. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): An indication of the amount of oxygen required to oxidize an organic compound in water; one of the most important indicators of water quality. 215 Environmental Accounting Tabulated Results for Fiscal 2014 Sumitomo Forestry calculates and publicizes the costs and benefits of its environmental conservation activities to promote environmentally sound management. Note: The basis of calculation includes Sumitomo Forestry on a non-consolidated basis and certain group companies. 216 Environmental Preservation Costs Cost Cost Category Main Activities （Million Yen） Sustainable forestry cultivation 658 Environment-related business Global environmental (overseas consulting, REDD+ business, 241 protection costs 1 etc) Carbon offset 94 Costs within operational area Promotion of appropriate treatment, reduction, and recycling of industrial 5,212 waste Resource recycling costs 2 Waste wood chip distribution operations 199 Potting mix business 459 Upstream/Downstream costs 3 Green purchasing 75 Operation and promotion of environmental management (ISO14001 112 certification,environmenral education,LCA surveys, etc.) Observation of environmental burdens 2 Management activity costs 4 Disclosure and administration of environmental information (CSR Report, environment-related 25 advertising, environment-related exhibitions, etc.) R&D activities related to environmental R&D costs 5 311 conservation Management and operation of Mt. Fuji 26 Manabi no Mori Management and operation of Forester 8 House Social contribution costs 6 Other social contribution activities 3 Donations to the Keidanren Nature 2 Conservation Fund Total 7,427 217 Link to the Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation 1. Global environmental protection costs : Expenditures for preservation and management of Company-owned forests to foster sustainable forestry, expenditures in Japan and overseas relating to the environmental business, and overseas reforestation expenses for implementing carbon offset. 2. Resource recycling costs : Expenditures on waste wood distribution operations and sorting, recycling, appropriate treatment, transportation and management of construction waste, as well as costs incurred in the potting mix business. 3. Upstream/Downstream costs : Expenditures for green purchasing. 4. Management activity costs : Office expenses and auditing costs relating to maintenance of ISO 14001 certification; expenditures relating to disclosure of environmental information through advertising, environment-related exhibitions and the CSR Reports; expenditures relating to lectures on environmental education; and costs for life cycle assessment inspections. 5. R&D costs : Expenditures for environment-related research conducted at the Tsukuba Research Institute 6. Social contribution costs : Expenditures related to operating the Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori natural forest restoration project, and maintaining and operating Forester House; expenditures related to other social contribution activities; donations to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund; and provision of financial assistance to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund commissioned by the Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation. 218 Environmental Benefits Category Description Results Volume of recycled waste wood from distribution 1,089 operations(converted into chip equivalents) (1,000 m 3 ) Benefits from costs within operational area Volume sold of potting mix using recycled sediment from 22 water purification (1,000 ton) Benefits from Upstream/Downstream Green procurement ratio 69.8 costs Benefits from management activity Employees designated as internal environmental auditors 85 costs Release of “Green Smart Solar Z,” a full roof-mounted 10kW-plus capacity solar power generation system Solar power generation systems also installed on carports as a variation on the environmentally conscious housing concept, Green Smart Sales launched for “Air Dream Hybrid” a central air-conditioning system equipped with an “outside-air cooling” function Participation in the Japan Public-Private Platform for REDD+ Cherry tree cultivated from tissue culture of the renowned Omurozakura cherry at the Ninna-Ji Temple in Kyoto comes Benefits from R&D costs into bloom Succeed in propagating a sapling using tissue culture from a “Sacred Plum Tree” in front of the Kitano Tenmangu Main Shrine in Kyoto Conclude agreement with Gifu Prefecture on the supply of seedlings Phytoremediation of soil contaminated with oil, by means of Japanese lawn-grass Selected as sponsored technology under the Ministry of the Environment’s study on low-cost, low-impact technologies for surveying and for counteracting contaminated soil Benefits of social contribution costs Volunteers who participated in Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori 538 project Benefits of social contribution costs Children participating in the Environmental Education 789 Program at Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori project Visitors to Forester House 3,360 219 Environmental Data for Group Companies | Environmental Report Environmental Data for Group Companies Environmental Data for Group Companies in Japan Data for manufacturing companies in Japan shows the environmental impact per company and per plant. Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. No. 2 Kashima Shizuoka Nagoya Niihama Kyushu Item (unit) Kyushu Total Plant Plant Plant Plant Plant Plant Energy input 31,392 25,984 29,229 22,219 30,348 14,991 154,164 （GJ） Raw material 13,409 36,133 6,894 4,195 8,939 6,334 75,904 input（t） Water resource consumption (m 3 ) Clean 4,715 4,598 3,979 6,431 61 19,784 water Lakes-Kas umigaura/K itaura Ponds-Tas Rivers-Kiso Main (Protected Groundwat hiro Pond River basin water area: partly er-Oi River (partly in pr Reservoirs (Protected source in Suigo-Ts basin otected for areas: N/A) ukuba Qua est) si-National Park) Industrial 5,799 18,250 149,640 173,689 water Rivers-Arit Rivers-Arit Groundwat a River ba a River ba Main er (Niiham sin (partly sin (partly water a City Bure in Kurokami in Kurokami source au of Wate zan Wildlife zan Wildlife rworks) Preserve) Preserve) 220 Environmental Data for Group Companies | Environmental Report No. 2 Kashima Shizuoka Nagoya Niihama Kyushu Item (unit) Kyushu Total Plant Plant Plant Plant Plant Plant Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO 2 ) CO 2 (Carbon 1,300 1,364 1,517 1,548 1,884 977 8,590 dioxide) CH 4 6 5 8 19 (Methane) 1 N2O (Dinitrogen 0.7 0.6 1 2 monoxide) 1 Volume of 2,797 1,865 1,868 873 1,573 260 9,236 waste (t) Total water discharge (m 3 ) Sewage 3,612 5,799 9,411 Ocean 3,979 3,979 area Rivers 4,598 4,598 Lakes 24,681 132,772 157,453 Emissions into air（kg） Sox 408 67 1,691 2,165 (Sulfur oxide) NOx (Nitrogen 680 1,321 2,001 oxide) Soot and 624 773 1,397 dust 1. Methane and dinitrogen monoxide have been converted to carbon dioxide equivalents. 221 Environmental Data for Group Companies | Environmental Report Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd. Item (unit) Sakura Plant 1 Shinshiro Plant Tobishima Plant Total Energy input 132 3,325 2,760 6,217 （GJ） Raw material 3,853 14,503 18,356 input（ｔ） Water resource consumption (m 3 ) Clean 1,592 1,116 2,708 water Rivers-Ure River basin (Protected area：partly in Main water Rivers-Kiso River basin Tenryu-Okumikawa Quasi source (Protected area: N/A) -National Park and Hour ai Wildlife Preserve) Ground water Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO 2 ) CO 2 (Carbon 8 208 166 382 dioxide) Volume of waste 5 23 46 73 (t) Total water discharge (m 3 ) Ocean 996 996 area Rivers 1,292 1,292 Lakes Others 1. May, 2014 complete evacuation. The results of the Energy input (GJ) are things by the restitutio in integrum. 222 Environmental Data for Group Companies | Environmental Report Environmental Data for Group Companies outside Japan Data for manufacturing companies outside Japan shows the environmental impact per company. PT. Rimba Alpine MDF PT. Kutai Nelson PT. AST Vina Eco Bo Item (unit) Partikel Industries Timber Pine Indonesia ard Co., Ltd. Indonesia Pty Ltd. Indonesia Industries Ltd. Energy input 211,527 372,095 67,603 696,004 995,265 299,070 （GJ ） Raw material 167,299 170,733 25,836 388,354 707,046 182,543 input（ t） Water resource consumption（m 3 ） Clean 80,596 342,476 52,084 water Industrial 201,774 water Ground 207,821 29,939 107,109 water Greenhouse gas emissions（t-CO 2 ） CO 2 (Carbon 14,904 27,790 5,160 50,617 15,188 10,210 oxide) CH 4 (Methane) 1 1,053 847 331 118 N 2 O (Dinitr ogen mono 121 98 38 14 xide) 1 Volume of was 16,011 37,807 1,813 34,855 3,708 te Total water discharge (m 3 ) Sewage 28,602 4,450 283,529 13,083 Ocean 115,605 area Rivers 5,503 25,149 39,001 1. Methane and dinitrogen monoxide have been converted to carbon dioxide equivalents. 223 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Sumitomo Forestry Profile Company Name Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Address of Headquarters Keidanren Kaikan, 3-2, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8270, Japan Paid-in Capital ¥27,672 million Incorporated February 20, 1948 Founded 1691 Number of employees Unconsolidated: 4,499; Consolidated: 18,137 (as of March 31, 2015) Business scope Environment and Resources Business Management of forests; development of new forestry and environmentrelated business; management of biomass power generation business and other environmental energy business, as well as plantation forest operations overseas; consulting on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Japan and overseas Timber & Building Materials Businesses Purchase, manufacture, secondary processing and sales of timber (logs, wood chips, processed timber, engineered wood, etc.) and building materials (plywood, fiberboard, processed wood materials, concrete and ceramic building materials, metal building materials, housing systems and fixtures, etc.) Overseas Businesses Manufacture and sales of timber and building materials; contract construction and sales of detached houses, etc. overseas. Housing Businesses Contract construction, after-sales maintenance and renovation of detached houses and multi-unit residences; sales of spec homes; sales of interior products; rental, management, sales, and brokerage of property; contract work for housing exteriors, garden landscaping and urban greening; CAD work and site surveys, etc. 224 Corporate Profile Lifestyle Services Operation of private-pay elderly care facilities; equipment leasing; insurance agency; manufacture and sales of gardening products; development of information systems; temporary staffing, etc. Company-owned forest 46,247 ha (As of March 31, 2015) 225 Corporate Profile Key Financial Data Consolidate Net Sales, Operating Income, Recurring Income and Net Income FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Net Sales (Billions of 7,975 8,319 8,452 9,730 9,973 yen) Operating Income 142（1.8%） 192（2.3%） 253（3.0%） 334 (3.4%) 340 (Billions of yen) Recurring Income 142（1.8%） 207（2.5%） 270（3.2%） 336 (3.4%) 364 (Billions of yen) Net Income (Billions of 52（0.6%） 93（1.1%） 159（1.9%） 225 (2.3%) 186 yen) 1. Percentages indicate the ratio to net sales. Consolidated Net Sales and Ratio of Net Sales by Segment (FY2014) Timber and Building Housing Overseas Other Material Businesses Business Businesses Business Net Sales 423,020 453,940 147,024 16,565 (million yen) Ratio of Net 40.7 43.6 14.1 1.6 Sales (%) 1. Percentages indicate the ratio to net sales. 2. Net sales for each segment include intersegment sales and transfers. The aggregate of each segment’s net sales does not match the consolidated net sales (997.3 billion yen). Performance Highlights (link to Investor Relations) 226 Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2015 Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2015 Purpose of Disclosing CSR Information The Sumitomo Forestry Group regards the CSR Report as an important tool for communicating with all stakeholders, and as such, publishes the report every year on its website. The CSR Report 2015 includes a section on “Top Message,” and the rest is then divided into three parts: Management System, Social Report and Environmental Report, which report the Group's philosophy and policies on CSR as well as its specific activities. The Group also formulated the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan in March 2015, identifying a number of Key CSR Issues. This plan has been operational since fiscal 2015. The report also has a section on “CSR Activity Highlights,” showcasing the Group's distinctive initiatives centered around wood, which aim to contribute to the realization of a sustainable enterprise and a sustainable society. The website from where the CSR Report is available also includes detailed content on the Group’s activities such as forest conservation, biodiversity preservation and social contribution. Please visit the webpages on the Group’s diverse initiatives and feel free to provide us with your feedback. Reliability of Report Content The respective departments of the Sumitomo Forestry Group have endeavored to ensure accuracy by using appropriate measurement and data collection methods for the initiatives and results reported in the CSR Report. These methods are also disclosed when relevant. Furthermore, the environmental and social indicators in the report has been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., as marked with a mark . 227 Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2015 Reference Guidelines Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Edition G3.1 and G4), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition), Japanese Ministry of the Environment ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility, International Organization for Standardization Reporting Period April 2014 to March 2015 (The period also includes some activities from April 2015, as well as future expectations.) Companies Covered in the Report Although this report focuses mainly on Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd., the Company considers it important to cover activities of the entire Sumitomo Forestry Group, and has been expanding its reporting scope. Link to Related Website: “List of Sumitomo Forestry Group Companies” Main Changes during the Reporting Period The following companies have been included in the scope of consolidation since the 2014 consolidated fiscal year. Equity interest was acquired in PAN ASIA PACKING LTD. and in the Gehan Homes Group (Gehan Homes Ltd. and 6 other companies), and the following new companies were established: Hachinohe Biomass Electric Power Co., Ltd., Michinoku Bio Energy Co., Ltd., SFA Land Developments Unit Trust, SFA Land Developments Pty Ltd., and SF Holdings (Thailand) Co., Ltd. This brings the number of consolidated subsidiaries to 72 as of March 31, 2015. 228 Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2015 Publication Date The end of October 2015 (Previous: October 2014; Next: October 2016) Publication Team Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Keidanren Kaikan,3-2, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8270, Japan CSR Department 229 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index General Standard ŝƐĐůŽƐƵƌĞƐ ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Strategy and Analysis a. Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) G4-1 6.2 ＞Top Message about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. ＞Top Message a. Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ＞Risk Management G4-2 The organization should provide two concise narrative sections on 6.2 ＞CSR Management key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ＞Environmental Risk Management ＞IR Library Organizational Profile G4-3＊ a. Report the name of the organization. ＞Corporate Profile ＞Corporate Profile G4-4＊ a. Report the primary brands, products, and services. ＞CSR Management ＞Our Business G4-5＊ a. Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. ＞Corporate Profile a. Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant G4-6＊ ＞Sumitomo Forestry Group operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7＊ a. Report the nature of ownership and legal form. ＞Corporate Profile a. Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, ＞Corporate Profile G4-8＊ sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). ＞Sumitomo Forestry Group a. Report the scale of the organization, including: ・Total number of employees ・Total number of operations ＞Corporate Profile ・Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for ＞Performance Highlights G4-9＊ public sector organizations) ・Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) ・Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers 6.4 and by gender. ＞Employee Data 6.4.3 d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 ＊ e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). 6.4 a. Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective 6.4.3 G4-11＊ 6.4.4 ＞Employee Data bargaining agreements. 6.4.5 6.3.10 G4-12＊ a. Describe the organization’s supply chain. 230 GRI G4 Content Index a. Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply ・Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions ＞Corporate Profile ＊ ・Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, ＞Performance Highlights G4-13 maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector ・Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Commitments to External Initiatives ＞Risk Management ＞Housing Safety and Quality Control ＞Product Safety and Quality Control of Building a. Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle Materials G4-14＊ 6.2 ＞Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement is addressed by the organization. of Timber ＞Occupational Health and Safety ＞Environmental Management Structure ＞Environmental Risk Management a. List externally developed economic, environmental and social G4-15＊ charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 6.2 ＞CSR Management subscribes or which it endorses. a. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: ・Holds a position on the governance body ＞Promotion of Social Contribution Activities G4-16＊ 6.2 ・Participates in projects or committees ・Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues ・Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s ＞CSR Management G4-17＊ 6.2 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not ＞Our Business covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect ＊ Boundaries. ＞Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2014 G4-18 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. ＞Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management a. List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining of the Sumitomo Forestry Group G4-19＊ report content. ＞Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: ・Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization ・ If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization ＞Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches of the Sumitomo Forestry Group and report either: G4-20＊ ––The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for ＞Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues which the Aspect is not material or and ––The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for Mid-Term CSR Management Plan which the Aspects is material ・Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: ・Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization ・ If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the G4-21＊ entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is ＞Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2014 material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified ・Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization a. Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in G4-22＊ previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. ＊ a. Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the ＞Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions G4-23 Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Calculation Stakeholder Engagement G4-24＊ a. Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6.2 231 GRI G4 Content Index a. Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders G4-25＊ 6.2 with whom to engage. a. Report the organization ’ s approach to stakeholder engagement, ＊ including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder G4-26 6.2 group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. a. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through ＞Together with Our Customers stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to ＞Together with Our Business Partners G4-27＊ those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 6.2 ＞Together with Our Shareholders and Investors Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and ＞Together with Our Employees concerns. ＞Together with Local Communities Report Profile a. Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information G4-28＊ ＞Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2014 provided. ＊ G4-29 a. Date of most recent previous report (if any). ＞Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2014 G4-30＊ a. Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). ＞Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2014 a. Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its G4-31＊ ＞Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2014 contents. GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the G4-32＊㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌GRI G4 Content Index report has been externally assured. (GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines.) Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external c. Report the relationship between the organization and the G4-33＊ 7.5.3 ＞Third Party Assurance Report assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization ’ s sustainability report. Governance Governance Structure and Composition a. Report the governance structure of the organization, including ＊ committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees G4-34 ＞Corporate Governance responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. a. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, G4-35 environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to ＞Corporate Governance senior executives and other employees. a. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental G4-36 ＞Corporate Governance and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. a. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the ＞Corporate Governance highest governance body on economic, environmental and social ＞Information Disclosure and Communication G4-37 topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any ＞Communication with Employees feedback processes to the highest governance body. a. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its ・ Executive or non-executive Independence ・ Tenure on the governance body ・ Number of each individual ’ s other significant positions and G4-38 commitments, and the nature of the commitments ＞Corporate Governance ・ Gender ・ Membership of under-represented social groups ・ Competences relating to economic, environmental and social ・ Stakeholder representation a. Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also G4-39 an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the ＞Corporate Governance organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 232 GRI G4 Content Index a. Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, ・ Whether and how diversity is considered G4-40 ・ Whether and how independence is considered ・ Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered ・ Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved a. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a G4-41 ・ Cross-board membership ・ Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders ・ Existence of controlling shareholder ・ Related party disclosures Highest Governance Body’s Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy a. Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization ’ s G4-42 ＞Corporate Governance purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Highest Governance Body’s Competencies and Performance Evaluation a. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest G4-43 governance body ’ s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body ’ s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such G4-44 b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest ＞Corporate Governance governance body ’ s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Highest Governance Body’s Role in Risk Management a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, ＞Corporate Governance and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the ＞Risk Management implementation of due diligence processes. ＞CSR Management G4-45 6.2 b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the ＞Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement highest governance body ’ s identification and management of of Timber economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and ＞Environmental Management Structure opportunities. a. Report the highest governance body ’ s role in reviewing the G4-46 effectiveness of the organization ’ s risk management processes for ＞Risk Management economic, environmental and social topics. ＞Corporate Governance a. Report the frequency of the highest governance body ’ s review of ＞Risk Management G4-47 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and 6.2 ＞CSR Management ＞Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement opportunities. of Timber ＞Environmental Management Structure Highest Governance Body’s Role in Sustainability Reporting a. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews G4-48 and approves the organization ’ s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Highest Governance Body’s Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental and Social Performance ＞Corporate Governance a. Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the G4-49 6.2 ＞Information Disclosure and Communication highest governance body. ＞Communication with Employees a. Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were G4-50 communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. 233 GRI G4 Content Index Remuneration and Incentives a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: ・ Fixed pay and variable pay: ––Performance-based pay ––Equity-based pay ––Bonuses ––Deferred or vested shares ・ Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments G4-51 ・ Termination payments 6.2 ＞Corporate Governance ・ Clawbacks ・ Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body ’ s and senior executives ’ economic, environmental and social objectives. a. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration G4-52 and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. a. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account ＞Corporate Governance G4-53 regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on 6.2 ＞Information Disclosure and Communication remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. ＞Communication with Employees a. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-54 operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. a. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization ’ s highest-paid individual in each G4-55 country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity a. Describe the organization ’ s values, principles, standards and G4-56＊ 4.4 ＞Corporate Policies norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice G4-57 on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational ＞Intellectual Property Management integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related G4-58 ＞Intellectual Property Management to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. * Core Indicator Specific Standard ŝƐĐůŽƐƵƌĞƐ ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Economic Aspect: Economic Performance 6.8.1 ＞Returns to Shareholders 6.8.2 ＞Promotion of Social Contribution Activities G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.3 ＞Corporate Profile 6.8.7 ＞Financial Results (PDF500KB) 6.8.9 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the G4-EC2 6.5.5 ＞Environmental Risk Management organization’s activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 6.8.7 ＞IR Library G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence 6.3.7 6.3.10 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 6.4.3 G4-EC5 minimum wage at significant locations of operation 6.4.4 6.8.1 6.8.2 6.4.3 6.8.1 ＞Fair Employment and Treatment Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at G4-EC6 6.8.2 ＞Employee Data significant locations of operation 6.8.5 6.8.7 234 GRI G4 Content Index Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts ＞Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities ＞Sustainable Procurement of Timber ＞Together with Local Communities 6.3.9 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.8.1 Gas Emissions During Residence Period Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services ＞Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse G4-EC7 6.8.2 supported Gases through Our Business 6.8.7 ＞Forest Management in Japan 6.8.9 ＞Forest Management Overseas ＞Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas ＞Conservation of Biodiversity through Business and Services 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 6.7.8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 6.8.1 ＞Risk Management G4-EC8 impacts 6.8.2 ＞Environmental Risk Management 6.8.5 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 Aspect: Procurement Practices 6.4.3 6.6.6 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of G4-EC9 6.8.1 operation 6.8.2 6.8.7 Environmental Aspect: Materials 6.5.1 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.2 ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities 6.5.4 6.5.1 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.2 6.5.4 Aspect: Energy 6.5.1 ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.2 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.4 Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.1 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 6.5.2 6.5.4 6.5.1 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.2 Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.4 6.5.1 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.2 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Gas Emissions During Residence Period 6.5.4 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.5 Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.1 6.5.2 ＞Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 6.5.4 Gases through Our Business 6.5.5 Aspect: Water 6.5.1 ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.2 ＞Efficient Use of Water Resources 6.5.4 6.5.1 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5.2 ＞Environmental Data for Group Companies 6.5.4 6.5.1 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.2 ＞Efficient Use of Water Resources 6.5.4 Aspect: Biodiversity ＞Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 6.5.1 Conservation ＞Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned G4-EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 6.5.2 Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas protected areas 6.5.6 ＞Conservation of Biodiversity through Business and Services 235 CSR Report2014 GRI G4 Content Index ＞Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan ＞Environmental Risk Management Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services 6.5.1 ＞Policies and Targets for Biodiversity G4-EN12 on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 6.5.2 Conservation value outside protected areas 6.5.6 ＞Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas ＞Conservation of Biodiversity through Business and Services ＞Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan ＞Policies and Targets for Biodiversity 6.5.1 Conservation G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.2 ＞Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned 6.5.6 Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas ＞Conservation of Biodiversity through Business and Services Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation 6.5.1 ＞Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned G4-EN14 list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of 6.5.2 Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas extinction risk 6.5.6 Aspect: Emissions 6.5.1 ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 6.5.2 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.5 Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.1 ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 6.5.2 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.5 Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.1 ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 6.5.2 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.5 Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.1 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 6.5.2 Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.5 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.1 Gas Emissions During Residence Period G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.2 ＞Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.5 Gases through Our Business ＞Sustainable Forest Management ＞Forest Management in Japan ＞Forest Management Overseas 6.5.1 6.5.2 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 6.5.3 6.5.5 6.5.1 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 6.5.2 ＞Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances 6.5.3 Aspect: Effluents and Waste 6.5.1 ＞Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.2 ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities 6.5.3 6.5 ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 ＞Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste 6.5.1 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.2 6.5.3 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 6.5.1 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention2 Annex I, II, III, G4-EN25 6.5.2 and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped 6.5.3 internationally 6.5.1 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water 6.5.2 G4-EN26 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization’ 6.5.3 s discharges of water and runoff 6.5.4 6.5.6 236 CSR Report2014 GRI G4 Content Index Aspect: Products and Services ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.1 Gas Emissions During Residence Period ＞Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.2 Gases through Our Business Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products 6.5.3 G4-EN27 ＞Forest Management in Japan and services 6.5.4 ＞Forest Management Overseas 6.5.5 ＞Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned 6.7.5 Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas ＞Conservation of Biodiversity through Business and Services Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5.1 6.5.2 G4-EN28 a. Report the percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging 6.5.3 materials for each product category. 6.5.4 b. Report how the data for this Indicator has been collected. 6.7.5 Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non6.5.1 G4-EN29 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and 6.5.2 regulations 4.6 Aspect: Transport ＞Environmental Impact of Business Activities ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse 6.5.1 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.2 ＞Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse G4-EN30 other goods and materials for the organization ’ s operations, and 6.5.4 Gas Emissions During Residence Period transporting members of the workforce 6.6.6 ＞Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business Aspect: Overall Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by 6.5.1 G4-EN31 ＞Environmental Accounting type 6.5.2 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment 6.3.5 6.5.1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental G4-EN32 6.5.2 criteria 6.6.6 7.3.1 6.3.5 6.5.1 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in G4-EN33 6.5.2 the supply chain and actions taken 6.6.6 7.3.1 Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, 6.3.6 G4-EN34 6.5.1 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 6.5.2 Social Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment 6.4.1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee G4-LA1 6.4.2 ＞Employee Data turnover by age group, gender, and region 6.4.3 6.4.1 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 6.4.2 G4-LA2 temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of 6.4.4 operation 6.8.7 6.4.1 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.2 ＞Employee Data 6.4.4 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations 6.4.1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including 6.4.2 G4-LA4 whether these are specified in collective agreements 6.4.3 6.4.5 Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 6.4.1 G4-LA5 management – worker health and safety committees that help 6.4.2 monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 6.4.6 237 GRI G4 Content Index 6.4.1 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 6.4.2 G4-LA6 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by ＞Employee Data 6.4.6 region and by gender 6.8.8 6.4.1 6.4.2 6.4.6 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their G4-LA7 6.8 ＞Occupational Health and Safety occupation 6.8.3 6.8.4 6.8.8 6.4.1 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade G4-LA8 6.4.2 ＞Communication with Employees unions 6.4.6 Aspect: Training and Education 6.4.1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by G4-LA9 6.4.2 ＞Employee Data employee category 6.4.7 6.4.1 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support 6.4.2 G4-LA10 the continued employability of employees and assist them in ＞Human Resources Development 6.4.7 managing career endings 6.8.5 6.4.1 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career G4-LA11 6.4.2 ＞Human Resources Development development reviews, by gender and by employee category 6.4.7 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 6.2.3 6.3.7 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 6.3.10 G4-LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group ＞Employee Data 6.4.1 membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.4.2 6.4.3 Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men 6.3.7 6.3.10 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by 6.4.1 G4-LA13 employee category, by significant locations of operation 6.4.2 6.4.3 6.4.4 Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices 6.3.5 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices 6.4.1 criteria 6.4.2 G4-LA14 a. Report the percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 6.4.3 labor practices criteria. 6.6.6 7.3.1 6.3.5 6.4.1 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices 6.4.2 G4-LA15 in the supply chain and actions taken 6.4.3 6.6.6 7.3.1 Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms 6.3.6 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and G4-LA16 6.4.1 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 6.4.2 Human Rights Aspect: Investment 4.8 6.3.1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements 6.3.2 G4-HR1 and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent 6.3.3 human rights screening 6.3.5 6.6.6 4.8 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or 6.3.1 G4-HR2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to ＞Respect for Human Rights 6.3.2 operations, including the percentage of employees trained 6.3.5 Aspect: Non-discrimination 4.8 6.3.1 6.3.2 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions G4-HR3 6.3.6 taken 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4.3 Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 238 GRI G4 Content Index 6.3.1 6.3.2 6.3.3 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise 6.3.4 G4-HR4 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or 6.3.5 at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights 6.3.8 6.3.10 6.4.5 6.6.6 Aspect: Child Labor 4.8 6.3.1 6.3.2 ＞Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement 6.3.3 of Timber Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for 6.3.4 ＞Sustainable Procurement of Timber G4-HR5 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the 6.3.5 ＞Communication with Our Business Partners effective abolition of child labor 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.6.6 6.8.4 Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor 4.8 6.3.1 ＞Policy and System for Sustainable Procurement 6.3.2 of Timber Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for 6.3.3 ＞Sustainable Procurement of Timber G4-HR6 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute 6.3.4 ＞Communication with Our Business Partners to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 6.3.5 6.3.10 6.6.6 Aspect: Security Practices 4.8 6.3.1 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human 6.3.2 G4-HR7 rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.6.6 Aspect: Indigenous Rights 4.8 6.3.1 6.3.2 6.3.4 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous G4-HR8 6.3.6 peoples and actions taken 6.3.7 6.3.8 6.6.7 6.8.3 Aspect: Assessment 4.8 6.3.1 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to 6.3.2 G4-HR9 human rights reviews or impact assessments 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment 4.8 6.3.1 6.3.2 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights G4-HR10 6.3.3 ＞Communication with Our Business Partners criteria 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.6.6 4.8 6.3.1 6.3.2 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in G4-HR11 6.3.3 the supply chain and actions taken 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.6.6 Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms 4.8 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, 6.3.1 G4-HR12 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 6.3.2 6.3.6 Society Aspect: Local Communities 239 GRI G4 Content Index ＞Examples of Social Contribution Activities in 6.3.9 Japan 6.5.1 ＞Examples of Overseas Community Development Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 6.5.2 and Regional Contribution Activities engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 6.5.3 ＞Forest Management in Japan 6.8 ＞Forest Management Overseas 6.3.9 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on G4-SO2 6.5.3 local communities 6.8 Aspect: Anti-corruption 6.6.1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related G4-SO3 6.6.2 ＞Risk Management to corruption and the significant risks identified 6.6.3 6.6.1 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 6.6.2 G4-SO4 ＞Risk Management procedures 6.6.3 6.6.6 6.6.1 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.2 ＞Business Continuity Management 6.6.3 Aspect: Public Policy 6.6.1 Total value of political contributions by country and G4-SO6 6.6.2 recipient/beneficiary 6.6.4 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior 6.6.1 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti6.6.2 G4-SO7 trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 6.6.5 6.6.7 Aspect: Compliance 4.6 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonG4-SO8 6.6.1 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.6.2 Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society 6.3.5 6.6.1 6.6.2 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for G4-SO9 6.6.6 impacts on society 6.8.1 6.8.2 7.3.1 6.3.5 6.6.1 6.6.2 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the G4-SO10 6.6.6 supply chain and actions taken 6.8.1 6.8.2 7.3.1 Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society 6.3.6 6.6.1 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and G4-SO11 6.6.2 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 6.8.1 6.8.2 Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety 6.7.1 6.7.2 ＞Housing Safety and Quality Control Percentage of significant product and service categories for which ＞Product Safety and Quality Control of Building G4-PR1 6.7.4 health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Materials 6.7.5 6.8.8 4.6 6.7.1 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 6.7.2 G4-PR2 voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products 6.7.4 and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 6.7.5 6.8.8 Aspect: Product and Service Labeling 6.7.1 Type of product and service information required by the 6.7.2 organization ’ s procedures for product and service information and 6.7.3 ＞Housing Safety and Quality Control G4-PR3 ＞Product Safety and Quality Control of Building labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories 6.7.4 Materials subject to such information requirements 6.7.5 6.7.9 240 GRI G4 Content Index 4.6 6.7.1 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 6.7.2 G4-PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and 6.7.3 labeling, by type of outcomes 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.9 6.7.1 ＞Housing Safety and Quality Control G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.2 ＞Communication with Our Customers 6.7.6 Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 4.6 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 6.7.1 G4-PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including 6.7.2 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes 6.7.3 Aspect: Customer Privacy 6.7.1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of G4-PR8 6.7.2 customer privacy and losses of customer data 6.7.7 Aspect: Compliance 4.6 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 6.7.1 G4-PR9 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and 6.7.2 services 6.7.6 241 External Recognition Inclusion in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices (as of April 2015) Sumitomo Forestry has been continuously included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices since 2005. Sumitomo Forestry has been included in the FTSE4Good Global Index every year since 2004. Sumitomo Forestry has been consecutively included in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) since 2008. 242 Awards and Recognition by Third Parties in Fiscal 2014 Scope of Date Awards Recognition Recognition The 31st Japan Urban Greenery Shizuoka In the Exhibited Gardens Contest, Festival the “Wellspring of the Future” Hamanako Flower garden based on a theme of “a Sumitomo Expo 2014 garden full of creativity Forestry April 2014 Shizuoka Prefecture, connecting to the next generation” Landscaping Hamamatsu City, received the Minister of Land, Co., Ltd. Organization for Infrastructure, Transport and Landscape and Urban Tourism Award (grand prize). Green Infrastructure “Wall corners with collision safety specifications” received a Kids Design Award in the general 8th Kids Design category of child safety and Award security design. Sumitomo July 2014 Kids Design Forestry Association Forest Haven HYOTANYAMA, Remodeled Apartment Complex, where residents can rest and build bonds with each other in a lush green courtyard, received an FY2014 Good Design award at the Good Design Award Awards Sumitomo October 2014 2014. Japan Institute of Forestry Design Promotion (News Release: http://sfc.jp /english/pdf/20141003.pdf) 243 Scope of Date Awards Recognition Recognition Renovation of Historic Homes, Living in a Post Office, in which a building that had been used as a post office from around the 1930s was restored as a place to live, FY2014 Good Design received an award at the Good Sumitomo Awards October 2014 Design Award 2014. Forestry Home Japan Institute of Tech Co., Ltd. Design Promotion (News Release: http://sfc.jp /english/pdf/20141003.pdf) Ultra-low Floor Solid S Construction Method, which enables the renovation of solid flooring in condominiums in which floors have been constructed using the direct application FY2014 Good Design construction method, received an Sumitomo Awards October 2014 award at the Good Design Award Forestry Home Japan Institute of 2014. Tech Co., Ltd. Design Promotion (News Release: http://sfc.jp /english/pdf/20141003.pdf) Included in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the second successive year with the highest score as a leading Selected for listing on company in the disclosure of the CDP Climate climate change, and became the Change 2013 CDLI as first Japanese company to score Sumitomo October 2014 the maximum possible 100 points. a leading company in Forestry climate disclosure CDP (News Release: http://sfc.jp /english/pdf/20141015.pdf) 244 Scope of Date Awards Recognition Recognition International Garden and Flower Show Received Best Design Award, Sumitomo 2014 Silver Award in the show gardens Forestry October 2014 5th Gardening World category at one of the world’s Landscaping Cup largest flower and garden Co., Ltd. Gardening World Cup festivals. Council Japan Vocational Ability Development Association (JAVADA) Three employees won fighting spirit awards in the carpentry category at the national Sumitomo December 52nd WorldSkills competition where young Forestry Home 2014 Competition craftsmen test their skills to Engineering Co., become No. 1 in Japan. 14th Ltd consecutive year to receive an award. (News Release: http://sfc.jp /english/pdf/20141208.pdf) Received Professional Major Builder award in Victoria and Queensland, Australia. Housing Industry Henley December Association (HIA), Properties 2014 Australia Group (News Release: http://sfc.jp /english/pdf/20141222.pdf) 245 Scope of Date Awards Recognition Recognition For the third consecutive year, Sumitomo Forestry earned a Gold Class rating as a company which excels in sustainability and was selected as an industry leader. Also selected as the Industry Mover (company with the biggest score improvement compared to The Sustainability the previous year). Sumitomo January 2015 Yearbook 2015 Forestry RobecoSAM AG (News Release: http://sfc.jp /english/pdf/20150129.pdf) Hanahisa received award in the FY2014 Gifu City buildings and structures category, Sumitomo February Scenery Prize for a renovation project in which Forestry Home 2015 Gifu City, Gifu a 120-year-old family home was Tech Co., Ltd. Prefecture regenerated into a shop-cum-home. Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, and the Japan Vocational Ability Development Association (JAVADA) Sumitomo Awarded silver in the carpentry Forestry Home March 2015 28th Skills Grand Prix category at the Skills Grand Prix, Engineering Co., where skilled technicians compete Ltd to be the best in Japan. (News Release: http://sfc.jp /english/pdf/20150318.pdf) 246 Third Party Assurance Report 247 Keidanren Kaikan, 3-2, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8270, Japan TEL: +81-3-3214-3980 http: //sfc.jp/
