Three decades of sustainable business development in harmony with environment and society. To strike a balance between value and virtue, Bangchak has relied on sheer determination to run energy and downstream businesses for public interests. We are proud of our role in upgrading the living conditions for Thai society. This has been our tenet of the past three decades. Our Greenergy Excellence vision calls for us to drive business along with our employee culture of “To be virtuous, knowledgeable, and contributive to society”. These ideals produce business innovations for the sustainable growth of communities, society, and the environment into our next decades. 002 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 003 Message from the President As a Thai company, Bangchak Petroleum PCL has as its key mission the enhancement of energy security and improvement Thais’ quality of life through creating value in parallel with virtue. This year we extended and broadened our approach for sustainable business development in harmony with environmental and social betterment for stakeholders, with high regard for their needs and expectations as well as our strengths and weaknesses. New projects were initiated, while our organizational structure was revamped with new units to accommodate our increasing missions to promote economic growth hand in hand with environmental and social stewardship in line with the very first mission on our founding date. Amid the altered environment, political problems, and a plunging world oil price, the oil business of this past year has suffered heavily. Nevertheless, our risk diversification and greater business opportunities in renewable/ alternative energy and non-oil businesses, designed to generate more income, have enabled our performance this year to continue strongly under the Sufficiency Economy philosophy, which Bangchak has humbly applied to its businesses. Our performance this year in fact came close to achieving our goals. We invested in the future by entering the renewable/alternative energy business to contribute to pollution mitigation and playing a bigger role in environmental stewardship by expanding the ethanol output and biodiesel capacity to lower risks. Our investment seeks to establish energy security of oil supply further upstream through geographic expansion. We have launched intermediate-term and long-term plans to study the feasibility of investment in waste to energy, biomass, and geothermal development to secure energy sources for corporate sustainability Further, this year Bangchak upgraded its sustainability business by enlisting in corporate sustainability assessment by RobecoSAM, under the same assessment procedure as that used to select members of DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 2014.) It turned out that Bangchak scored in all indices comparably to companies selected to the Emerging Market group of the oil and gas Industry. Such an assessment outcome has shown opportunities for development and directors for business development to greater sustainability. In view of these opportunities, Bangchak has applied this outcome to setting plans for sustainability of the next five years, which are its critical plans. The year 2015 marks the completion of Bangchak’s first three decades. We have indeed come a long way from a business that lost Baht 4 billion on our founding to steady profit and growth today, while generating value for the company and virtue for society and the environment. Under the employee culture of “To be virtuous, knowledgeable, and contributive to society” and the business culture of “Develop sustainable business, in harmony with environment and society”, we will certainly keep forging ahead in the coming years. (Mr. Chaiwat Kovavisarach) (Mr. Chaiwat Kovavisarach) President * Note : Bangchak appears on page 84 of the Sustainability Yearbook 2015 of RobecoSAM (http://yearbook.robecosam.com) Contents 03 Message from the President 29 Adherence to the UNGC (United Nations Global Compact) 05 Bangchak’s 30-year missions, 30 Risk Management building on virtue toward sustainability 11 Sustainability Policy 34 Sustainability Performances • Economic Performances • Environmental Performances • Social Performances 18 Stakeholders Engagement 72 Performance Statistics toward Sustainability 24 About the Report • Economic Performances • Environmental Performances • Social Performances 27 Corporate Governance 80 GRI Content Index 28 Anti-Corruption 83 Assurance Statement The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 005 Bangchak’s 30-year missions, building on virtue toward sustainability Established in 1984, Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited has adopted its businesses with values and cultures coherently with national energy security and the development of the Thai society. From day one, our corporate vision, culture, and missions have been fully aligned with the principle of Business Sustainability with Environment and Society. This principle demands clear alignment and strong adherence between business activities and the environment and society, as well as the adoption of the Sufficiency Economy philosophy, corporate governance principles, and principles of social responsibility. These principles have been integrated and applied to drive Bangchak toward sustainable growth under the corporate vision of “creating an energy business that is environmentally friendly for sustainable development”, or “Greenergy Excellence”. Business Culture : Develop sustainable business, in harmony with environment and society Employee Culture : To be respectable, knowledgeable, and helpful to others Value Statement : B Beyond Expectation C Continuing Development P Pursuing Sustainability Mission Shareholders / business partners / customers / creditors : Conduct business to steadily grow its returns in a fair manner Society / Community / Environment : Promote a business culture that is responsible to the environment and society Employees : Grow employees into professionals With its 30-year anniversary observed in 2014, Bangchak’s business growth has expanded into various alternative/renewable energy sources to meet changing demand of stakeholders and correspond to the national and global changes on society and the environment. As a good corporate citizen, Bangchak is fully committed to growing invariantly to its original work philosophy in creating value for society and the environment with both CSR in-process and CSR after-process activities, designed and executed at all levels from local communities, communities surrounding the refinery, to the nation. All work activities promote stability and strengthen preventive capability toward better, sustainable economy, society, environment, and energy security for Thais. These missions are adhered to by executives and all employees of all units under the employee culture of “to be virtuous, knowledgeable, and contributive to society”. Equity Chart of Bangchak Petroleum Plc Ministry of Finance PTT Plc Public 9.98% 27.22% 62.80% The Bangchak Petroleum Plc Registered Capital 1,531,643,461 Baht Paid-up Capital 1,376,923,157 Baht Subsidiary Associated Company Related Company 49% Bangchak Green Net Co., Ltd. 21.28% Ubon Bio Ethanol Co., Ltd. 4.95% Fuel Pipeline Transportation Co., Ltd. 70% Bangchak Biofuel Co., Ltd. 11.72% ASEAN Potash Mining Plc. 100% BCP Energy International Pte. Ltd.* 100% Ubon Agricultural Energy Co., Ltd. 81.41% Nido Petroleum Limited 100% Ubon Biogas Co., Ltd. 100% BCP Energy International Pte. Ltd. 99.95% NP Bio Energy Co., Ltd. 49% 51% Bangchak Solar Energy (Prachinburi) Co., Ltd. 49% 51% Bangchak Solar Energy (Chaiyaphum1) Co., Ltd. 49% 51% Bangchak Solar Energy (Buriram) Co., Ltd. 49% 51% Bangchak Solar Energy (Buriram1) Co., Ltd. 49% 51% Bangchak Solar Energy (Nakhonratchasima) Co., Ltd. * Established in 2014 (G4-22) Organizational Structure (G4-17) • Leading Thai petroleum company importing crude oil from the indigenous sources, operating an oil refinery and marketing the finished products and renewable energy. • Pursuant to a resolution passed by the Prem Tinsulanonda-led Cabinet since June 19, 1984 • Incorporated as a limited company under the Civil and Commercial Code on November 8, 1984 • Changed status to a Public Company Limited under the Public Company Limited Act on April 23, 1993, and listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) on August 2, 1994 • The Company’s registered capital is amounting to Baht 1,531 million, of which Baht 1,377 million was paid up. • The address of the head office is 555/1 Energy Complex, 10th Floor, Building A, Vibhavadi Rangsit Road, Chatuchak, Bangkok As of December 31, 2014 As of December 31, 2014 1,052 183,016 million employees total revenue baht Board of Directors Management Committee Enterprise-wide Risk Management Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee President Corporate Governance Committee Audit Committee Internal Control Office Refinery Marketing Renewable Strategy and Accounting and Corporate Business Business Energy Business Business Finance Administration and Development Information Technoloy 006 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 007 Business Structure* Refinery Business a 120,000 barrels/day capacity 48% Marketing Business More than 1,000 stations 23% New Business Development 28.99% Exploration and Production 0.01% * Proportion based on Market EBITDA 30 Years Bangchak : The Journey of Sustainable Excellence The refinery suffered such heavy losses that the government had to call for bidding among The refinery suffered the private sector. The Defence The refinery heavy damage in World Energy Department entered into underwent a name War II and had to cease a lease with Summit Industrial change to Defence its operation Corporation. Refinery (Bangchak) 1940 1945 1955 1964 1981 1982 1984 Thailand’s first oil A new refinery was set up Revoked the lease Bangchak Petroleum Co., Ltd., refinery was founded at Tambon Bang Chak, with Summit Industrial was formed Amphoe Phra Khanong, Corporation after the Phra Nakhon (Bangkok) latter’s contractual default • Experimented of B2 Biodiesel with sale • Launched sale of Gasohol 91 (E10) 2005 2004 2001 • Launched the first alternative-energy service station in Thailand • Experimented with sale of Gasohol 95 (E10) • Launched the first Bangchak self-serve service station in Thailand • Launched the first Bai Chak shop 2006 • Construction began under the Product Quality Improvement Project • The refinery became a complex refinery •• Launched the first Inthanin Coffee shop Launched the Bangchak Gasohol Card • Launched Bangchak Biofuel’s biodiesel unit in • anniversary Observed the 25 th • Launched the biodiesel unit based of its Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya foundation on second-hand vegetable oil • Moved th the Head Office to 10 Floor, Building A, Energy Complex Center, Vibhavadi Rangsit Road, Bangkok 2008 2009 2010 •• Launched the sale of E20 Gasohol Launched the sale of E85 Gasohol • Acquired shares in the ASEAN Potash Mining Public Company Limited • Founded Bangchak Biofuel Co., Ltd., to refine and sell biodiesel 008 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 009 Set up the first community service station with Si Prachan Agricultural Cooperative, Suphan Buri • Launched Bangchak’s first operated service station • The first company logo came into use Increased the Third Plant’s capacity to 80,000 barrels across from the refinery entrance • Refined and sold unleaded per day gasoline and low-sulfur diesel, a first in Thailand 1985 1986 1987-1989 1989 1990 1991 The refinery business and The logo was changed to • The company underwent a name change to Bangchak management a green leaf inside a blue Petroleum Public Company rectangle Limited 1993 • began Installed a gasoline quality improvement unit for green fuels, a first in Southeast Asia Bangchak underwent Launched the first privatization from a Lemon Farm shop state enterprise 1998 1997 1995 1994 Selected community products • Launched the first Lemon Green shop as sales promotional tokens, strengthening sustainable • First day of Bangchak share-trading on Bangkok’s stock community economy • Setinvestigation up a center for the and development of deserted orange groves in Rangsit into an oil palm plantation in Nakhon Nayok • Founded Bangchak Solar Energy Co., Ltd., to generate power from solar cells (Sunny Bangchak) in Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya Launched the sale of Euro 5-standard E20 Gasohol, a first in Thailand 2011 2012 2013 2014 • Forflagship the very first time, launched a service station under • theObserved th the 30 anniversary of foundation with “Refuel with Bangchak for Baht 30-Million the Green Station format Contribution to the Thai Red Cross Society” • Launched the Diesel Club Card • project Founded BCP Energy International Pte. Ltd. in Singapore to engage in the international energy, petrochemical, and natural resources businesses 010 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 011 Sustainability Policy With the advancement of its environmental and social management system in 2013, Bangchak has defined a sustainable business development policy, requiring executives to serve as decent role models and employees to operate with thorough understanding, aligning with stakeholders’ needs and expectations from the short term to the long term so as to strive for success and achieve objectives and goals. The policy covers seven key areas. Good Corporate Governance All business conducts must be legal and comply fully with applicable rules and regulations, and must be transparent and accountable. All practices must strictly adhere to good corporate governance and follow the Sufficiency Economy philosophy to benefit shareholders, employees, community and the public, business partners, media groups, customers and the public, business competitors, creditors, government agencies, and other stakeholders. Fair Business Conduct Fair business conduct means promotion of free and fair competition, avoidance from activities of potential conflicts of interest and violation of intellectual properties, resistance to corruption of all forms, and support to social responsibility programs throughout the business chain. Human Rights and Treatment of Employees Bangchak strictly adheres to its corporate culture of fully respecting and promoting human rights protection, and fair treatment of all employees. The management system provides welfare and fringe benefits, workplace safety and occupational health conditions, organizational and individual training programs to promote professionalism, work process development, and an organizational innovative culture. Employees are urged and supported to directly or indirectly participate in public service activities. Accountability to Consumers Accountability to consumers means development and manufacture of products and services that are harmless to consumers and the environment, meet specifications and, wherever possible, exceed customers’ expectations. Sales are made under fair conditions to all with accurate, sufficient, and factual information of products and services. Private data of customers must be kept from any profiteering attempts by any parties. Environment and Safety All business processes must be executed with full awareness and equipped with analytical risk and impact assessment concerning the environment and safety. Resources and energy must be consumed with highest efficiency and under international conservation practices. Participation in community and social development All business processes are designed and implemented to benefit the improvement of the quality of life as well as the economy, and strengthen local communities and the Thai society. Development and publicity of CSR innovations Bangchak supports and promotes innovations and participation in activities with stakeholders in the development of social responsibility innovations generating the right balance of worth and value to the community, society, and the environment in tandem with sustainable business growth. Core strategies for sustainability According to the company culture and vision, the company has instituted risk management practices to diversify income to businesses with more stable income in harmony with environmental stewardship achieved through being a low-carbon company, extending to a green society with a green process in all refining stages since 2013. It sells green products (meaning alternative-energy forms sold through all service stations), practices green management and green procurement (meaning consumption of green products), while growing green society to incorporate affiliates, business partners, and stakeholders. In addition, Bangchak has introduced sustainable management as its key component, ranging from its strategic planning, where social and environmental KPIs are made operating goals on top of business ones (financial, customer, process, and people). These are then deployed into action for business lines, division, executives and employee Grow the business and diversify risks to businesses with secure income 1 The Company has defined business growth goals to grow sustainable value for its business by restructuring its revenue from refining business, which is highly volatile by nature of the refining business-whether world market prices or refining margins that are subject to global and regional economic conditions-which could in turn result in the Company’s performance being also volatile. The Company has increases its revenue in renewable energy business to 50% in 2020, includes solar-energy power generation, biodiesel production, ethanol production from energy cropswhich is a secure income business and has low risks from external factor. 012 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 013 2 Low Carbon Company Recognizing that its oil refining business belongs to the energy-consuming industry, Bangchak strives to become a low-carbon company by emitting minimal volumes of carbon dioxide to minimize environmental impacts arising from its business. Investment is made to produce and sell clean fuels with less environmental impacts than other fuels. Bangchak was in fact the first company to produce and sell gasohol and biodiesel, add energy stability in production processes by purchasing power and steam from a cogeneration power plant fueled by natural gas, a green form of energy. Bangchak is also studying diesel production from algae and renewable energy from household waste. It also plans to continually upgrade the refinery’s energy efficiency. 3 Socially and Environmentally Friendly Business Models (In-process) The Company is determined to do business in such a way that not only can it sustain continuous growth, but also simultaneously generate positive impacts on society and the environment. Such a model that the Company has been operating successfully is the cooperation of retail stations and agricultural cooperatives. The Company buys agricultural products from cooperatives in different communities and uses them for retail stations’ sales promotion to create jobs and revenue in support of the economic and social development of the communities. The Company, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, the Ministry of Energy and the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives, will initiate a conversion of abandoned orange farms to palm plantations for orange farmers in Rangsit consist with the government plan to promote renewable energy. In addition, its reduce land subsidence and flood problems in Bangkok. 4 Open, Transparent and Verifiable The Company adheres to an open, transparent and verifiable policy in its operations. Operational data are transparently disclosed under good corporate governance and SET rules in the Annual Report, Sustainability Report and website etc. Applying proactive environmental management, it discloses the actual data on quality of air and effluents around the refinery by posting such information at the entrance to the refinery and in surrounding communities. Updates on development of sustainable business operation Strategy Plan and goal Progress made and Goal performance in 2014 1. Grow the business and 1.1 Develop the solarpower 1.1.1 Successfully generated 1.1.1.1 Participate in a diversify risks to businesses plant business and sold 48 MW of power in 100-MW community solar with secure income by 118 MW Amphoe Prakhon Chai and power generation investment (economic aspect) Amphoe Nong Ki project (Buri Ram province), Amphoe Bamnet Narong (Chaiyaphum province), Amphoe Dan Khun Thot (Nakhon Ratchasima province), and Amphoe Kabin Buri (Prachin Buri province), enabling Bangchak to fulfill its 118-MW PPA obligation. (In 2012, it generated and sold 38 MW in Amphoe Bang Pa-in of Ayutthaya province; in 2013, another 32 MW in Amphoe Bamnet Narong of Chaiyaphum province and Amphoe Bang Pahan of Ayutthaya province.) 1.2 Develop the ethanol 1.2.1 Ubon Bio-Ethanol Co., 1.2.1.1 Continuity produces business with a capacity Ltd. (UBE) with a capacity of with its full Utilization to of 400,000 liters/day 400,000 liters/day produced compliance with the customer and sell ethanol with 62% of demand. Utilization Rate to the 1.2.1.2 Acquire shares in company another ethanol plant with a 150,000-liter/day capacity 1.3 Develop the biodiesel 1.3.1 Bangchak Biofuel (BBF) 1.3.1.1 Start up the biodiesel business with a capacity with a capacity of 360,000 capacity of 450,000 liters/day of 300,000 liters/day liters/day posted a 100% and estimate to sell by the year utilization rate 2016 2. Become a Low Carbon 2.1 Use clean natural gas 2.1.1 Replaced 71% of fuel 2.1.1.1 Replaced all fuel oil company (environmental instead of fuel oil oil consumption with natural consumption with natural gas. aspect) gas, which was conform to the by the year 2017. goal. 014 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 015 Strategy Plan and goal Progress made and Goal performance in 2014 2.2 Consumed clean natural 2.2.1 Displaced 89% of LPG 2.2.1.1 Replace all LPG gas with low carbon rather consumption with natural gas consumption with natural gas than LPG as a raw 100%. Except, in case of a material for the usage of natural gas is not hydrogen unit efficient,will replace for other raw material. 2.3 Generate electricity and 2.3.1 Generate 64% and 67% 2.3.1.1 Continually increased stream from co-gen with of electricity and stream from the electricity and stream from high efficiency (BUP) co-gen capacity co-gen capacity and improve the power plant. by carly year 2017. 2.4 Improve the refinery’s 2.4.1 7 efficiency 2.4.1.1 Continually investigate energy efficiency improvement projects saved in investment in a production energy consumption efficiency improvement project 2.5 Develop clean-energy 2.5.1 Details as in (1) 2.5.1.1 Details as in (1) businesses (as in (1) 3. Develop business formats 3.1 Develop business formats 3.1.1 Developed 9 more 3.1.1.1 Constantly developed/ for in-processes (social & leading to national benefits service stations in cooperation improved and expanded 30 environmental aspects) to society and the with agricultural cooperatives more service stations in environment and created jobs as well as cooperation with agricultural income for cooperative cooperatives members and communities 3.1.2 Supported promotion of 3.1.2.1 Plan to introduce farm products as sales farmers’ products as sales promotion giveaways: promotional giveaways at “seedless velvet tamarind” Bangchak service stations from the three southernmost every year. provinces, “roast rice tea and roast rice green tea” from earthquake victims in Chiang Rai, and “organic brown rice” from the Rai Choen Tawan community enterprise. Strategy Plan and goal Progress made and Goal performance in 2014 3.1.3 Launched Triple M: 3.1.3.1 Launched Triple M: Modern, Management and Modern, Management and Marketing training for the Marketing training for the triple second year for community straight year service station managers to groom them for change in economic, social, and technological circumstances, which has 41 representatives joined. 3.1.4 Expanded service 3.1.4.1 Expand service stations stations with E85 gasohol by with E85 gasohol by 100 and 90 to a total of 700, and E20 E20 by 40. by 22 to a total of 200. 3.1.5 Launched “Bangchak Hi 3.1.5.1 Develop green product Diesel” which enhances quality and constantly improve combustion efficiency, cleans performance efficiency. engines, and saves fuels. 3.1.5 Operated the Thailand 3.1.5.1 Maintain the Thailand Go Green project for the Go Green year 9 under the seventh year under the theme “Smart Dining, Living, “Smart Dining, Living, and and Consumption of Alternative Consumption of Alternative Energy: Thai Ways toward Energy: Thai Ways toward Green Society” Green Society” theme to cultivate awareness and knowledge of renewable energy among students nationwide. The year saw more than 486 participating schools. 016 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 017 Strategy Plan and goal Progress made and Goal performance in 2014 3.1.6 The project to turn 3.1.6.1 Expect oil palm yield of deserted orange groves in about 1 ton/rai for sale. Rangsit into an oil palm plantation yielded its first harvest 3.1.6.2 Develop personnel to and commercial sale in mentor local farmers that are December, while serving as a keen on working on an oil palm learning center for oil palm for plantation on deserted orange local farmers. groves. 3.2 Develop business formats 3.2.1 Developed new projects 3.2.1.1 Conducted projects of leading to social and between Bangchak and biodiversity conservation and environmental benefits communities concerning improve the teacher potential. at the community level health, biodiversity conservation project and to improve the teacher potential. 4. Be open, transparent and 4.1 Disclose business 4.1.1 Showed environmental 4.1.1.1 Continue such auditable (social aspect) information transparently and social operation data in operation. to allow public scrutiny the annual report 4.1.2 Certify the sustainability 4.1.2.1 Received the GRI-G4 report under the Global report Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4) by third party and received the Sustainability Report Award 2014 from The Stock exchange of Thailand. 4.1.3 Displayed on line 4.1.3.1 Continue such environmental quality operation. inspection system in front of the refinery and in three communities around the refinery, apart from linking them for display at the Department of Industrial Works Stakeholder Engagement (G4-25) Bangchak’s missions are clear in addressing stakeholders’ needs and expectations for fair business execution for continued growth, a business culture that is responsible to the environment and society, and professional development of its personnel. Nine identified groups of stakeholders (G4-24) (employees, business partners, customers, communities and society, mass media, shareholders, creditors, government agencies, and business competitors) are taken care of by assigned units, with clear two-way communication channels that align with lifestyles for effective responses to all stakeholders. Items (G4-24) Stakeholder groups Engagement methods (G4-26) 1. Employees 1.1 Regular employees • B-Voice (employee engagement survey) • In-depth interviews; focus group interviews for middle-level employees • The President Meets Employees; • Employee Committee • Employee Committee; Health, Safety, and Work Environment Committee • Other Communication channel 2. Business partners 2.1 Service stations (BGN) • Dealers’ seminars • Small group meetings; annual general meetings of Cooperatives; calls on service stations • Complaints through Call Center, E-mails, Suggestion box, BCP marketing agents, members’ activities 2.2 Dealers 2.3. CO-OP service stations 018 Sustainability Report 2014 * Color show the frequency of stakeholder engagement by method. Blue = Annually Green = Quarterly Black = Regular The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 019 Needs / expectations (G4-27) Bangchak’s responses Outcome 1. Work safety • Upgraded safety standards by hiring • Higher injury rates for employees and 2. Career planning and career growth foreign experts to improve work contractors (G4-LA6) due to annual 3. Suitable welfare compatible with environment and modify equipment major turnaround calling for more work economic conditions and with a focus on employees’ safety and and a larger headcount comparable to industry peers work satisfaction • 0.15% turnover (G4-LA1) higherthan • Engaged in succession management lastyear turnover rate to retain good personnel and develop • Salary administration comparable to them to cope with change industry peers and comparable • Revised pay for competitiveness, industries for verification. BCP’s including those cross-posted to other average is in the 50th percentile areas and abroad • Result of Employee Engagement • Began employee engagement Survey 66% due to in issue of career activities, boosted morale, and strived opportunity is 44% and learning and to become The Best Employer self development issues are 47%. The data is identified baseline year for developing roadmap of Best Employee Program within 3 years. 1. Improved performance • Pushed for supplementary services • Rising assorted sales volumes, causing 2. Support & care for service station to meet consumers’ needs market shares of service-station sales standards for competition (hardware, • Introduced POS automation to speed to rise to No. 2 software, peopleware) up service station operation • 9 community service stations added for 3. Capable marketing agents able to • More small-group meetings held to a total of 626 solve problems and mentor them address & share views & solve promptly on all matters operators’ problems 4. Support for capital, equipment & • Built on CSR for operators under Green tools to strengthen them for business Partner Award Project competition • Established Co-Op Business Development Division to focus on upgrading community service stations & supported resources for co-ops’ continuous businesses Items (G4-24) Stakeholder groups Engagement methods (G4-26) 2.4 Supplier • Call Center, E-mails, Website Procurement employees, Contractors Bangchak employees (users) Labor contractors • Annual seminars / meetings / training (contractor meetings, Vessel operators annual planning meeting with logistics contractors, Tank truck operators seminars on the environment & applicable laws Pipeline operators • Relations activities (contractors & suppliers) Suppliers 3. Customers 3.1 Customers • Call Center, • E-mails, website, suggestion box • Relations activities for Bangchak Gasohol Club & Bangchak Diesel Club cardholders 3.2 Industrial customers • Satisfaction surveys • Marketing agents’ calls • E-mails, website, oil delivery assessment form/ complaint form • Relations activities under the Privilege Club Project, 4. Communities & 4.1 Vicinity (Nearby) • Opinion surveys, assessment of community relations society • Communities • Community broadcast, SMS, Call Center • Schools • Community panel seminars • Families • Activities • Condominiums 4.2 Farther communities, public, society, country (general) 020 Sustainability Report 2014 * Color show the frequency of stakeholder engagement by method. Blue = Annually Green = Quarterly Black = Regular The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 021 Needs / expectations (G4-27) Bangchak’s responses Outcome 1. Task/product clarity / goods • Applied E-Procurement & modified • Supplier Seminar for Sustainable inspection processes in place with process for quotation & job scoping Growth and greater satisfaction more punctual payment • Educated users on proper hiring & than 80% 2. Proper work area allocation, including purchasing processes • Support and advise for industrial tool storage, work area, rest area, • Supplied food stalls & rest areas for supplier to involve the development car parking contractors campaign of Department of Industrial 3. More self-development in social & • Staged environmental educational Work : CSR-DIW and 5 Suppliers won environmental responsibility to activities & awareness activity for CSR-DIW Award Level 2 and 1 supplier become good business partners and contractors & business partners: won CSR-DIW Award Level 3. grow with BCP encouragement of business partners to acquire Green Industry Level 2-3 certification 1. Good, prompt service • Installed POS automation systems to • Rising assorted sales volumes, causing 2. Safe, convenient service stations & make pump work more flexible and market shares of service-station sales clean restrooms faster to rise to No. 2 3. Quality, green products • Developed processes and analyzed • Response and manage customers’ 4. Service discounts Voice of Customers to promptly complaints were completed 95% and respond & resolve problems satisfaction 85%. • Regularly monitored services at service stations • Developed service contest activities • Refueling point accrual cards 1. Price • Staged after-sales service, including • Rise in industrial users’ satisfaction from 2. After-sales service maintenance programs and punctual 91% to 95% 3. Care provided by marketing agents transport 4. Relations activities • Relations activities 1. Safe operation, no community impact • Hired foreign experts to upgrade safety • 97% satisfaction with community 2. Environment quality & green areas / management beyond standards relations execution parks in Phra Khanong District • Reported air quality online to automatic 3. Fastest communication with display screens in communities communities during emergencies • Established green areas and sports 4. Participation in community relations center on premises of the Secretariat activities improves community lives, Dept. housing area (BCP area) for esp. educational and youth activities public recreational purposes • Established broadcast system between refinery and communities • Added community relations activities that addressed to solve the social problems Items (G4-24) Stakeholder groups Engagement methods (G4-26) 5. Mass media Embracing the mainstream media & • Press tours compatible with BCP’s business expansion & social media forging relations with media 5.1 Newspapers • Regular meetings with mass media 5.2 Magazines 5.3 TV 5.4 Radio 5.5 Online media 6. Shareholders 6.1 Major shareholder • Open houses 6.2 Minor shareholders • Analyst meetings • Opportunity Day • Roadshows (dom. & int.) • AGM 7. Creditors 7.1 Financial institutions • Analyst meetings 7.2 Debenture holders • Road shows 8. Government 8.1 District office • Comm. channels: Open houses, meetings, clarification, agencies 8.2 Departments & ministries discussion & participation in govt. agencies’ projects 9. Business Other energy companies / • Comm. channels: Intelligence, networks, marketing competitors oil traders activities, website 022 Sustainability Report 2014 * Color show the frequency of stakeholder engagement by method. Blue = Annually Green = Quarterly Black = Regular The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 023 Needs / expectations (G4-27) Bangchak’s responses Outcome 1. Updates on business or expansion • At least quarterly business updates / • Earned regular coverage of news and hot issues fast & promptly, incl. annual press conferences, business and corporate image concerning urgent executive interviews roundups, future business plans environment & safety by mass media 2. Knowledge about oil, energy, • Coordinated with executives at once and industry when mass media needs special interviews • Issued press releases during crises to provide correct information, ease impacts & misunderstanding 1. Capital gains • Added comm. channels for • BCP stocks are more attractive; 2. Attractive dividends with regular shareholders to monitor & be more investors are more confident; in 2014, payment aware of BCP’s data BCP stocks remained among SET 50 3. Solid performance & continued, • Added roadshow frequency & • BCP won awards from secure growth countries Finance Asia Best Mid-Cap (ranked 1st) 4. Priority is core refining excellence • Designed a modern, friendlier IR & Most Committed to a Strong Dividend 5. Goals & business growth directions website with complete data Policy (ranked 7th) Company • Staged executives-minor shareholders Asian Excellence Recognition Awards activities 2014 Best Investor Relations Company • Developed factsheets for shareholders SET Award 2014 for outstanding investor & investors on BCP’s business and relations quarterly performance • More invitations for roadshows from • BCP paid suitable dividends, securities firms (dom. & int.), for being with rates comparable to peers attractive to investors & a top pick among securities companies Honor terms & conditions of loan and • Strictly honored conditions of loan and • Continued lending by creditors debenture agreements debenture agreements • Answered queries of loan analyst officers when in doubt • Staged activities to forge relations with financial institutions • Staged open houses to foster confidence in BCP’s performance & relations with financial inst. & creditors 1. Compliance with laws or better • Properly and transparently complied • Trust by govt. agencies to continue 2. Social & envir. responsibilities, with laws & regulations related to industrial works operation sustainable co-existence with businesses • Continued certification of ISO 14001 communities • Controlled envir. quality beyond legal • Public-sector envir. awards, incl. Green 3. Sound safety & envir. management requirements Industry Level 4, CSR-DIW Level 5 systems in plants • Accurate and prompt clarification of 4. Prompt information provision & data with regulators support to govt. agencies’ projects • Cooperated with public sector in promoting green projects • Poised for move to Green Industry Level 5 1. Free competition & fair marketing • Conducted transparent business Rising sales of fuels prompted market activities under fair trade & competition shares through service stations to rise to No. 2 About the Report Background Since 2005, this is the 10th consecutive sustainability report prepared to demonstrate the activities and performances from January 1 to December 31 each year on sustainability management of business economics, society, and environment. The reference for this report is the Global Reporting Initiatives Guideline version 4.0 (GRI G4) and Oil & Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS) at the Core level. The report format has been adjusted to illustrate stakeholders’ needs and expectations (G4-23) and demonstrate Bangchak’s achievements to meet these,. with weight indicators corresponding to specific issues defined in the GRI G4 standard. Issue selection criteria The criteria for issue selection under GRI G4 are as follows; (G4-18) 1. Identification Determination of sources of report information from within the organization (business objectives) and outside the organization (stakeholders) including their key issues, needs and expectations that could affect corporate business sustainability concerning economics, environment, and society. • Within the organization or business objectives: evaluation of meetings of responsible people and applications of organizational strategies, key issues concerning organizational sustainability and short-term and long-term enterprise risk management. • Outside the organization (stakeholders): evaluation of meetings of people responsible for nine groups of stakeholders to define factors affecting their decisions, input on their opinions, and expectations from surveys and unsolicited sources, consultations, public talks, conferences, seminars, or unstructured interviews suitable to each group of stakeholders. 2. Prioritization This prioritization stage is pursued in reference to the GRI G4 after the identification stage. Scores are given to each issue or topic with two parallel criteria set in the Materiality Matrix as follows. 2.1 Horizontal axis : issues deemed significant to the organization 2.2 Vertical axis : issues deemed significant to the stakeholders. 024 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 025 Materiality Matrix (G4-18) Safe work place Compliance GHG Emissions Good governance 12 Speed disclosure of correct information Anti-corruption Employee compensation and welfare Stable and continuous Customer service operations 10 Contractor management Effluents and Waste High quality and Environmentally Employee development Significance to stakeholders Friendly products Business partner development on ESG Flare 8 Community and Social Employee engagement Development Water 6 Transportation 4 Material Biodiversity 2 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Significance to organization 3. Validation Presentation of selected issues ranked with the Materiality Matrix to the Sustainability Policy Committee for endorsement to further define the scope and duration of the report to ensure proper rationale and balance of the contents. The reporting is aimed to demonstrate growth of business sustainability and indicate all gaps for improvement found during the year. 4. Scope (G4-17, G4-20) The report includes performances in 2014 of all activities run by all units of Bangchak, excluding its subsidiaries and other related companies. Included in the report from such companies, however, are environmental KPIs, namely the volumes of raw materials, GHG, and energy usage (G4-23) by Bangchak Biofuel (BBF), Bangchak Solar Energy (BSE) and Ubon Bioethanol (UBE). Data on safety and injury rates in the office areas and the refinery on Sukhumvit 64 are included as part of the operation performance. The 2015 reporting scope is set to include more performance data from subsidiaries and related companies. (G4-21) 5. Assurance Statement The report is audited and certified by a third party with expertise in the assessment and assurance of the operation performances in the oil and natural gas businesses for the sake of thoroughness, accuracy, and credibility under the GRI G4 guideline, with details illustrated on page xx. 6. Contact us Environment and Community Relations Division, The Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited Email: chongprode@bangchak.co.th Telephone: 0-2335-4100 Fax: 0-2335-4151 Materiality Issues Report Scope Materiality Issues Issue Defined under (G4-19) Report Content Page GRI (G4-19) BCP BBF BSE Economic 1. Good corporate governance 1. Economic Performance 1. Economic performances 35, 73 2. Continuous, secure operations 2. Procurement Practice (G4-EC1) 3. Procurement process 2. Supply Chain 36, 73 Management (G4-EC9) Environmental 1. Greenhouse gases (GHG) 1. Emissions 1. Carbon footprint 44, 74 2. Energy 2. Energy (EN15-16) 3. Air pollution 3. Emissions Refinery 2. Energy usage (G4-EN 3) 41, 74 4. Flare 4. Flare Refinery 3. Air pollution (G4-EN21) 46, 75 5. Water pollution & waste 5. Effluents and Waste Refinery 4. Flare (G4-OG6) 47, 75 6. Water usage 6. Water Refinery 5. Effluents & solid waste 48, 76 7. Compliance 7. Compliance (G4-EN23) 8. Business partner development on 8. Supplier Environmental 6. Water withdrawal 45, 75 environment, social & governance Assessment (G4-EN8) (ESG) 9. Material 7. Compliance (G4-EN29) 76 9. Raw materials 8. Procurement & supply 76 chain management (G4-EN32) 9. Raw materials and 38, 74 products (G4-EN1) Social 1. Workplace safety 1. Occupational Health Refinery 1. Safety & occupational 57-59, 2. Anti-corruption and Safety health (G4-LA6) 79 3. Green product quality 2. Anti-Corruption 2. Anti-corruption (G4-SO3) 28 4. Employee engagement 3. Product & Service 3. Accountability to 52, 54 5. Contractor management Labeling customers (G4-PR5) 6. Employee compensation & welfare 4. Employment 4. Employee care (G4-LA1) 60 7. Customer service 5. Turnaround contractor 5. Safety & occupational 57-59, 8. Employee development management health (G4-LA6) 79 9. Community & social development 6. Employment 6. Employee care (G4-LA2) 62 7. Marketing Communication 7. Accountability to 52-54, 8. Training and Education customers (G4-PR5) 63, 79 9. Local Communities 8. Employee care (G4-LA9) 78 9. Community & social 64-69 development participation (G4-SO1) Notes BCP Notes to abbreviations: (G4-21) BCP = Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited Refinery = including data from Sukhumvit 64 refinery BFF = Bangchak Biofuel Company Limited BSE = Bangchak Solar Energy Company Limited 026 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 027 Corporate Governance Since its foundation, Bangchak has fully adhered to good corporate governance and the missions of national energy security and social development, corresponding to the employee culture of being “virtuous, knowledgeable, and contributive to society”. The corporate governance (CG) policy was first officially enforced in 2003 and has been strictly observed by board members, executives, and all employees. The Corporate Governance Committee was appointed by the Board with responsibilities to steer the company with CG and continuously improve the CG policy annually to meet international standards. Consisting of three members, the committee held three meetings in 2014 to ensure good CG practices like SET’s other listed companies and monitor progress of all activities under the CG work plan. Policy Improvement Firm on Intention Sharing of Ideas • Amended for Revision 11 the CG • Required acknowledgment of the • Organized a knowledge-sharing policy: the committee selection policy and launched a survey with campaign with business partners to policy in Section 3 (Board of questionnaire and test for all join anti-corruption activities Directors), term of office in Section 5 employees. Feedback was returned (details shown on Anti Corruption). (administration), and shareholders’ on potential conflicts of interest. rights in Section 7 (shareholders’ • Joined the 2014 anti-corruption rights and equality and company parade and campaign under the roles toward stakeholders) “Hand-in-Hand, Reform the Fight to • Amended the CG policy of affiliates Sustainable Victory against with addition of anti-corruption Corruption” theme, organized by the clauses in line with the parent CAC (Thailand’s Private Sector company’s CG policy Collective Action Coalition against Corruption) at CentralWorld plaza. • Organized the 2014 CG Day under the “Bangchak’s 30-year Journey, Building on Virtue toward Sustainability” theme. The goal was to share the company’s 30-year history and values, promote the employee culture of being virtuous, knowledgeable, and contributive to society, and reiterate the ‘no-gift’ policy. In addition, the Board approved the performance appraisal program for itself at least once a year, which in 2014 was conducted under three different formats: 1. Individual 2. Individual 3. Group Appraisal Self-Appraisal 95.50% Cross-Appraisal Individual is appraised 96.24% by third-party experts (Governance 85% Average score Average score of 95.50%, by 3-4 blind board of 96.24%, Matters Thailand) Average score members. rated of 85%, rated rated very Outstanding Outstanding good. Also, more performance appraisals are in place for each “committee”. Details are shown in the 2014 Annual Report under Management Structure. Anti-Corruption Bangchak is one of the 22 founding members of the Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption (CAC). Below are activities organized and supported during 2014 under Bangchak’s anti-corruption commitment: • Communicate and share knowledge : Communicated and shared knowledge with all employees on the CG policy via KM web and launched an 18-item test on the policy via the KM Happy Quiz. The 2014 outcomes were 100% for awareness and acknowledgment by executives and employees, and 100% passed the test. These outputs form the basis of stringent, efficient practices and communication channels. • Continuously improve anti-corruption measures : Declared a “no-gift policy” for festivities and special occasions, and communicated with all employees, business partners, and external business contacts of Bangchak and its affiliates. The policy heightened good CG and set good standard practices with all business partners. The awareness and acknowledgment outcome was 100%. • Share ideas with business partners : Organized a 2014 seminar with business partners in conjunction with Procurement Section to share ideas and promote the CAC campaign. The seminar was held at Bangchak Refinery with participation by 44 business partners, 92.31% of whom decided to join the campaign and 58.97% were ready to join the campaign in 2014. 028 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 029 Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact 10 universal principles Implementation Human rights 1. Support and respect the • Define equitable respect for human rights in the corporate governance protection of human rights policy under the universal • Establish channels for whistle-blowing and complaints about violations of declaration, within one’s laws or ethics, together with protective mechanisms for whistle-blowers authority 2. Diligently ensure that one’s business is involved in no violation of human rights Labor 3. Support and encourage • Support and establish a Bangchak Labor Union to freedom of labor congregation 1. Seek and safeguard benefits concerning hiring conditions and earnest confirmation of 2. Promote cordial relations between the employer and employees, negotiation rights as well as among employees themselves, to ensure peaceful 4. Eliminate the use of and proper co-existence conscripted labor and forced • Hire no involuntary labor, forced labor or child labor labor in all forms • Support competency development at the professional level; put the right 5. Earnestly abolish child labor man on the right job; treat employees fairly; establish decent and safe 6. Eliminate discrimination in welfare and workplace environment; and provide compensation comparable hiring and livelihoods to business peers; fair treatment to employee both men and women; organized good environmental; standard safety management system for the employee to work with happiness and realize SHEE awareness. The environment 7. Support careful approaches • Define “Greenergy Excellence” as the Company’s vision (that is, striving for for work potentially affecting an environmentally friendly energy business for sustainable development) the surroundings • Define “Greenergy Excellence” as the Company’s business culture 8. Volunteer for activities • Provide accurate data, strive for understanding and listen to potential promoting environmental problems and impacts so that they may be promptly resolved, a basis for responsibility co-existence between plants and communities 9. Promote development • Shared environmental knowledge and experiences to public through The and spreading of green Thailand Go Green project and enhance community participation in social technologies and environmental activities. • Be a leader in alternative-energy development, focusing on businesses that cut carbon dioxide emission • Promote environmental awareness among stakeholders, public and communities • produce green goods and spend environmentally conscious lives • Provide EIA report Anti-corruption 10. Conduct business to resist • Shown the Environmental Quality in the communities fraud, extortion, and bribery of Amended the CG policy for affiliates, namely Bangchak Green Net, all forms. Bangchak Biofuel, and Bangchak Solar Energy). The first amendment included addition of principles and practices on anti-corruption under a new section 2 of the policy. Organized a 2014 seminar with business partners with knowledge-sharing and campaigned to join the CAC (Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition against Corruption). Developed a no-gift policy and informed internal and external parties, forbidding gift-giving and acceptance on festivities and special occasions, in a move to support CG and define fair business practices for all concerned. Organized the 2014 CG Day under the “Bangchak’s 30-year Journey, Building on Virtue toward Sustainability” theme. Employees participated in shows designed to share the company’s 30-year history and promote building on virtue toward sustainability. Risk Management At Bangchak, an enterprise risk management (ERM) has been developed, with systematic reporting and performance monitoring mechanisms to ensure its capability to meet business objectives and cope with continuously changing business circumstances. Board of Director President Normination Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Enterprisewide Risk Audit Committee Management Committee President Control Internal Office Price and Financial Risk Management Committee Management Committee Senior Excutive Vice Senior Excutive Vice Senior Excutive Vice Senior Excutive Vice Senior Excutive Vice Senior Excutive Vice President/Excutive President/Excutive President/Excutive President/Excutive President/Excutive President/Excutive President Refinery President Account and President President Coporate President President Business Business Finance Marketing Business Administration and Renew Energy Business Department and Stategy Infomation Technology Risk Manager Risk Manager Risk Manager Risk Manager Risk Manager Risk Manager Strategy and Business Development Strategy and Risk Management Risk Coordinator Risk Coordinator Risk Coordinator Risk Coordinator Risk Coordinator Risk Coordinator Division Report Line Functionnal Risk Communication Note : Risk Manager Manager/Vice President Position or is assigned to. Risk Corordinator assigned by senier executive vice president/executive vice president. 030 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 031 Designed to manage and prevent risks affecting businesses for Bangchak under the COSO ERM and ISO 31000 international risk management standards, ERM has been in place since 2004. The process includes three risk management systems as follows. 1. Operation Risk Management: The system focuses on managing risks defined annually as corporate strategic risks. A generated Risk Map is used to analyze and link all risks with a matrix of probability and severity of impacts. 2. Business Continuity Management: The system is designed under the ISO 22301:2012 standard guideline, consisting of ten crisis management plans and six business continuity plans. It regularly calls for drills, monitoring, and revision of work procedures to ensure emergency preparedness of manpower, resources, and strategies for coping with possible current crises. 3. New Business Investment Risk Management: The system is designed to help screen new business investment projects by the Enterprisewide Risk Management Committee (ERMC). Only those endorsed by ERMC can be further reviewed by the Board. Risk Management Outcomes The extreme volatility in economy, politics, and the oil price of 2014 influenced the demand and supply of oil products and the oil business directly. The company’s risk management system, nevertheless, drove its business plans for full achievement. 1. Financial Risks The big swing in the oil price was phenomenal in 2014 following the worldwide crude oil glut, while demand was declining as the global economy failed to recover-resulting in a free fall in prices. Thanks to its financial hedging on crude and product prices, Bangchak managed to somewhat mitigate its inventory losses. The losses were well offset by a consistent revenue stream provided by solar power generation, whose capacity was increased to 118 MW, and by an expanding biofuel business. By using palm oil as raw material for biodiesel, the generating capacity has gradually been rising from 360,000 to 810,000 liters per day in 2016. (expanded 450,000 liters per day) The company further expanded its ethanol output by another 150,000 liters per day by acquiring an ethanol plant based on tapioca and molasses. Combined with the existing capacity of 400,000 liters per day, the total ethanol production of Bangchak is now 550,000 liters per day. The capacity expansion strategy reduces the sourcing and supply risks and increases the market share when the country is looking for more alternative/renewable energy sources. 2. Social Risks With its utmost commitment to safety of communities and society, the risk management process review of possible impacts created by internal and external changing environment is regularly conducted, leading to continuously improved work processes. Develop, improve and upgrade various safety standards to provide assurance of the overall program advancement. These activities include: • Reviewed the Hazard and Operability Study, a study to identify hazardous work by compiling and reconciling comments and suggestions from operators to improve the overall work process design to prevent undesirable incidents so that machines and equipment can operate safer under the operating standards. The review is part of the efforts to ensure completeness of the overall operations and compliance with international safety standards. • Elevated the safety system from TISI/OHSAS 18001 to PSM (Process Safety Management). This requires a thorough review of all safety programs related to refining processes and high-risk work processes. An internationally renowned specialist from Du Pont ensured successful implementation. • Deployed an emergency preparedness system to ensure efficient handling of crises, including complete extinguishment systems for incidents within the refining facilities and the surrounding communities, a closed-circuit monitoring system, and security personnel. To ensure safety of communities and the public, a series of public relations and campaigns to share knowledge and foster safety awareness with surrounding communities including schools, temples, and condominiums have been regularly organized. Some of these events are basic fire extinguishing, communication and alarm systems with the communities, and observation programs for community personnel at Level 3 emergency drills. 3. Environmental Risks Environmental risks are generally sensitive and highly prone to public attention, and therefore could pose critical threats to company business if such an incident is caused by the company itself. Bangchak has adopted an offensive strategy to foster environmental stewardship with environmental safeguarding and continuously improved work efficiency to eliminate environmental risks. This strategy includes: • Enforced restriction on the use of crude oil and refined product vessels to only those with double hulls to prevent environmental incidents. • Treated all waste water with the reverse-osmosis technology to ensure high water quality suitable for reuse, reduced waste water to the minimum, and minimized the use of raw water. Since the installation, waste water has been reduced by 25%, on the way to the 2020 target of 80%. • Initiated a technical study on the use of an enclosed ground flare to reduce air pollutants causing environmental impacts on the surrounding communities by 2015. • Manage the refinery efficiency improvement project for reduction of energy and GHG. 032 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 033 4. Business Continuity Management Bangchak was honored by MASCI (Management System Certification Institute (Thailand) with an ISO 22301:2012 award in 2014, representing a management standard for business continuity covering operating areas of Head Office, Bangchak Refinery, Bangchak Oil Distribution Center, Central Business Office, and the Bang Pa-In Oil Distribution Center. The award reassured stakeholders of its capability to continue its overall business during emergency crises. A plan for an oilspill emergency drill is set for 2015. An oil spill incident is assumed to take place during the offloading from a vessel to the storage tank. The business continuity plan (BCP) is to be activated to manage and minimize the impacts on the public. Participants to the drill will include IESG (Oil Industry Environmental Safety Group), government agencies such as the Department of Energy Business, Marine Department, Port Authority of Thailand, Phra Khanong District Office, Phra Khanong Metropolitan Police Station, Bangkok Fire and Rescue Department of the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration, and surrounding stakeholders. The drill outcomes would further improve the BCP. Lesson Learned in 2014 Bangchak deployed BCM during the political unrest and widespread demonstration in Bangkok during 2014, which caused disruption to its operations and transportation of employees and main roads. Bangchak deployed the crisis management plans in case of disenable office and transportation. Daily management briefings and meetings helped monitor the situation closely and develop necessary measures under the plan. With the program in place, Bangchak successfully managed its overall operations and delivered products to its customers uninterrupted. The 2014 lesson learned provided high value in many aspects. All departments were requested to put up a report with their own lessons in detail and co-develop with the central office a new BCP specifically for political chaos. The plan was disseminated among employees to foster knowledge-sharing and strengthen the overall business operations, and to be better prepared for any future crises. Sustainability Performances 034 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 035 Economic Performances Revenue IIn 2014, Bangchak generated a revenue stream of Baht 178,300 million from sales and services. The revenues included Baht 175,299 million from sales and services of the oil business, Baht 2,183 million from sales of Lube oil sale and Baht 818 million from the solar farm business. The Bangchak’s revenues drop of Baht 4,963 million or 2.72% from last year’s resulted from the political crisis in Thailand, the World Economic Deflation and volatility in the oil price. Nonetheless, the GRM (Gross Refining Margin: crack spreads or margins between refined product prices and costs of reference crudes) was US$ 6.96 per barrel gained up from US$ 5.76 per barrel in 2013.The average Dubai crude price was lower from US$ 105.45 per barrel to US$ 96.96 per barrel extremely impacted to the inventory losses of Baht 5,454 million. The company posted a net profit of Baht 296 million, a drop of Baht 3,675 million (92.54%) from last year. The sales volume through the marketing business was Baht 5,006 million, similar level to last year with a drop of 4% in the industrial market but a rise of 3%, in the retail market. As a result the market share of Bangchak in the retail market moved up from the 3rd top at 14.8%. in 2013 to 2nd top at 15.1%. up Moreover, Moreover, the total marketing margin value in 2014 gained raised up to 37% both in the retail market and industrial market are increased at Baht 0.71 per liter. (37% up) and compare with the last year for Besides, the 38 kilowatt-hour solar farm business generated 38 kilowatt-hour power, generated 2.78 million kilowatt-hour power or added up 4% relative to last year due to a rise of 2.78 million kilowatt-hour power or added up 4% from the capacity stemmed from full-year operation and the weather permitting the higher solar intensity. at Baht 0.71 per liter. 181,876.03 296.1 million Baht million Baht Total Revenue Net Profit Expenditures In 2014, the company’s operating expenses increased although the production reduced. This was caused by the stock inventory losses. Other expenditures for society in forms of the contributions to the public, schools, and communities, as well as the donations both in things and cash were reduced by Baht 5.8 million. Likewise, the tax payment to the government and municipalities were reduced by Baht 1,067 million due to the loss of the corporate income tax. Furthermore, the financial cost was raised by increase in the Baht 10,000 million debenture bond at Baht 305 million. Nonetheless, the company still paid for the dividend at the amount of Baht 1,859 million, but 10% decrease from relative to last year 1,858.80 Million Baht Shareholders’ dividend Supply Chain Management Regarding vendors and suppliers as critical players in the company’s success, Bangchak puts in place a policy supporting procurement of domestic goods and services, promotion of green merchandise, and development of their sustainability together with Bangchak’s. Therefore, Bangchak has since 2008 established E-procurement to ensure procurement processes marked by clarity, transparency, ethics, with equitably detailed procurement for the sake of fair competition, contractor management filled with respect for human rights and conformance to labor laws. Bangchak reviews merchandise qualifications to fit tasks and users’ safety in addition to minimal environmental impacts before price setting so as to focus on merchandise with the right qualifications for given tasks. This year Bangchak has taken the following actions on its purchasing and hiring system, while modifying business processes to cater to vendors’ and suppliers’ desires: • Migrated to the SAP SRM system in September for transparent and accountable procurement • Built capacity for contractors and suppliers through training and seminars on anti-corruption to stress procurement ethics and transparency and invite business partners to participate and accept the company’s invitation to join CAC membership on environmental aspects together with the procurement of green goods and services. That way, their greater awareness of green products and services and Labor Law will arise. • Encouraged corporate procurement of green products and services, beginning with office supplies and increasing in number. • Drove business partners’ certification efforts for green industry so as to jointly and proactively develop the industrial sector in a concrete way with a goal to continually develop all business partners into green companies. • Managed relationship with contractors, vendors and suppliers, and business partners every year to share their views and continually apply these to the improvement of business. • Communicated relevant news and information to business partners by business processes and E-mail, including the policy of rejection of gifts in all circumstances. 036 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 037 Environmental Performances Milestones Environmental operation during the annual major turnaround This year Bangchak Refinery underwent 45 days of annual major turnaround. Recognizing potential environmental impacts, Bangchak added environmental preventive measures like the procedural modification of plant stoppage for repair and plant resumption, especially for impact mitigation on odor, effluents, and solid waste. Bangchak applied chemical decontamination, resulting in easier and cleaner equipment washing that proves safer to operating personnel. Effluent reduction project To cut down on its volumes of effluents and water consumption, Bangchak installed an additional, modern effluent quality improvement unit to raise treatment efficiency so as to handle a higher volume and quality fluctuation of water. It is expected to treat water to a cleaner quality to enter the reverse-osmosis system to obtain tap-water quality for reuse in Bangchak’s processes. Start-up was undertaken in late 2014. In addition, smells were reduced from the sediment treatment system so that the treated water may be used for plant watering on the company’s compound. Start Off Smart Office Energy (SOS) Bangchak people cooperate to save energy company-wide. That is the message to all employees, urging them to join a contest to find the best in office buildings and save energy (the so-called SOS Featuring Energy 2013), hosted by the Ministry of Energy. Bangchak met all three aspects of the criteria: electricity-saving in buildings, promotion of energy-saving appliances, and awareness campaigns on energy conservation. Thanks to its participation in this project, tools and mechanisms have been produced in day-to-day work and long-term monitoring. Bangchak won outstanding awards (energy-saving buildings: Building 2 and Building 4). Equally important, employees have become more aware of conscientious energy consumption. Excellence in Green Office Bangchak also manages and operates under the Green Office criteria at the “excellent” level, certified by the Department of Environmental Quality Promotion, in these aspects: organizational management, Green Office operation, energy-resource consumption, waste management, surroundings, procurement of office supplies, and continuous improvement. Raw Materials The raw materials of Bangchak and producing subsidiaries (Bangchak Biofuel and Bangchak Solar Energy) fall into two main types: non-renewable and renewable. This year, the volumes amounted to: Year Unit BCP BBF BSE Consolidated* Material 2013 tons 5,864,844 156,799 3 5,918,948 Material 2014 tons 5,826,559 165,032 3 5,870,930 Non-renewable tons 5,492,211 2,065 3 5,494,280 Renewable tons 334,348 162,967 376,650 * Total raw materials of Bangchak and subsidiaries (“Bangchak Group”), exclusive of raw materials under connected transactions Bangchak’s main raw material is crude oil, indigenous and imported. The company chooses to maximize indigenous crude oil consumption to ease transport impacts to its own allocated amount. This year, indigenous crude amounted to nearly 2.7 million litres, or 53% of the total crude run. In addition, the Company fed 1.8% of off-specifications refined oil and slop oil back into its refining processes, thus lowering oil losses and consuming resources more effectively. Besides crude oil, Bangchak uses other products or additives for refined products, including biodiesel, ester (B100), and ethanol derived from its subsidiaries, chemicals, and additives. Biodiesel, ester, and ethanol-all renewable raw materials-have found extensive applications in Bangchak’s biodiesel and gasohol production since 2013 in the national effort to cut down crude oil imports and support public policy (Department of Energy Business) in abolishing 91-octane and 95-octane gasoline sale. 038 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 039 Crude oil sources (%) 100 80 48 53 60 Indigenous crude 40 Imported crude 52 47 20 0 2013 2014 Raw material by type (%) 100 80 60 95.3 94.3 Non renewable material 40 Renewable material 20 4.7 5.7 0 2013 2014 Product The Company’s products include fuel gas, LPG, 91-octane gasoline, gasohol 91 and 95, jet fuel, B2, B3 and B5 PowerD and fuel oil. This year, BCP increase the refine of gasohol 91 and 95, in order to replace Benzine 91 and 95. Product Ratio (%) 1.6 1.9 0.3 0.5 100.0 LPG 13.9 15.5 91/95 Octane gasoline 7.7 80.0 7.5 Gasohol 91/95 Jet Fuel/ Kerosene 28.9 28.8 60.0 Diesel B2/ B3 and B5 Power D 40.0 33.7 33.5 Fuel Oil 20.0 13.8 12.2 0.0 2556 2557 * In 2013 and 2014, no 91-octane or 95-octane gasoline was refined at Bangchak Refinery (only some purchased 91-octane for blending) ** In 2013 and 2014, no kerosene was refined ISO 27001 The heart of Bangchak’s IT system for its processes is the DCS (distributed control system) in the Control Room and Substation No. 5 and the DCS support system in Substation No. 3. Keenly aware of information security, especially under today’s computer threats that come in various dynamic forms, leading to potential impacts on its business, Bangchak investigates the development of an information security management system with suitable efficiency and in line with ISO/IEC 27001:2005, which would ensure related parties about Bangchak’s information system and its service to them in a secure and continuous manner. 040 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 041 Energy This year Bangchak, Bangchak Biofuel, and Bangchak Solar Energy consumed only non-renewable energy in their processes and offices, namely: 1. Fuels: Fuel gas and LPG, natural gas, and fuel oil consumed in the processes of Bangchak and Bangchak Biofuel 2. Electricity: This was derived from Bangchak Utility Plant (BUP), the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (for the portion used in the Sukhumvit 64 area), and the Provincial Electricity Authority (for subsidiaries’ consumption). 3. Steam: Steam was consumed in Bangchak’s and Bangchak Biofuel’s processes. This year Bangchak Refinery consumed 11,769 terajoules of energy, 8.5% less than last year, because of the shutdowns of some plants for planned turnaround maintenance and the effort to improve energy efficiency by maximizing natural gas consumption at the expense of fuel oil. But since 2014 also saw a shutdown at Bangchak Utility Plant (BUP), more fuel oil was consumed as a fuel than last year. Source of Energy in Refinery 2013 2014 Tera Joules Tera Joules FUEL FG + LPG 7,130 6,163 NG 2,626 2,613 FO 1,029 1,075 Electricity Purchasing MEA 103 99 BUP 438 395 Steam Purchasing BUP 1,538 1,424 Total 12,864 11,769 Energy consumption (%) 100 20.4 22.2 Natural gas 80 8.0 9.1 Very low-sulfur fuel oil 60 55.4 52.4 Fuel gas 40 Electricity 20 Stream 4.2 4.2 12.0 12.1 0 2013 2014 This year, the Energy Management Committee continued to manage its refinery efficiency improvement project. After the project launch, the Company managed to trim about 115.72 Tera Joules, equivalent to a reduction of 7,045 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (TOCE) in greenhouse gas emission. Refinery efficiency improvement project Reduction in energy Reduction in greenhouse (Tera Joules) gas emission (TOCE) Fuel reduction projects 1. Installation of insert tubes at the naphtha quality 6.3 improvement unit’s heat exchanger 2. Installation of insert tubes at the CDU 14.7 heat exchanger 3. Internal pipe-cleaning of furnaces 13.7 6,482 number 1 and 2 of the CDU 4. Replacement of CDU furnace walls 2.7 5. Control of ratio between steam and raw materials of 55.2 the hydrogen unit 6. Utilization of gas oil heat exchangers 22.9 Power reduction project 1. Ventilator fan replacement 0.02 2. Replacement of lighting system at the Second 0.2 563 Plant with LED Total 115.72 7,045 To lower carbon dioxide venting, not only Bangchak, but also Bangchak Biofuel has turned to natural gas at the expense of fuel oil. 042 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 043 Bangchak Group’s renewable and non-renewable energy consumption and sale Unit BCP BCP BBF BSE Consolidated (Exclude (include Refinery) Refinery) Overview of Bangchak Group’s renewable and non-renewable energy consumption 2013 Tera Joules 12,863.1 89.0 12,952.1 2,755.2 1.0 15,708.3 2514 Tera Joules 11,768.8 71.8 11,840.6 199.8 3.2 12,043.6 Bangchak Group’s non-renewable energy consumption, 2014 Fuels Fuel gas and Tera Joules 6,163.2 6,163.2 6,163.2 LPG Natural Gas Tera Joules 2,612.8 2,612.8 173.7 2,786.5 Fuel oil Tera Joules 1,075.0 1,075.0 9.7 1,084.7 Purchase electricity and stream electricity Tera Joules 493.8 71.8 565.6 16.4 3.2 585.2 stream Tera Joules 1,424.0 1,424.0 1,424.0 Bangchak Group’s renewable energy consumption No renewable energy consumption within Group yet * Overview of Bangchak Group’s sale of power and renewable energy 2013 Tera Joules 214.2 456.6 2014 Tera Joules 580.2 832.6 * This year a solar PV panel was installed at the refinery’s parking lot. The plan is to study the feasibility of installing a similar panel at some fuel distribution centers to generate power for these centers. Carbon Footprint Bangchak recognizes the significance of higher capability of handling climate change, a universal environmental predicament for the world community. This year it improved energy efficiency in its processes and constantly lowered fuel and steam consumption, resulting in greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction of 7,045 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (TOCE). For the year Bangchak Group’s GHG emissions totaled 933,721 TOCE in the operational control approach, broken down into: 1. Direct emission from processes: 762,906 TOCE 2. Indirect emission from the purchase of electricity and steam: 170,815 TOCE Bangchak Group’s GHG emissions under the Operational Control Approach 2013 2014* Unit : TOCE BCP BGN BBF BSE BCP BGN BBF BSE Scope 1 819,846 8,937 24 753,078 9,760 68 Scope 2 171,528 11,010 1,818 147 157,173 8,591 2,479 2,572 Total 991,374 11,010 10,755 171 910,251 8,591 12,239 2,640 1,013,310 933,721 * 2014 is the baseline year for the GHG Reduction Project Under the equity share approach, Bangchak Group’s GHG emissions totaled 925,668 TOCE, broken down into: 1. Direct emission from processes: 759,978 TOCE 2. Indirect emission from the purchase of electricity and steam: 165,690 TOCE Bangchak Group’s GHG emissions under the equity share approach 2013 2014* Unit : TOCE BCP BGN BBF BSE BCP BGN BBF BSE Scope 1 819,846 6,255 24 753,078 6,832 68 Scope 2 171,528 5,395 1,272 147 157,173 4,210 1,735 2,572 Total 991,374 5,395 7,527 171 910,251 4,210 8,567 2,640 1,004,467 925,668 * 2014 is the baseline year for the GHG Reduction Project 044 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 045 Water Consumption One of the four basic necessities, water is turning increasingly critical because the impacts of climate change have resulted in water shortages around the world, Thailand included. While Bangchak’s location in Bangkok Metropolis hardly suffers from water shortage, it enforces a resource consumption policy for maximum efficiency and loss reduction. Bangchak’s measures concern continual water consumption reduction and water reuse (in offices and processes). This year Bangchak consumed 2,388,903 cubic meters of piped water from the Metropolitan Waterworks Authority, or 2.19 cubic meters per barrel equivalent of produced oil. This exceeded last year’s volume because of installation work and test runs of the sulfur recovery unit, waste water treatment unit phase 3, reverse-osmosis system of effluents for reuse instead of piped water, and the electro de-ionization system No Action plan Performance 1 Used the micro-filtration system in parallel with the Saved 32,046 cu.m./year reverse-osmosis system in initially treating raw water going (0.9% of the total demand for water and into the demineralization system at the Power Plant equivalent to 29,438 cu.m./million barrels of fuel outputs) 2 Used quality condensate water instead of water for boilers at Saved 555,192 cu.m./year Plant 2 and the Power Plant (14.8% of the total demand for water and equivalent to 510,667 cu.m./million barrels of fuel outputs) 3 Used stripped water from the sour-water stripping unit and Saved 56,249 cu.m./year the stripping stream from Plant 2 and Plant 3 instead of piped (1.5% of the total demand for water and water at the desalter unit equivalent to 51,671 cu.m./million barrels of fuel outputs) 4 Treated slightly contaminated condensate water at Plant 4 for Saved 421,088 cu.m./year reuse in the boiler feed water system (11.2% of the total demand for water and equivalent to 386,816 cu.m./million barrels of fuel outputs) Air Pollution Air emission has assumed top priority for Bangchak throughout its first three decades of operations. Its corporate culture demands business to develop in harmony with the environment and society. Bangchak’s ultimate goal is not merely to fully comply with all rules and regulations, but also to cause no impact on society. Numerous investment programs have been installed to consistently reduce air emissions, including the reduction of all pollutants at sources to ensure the use of clean fuels in production processes. An international, experienced third party has been employed to conduct independent measurement of the air quality emitted from distillation towers at every six-month period or sooner. The measurement follows the U.S. EPA (United States Environmental Protection Agency) standard including NOx, SO2, H S, and TSP (total suspended particulates) measurement as part of Bangchak’s environmental monitoring program. Emissions from all refining units are combined as a mass flow rate or the total air emissions, with the exception of the H2S, which is emitted only from the SRU (sulfur recovery unit) tower. The total air emissions in 2014 are broken down into various compounds and compared with previous years as follows. Unit: ton Direct Emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 NOX from combustion 634 279 521 451 SO2 from combustion and SRU/TGTU 260 29 205 25* (sulfur recovery unit/tail gas treating unit) stack PM10 (particulates finer than 10 microns) 43 10 20 8 from combustion H2S from SRU/TGTU stack 1.84 0.26 0.03 7.08 * Not Included SO2 from Acid Flare Unit: ton/thousand tons of crude Direct Emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 NOX from combustion 0.08 0.08 0.11 0.11 SO2 from combustion & SRU/TGTU stack 0.03 0.01 0.04 0.01 PM10 (particulates finer than 10 microns) 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 from combustion H2S (SRU/TGTU Stack) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 046 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 047 In addition, the measuring and the monitoring of VOCs (volatile organic compounds) contents in parallel to the maintenance program are mandatory in the refining business. During 2014, with a plan to reduce VOC emissions, Bangchak closely monitored such emissions through the following processes. 1. Establishment of a VOC inventory by experts and development of plans to control and reduce VOC emissions. 2. Treatment by cleaning and segregating oil emulsion from the wastewater treatment system to reduce the agglomeration of oil residues under a closed system by rooftop installation. The VOC emission reduction outcomes were efficient, corresponding positively to VOC emissions measurement in the wastewater treatment work area compared with previous years. 3. Daily measurement of the fugitive VOCs with a portable measuring device under the US EPA standard Flare The flare is a vital part for petroleum and petrochemical plants because it is a safety instrument that ensures that the flare gas and liquids are released and eliminated from production processes through complete combustion for the benefit of plant safety and minimized impacts on the environment and communities. To ensure that gas flaring is safe and least disturbs the environment, burning at the stack’s tip is essential. In a sense, this burning means hydrocarbon release through the flare, which is a loss of resources and affects production continuity. Therefore Bangchak has tried to avoid flaring. But more important, since Bangchak now lies in an urban area, flaring could drastically hurt neighbors’ feelings and could affect nearby communities. As a result, Bangchak has increased the reliability of its production processes, curbed flaring, and established a broadcast system from the refinery to communities to ensure their understanding and ease their concerns. In addition, the company measures the hydrocarbon volumes flared from the stacks of the Second, Third, and Fourth Plants by calculating the proportions and valve-opening durations. This year it measured 1250.5 cubic meters of hydrocarbons, and plans to install hydrocarbon measurement equipment for the stacks of the Fourth Plant in 2018 and the Second and Third Plants in 2020 to ease potential impacts on communities, avert flaring, and lower resource losses. To this end, the company has taken the following actions: 1. Installed equipment to restore the gas from RSU (reformate splitter unit) and the hydrocracking unit (4C-105: Product Fractionators) that constantly enters the flare for reuse in the process gas system, which is expected to become functional by June 2015 2. Managed the project to modify the flare into a ground flare stack 3. Developed the communication protocol with communities and their participation through the likes of annual major turnaround planning and informing the communities at least a month ahead of time, and scheduling officers or Bangchak employees to call on communities around the refinery to reach an understanding about the annual major maintenance turnaround or other shutdowns. Water Pollution The Company houses high-efficiency wastewater treatment systems using closely-monitored online measurementdevices. Effluent is tested daily by its Environmental Quality Analysis Laboratory, certified by the Department of Industrial Works, Ministry of Industry, and is ISO/IEC 17025-certified. Process water is treated physically, chemically and biologically until the quality exceeds the required standards before discharge through the Bang Aw Canal to the Chao Phraya River. This year Bangchak released a total of 975,466 cubic meters of effluents that have been treated and those contaminated with oil. Gathered in a pool, they are in time released to the external environment. The year-end saw Bangchak on a trial run and launch of its effluent reduction project, which yields water with a quality on a par with tap water, which is then recycled for use in its processes. Waste and scrap / disposal The Company treated waste derived from processes by using the 3Rs principle and sending it for disposal by using domestic carriers and disposal companies licensed by the Department of Industrial Works. Each time waste is transported from its plants, Bangchak notifies the department. In addition, Bangchak conducted random sampling of trucks transporting waste by using GPS to prevent unlawful disposal. This year the Company exported from its plants a total of 3905 tons of waste, consisting of 3261 tons of hazardous waste (83.5%) and 644 tons of non-hazardous waste (16.5%). Waste that underwent treatment and disposal through proper technical means was broken down as a result from Major turnaround, as follows,: 443 tons as reuse, 984 tons as recycle, 1420 tons as recovery, 410 tons as incineration, 112 tons as secure landfill. Also, 1.1 tons from oil spill and no waste from construction work and treatment total of 88.66 tons. About 537 tons of waste lies in storage, awaiting disposal. The volume of waste reused and recycled this year is about 36.54 % of the total waste exported. 048 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 049 Environmental Cost Accounting In Bangchak’s environmental cost accounting covering oil refining processes and the depots at Bangchak and Bang Pa-in, the total expenditure for this year fell by Baht 18,139 million from last year, or about 13%, as detailed below: Material costs of output products : These were lower than last year because of the major turnaround maintenance of all refining processes, which lower outputs. Besides, the plummeting oil price contributed to the lower expenses. Material costs of non-output products : These surged with the turnaround maintenance this year, which implied more waste than normal, made worse by the higher prices of process chemicals. Expenses for pollution control equipment : These also rose with the additional asset formalization for more environmental projects, including the debottlenecking of the sulfur processes and the effluent reduction project. Expenses for environmental protection : These also rose with more environmental quality measurements on process days and mechanical days, during the turnaround maintenance, and monitoring of efficiency measurement under the commissioning environmental project. In addition, this year Bangchak generated Baht 3.42 million (22%) more revenue from selling process by-products and waste, including liquid sulfur, surplus glycerine, and iron scrap from liquid sulfur, glycerine, and by-products from fuel product and biodiesel processes. (Unit : million baht) Item 2012 2013 2014 Material costs of product outputs Crude Feed 96,406.01 127,407.41 106,781.94 Ethanol 2,391.83 5,551.98 7,043.31 B100 biodiesel 3,106.96 2,971.28 3,993.63 Used vegetable oil 23.38 35.76 18.70 Chemicals 47.98 39.88 41.28 Process water 34.63 40.03 29.48 Process energy 4,022.86 3,964.21 3,779.22 Material costs of non-product outputs Slop oil 258.70 107.51 142.98 Oil sediments from crude/fuel oil tanks 1.86 2.19 0.25 Effluent 8.35 6.65 8.14 Excess chemicals from stabilizer pool 0.17 1.71 0.34 Low-quality sulfur 0.12 0 0.04 Waste and emission control costs Environmental equipment maintenance 15.04 34.74 53.38 Pollution control equipment depreciation 171.37 128.70 240.94 Effluent treatment 6.22 4.54 6.71 Waste disposal 8.74 6.93 12.72 Environmental fees and taxes N.A. N.A. N.A. Fines 0 0 0 Prevention and other environmental management costs Monitoring and measurement 5.77 5.39 16.73 Waste storage area depreciation 0.23 0.25 0.21 System operation 0.17 0.07 0.23 Environmental equipment maintenance 0.01 0.47 0 Benefits of byproducts and recycling Liquid sulfur (15.39) (4.26) (8.64) Glycerine (0.64) (0.66) (0.38) Iron and aluminium scrap (7.98) (10.89) (10.27) Paper 0.00 (0.05) 0 050 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 051 Eco-efficiency Eco-efficiency is a management tool for sustainability, linking economic performance to environmental performance. In other words, it illustrates financial capacity derived from corporate activities / products / services compared with resource consumption / pollution emission. Here, high efficiency values are managed to raise competitiveness and development in harmony with environmental stewardship. To achieve eco-efficiency, Bangchak relies on EBIT and the equivalent volume of carbon dioxide generated, which is a key environmental aspect in the petroleum industry, in the denominator. For this year, eco-efficiency equaled 1,388 baht/TOCE was lower from last year. Because the revenues drop resulted from volatility in the oil price. Eco-efficiency table (Unit: Baht /ton CO2 equivalent) 12,000 10,000 11,178 8,000 5,983 6,000 6,061 5,609 4,000 2,000 1,388 0 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 Green products and services With due regard for the development of environmentally friendly (“green”) products that meet customers’ needs, Bangchak is committed to inventing and developing high-quality products that raise efficiency and are cost-effective. In place are the constant development of product quality, service station improvement, supplementary business addition, and service improvement, not to mention the establishment of a customer network through assorted membership cards. This year, therefore, the company took the No. 2 market share for sales through service stations, an improvement over last year. Green products Expansion of E85 gasohol service station network Containing 85% alcohol, E85 gasohol is a green fuel due to its composition of a replantable component and ability to absorb carbon dioxide. As a result, it is desired by environment-conscious consumers, for besides its environmental benefit, it gives farmers higher income with higher plant supply. Interestingly, there is a booming market for new E85-compatible cars, prompting Bangchak to grow those stations selling E85 from 102 to 200 today, driving its market share to 53.2% of the market (No. 1). Bangchak Hi Diesel: more power, same price For diesel consumers, Bangchak has come up with Bangchak Hi Diesel, a quality fuel that is both cleaner and more powerful, thanks to the Hi Clean additive, designed to raise quality and combustion efficiency. As a result, the engine is clean, and performance is uncompromised. So consumers can save fuels, while the Hi Power additive gives them more power at the old price. Developing lube quality in pursuit of international standards Bangchak constantly develops lubricating oil in search of lubricating oil leadership, first by achieving the ISO 9001 standard management system and then the ISO/TS 16949, an international quality management system for the automotive industry-a first in Thailand-for supply, product development, distribution, and after-sale services, for excellence in quality and efficiency of business execution. Bangchak supports Carbon offset consumers’ sustainable consumption Bangchak participated in an activity to offset by informing them of the carbon carbon emission in the product and service dioxide reduction each time they consume sector in support of the domestic voluntary renewable/alternative energy, seen on carbon market. The company buys carbon credit the point accrual sales slip. to offset the carbon emitted from its power Reduction of carbon dioxide emission consumption this year when dispensing fuels due to refueling (gasohol and diesel cards): at Bangchak Service Station on Vibhavadi In million kg. Rangsit Road. The volume in question 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 was 141 TOCE. 19 35 54 113 149 052 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 053 This year Bangchak developed lubricating oil for fuel-saving cars and those with low pollutants like eco cars, hybrid cars, and new models for high efficiency of lubrication, engine protection, and for fuel economy. Other qualities include improved cleansing power, breaking-up of soot and sediment, heat resistance, engine life prolonging, less carbon dioxide emission, which is a green quality. Further, Bangchak enhanced its lubricating oil for high-performance gasoline engines with an additive and an engine test formula proven by OEM auto-parts manufacturer like Mercedes-Benz and Volkswagen, bolstering confidence in quality on the part of consumers. Cycling activities: Bangchak lubes, fitting your car, fitting you On the 20th anniversary of its lubricating oil venture, Bangchak staged a lube market-challenging activity by linking human health and fitness to engine health and fitness. To elaborate, Bangchak focused on health enthusiasts’ cycling and the choice of good lubes for lovers of cars and the surroundings in the “Cycling activities: Bangchak lubes, fitting your car, fitting you” activities, held twice, named the “Cycling in Bang Kachao” and “Cycling in Pak Nam Pho 2014” projects. Some 2,000 participants joined the activities. Continual development of services and supplementary businesses Besides quality fuels, as a rule, convenience, speed, and nice surroundings of service stations are what customers expect. The company has therefore developed its service stations’ image and surroundings in addition to properly delegating responsibility among market units in charge of business. In 2014 it ensured that its service station standard is ready for competition in hardware, software, and peopleware. At the same time, it expanded supplementary services through Mini Big C convenience stores and Inthanin Coffee. • Introduced the POS Automation system at service stations to give services at the pump more flexibility and mistake-free fueling service, apart from operating and cash receipt & change mistakes. Consumers’ behavior data can also be reported and analyzed for the benefit of future promotional campaigns. Implementation of this system also lowered staff resignation. • Supported other supplementary businesses to cater to consumers’ needs and add income to service stations, including Black Canyon, KFC, and McDonald’s food outlets. • Joined a project promoting accurate volumetric measurement of fuels, organized by the Department of Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce, to ensure consumers of accurate fuel volumes with proper, quality measurement tools, complete with good services, cleanliness, and hygienic settings. • Developed clean toilets complete with amenities, around-the-clock availability, and a friendly smell. Toilets for the handicapped, the elderly, and pregnant women are located in a safe and secure corner. The company’s Udomsuk 45 service station won the best toilet award under BMA (Bangkok Metropolitan Administration) this year; the Vibhavadi Rangsit service station had earlier won the same award last year. • Issued a Mobile Application to make it more convenient to locate Bangchak service stations in the vicinity, including those selling E20 and E85-another way to promote renewable/alternative energy consumption. The application also provides a search function for supplementary business outlets like Bai Chak, Mini Big C, Inthanin Coffee, and Green Series Car Care. A feature alerts consumers of fuel price adjustment. And then there are Bangchak advertisements and Bangchak Cardholders’ display of accrued points. All these efforts have catapulted Bangchak into the No. 2 brand among consumers (“Top 2 Brand of Choice”) for a fifth consecutive year, based on a survey of over 1,000 fuel users nationwide by a third-party research company. Bangchak service stations and public services Into the 25th year with community service stations : A good example of CSR in-Process that has been a long-standing part of Bangchak, community service stations are operated by agricultural cooperatives to upgrade farmers’ business competitiveness, spreading the benefit to more than 1 million households in an association that thrives even in economic crises. Like a family, both parties have long supported each other. Today there are 626 community service stations, which spread income and brought better living conditions to cooperative members-in short, the benefits are both economic and social by strengthening communities’ self-reliance. This year the company set up a Co-op Business Development Division to look after and develop such service stations for sustainable growth. • Initiated a “Green Partnership Award”, under which service stations’ good deeds are promoted through the “Green Society” concept. A case in point is a service station contest for carrying out CSR projects with a focus on CSR in-Process under the Sufficiency Economy philosophy and the ISO 26000 CSR international for consumer stewardship, environmental stewardship, community and social stewardship, and employee stewardship. The key goals are to serve customers, look after the environment, society, and communities near Bangchak service stations, as well as employees and business partners in one way oranother. It is equally important, however, that no donation of cash or items takes place. • Staged sales promotional campaigns by picking community goods to distribute income, launch new markets, and create jobs for local areas to strengthen community economies. Three items were promoted this year, sending Baht 16 million back to communities: • Seedless velvet tamarind from the three southernmost provinces (Pattani, Yala, Narathiwat) • Roast rice tea and roast green rice tea (organic tea products and organic rice made by farmers of Chiang Rai), which created jobs and income for the communities that had survived a recent strong earthquake in Chiang Rai province and nearby areas. Elderly people in affected families derived some income by putting the tea into bags. • Organic brown rice (Mee Dee Sam Taw) from a project on Buddhist Farmers School, founded by the revered monk Waw Wachiramethi. The produce of the Rai Choen Tawan community enterprise, the rice relies on no chemical or fertilizer. 054 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 055 We Thais patronize Bangchak, which donates Baht 30 million to Thai Red Cross On Bangchak’s 30th anniversary of establishment, we urge Bangchak patrons of fuels and lubricating oil to join the sharing with Bangchak under the captioned project and donate a blood-donation bus to the Thai Red Cross Society together with medical apparatus for the Bhumisiri Mangalanuson Ward of Chulalongkorn Hospital. Customer engagement through membership cards Bangchak Gasohol Club and Bangchak Diesel Club cards These complimentary cards are issued by Bangchak to patrons that register through its website. Benefits are earned through the use of these cards to accrue points by buying fuels, products, or services of supplementary businesses found at service stations, a form of long-term engagement. Today the total membership has risen by 20% to some 1.2 million. Bangchak has staged useful activities like classes on cooking, make-up, and yoga, and movie-screening to forge cordial relationships between the company and its patrons, as well as among patrons themselves. Gasohol Club Special campaigns designed to promote renewable/ alternative energy consumption: Cardholders Double the discount from Baht 0.05 per liter to Baht 990,000 0.10 per liter (January 1 to February 28, 2014) for diesel Bangchak patrons Double the discount from Baht 0.20 per liter to Baht 0.40 per liter (December 1, 2014, to January 31, 2015) for gasohol patrons E20 Diesel Club Cardholers 296,000 Bangchak Bangchak Card Connects Thais and community service stations The company has launched a “Bangchak Card Connects Thais” project for customers of community service stations and for such stations to stage sales promotional campaigns or customer relationship activities suiting each local areas. This way, sales volumes will be raised, strengthening community service stations while supporting community economies. Today, cardholders number over 191,000. Green Business The “Green Business” concept of our cooperative and that of Bangchak pretty much agree, which enables our businesses to proceed continuously. Bangchak has provided excellent support in sponsoring service station rebranding to cater to current consumers’ needs, resulting in higher sales. Next year our cooperative will be installing the Automation – POS system for more efficient fuel dispensing, and in the future we need to expand green areas at service stations for greater shade and productivity for our employees and patrons. Finally we’re hoping to use part of the area for some vegetation to add extra income for our employees. Ms. Panthip Perchow Bangchak Service Station Khlong Luang Agricultural Cooperative, Ltd. Bangchak is a true friend Throughout our 20 years of operating this service station, we’ve received wonderful support from Bangchak. We’ve been on the same boat, so to speak. Our service station has been refurbished, with the distribution office and toilets renovated to accommodate increasing sales volumes. We’re confident in this Thai brand. Bangchak’s business principles lie in responsibility to the environment, communities, and society, in addition to a green range of products. That’s why it has achieved sustainable growth-like branches that reach out and provide shade to communities and farmers in a sustainable way. It’s done this day in and day out for three decades now. Ms. Kanokkarn Luangthammuen Samrit Oil Limited Partnership, Pathum Thani 056 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 057 Environmental Performances Safety and Occupational Health Safety is vital to the organization and stakeholders. All executives and all employees are directly responsible for safety, security, occupational health, environment and energy under the “SHEE are everyone’s responsibility” theme. They are held responsible for all stakeholder groups, themselves, peers, communities, and society. The company therefore has a standard safety management system, ranging from policy-making, compliance, to specific standards i.e. American Petroleum Institute: API, National Electric Code: NEC, International Electro-technical Commission, American Society Mechanical Engineering: ASME, American Society for Testing and Material: ASTM etc. Development of employees’ competence in work performance. Assessment, and review by senior executives for support of necessary resources and continuous improvement. (PDCA) Safety, Security, Occupational Health, Environment, and Energy Management (SHEE) 2. Put in place a 1. Define, review, management structure 4. Promote SHEE and keep current to consistently ensure 3. Establish a awareness and the SHEE Policy systematic, safety culture. “work safely” behavior. toward excellence. participative processes by all employees. 7. Develop 5. Develop workers’ 6. Establish an systematic, efficient 8. Manage SHEE capability, effective SHEE emergency and programs for knowledge, and management crisis management communities. competence. system. systems. Enhance plant reliability. Upgrade the process safety management (PSM) system. Constantly review, control, and monitor the work safety manual, as well as standard operating procedures. Some SHEE Awareness activities • “Moment of CARE” is designed to nurture all employees and contractors with SHEE awareness and safe work practices. Executives and employees are given opportunities to write notes with care and support contents to all peers and contractors. Moment of CARE • Distribution of portable safety manuals to employees and contractors. Safety manuals • SHEE talk : A SHEE talk is compulsory before all meetings, designed to promote communication on safety, occupational health, environment, and energy among management and employees. SHEE Channel SHEE talk • SHEE Channel : SHEE Channel is a set of activities designed to support communication among employees via corporate communication channels, including company broadcast, internal electronic mails, and posters located at various places in each building under subjects of BB-SHEE and We Care-We Share. SHEE Channal International SHEE Accreditation To efficiently conduct SHEE management, Bangchak commits itself to the accreditation of international management standards, including ISO-14001 for environmental management, OHSAS/TIS 18001 for safety and occupational health, ISO 17025 for quality laboratory, ISO 27001 for IT system security, ISO 22301 for business continuity management, ISO 50001 for energy management, and ISPS Code for sea port safety and security management. 058 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 059 Health and Occupational Health Under proactive management for health and occupational health, Bangchak initiated a risk assessment program on occupational health. Work space redesign was executed to limit unsafe possibility from the source. The work environment including chemicals, light, noise, and heat, is regularly monitored to define preventive and mitigation measures, as well as improving workplace safety. These initiatives include: • Conducted health risk assessment. • Deployed proactive occupational health processes, including; • Employee health checkups before, during, and after employment. • Annual employee health checkups on a standard program and specific programs for those working under specific occupational health risks prescribed by Bangchak’s occupational health doctors and medic personnel. These occupational health specialists regularly identify special health checkups for certain personnel, follow up, and analyze the health status of these people, both at home and at work; and prescribe medication if unusual medical results are found. • International-standard procedures and monitoring programs for certain personnel with occupational health risk exposure, and grouping of these personnel by risk level of low, medium, and high. • Development of occupational health programs for contractors, including proper preparation of work space, personnel protective equipment, and knowledge-sharing during the refinery’s planned maintenance shutdowns. • Promoted communication with employees on health and occupational health. • Improved physical work space for workers, including adjustment of work space for safety and increasing light intensity in working areas. • Improved work space exposed to a chemical environment, including regular measurement of VOCs and conversion of production units into additional closed systems. • Took auditory conservation measures in the workplace, including measurement of noise levels and mapping of noise contours for noise reduction and prevention. Erected a sound wall; notified areas with loud noise for workers to be well prepared and act accordingly; provided special health checkups on hearing ability and hearing disorders for individuals; and equipped high-risked personnel with hearing measuring devices, and so on. • Improved ergonomics in work space, including installation of ergonomic chairs in control rooms for workers required to sit for long hours. • Upgrading the process safety management system and hiring safety experts from a leading international company as adviser on process safety management and Bangchak’s move toward safety excellence. Between 2015-2020 the company has to develop the process safety management system to complete the 14 elements, build safety culture continuous and upgrading plant reliability by means of modern systems and modern equipment installation, including Safety Integrity Level (SIL), Risk-Based Inspection (RBI), Reliability-Centered Maintenance (RCM), and Alarm Management System. To this end, Bangchak has appointed a Reliability and Integrity Division to exclusively look after its reliability and integrity. Employee care Regarding employees as a vital component of business success that enhances corporate virtue as well as value and drives corporate sustainability, Bangchak continuously looks after and develops employees’ capability, including their compensation, which is derived from benchmarking outcomes within the petroleum industry (upstream, midstream, to downstream) and peer industries, and Bangchak’s own welfare, which is far superior to legal requirements. This year, to put these systems on a par with international standards, Bangchak enrolled in the “Best Employer (BE)” project, which seeks to find outstanding employers in Thailand to exemplify successful businesses due to outstanding employee administration. The project is operated by the Sasin Graduate Institute of Business Administration of Chulalongkorn University and the Aon Hewitt (Thailand) Co., Ltd., a renowned international consultant on personnel administration. Conducting a survey every two years, the project was designed to heighten employee engagement, leadership efficiency, reputation of employers, and an internal culture that drives an efficient organization. To this end, workforce analysis and planning are first prepared for the analysis and planning of manpower needs for each period. Then an adequate number of employees should be in place for corporate expansion. The planning also prescribes how this manpower will be acquired from outside and inside the company. Development of existing personnel’s capability to the desired qualifications, as specified by plans, is illustrated below: Roadmap to Best Employer (BE) Goal : To become the Best of the Best Employee in 2019 • Third BE • Maintain level assessment • Improve weaknesses • Goal : BE – certified • Internal Assessment or 90% exceeded • Continuous improvement • Second BE • Compare in BE with peers • Best of the Best won assessment • Internal asseswsment • Goal : BE certified or 85% exceeded • First BE • Compare with • Survey current assessment peers in BE 83% conditions • Goal : BE-certified • Improve under or 75% exceeded BE approach 60% 75% High 83% Best 85% Best 88% Best 90% Best Average 4 Performance Employer Employer Employer Employer 2557 2558 2559 2560 2561 2562 Criteria of Best Employer High Employee Compelling Effective High Performance Engagement Employer Brand Leadership Culture 1. Building High Performance Culture 1.1 Defining competencies for each position to develop professionalism fitting each duty and position through properly prepared training processes 1.2 Career Path and Learning Development Program defines career-path criteria for all employees, grouping them into management and specialist such as Senior Petroleum Refining Executive etc. All employees have opportunities to progress in the lines and professions of their choice. 060 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 061 2. Building Effective Leadership & Leadership Pipeline 2.1 In preparing key corporate successors, one extracts the ability or caliber of all executives to achieve corporate success: 2.1.1 This year, leadership DNA was assessed for Bangchak executives under the following process: • Assessment made through the Assessment Center on the “5 Gives” leadership characteristics (leadership branding). • 90-Degree Assessment (Self & Boss) on the “5 Gives” leadership characteristics (leadership branding). • ADEPT personality questionnaire, a psychological test relying on the analysis of thinking, basic individual habits, and personalities. 2.1.2 For 2014-2015, succession planning covers department directors up to senior executive vice presidents 2.1.3 For 2015, development of successors will be planned for these positions through various development processes with a focus on development on the job and coaching rather than formal training. DNA Enabler Enabler Definition Identify Opportunity for Envision business opportunities or opportunities for organizational Improvement and Business development, or create opportunities for business expansion, or both, and Expansion improve the organization. Make Sound Decisions Analyze and decide sensibly on logic or credible data, and can pinpoint Give directions missing data for decision-making. Generate Visionary Perspective Conceive corporate plan (short-term and long-term) by anticipating or making clear direction-simulating plan with clearly visible paths to goals. Drive Results Provide support and take responsibility upon new business expansion or upon new developments within the corporation. Model Integrity Exemplify commitment to corporate governance and sensibility for ฝงmanaging matters. Understand the framework of good behavior for the Give examples organization by avoiding and preventing conflicts of interest for the organization. Live the Organization’s Values Accept and believe in the organization values by showing behavior that illustrates such values inside and outside the organization. Build Talent Pipeline Foster subordinates’ capability and talents by providing opportunities and promoting constructive comments, while delegating work to Give opportunities systematically induce or increase skills and assorted learning. Delegate Authority Know the organization’s competency requirements to drive it. Form capable teams through delegation of authority to competent, keen, and suitable ones through efficient two-way communication. Coach for Performance Can provide clear, regular feedback and encourage others for performance improvement with clear communication of targets. Give time Foster Learning Establish surroundings inductive to learning and development of subordinates and coaching of new employees. Create Emotional Attachment Show empathy and value others by showing admiration and recognize dedication to the organization with rewards. Give value Inspire Others Promote and stimulate team spirit by actively pushing others to try new ideas, while fostering a positive environment for trials-and-errors of prudent ideas and inspires others at work. Translate results into action Effective measures in business manager leadership development – Lominger Model Work Experience Coaching, mentoring and developing through others 70 : 20 : 10 Work Experience Coaching, mentoring and Off-JT developing through others 2.2 Young talent management: Besides grooming executives, Bangchak runs this program for high flyers, who are apt to be chosen for capacity-building for other tasks or businesses for the company 2.3 Employee engagement is another yardstick for Best Employer, surveyed every year for future improvement and development Bangchak has prepared a roadmap for becoming the Best Employer by 2019. To this end, it had set a Best Employee score this year at more than 60% as the corporate KPI on the Balanced Scorecard on Learning and Growth. This goal has been exceeded, with 66% achieved. Bangchak Petroleum Plc Labor Union All the Company employees are treated fairly and enjoy equal rights under Company regulations, whether they belong to the labor union or not. Set up under the law with 20% of the workforce as its members, Bangchak Petroleum Plc Labor Union cooperates with the Company in looking after employees’ well-being through regular consultations with top management while getting feedback from employees about their needs to develop the Company’s labor aspects. The Company also instituted an Employee Committee, consisting of employee representatives of 13 persons appointed by the labor union and coming from employee elections. The committee is engaged in consultations with representatives from top management on matters of welfare and benefits to ensure their suitability. To date, the consultation sessions went well, with all concerns or queries properly addressed, thus resulting in high employee satisfaction. Besides personnel development and labor improvement, Bangchak has made improvements to its surroundings for employees’ continued comfort. This year it has erected a shaded walkway from the company entrance to its office buildings and installed a mist fan to the side of the canteen. Also, a spray mist (designed to cool the surrounding) was installed near the BCP Center Point for the maximum comfort of employees and visitors alike. Bangchak has instituted more equitable welfare shemes for employees and theirs families than required by law and in line with changes in social and economic circumstances. • Shuttle buses • Bonus • Provident fund • Medical service • Uniform • Social Security • Fitness room etc. • Medical room • The interest of housing loan subsidy 062 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 063 Accountability to Customers Committed to promptly meeting customers’ needs, Bangchak modified the roles and responsibilities of the VOCC (Voice of Customers Committee) to listen to customers’ feedback and lead to modification and response in four main aspects: information administration for strategic planning, upgrading of service standards and development of fuel quality for upcoming products. Bangchak’s Customer Service Center relies on the SAP CRM software in handling complaints. The center is the first contact point for customers’ views, recommendations, and complaints aired through the Call Center, E-mails, and the Bangchak website. Also, thanks to an automatic program, the company proactively reports data, messages, and news covering all aspects mentioned in the social media and website discussions every day, making the company aware of such data and promptly address such issues and problems-effectively closing the gaps of customers being unable to contact Bangchak directly. As a result, this year’s customer responses (94%) exceed those of last year. Complaint and Action Outcome suggestion-receiving Channels: • Record items in SAP CRM. successfully managed & 75% through Call Center 1651 • Forward each one to relevant resolved complaints 10% through website 13% through social network units to acknowledge / improve / inform customers 96% 1% through website discussions • Assess satisfaction to close each matter (within two days; customers’ satisfaction with A total of 1,145 cases: otherwise, the system reports Bangchak’s responses to 59% concerning services this to the next level of senior complaints & suggestions 15% concerning goods & services 25% others executives of such business lines). 85% “Outstanding Call Center for 2014” Collapsed canopy at Nakhon Pathom Bangchak service station certificate in recognition of Bangchak’s This year the canopy of Bangchak Service Station (Nakhon Pathom awareness of its responsibility to society branch) collapsed on a customer’s vehicle. Instantly taking responsibility at large and maintenance of service standards, and paying out compensation, the company has added safety measures by having an investigation team inspect the structure’s strength and the prompt problem-solving, and consumers’ readiness of equipment so as to ensure patrons about their safety. satisfaction, presented by the Office of the Consumer Protection Board. Community and Social Development Participation Sustained happiness means sharing and living in harmony with nature With the “Sustained happiness means sharing and living in harmony with nature” Bangchak perennially joined in community and social development efforts through dedicated units. This year Bangchak initiated new project development based on identified social issues, stakeholders’ needs and expectations, its own strengths, global trends, political situations, and catastrophes (like earthquakes). The common underlying theme is “Sharing for Social Happiness”. New community and social projects On reaching its 30th anniversary, the heart of Bangchak’s stewardship of communities and society at large is not just its best efforts of environmental and social responsibility where business growth is concerned, but the company’s ambitions are also to ensure that the Thai society can continue, as can Bangchak’s dedication of willpower as a corporate citizen to bring social benefits under the belief that “sustained happiness comes from sharing”. The ultimate aim is for Thais to be aware of our co-existence in this land in a sufficient way. Sharing Rekindling awareness of sharing Sharing innovation Bangchak’s 30-year Journey: “Sharing” ad film: Life story of Invented new sales promotional Baht 30-Million Contribution to Mr. Chon Chandai, the founder giveaways: roast rice tea and Thai Red Cross Society. of the Phan Phan Center, roast rice green tea, designed Sharing Donation of cash & blood a learning center for self-reli to ease the hardship of rice donation buses/vans & medical ance & seeds. A firm believer farmers amid the rice-plegding apparatus for the Bhumisiri that genuine local seeds are the crisis. Tea growers in Chiang Mangalanuson Building, foundation of self-reliance & Rai province, devastated by an Chulalongkorn Hospital. sustained happiness, earthquake. The Bangchak Service Station he collects and shares them Green Partnership Project with those around him so that expands the concept of social & happiness may take root in the environmental responsibility to Thai society. the network of service station Produced & publicized the operators in their stewardship of “Phaen Din Nee Mee Phaw” consumers, the environment, melody, with lyrics composed communities & society, and by Mr. Nitiphong Hornak and employees. sung by Mr. Asani Chotikul. The hope is to rekindle Thais’ awareness of a traditional caring Thai society. 064 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 065 Ongoing projects at the community-society at large: Economic Social Environmental Expanded the network of Education : The Thailand Go Green Purchase of second-hand community service stations from 2012 Contest Project under the vegetable oil to make biodiesel 617 to 626 “Eat Smart, Live Smart, Use to displace crude imports while Promoted the use of community Renewable/Alternative Energy easing environmental impacts of products as Bangchak’s sales Smart : Thailand Go Green” theme dumping the used oil into public promotional giveaways, like the for students nationwide to jointly water sources. This year saw 108 organic brown rice (known as conduct the project and live tons bought to 92,000 liters of Mee Dee Sam Taw), a product of environmentally friendly lives biodiesel and 72 tons of the Rai Choen Tawan community greenhouse gas emission enterprise group. The location is averted. supervised by revered monk Waw Wachiramethi. Over Baht 16 million has returned to the community. New projects to address the needs of nearby communities and society This year Bangchak initiated a seminar between the community panel and company executives to clarify information and forge good relations, with a focus on activities and two-way communication. A refinery community opinion survey provides each group’s views and expectations of the refinery, which leads to follow-up participatory community relations activities under new projects that improve current operation and resolve social and public problems, notably education and youth development. The roadmap for those living around the refinery are as follows. Roadmap for community relations and projects based on target groups and secondary target groups (2014-2017) Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 At ease, trustworthy Collective thinking and Participate in activities working to improve the Self-development and Target Challenge: High privacy quality of life self-reliance, cultivation of target group’s lifestyles Challenge: Lack of volof volunteering mind, and 97% satisfaction: strengthening community unteering mind for public friendly, benefit 5. Condominium 3. Families 4. Military flats 1. Communities 2.School and safe. Projects in 2014: Projects in 2014: Projects in 2014: • Visiting Baan • Green Area Sport Park • Healthy communities, Bangchak and outdoor sport occupational training equipment. • firefly routes, • One-family activity • project on simple reading and writing • Project Citizen Gen D New projects to address the needs of nearby communities and society Economic Social Environmental Ran a project on simple reading Staged a seminar with the Ran a project promoting and writing literacy to ease child mobile community panel to forge biodiversity: “Fireflies, a Path to illiteracy (reading & writing) in relations and share communities’ Conservation”, along with communities & schools. views and needs. The seminar community leaders of six This national problem is found . provided opportunities for subdistricts around the Developed youths under the clarification of Bangchak’s so-called “hog’s maw” area of Gen-D Project: Invigorating stance, policies, and Amphoe Phra Pradaeng, Samut youths, adjusting attitude, and responsibility to the organization. Prakan province. The project’s resolving risk behavior of deliverable is a rehabilitation students of three schools plan and conservation of green around the refinery. areas in Kung Bang Kachao (Bangkok’s urban lung) for greater fertility, indicated by the firefly population. The monitored project will run from 2014 to 2016. Percentage of Social Investment in Community relations activities nearby the refinerty 8.36%: Donation / 91.63%: Sustainability Total hours of employee activities to improve Development Activity volunteers’ participation in society & environment community & social development around the refinery: Total of some Total: *The total of employees volunteer hours are 30,000 Baht 16 million included from activities that employees involved on working day (5,265 hrs.) and holiday (1,130 hrs.). Over 250 activities staged Sustainable conservation with community participation at all stages Bangchak cherishes Thailand’s environment and society, evident in its logo and support for community goods by giving away community agricultural products at every refueling. Having worked with the company on the Fireflies Project, I can sense its earnest desire to take good care of communities and the environment. Bangchak is not just after preservation of its environmental image. It values and drives for sustainable conservation with community participation from planning to implementation. It pays meticulous attention to community participation, even trivial points. As for my hopes, the company should continue its work on social and environmental aspects for the longer term, though some projects may not pay out fast Asst.Prof.Dr. Anchana Thancharoen, results in the short term. Continuity, earnestness, and sincerity do lead to projects School of Entomology that truly benefit society. Faculty of Agriculture, Kasetsart University Bang Ka Chao Fire flies Project Adviser and Taskforce Member Satisfaction in community relations activities (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Goals 96.93 99.15 98.0 97.0 ≥90 066 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 067 Ongoing projects for nearby communities and society Education Expectation : Youths learn and develop appropriately with their age groups, with their awareness cultivated to become smart and conscientious Continuing project • My School (Pee Bangchak Son Nong), Year 12 • Open up the World of Knowledge with • Bangchak Youth Scholarship Project, year 10 Bangchak, year 11 • Project Citizen, Year 5 • Bangchak GIFTED, Year 4 Safety Expectation : Confidence in refinery’s safety Safety immunity for handling emergencies or catastrophes • Continuing project Trained schools / communities / nearby • Donated firefighting apparatus condominiums on emergency drills and firefighting Sports Expectation : Strong and healthy youths who stay away from drugs Ability to generate income and good educational opportunities through sports Continuing project • Bangchak Youth Futsal Tournament, Year 11 • Bangchak Youth Football Club, year 8 Quality of life Expectation : Promotion of quality of life • Continuing project One Family, Year 21 • Healthy Community Project Environment Expectation : Awareness of environmental woes and cost-effective application of resources • Continuing project Thot Pha Pa, Raksa Ton Nam by employees and participating schools around the refinery and those in Chaiyaphum, Year 10 • Mobile Communities, Sapling Planting, Phu Long Reforestation Year 3, by Bangchak’s neighbors from One Family group • Public (health) park in the compound of the housing area of the Secretariat Department, Office of the Permanent Secretary of Defense, in Bangchak • A project to buy used vegetable oil from communities around the refinery, Year 3 Relations and cultural preservation Expectation : Promotion of cordial relations between refinery and its neighbors • Continuing project Mobile Communities, Year 5 • Filling up with Knowledge with Bangchak Refinery • Khrop Khrua Bai Mai Bulletin, year 10 and Rop Rua Bangchak Newsletter Year 9 • Sanook kids, Waan pid term, year 5 • National Children’s Day Economic Expectation : Generation of income and opportunities for community residents to leverage their competencies to benefit themselves and their families • Continuing project The Food stalls run by community residents catered to thousands of contractor employees during the annual major maintenance turnaround, with some Baht 1.86 million generated for the communities. • Use of communities’ cooking and sweets • Hiring of locals with adequate competencies • Community occupational promotion and development project year 2 068 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 069 My feelings upon our collaboration point to Bangchak’s desire to vigorously and proactively work that is highly focused. Our collaboration to date has proved Bangchak’s desire, perseverance, and devotion to the achievement of our common expectations. The more we worked together, the more I sensed Bangchak’s creative perseverance sometimes tweaking its approach for more effective problem-solving. This convinced me of the executives’ and taskforce’s unity in their concept that their future work is bound to be creatively valuable to education and society. My expectations for Bangchak or other business entities with good wishes for society are that they should delve into the truth and root causes of social problems, seek allies and people of the same mind, visualize Asst.Prof. Siwakarn Patoomasoot continuity leading to desired development, and create a tangible, workable model for Tung Suk Ar Som Learning Center, social improvement. Finally, they should promote all sectors’ participation in U-Thong District, Supanburi Province organizing learning activities about life and the human spirit in the sense of Poet/ Acedemic Expert in Project on simple understanding life and society as well as grown-up, prudent analysis-as opposed to reading and writing literacy falling into the common traps of daily currents of Thai society today. to ease child illiteracy (reading & writing) problem. Broad-minded, with communities and the environment close to its heart, Bangchak applies views to improve. As a customer, I’m impressed with and trust Bangchak, aware that it is a seller of clean, quality fuels. What’s more, Bangchak has always tried to maintain this product quality. Its sales promotion is straightforward, with easy access and matching consumers’ needs. On the whole, I’d say Bangchak is on the right path and hope that it will maintain its admirable characteristics for years to come-whether products, services, or stewardship of communities and the environment. By the way, Bangchak’s employees do impress me with their earnest attention, care, broad-mindedness, and down-to-earth traits. They’re not out for a nice image, Ms. Kanpassorn Kajornsrisorn but are extremely friendly. Condominium neighbor Elio Del Ray Condo, Sukhumvit 64 Promotion of corporate innovation Convinced that learning and innovation lead the corporation toward efficient business or business under an improved format, Bangchak has defined a policy promoting organization learning and personnel development and a Corporate Innovation Committee, responsible for supporting plan implementation, judging innovation tasks under various projects, and approving further development of promising projects. Bangchak also set up an Innovation and Business Development Division specifically to look after innovation, charged with analyzing and presenting information for joint direction-setting with executives in the implementation of various innovation projects, and constantly developing and driving process efficiency. To this end, innovation facilitators from every business line jointly promote sustainable innovation development in line with the goal of a learning organization. Bangchak has defined the following scope for innovation structure: Corporate Innovation Structure Corporate Innovation Committee Roles / Responsibilities Organization Development Committee • Participate in a project judge. IBD (Secretariat Team) (OD Com) • Support the innovation Committee Facilitator in the operation QCC plan. Roles / Responsibilities Cascade • Coordinate with Corporate innovation committee to Kaizen, CoPs create activites them, topic , period in each year. • Select the employee level group to involve the innovation Internship/New Recruits projects. • Public relation to all of employees. Product Innovation Refinery Marketing Corporate Accounting Strategy and Renewable Business Business Administration and Business Energy and Finance Development Business Information Technoloy VP VP VP VP VP VP Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Innovation Facilitator Bangchak has defined efficient work processes for communication and support of innovation and learning in the corporation, together with the establishment of channels for accepting recommendations about innovation for fruitful application. 1. Individual work improvement: All employees are responsible for their individual KPIs for conceiving and providing recommendations, or proceeding with their own work improvement for at least one topic each year. 2. Work improvement: Recommended projects for cost reduction, income generation, and day-to-day work efficiency improvement, including the QCC/Kaizen project for operation duties in the production, marketing, and office lines of business. 3. Development of new formats of business, products, or services: The company has instituted team development through cross-functional cascade projects designed to capitalize on the talents of employees of each professional line and have them work together on projects to related to the project theme strategy. Project which been select or received award will further develop in commercial way. 4. Development of specialized knowledge. such as Community of Practice : CoPs which enable knowledgeManagement among those of the same professions, which lead to a lifelong learning company such as Legal CoP, Procurement CoP, Utility CoP etc. 5. Development of external innovation, including the promotion of student interns’ presentation of their improvement of work processes or innovations in support of new knowledge development leading to real-life application to their work. 070 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 071 Management Involvement The Bangchak Petroleum Plc. Outsite Follow up / Utilization Corporate Innovation Committee MK RF Cororate Universty Stop/Execution Intellectual Property(IP) Internship Innovation Validation Research EBITDA Cascade QCC Kaizen CoPs Idea Leaf Show & Share Culture The project success consists of the implementation of promising projects selected by the Corporate Innovation Committee under defined budgets and implementation approaches. A summary of innovation project operation outcomes from 2011 to 2014 is as follows: Innovation Project 2011 2012 2013 2014 Quality Control Circle (QCC) a 36 26 40 40 Kaizen a 324 226 250 260 Others i.e. 55 60 60 60 Cascade b Community on Practices b Internship b Personal Innovation a 700 850 a. Projects on improvement of work processes, cost reduction of production processes and office tasks b. Projects on new business models and knowledge topics. Data of various innovation projects and lessons learned from day-to-day task performances are compiled in the BCP Knowledge Management System (KM) for all to examine and apply them for their own work improvement anytime. Our company has a green, blooming heart. We’re not perfect yet, but we still have room to grow. We’re proud to work here. It’s with understanding and courtesy that we’re working together—much like a family. We’re impressed with executives that have done a wonderful job of supporting innovation. This year the LAB BEE group represented the company and Thailand in presenting our QCC (Quality Control Circle) achievement to an international audience in Japan, which gave us experience and opportunities to share at a bigger forum. Our professionalism developed. We’d like Bangchak to keep on supporting innovation and give employees more learning opportunities. That way, employees will be properly stimulated to do their best and improve tasks, for innovation can take place anywhere. If the company systematically Mr. Nopadol Suebsamran / collects data and keeps record for further development, in the future we’ll have Mr. Sarayuth Kerdmongkol / our own helpful knowledge for the company in safety and cost Mr. Pornchai Tharathonsanti / reduction. Our people will also think, analyze, and solve problems more Mr. Noparit Tinwang systematically. LAB BEE Group, Quality Analysis Division Sustainability Performance 072 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 073 Economic performance Revenue unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sales and services million baht 156,928.44 162,622.83 183,262.93 178,300.35 Gross Income million baht 158,557.50 169,097.64 186,127.08 181,876.03 Net profit million baht 5,642.58 4,199.89 3,970.67 296.10 Expenditure for income unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 redisrtribution to stakeholders Operating expenses million baht 147,032.76 156,319.20 175,782.96 176,384.23 Interest expenses paid to financial million baht 748.17 910.48 1,051.94 1,293.81 institution creditors Tax payment to government and million baht 595.58 765.22 1,118.50 51.50 local agencies Community and social development million baht 32.05 40.17 35.91 25.52 Donation to society and schools million baht 31.34 14.14 18.14 22.73 Dividend payment to shareholders million baht 1,582.20 1,858.79 2,065.05 1,858.80 Wages and employee welfare million baht 1,176.82 1,310.04 1,337.33 1,341.58 Supply chain management unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 Expense for local goods and million baht 2,497 3,327 3,381 4,511 service purchased* Proportion of local goods and percentage 83 96 89 91 service purchased.* * Definition : Goods and service from domestic suppliers. The data shown in some groups of supply chain. Not include a purchasing of crude oil, goods and services lower than 50,000 baht each and from BCE subsidiary companies and PTT groups. Environment Performance Detail BCP BGN BBF BSE 2013* 2014 2013* 2014 2013* 2014 2013* 2014 Material unit Non-Renewable Material tons 5,864,844* 334,348 N.A N.A 156,799* 2,065 3* 3 Renewable Material tons 5,492,21 N.A. N.A. 162,967 0 * In 2013, The raw material date reported in totally not separate by type. Energy unit Non-Renewable Material Tera 12,952.10 11,840.60 N.A N.A. 2,755.20 199.8 1 3.2 Joules Renewable Material Tera Joules GHG emission Operational Control Approach Direct GHG emission from production 819,846 753,078 8,937 9,760 24 68 processes (Scope 1) CO2 818,556 751,876 8,907 9,748 22 66 CH4 807 738 9 2 1 1 N2O 483 464 21 7 1 1 SF6 HFC Indirect GHG emission from purchases of power and steam (Scope 2) TOCE 171,528 157,173 11,010 8,591 1,818 2,479 147 2,572 Total 991,374 910,251 11,010 8,591 10,755 12,239 171 2,640 Equity Share Approach ** Direct GHG emission from production 819,846 753,078 6,255 6,832 24 68 processes (Scope 1) CO2 818,556 751,876 6,235 6,824 22 66 CH4 807 738 6 3 1 1 N2O 483 464 14 5 1 1 SF6 TOCE HFC Indirect GHG emission from purchases of power and steam (Scope 2) 171,528 157,173 5,395 4,210 1,272 1,735 147 2,572 Total 991,374 910,251 5,395 4,210 7,527 8,567 171 2,640 ** The total indirect green house gas (equity share) is not include data from UBE, FTP and Asean Potash Mining 074 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 075 Pollution Emission unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 NOX (Combustion) tons 634 279 521 451 SO2 (Combustion & SRU/TGTU Stack) SO2 (Combustion & SRU/TGTU Stack) tons 260 29 205 25 PM10 (Combustion) tons 43 10 20 8 H2S (SRU/TGTU Stack) tons N.A N.A N.A 2.53 Fugitive VOCs tons N.A N.A N.A Flared hydrocarbon Thousand N.A N.A N.A 1250.5 cubic meters (gaseous) Vented (Vented hydrocarbon) Thousand N.A N.A N.A N.A cubic meters (gaseous) Vented hydrocarbons compared with refined products Million barrels N.A N.A N.A 0.02865 of refined products equivalent Water Refinery unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 Water withdrawal cubic meters 2,156,619 2,146,890 2,378,073 2,388,903 Waste water to Bang Aw Canel cubic meters 613,193 522,733 1,172,745 975,466 Water pollution Parameter unit 2557 Oil and Fats tons 2.32 Suspended Solids tons 4.67 Dissolved Solids tons 1,502 BOD tons 11 COD tons 68 Sulfides tons 0.33 Mercury tons 0.002 Waste Type of waste unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 Hazardous waste tons 1,487 (51) 1,739 (71) 1,253 (48) 3,261 (83) (percentage) Non-hazardous waste tons 1,451 (49) 692 (29) 1,363 (52) 644 (16.5) (percentage) Total tons 2,938 (100) 2,431 (100) 2,616 (100) 3,905 (100) (percentage) Waste derived from oil /chemical spill management tons N.A. N.A. N.A. 1.1 Treatment of Waste and scrap unit Hazardous waste Non-Hazardous waste reuse tons 443 recycle tons 927 56 recovery and use as fuels tons 1,395 25 incineration tons 410 secure landfill tons 1 111 On site storage tons 528 9 Total tons 3,261 644 Oil and chemical spill unit 2014 Number of significant spill of oil and chemicals (more than 150 liters each time) time 0 (0) (liters) Complication unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number and Monetary value of significant fines time 0 0 0 0 for non complaince with environmental laws. (Amount) Supply chain management unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 New suppliers were screened with enviromental criteria Percentage N.A. N.A. N.A. 2 076 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 077 Social Performance 1. Employment Employee 2011 2012 2013 2014 Persons % Person % Person % Person % Total Employees by Gender Male 756 73.3 750 73.03 753 73.18 762 72.43 Female 275 26.67 277 26.97 276 26.82 290 27.57 Total 1,031 100.0 1,027 100.0 1,029 100.0 1,052 100.0 Total Employees by Level Manager up (Level 0-4) 91 8.82 95 9.25 98 9.52 101 9.60 Executive up (Level 5-9) 452 43.84 461 44.89 462 44.9 494 46.96 Operationer (Level 10-13) 488 47.34 471 45.86 469 45.58 457 43.44 Total Employee by age Less than 30 346 33.56 309 30.09 296 28.77 287 27.28 Between 30-50 618 59.94 644 62.71 661 64.24 699 66.44 More than 50 67 6.50 74 7.21 72 7.00 66 6.27 Total Employee by work place Head office 141 13.67 136 13.24 135 13.12 112 10.65 Refinery 802 77.87 806 78.48 809 78.62 855 81.27 North District 53 5.14 11 1.07 11 1.07 10 0.95 Central District 12 1.16 53 5.16 54 5.25 57 5.42 North-East District 13 1.26 13 1.27 12 1.17 10 0.95 South District 10 0.9 8 0.78 8 0.78 8 0.76 Total Number of Employees Turnover by Gender Male 38 82.61 43 89.58 31 77.5 32 86.49 Female 8 17.39 5 10.42 9 22.5 5 13.51 Total Number of Employees Turnover by age less than 30 29 63.04 34 66.67 20 48.78 25 67.57 between 30-50 9 19.57 15 29.41 19 46.34 8 21.62 more than 50 8 17.39 2 3.92 2 4.88 4 10.81 Turnover Rate 3.55 4.48 3.31 3.46 Total Number of New Employees by Gender Male 69 83.13 39 82.98 35 79.55 44 67.69 Female 14 16.87 8 17.02 9 20.45 21 32.31 Total Number of New employee by ages less than 30 80 96.39 47 100 43 97.73 61 93.85 between 30-50 3 3.61 0 0 1 2.27 4 6.15 more than 50 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0 0.00 Maternity leave Maternity leave N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. 5 N.A. 8 N.A. Employee back to work after Maternity leave N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. 5 N.A. 8 N.A. 2. Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 (hours) Total employees hour/person/year 36 71 47.2 39.16 Training Hours per Person by Gender Male hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 42 38.94 Female hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 61.38 39.75 Training Hours per Person by Level Manager up (Level 0 4) hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 122.1 79.51 Executive up (Level 5-9) hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 63.9 39.01 Practitioner (Level 10-13) hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 15.06 30.44 Training Hours per Person by Fields President Corporate Administration and Information hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 72.42 46.67 Technology (CI) Accounting and Finance (AF) Marketing Business (MK) hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 80.88 48.00 Refinery Business (RF) hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 59.4 42.20 Business Development and Strategy (BD) hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 31.62 21.68 Refinery Business (RF) hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 41.1 44.67 Business Development and Strategy (BD) hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 109.08 69.11 Renewable Energy Business (RE) hour/person/year N.A. N.A. 84 41.14 3. Employee engagement Employee engagment Score 5/ 4.25* 4.41/4.44* 4.26* Percentage Percentage 66 * The company contributed the employee engagement continuous since 2011-2013 by the third parties; Gallop company / Tower watsons company set the criteria in 5 scores. In 2014 the company adopt the percentage criteria score the become the best employer by Aeon Hewitt Company. 078 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 079 4. Safety “Bangchak began measuring IFR (injury frequency rate), ISR (injury severity rate), and TRIR (total recordable injury rate)” Safety Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 Injury Frequency Rate : IFR Total employee plus supervised workers 0.5 0 0.8 1.4 Independent contractors 0 0 0 2.7 Injury Severity Rate : ISR Total employee plus supervised workers 10.9 0 13.5 18.1 Independent contractors 0 0 0 16.1 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Total employee plus supervised workers 1.8 2 4.4 3.2 Independent contractors 0 1 0 9.4 work-related illnesses and fatality Employee case/ 0 0 0 0 million hrs. Contractor case/ 0 0 0 0 million hrs. Absentee rate (Employee) case N.A. N.A. N.A. million hrs. of work Tier 1 Process Safety Event Tier 1 (Tier 1 Process Safety Event) Employee Case N.A. N.A. N.A. 0 Contractor Case N.A. N.A. N.A. 0 “Based on these statistics, employeesí and contractorsí IFR, ISR, and TRIR have increased, part of which occurred during the annual turnaround maintenance, which attracted an unusually large number of repair workers and contractors. Bangchak has conducted incident investigations and applied the lessons learned to the refinement of standard operating procedures and operation control measures to prevent recurrences. Short-term and long-term improvement plans have been defined, with monitoring of corrective actions to ensure implementation along with 5. Customer Customer Responsibility unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 Customer Satisfaction Survery Percentage 78 86 84 N.A.* Complaint of breaces of customer privacy and Number 0 0 0 0 loss of customer data * In 2014 the company reviewed the survey of customer satisfaction framework in term of most admired brand. The surver will launch in 2018. GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosures General Page Number (or Link) External Assurance Standard Disclosures Strategy And Analysis G4-1 3 G4-­2 30-­33 Organizational Profile G4-3 6 G4-4 7 G4-5 6 G4-6 6 G4-7 5 G4-8 7 G4-9 6 G4-10 78 G4-11 62 G4-12 8-­9, 36 G4-13 3, 31-­33 G4-14 32, 37, 49 G4-15 20, 29, 53 G4-16 24, 27-­29,31,46 Identified Material Aspects And Boundaries G4-17 6, 25 No. G4-18 24-25 Yes, page 83-84 G4-19 26 Yes, page 83-84 G4-20 25 Yes, page 83-84 G4-21 25-26 No. G4-22 5 No. G4-23 24-25 No. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 18, 20, 22 Yes, page 83-84 G4-25 18 Yes, page 83-84 G4-26 18, 20, 22 Yes, page 83-84 G4-27 19, 21 ,23 Yes, page 83-84 Report Profile G4-28 24 G4-29 24 G4-30 24 G4-31 25 G4-32 24, 83-84 G4-33 25 Governance G4-34 6 Governance G4-56 5 080 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 081 Specific Standard Disclosures DMA Page Number (or Link) Identified Reason(s) Explanation External and Omission(s) for Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Indicators Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA 35 G4-EC1 35,73 Material Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA 36 G4-EC9 36,73 Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA 38 G4-EN1 38, 74 Total Materials used by weight. Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA 41 G4-EN3 41,74 Total energy OGSS consumption G4-­OG2 Total amount The information The data will OGSS invested in renewable is currently be available in 2015. energy. unavailable G4-­OG3 Total amount The information The data will be OGSS of renewable energy is currently available in 2015. generated. unavailable Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA 45 G4-EN8 41,74 Total water wthdrawal by source Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA 44, 46 G4-EN15 44, 74 Total direct The information is The company will Total direct OGSS greenhouse gas from currently unavailable inform to associated greenhouse gas (GHG) UBE, FTP and Asean and related company emissions (SCOPE 1) Potash Mining. in 2017. G4-EN16 44, 74 Total indirect The information is The company will Total indirect OGSS greenhouse gas from currently unavailable inform to associated greenhouse gas (GHG) UBE, FTP and Asean and related company emissions (SCOPE 2) Potash Mining. in 2017. G4-EN21 46, 75 The information is Total of significant OGSS currently unavailable air emissionss including NOx, SO2, PM10, H2S and VOCs Material Aspect: Effluents And Waste G4-DMA 48 G4-EN22 48, 75 G4-EN23 48, 76 Total waste OGSS generated G4-EN24 The volume of The information BCP has plan G4-OG6 flared and vented is currently to install instrument to hydrocarbon unavailable capture gas flared at Plant 4 and Plant 2-­3 in 2018, 2020 respectively. Specific Standard Disclosures DMA Page Number (or Link) Identified Reason(s) Explanation External and Omission(s) for Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Indicators Material Aspect: Compliance G4-­DMA 23 G4-­EN29 76 Material Aspect: Overall G4-DMA 49 G4-EN31 50 Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA 36 G4-­EN32 76 Category : Social Material Aspect: Employment G4-­DMA 60-­62 G4-­LA1 77 G4-­LA2 62 Material Aspect: Occupational Health And Safety G4-DMA 57-­59 G4-­LA6 79 Contractor The information BCP will officially Total workforce Absentee rate is currently inform the contractor and Independent unavailable company to provide contractors ISR, the data in 2016 IFR, TRIR G4-­OG13 59, 79 Number of Tier2 The information BCP will define process safety is currently term of Tier 2 events unavailable Process Safety Event criteria in PSM Implementation plan. Material Aspect: Training And Education G4-DMA 57-­59 G4-SO4 79 Average Training hour per employee and by employee categories Sub-­Category : Society Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA 64-­69 G4-SO1 64-­69 Material Aspect: Anti-­Corruption G4-DMA 28 G4-­SO4 28 Sub-­Category : Product Responsibility Material Aspect: Product And Service Labeling G4-DMA 52-54 G4-­PR5 79 Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA 63 G4-­PR8 79 082 Sustainability Report 2014 The Bangchak Petroleum PLC 083  LRQA Assurance Statement Relating to the Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited’s Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2014 This Assurance Statement has been prepared for the Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by the Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited (BCP) to provide independent assurance on its ‘Sustainability Report 2014’ (“the report”) against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier using LRQA’s verification approach. LRQA’s verification approach is based on current best practise and uses the principles of AA1000AS (2008) inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000. Our assurance engagement covered Sustainability Report 2014 of BCP’s subsidiaries in Thailand under its operational control and specifically the following requirements:  Confirming that the report is in accordance with: GRI G4’s reporting guidelines and core option GRI G4’s oil and gas sector disclosures  Evaluating the reliability of data and information for only the selected specific standard disclosures listed below: Environmental : material used by weight (G4-EN1), energy consumption within the organization (G4EN3), water withdrawal by source (G4-EN8), direct and indirect GHG emissions (G4-EN15-16), NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions (VOC and H2S) (G4-EN21), total weight of waste by type and disposal method (G4-EN23) and Social : type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days (G4-LA 6) and average hours of training per employee (G4-LA9). Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of the subsidiaries where BCP has no operational control in Thailand and all its operations and activities outside of Thailand. Our assurance engagement also excluded the data and information of its suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the report. LRQA’s responsibility is only to BCP. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. BCP’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the report is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of BCP. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that BCP has not:  Met the requirements above  Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information  Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier. Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. LRQA’s approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification approach. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement:  Assessing BCP’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this through interviewing BCP employees who are directly engaging with stakeholder groups, and reviewing associated records. . Page 1 of 2    Reviewing BCP’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their report. We did this by benchmarking reports written by BCP and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether BCP makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development.  Auditing BCP’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or mis-statements in the report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and systems as well as a visiting its refinery waste handling facilities. We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the report. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are:  Stakeholder inclusivity: We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from BCP’s stakeholder engagement process. BCP has maintained open dialogues with all of its stakeholders. Stakeholder inputs from these dialogues have influenced BCP’s business strategies to continuously improve its sustainability performance.  Materiality: We are not aware of any material issues concerning BCP’s sustainability performance that have been excluded from the report. It should be noted that BCP has established extensive criteria for determining which issue/aspect is material and that these criteria are not biased to the BCP’s management.  Responsiveness: BCP and its subsidiaries have processes in place for responding to various stakeholder groups. BCP extended the reporting boundaries to cover its renewable energy business as a response to the expectation raised by local communities in Thailand. However, we believe that future reports should explain the progress and disclose performance indicators from these renewable energy businesses.  Reliability: Data management systems are defined but the implementation of these systems varies in each subsidiary. BCP may consider establishing internal control activities such as internal verification to further improve the reliability of its data and information. LRQA’s competence and independence LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. This verification is the only work undertaken by LRQA for BCP and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. Dated: 25 February 2015 Opart Charuratana LRQA Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. Lloyd’s Register International (Thailand) Limited 14th Floor, Sirinrat Building, 3388/46 Rama IV Road Klongton, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 THAILAND LRQA reference: BGK6022617 Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2013. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group . Page 2 of 2  084 Sustainability Report 2014 Opinion Survey Form Bangchak’s Sustainability Report 2014 1. Your personal data : Sex : Female Male Age : Under 30 30-45 Over 45 2. Group of stakeholders : Employee Customer Shareholder/Investor Resident of nearby communities Operator of standard/community service station Customer & public Business partner Mass media Civil servant/state enterprise Financial institute/creditor Others (please specify) ........................... 3. How did you learn of Bangchak’s Sustainability Report 2014? Bangchak’s website Seminar/presentation/exhibition Bangchak’s employee General shareholders’ meeting Others (please specify) ........................... 4. Your objectives for reading the Sustainability Report 2014 : To make a decision in the investment in Bangchak’s shares/business Education To learn about Bangchak To get guidelines for preparing your own CSR report/sustainability report Others (please specify) ...............................................................................................................................) 5. Your level of satisfaction for our Sustainable Report 2014: Completeness of the contents very good good fair poor Main issues in the report very good good fair poor Contents, sequences very good good fair poor Simplicity of messages conveyed very good good fair poor Report design very good good fair poor Overall satisfaction very good good fair poor 6. Which articles have you found most interesting? 7. Which articles have you found least interesting? (Please specify reason) (Please specify reason) 8. Do you think you have understood Bangchak’s strong commitment through the sustainability activities detailed in this report? How? .............................................................................................................................................................................. .................................................................................................................................................................... 9. In your opinion, are all important issues for the company’s sustainability completely included in the report? Yes No (Please specify the issues that should be included in the report) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................... 10. Other suggestions/recommendations for the improvement of next year’s Sustainability Report. ...................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please return the filled questionnaire to Bangchak Petroleum PCL Thank you ใบอนุญาตเลขที่ ปน.(ต) / 1253 ปณจ.บางนา ถ้าฝากส่งในประเทศไม่ต้องผนึกตราไปรษณียากร บริการธุรกิจตอบรับ บริษัท บางจากปิโตรเลียม จำ�กัด (มหาชน) (ส่วนสิ่งแวดล้อมและชุมชนสัมพันธ์ : Sustainability Rrport 2014) ตู้ ปณ. 70 ปณจ. บางนา กรุงเทพฯ 10260
