ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE TRANSFORM, IMPROVE, MAKE THE WORLD MOVE… THAT’S WHERE WE PUT ALL OF OUR ENERGY. AN ENERGY THAT IS BUILT IN 12 COUNTRIES, MADE OF PROXIMITY, OF COMMITMENT, OF ENVOLVEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY. BUT ABOVE ALL, AN ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE. index MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 05 INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO 08 1. THE COMPANY 13 1.1. THE COMPANY IN BRIEF 13 1.2. 2014 IN REVIEW 19 1.3. ORGANIZATION 22 2. STRATEGY 27 2.1. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 29 2.2. BUSINESS PLAN 42 2.3. RISK MANAGEMENT 50 3. PERFORMANCE 53 3.1. ECONOMIC 55 3.2. ENVIRONMENT 66 3.3. STAKEHOLDERS 69 3.4. INNOVATION 75 3.5. INTEGRITY AND ETHICS 77 3.6. EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION 79 4. GRI REPORT 81 5. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 109 6. ANNUAL ACCOUNTS 161 CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS 250 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS THE ECONOMY A global company, a leader in value creation, and with a strategy based on innovation and sustainability. Message from the Chairman Dear Stakeholders, In 2014, EDP Renováveis once again performed above the market and made steps toward fulfilling its vision of growing into a leading global renewable energy company in terms of value creation, innovation and sustainability. Six years after the company’s IPO, EDPR reached 9.0 GW of renewable energy capacity, and produced 19.8 TWh in the year. The company is now present in 12 countries across Europe and the Americas. The green energy delivered in 2014 by EDPR corresponds to nearly 50% of the total electricity consumption of the country of Portugal, which is nearly triple the company’s energy sales in 2008 and demonstrates EDPR’s ability to deliver growth on a global scale. The strategic roadmap of focused growth in renewable energy pursued by EDPR and its shareholders puts us a step ahead of the industry and continues to prove successful. I remain certain that our company is playing on the right side of the energy sector, despite a recent regulatory environment with some unexpected setbacks culminating in significant cuts to regulated revenue as well as tax increases. Wind onshore is the most competitive source of energy, with the only exception of large hydro in some cases. It is clearly a preferable technology today to conventional thermal generation on a new-build basis. Even at presently low fuel prices, yet historically very volatile, wind farms with strong load factors are still competitive. ANTÓNIO MEXIA Chairman of the Board of Directors 6 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Moreover, turbine costs and financing costs are improving in favour of wind energy. In 2014 we saw EU leaders agreeing on targets for 2030 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% compared to 1990 and to increase the share of renewable energy to at least 27%. Wind energy will play a key role toward these ambitious targets and our company will be, once again, a front-runner in the EU market. At the same time, the US will be key in EDPR development. Growth prospects are solid and magnified by comprehensive environmental legislation limiting different types of pollution, creating demand for the addition of new competitive and sustainable solutions, with wind energy as one of the leading alternatives. Later in 2015, Paris will host the UN Climate Change conference where relevant agreements on climate are expected from all the nations around the world. Last year, we updated the strategic plan set in 2012, while providing new targets for 2017. As you may know, our business plan continues to be based on three strategic references that guide our actions: 1) selective growth; 2) increased profitability; and 3) a self-funding model. Our business rebalancing towards the US market is paramount to our new strategic approach, which entails taking advantage of the outstanding market positioning that has allowed our company to seize windows of opportunities for growth at attractive returns and with controlled risks, supported by more than 1.2 GW of long-term PPAs signed since early 2013. This was possible due to the U.S. administration tax credit extension to support renewable energy, but most of all due to the high quality of our pipeline, one that was well-matched by our development teams and well-marketed by our highly skilled origination teams, having made EDPR a front-runner in closing PPAs in the U.S. market over the last two years. Two other key achievements in 2014 are especially worth highlighting: the entry into the Mexican wind energy market through the signing of a PPA for 180 MW to be built in 2016, and the award in France of 1 GW offshore wind capacity to a consortium participated by EDPR, for construction the end of the decade. Another key strategic pillar that EDPR and EDP both share concerns securing a controlled risk environment and maintaining access to competitive funding. The company is committed to a self-funding model for its investment plan of € 2.5 billion for 2014-17, of which € 700 million will be covered by asset rotation proceeds. More than 60% of this target is already completed and closed at competitive multiples, highlighting the success of the program. On top of this we are also advancing in the execution of the ongoing strategic partnership established between EDP and CTG, with minority sales involving EDPR stakes in Portugal and Brazil, including two MoU for completion expected in the year of 2015. EDPR is a solid company with an adequate strategic approach in a sector with an auspicious future, yet full of challenges. The company is still set to achieve relevant growth targets toward 2017, aiming at annualised growth rates of 9% in green electricity generation, 9% in EBITDA and 11% in Net Profit while adding over 2.0 GW of capacity from 2013. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 7 In 2014, EBITDA was 903M€ and Net Income was 126M€, -2% and -7% below the prior year, respectively. The results were impacted by the recent regulatory changes in Spain and amplified by exceptional low pool prices in the first months of the year. Despite those challenges, EDPR’s results demonstrate great resilience, thanks to the company’s rebalanced growth strategy and superior operating achievements. The company has a dividend pay-out ranging between 25% and 35% of annual Net Profit that contributes to leveraging our shareholders’ returns. Hence, the proposal to be presented at the General Shareholders Meeting of €0.04 per share, within the policy defined. Evidence of this leverage of our shareholders’ returns is the increase of +40% in the share price of EDPR during 2014, significantly outperforming the PSI20 (loosing -27%) and the DJ SX6E (gaining +12%). Our mission of clean and carbon-free energy generation is evidently of great meaning to our leadership role in sustainability, together with our values of support to society and respect for biodiversity. We reinforce our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact initiative to align our business with its principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption. EDPR this year once again helped its primary shareholder (EDP) achieve a world leadership position in the Utilities Sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. We are proud of everything we have achieved thus far as a company that currently has a staff of more than 900 people worldwide. The stakes are high yet we maintain a vivid enthusiasm to continue progressing, pursuing greater achievements and attaining better results well into the future. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the Board of Directors for their support and, most of all, to express my gratitude for the strong dedication and great work of our employees who I truly consider the stars of our success story at EDPR. The future will continue to hold great challenges for our sector. However, being the great company we are, I am confident we will successfully identify and seize opportunities for improvement and growth. Sincerely, João Manso Neto VICE-CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS and CEO INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO Q1 In review, what were EDPR’s most important accomplishments in 2014? Perhaps more importantly, we have created visibility for our growth in the future by signing PPAs and winning public tenders. Since 2013, EDPR has signed A1: EDPR made some significant accomplishments PPAs and won tenders for future onshore wind farms in 2014 that had an immediate impact, and, in my through 2017, including 1,255 MW in the U.S., 290 opinion, we have also achieved some great things that MW in Europe, 236 MW in Brazil and 180 MW in a stand to have positive impact for years to come. new market that EDPR just entered in 2014 – Mexico. Furthermore, EDPR was a front-runner in the U.S. We have again achieved record high levels of efficiency market closing PPAs over the last two years, with a not only in technical availability, which was above total of 1.5 GW, including not only future projects, but our target of 97.5%, but also in load factor, this year also projects already in operation. again at 30%, and in controlling costs, with OpEx/ MW decreasing by -8% compared to the prior year. In Our entrance into the Mexican energy market is terms of growth we have added nearly 0.5 GW of new another highlight of the year. It represents a sizeable capacity, with the U.S. as a core market making up 329 entrance into a low risk and attractive emerging MW of that. market and is a great strategic fit for our company. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 9 THE 40% SHARE PRICE INCREASE IN 2014, with over €1 billion market capitalization. I think this FOLLOWING THE CLARIFICATION OF SPANISH outstanding performance, following the clarification REGULATION, MAKES A CLEAR STATEMENT of Spanish regulation, makes a very clear statement ON THE CONSISTENCY OF OUR STRATEGY on the market outlook for the consistency of our AND OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER ON OUR strategy and our ability to deliver the business plan we BUSINESS PLAN. presented last May. Another important accomplishment was the award of 1 GW offshore wind, via a competitive bid, to a consortium that includes EDPR in France. This project Q3 Sustainability is at the top of the strategic agenda for most corporations in this day and age. What is enlarges and further diversifies our company’s EDPR’s take? long-term profitable growth options with an innovative technology that combines well with wind onshore A3: Sustainability is at the basis of EDPR’s existence. where we have distinctive capabilities. Our company has long had the vision to be a global renewable energy company that is a leader in value Q2 How was EDPR’s financial performance for the year? creation, innovation and sustainability. In fact we took this approach before many others in the industry anticipated and began to respond to the global macro A2: In terms of profitability, the results obtained by trends that have been moving us toward abundant, our company over the financial year showed great clean and affordable energy. Those trends have made resilience in a harsh environment, particularly in some renewable energy a success story worldwide that of our markets in Europe. EBITDA of €903 million, accounts for an increasing share of total production. declined year-on-year by only -2% (€17 million), It is naturally related to the clear benefits to the despite the negative performance of -25% (€75 environment and to society, but also related to the million) seen in Spain. This can be mostly explained proven economic competitiveness of renewable energy, by the well-known regulatory changes in this market, and wind onshore in particular. but results were also extraordinarily aggravated by a lower pool price than would be expected under normal IT’S NOT ONLY ABOUT WHAT WE DO AS A conditions. During the first months of the year, when BUSINESS, IT’S ALSO ABOUT HOW WE DO IT: wind energy output was at the highest and hydro OUR ATTENTION TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES, output was also very high, wholesale prices dropped RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY, AND significantly. That came ahead of the announcement CONTROLLED RISK APPROACH. of the new regulation and did not allow for the implementation of suitable hedging. Forward hedging At EDPR, as one of the first movers in wind energy, is now in place since 2Q14 and in 2015 our exposure to we built significant capacity early on and since then wholesale prices is limited. have maintained a top position in the world ranking of wind energy production players. This leadership Following our self-funding model, we have generated position on the “right side of the energy sector”, and enough cash for our needs, delivering solid operating the knowledge and reputation we have accumulated cash-flow of €707 million, which increased year-onover time in our business has been EDPR’s central year by +4%. Total cash net investments during the competitive strength in expanding our growth and year amounted to €538 million, but were practically profitability. covered by proceeds from tax equity or other project finances, as well as our asset rotation program. In 2014 we closed more than €400 million in asset rotation transactions. With those transactions alone, Q4 What steps has EDPR taken to become a leader in Sustainability? more than 60% of our target for the 2014-17 period A4: For us is not only about what we do as a business, has already been met and has closed at competitive it is also about how. This is reflected, for example, in multiples. our controlled risk financial approach, our respect for biodiversity and mitigating potential impacts, and in Net income of €126 million was just €9 million lower our attention to local communities. I’d like to make than the prior year, with EBITDA performance and the special mention of the work of Fundación EDP, which bottom line also mitigated by some positive one-offs, also represents EDP Group’s other subsidiaries in in particular the decrease in deferred taxes following Spain. With its mission of social responsibility it has the announced income tax rate reduction in Spain. developed several initiatives in support of communities in different areas including culture, education and Notwithstanding the results as on the books, the environmental research. evolution in the company’s market valuation as reflected in EDPR’s share price increase of 40% in At EDPR, we are publicly committed to the 10 2014, significantly outperforms the DJ Eurostoxx principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Utilities SX6E (+12%) and NYSE Euronext Lisbon PSI20 human rights, labour standards, environment and (-27%). In fact, EDPR was named the best performing anti-corruption. I can highlight a few of our initiatives stock in the NYSE Euronext Lisbon, among companies over the past year that demonstrate our commitment 10 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE technology is as competitive as wind onshore. Security to these principles. First, we completed the OHSAS of supply concern will put more emphasis on a greater 18001 certification for nearly all our facilities, ensuring reliance on endogenous sources of energy, following appropriate working conditions and practices in the crisis between Ukraine and Russia. Therefore order to meet our zero accidents objective. It was an Europe will still see dynamic growth over the coming important step that shows our commitment to the years, with activity to take up as existing oversupply is health and safety of our employees and contractors. absorbed by catching demand. In the environmental area we reached another important milestone by completing the implementation Prospects in the Americas are brighter at this moment, of our environmental management system in the driven by a significantly stronger wind resource driving U.S. and reaching almost all of our sites with ISO even greater competitiveness of wind energy vis-à14001 certification, holding strict environmental vis other technologies. This is valid considering the practices that meet internal targets, not just legal availability of shale gas, and at currently low prices. requirements. In terms of governance, we formalized our anti-corruption policy regarding the adoption of The growth in the U.S. is also motivated by the need best business practices and ethical principles, further to meet environmentally driven target renewable emphasizing transparency and accountability of our portfolio standards (RPS). Many states, especially in governance model. the Western and Eastern regions, have increasing binding targets up to 2020 and thereafter. The U.S. We are proud to be recognized for our excellence in administration has recently unveiled a plan to reduce the area of sustainability with our presence in the carbon emissions from power generation plants. FTSE4Good index and, more significantly, by the That implies a greater reliance on renewable energy increased interest of SRI (sustainable and responsible sources, to make up 1/4 of the planned reduction investment) funds in our company. by 2030. Last year we defined 10 sustainability targets through Moving south, Brazil and Mexico are reinforcing their 2017, in line with our business plan, that not only regulatory support, mostly through organised tenders follow our culture of continuous improvement but also and favourable preferable financing conditions. Those reinforce sustainability to remain a central part of are the most promising wind centres in Latin America, EDPR’s future. having very strong wind resources, and high growth in electricity consumption and an increasing concern Q5 What is your outlook on the energy business and regulatory environments? over the diversification from excessive dependence on hydro and the associated potential power shortages or peak prices from droughts. Q6 A5: Clearly the global macro trends in favour of How do you see the market design renewable energy will remain globally strong. There evolving going forward? will be a strong need for an abundant, clean and affordable energy. Wind onshore in particular is not A6: The industry will see increasing importance of just environmentally friendly, it is competitive with all auction-based structures (tenders, PPAs). This system other alternative technologies, even at the current fuel is already well developed in the Americas, and now prices. we are observing a switch in Europe, which in my view is a very welcome market design, since auctions WIND ONSHORE IS NOT JUST provide long-term visibility with low risk for investors ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY, IT IS and, at the end, lower prices to electricity consumers. COMPETITIVE WITH ALL ALTERNATIVE The wind energy industry does not need subsidies but TECHNOLOGIES, EVEN AT CURRENT stability, for example from market-based arrangements FUEL PRICES. of competition ex-ante competition. In Europe, the focus is certainly moving from The U.S. has efficient regulatory support, albeit decarbonisation, evident in the 20-20-20 targets visibility over the long-term extension of the incentives and 2030 targets, toward affordability. However, the in place, PTC mostly, is limited. It would be valuable to short-term outlook in Europe faces some challenges have at least a medium-term view on these deals, even due to a big misperception about the true cost/ if including a progressive phasing out, as it would allow benefit of renewable energy, created in the context of for improved planning and better value for consumers. a worldwide recession that triggered a focus on their The situation as it is creates a volatile growth market remuneration schemes. They intended to show that these schemes had excessive costs, but they were WIND ENERGY DOES NOT NEED grounded in incorrect analyses, putting into question SUBSIDIES BUT STABILITY, FOR the existing regulation to support new growth. The EXAMPLE FROM MARKET-BASED truth is that on a levelized cost of energy basis, with ARRANGEMENTS OF EX-ANTE the exception of large hydro in some cases, no other COMPETITION. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 11 as off-takers typically take the years when PTCs are will be building our first project by 2016 with 180-200 available to sign new agreements. MW awarded with a 25-year contract. We will continue to actively prospect further opportunities in these The importance of the PTC for value creation is lower countries or in other emerging markets with these today than some years ago due to the improvement in same strong fundamentals. wind energy competitiveness. Today a new wind farm in the Central region of the U.S. with the best load But again, our diversified worldwide presence and factors to achieve our required returns, can offer a extensive portfolio of high quality projects will enable utility a PPA price for 20-year competitive with the cost us to select the optimal mix of investments at each one can expect from any other new-build. moment. Q7 What are the implications of this context on growth prospects? Q8 What about new technologies? A7: Our business plan aims to maintain capacity A8: Regarding technologies other than wind onshore, growth at a rate of 500 MW annually through 2017, we have already somewhat diversified into solar focused on high quality projects, mostly through photovoltaic (PV), but such investments are something long-term energy sale agreements already granted, more to be judged on a case-by-case opportunistic lowering our exposure to wholesale prices and approach like the case of the 30 MW addition this regulatory schemes. Taking advantage of our year in U.S. (California). Yet with the expectable diversified worldwide presence and extensive portfolio further reduction in the levelized cost of energy of this of projects that allow us to pick the most interesting technology, we are reviewing options to reinforce in markets at each time, future growth is projected to be this area. located 60% in U.S., 20% in Europe and the remaining 20% in emerging wind markets. In offshore wind we are making investments in solid projects, with very strong partners such as Repsol in the In the U.S., since the one-year extension of PTCs in UK and more recently GDF Suez and Neoen in France. early 2013, we have signed PPAs for 1,255 MW of The technology is not yet mature, there is a large scope capacity putting us in clear reach of our growth target for cost reduction and we believe we can leverage our in this market, of which 300 MW were already added in core competencies in wind onshore. Wind offshore in 2014. We now have several projects to add in the U.S. clearly a very promising energy source and will be part during 2015, 2016 and 2017. of the European renewable energy growth particularly in markets where onshore development is limited. THE BUSINESS PLAN IS TO GROW > 500 MW PER YEAR IN HIGH QUALITY PROJECTS UNDER LONG-TERM ENERGY SALES: 60% IN U.S., 20% EUROPE AND 20% Q9 Is the company going to maintain its low risk profile? A9: Yes, absolutely. A low risk profile is in our genetic IN EMERGING WIND MARKETS. material, and naturally it is one of the key pillars our In Europe, we have set a target of 20% of the overall strategy since we consider essential to maintain a additions through 2017. Additions will mostly come competitive cost of capital. This culture of controlled in France, Italy and Poland. However in the long risk is observed in our strict risk management term energy demand will certainly recover and EU practices, reflected most noticeably in our hedging 2030 targets already indicate renewable energy will from any material exposure to wholesale market be again on the rise. Therefore we may seem to be prices, either through regulation or via bilateral PPAs. dormant but in fact we are active, maintaining the Only about 10% of our generation is exposed to ongoing optimization of our pipeline up to a readymarket spot prices, a level considered adequate for a to-build stage to originate new projects, whenever low risk profile. we find opportunities under regulatory arrangements It is also reflected in our management of financial debt, favourable to our profitable and sustainable growth. with 86% at fixed cost and maturing in three years We will most likely participate in future public tenders or later -, in our hedging of foreign exchange risk, that are expected in several countries where we are and just to highlight a few of our risk management already present. principles. Last but not least, in Brazil, a market with strong We will continue to follow a rigorous financial policy, fundamentals, the action plan is to prepare new only assuming financial commitments when we projects to participate in the forthcoming PPA auction; have the means secured to do so. This is particular and logically we are already on the path to complete relevant in our business particularly capital intensive the 237 MW awarded through PPAs back in 2011 and and moreover observing our current investment plan 2013. Mexico is another promising market with very amounting to €2.5 billion over the four years started in strong potential that can fit in our global diversification 2014. growth plan while maintaining a low risk approach. We 12 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Q10 How does EDPR plan to finance such large investment plan? Q11 What else can still be done to increase profitability? A10: As you may know, we have committed ourselves A11: We have set a target for ourselves to increase to what we call a self-funding model, in which we EBITDA and Net Profit respectively by 9% and 11% limit the financing of our investment plan exclusively annually on average from 2013 over the next four to our internal free cash flow from operating assets years. To do that, we will invest in projects with higher as well as the sale of minority stakes in our projects. load factor, which will generate stronger output than Bringing forward the cash flow from our assets allows our assets in operation, and we will deliver increased us to increase our value and growth through its operational efficiency. These objectives will allow for an reinvestment while still preserving a balance sheet increase in electricity output of 9% and cut OpEx/MW discipline that maintains the company under a low by -2% on average per year from last year up to 2017. risk and cost competitive financing environment. Our business plan embraces the goal of raising €700 million It is always a key concern to deliver the planned from such asset rotation proceeds that complement an growth both on time and on budget, and we have a amount of €1.8 billion of operating cash flow to finance strong track record in doing just that, which we intend our total €2.5 billion investment plan. With 2014 to maintain. transactions alone, over 60% of this target has already On the operations side, we will make continuous been completed, through three deals involving assets improvements in availability levels as well as small but located in different countries with different pension important boosts in load factors thanks to productivity funds and infrastructure funds as counterparties. enhancements that we are implementing in turbines Also worth mentioning here is another agreement already in operation. We will also reduce costs closed under EDP’s strategic partnership with China through the dissemination of best practices and leaner Three Gorges at the end of 2014, this time for the approaches, as well as through the internalization of 49% sale of our operating and under development value adding activities in maintenance. capacity in Brazil. This follows the first transaction Q12 in Portugal which included assets where EDPR was Finally, as the CEO of EDPR, what majority shareholder, as well as a Memorandum of are your feelings toward the Understanding for the sale of a minority stake to be company? executed subsequent to the splitting of assets at the ENEOP consortium that will take place in 2015. A12: It has been a great privilege to be CEO for the last three years leading a team of what I frankly ALWAYS A KEY CONCERN IS TO DELIVER feel to be an outstanding group of people over 900 THE PLANNED GROWTH, ON TIME AND ON now – contributing their great work to our mission as BUDGET, AND WE HAVE A STRONG TRACK a corporation, and doing this with dedication above RECORD IN DOING JUST THAT, WHICH WE expectations and great enthusiasm. It makes my job INTEND TO MAINTAIN a lot easier to be in such good company of competent professionals and adaptable individuals. In its essence, It is also clear that our company will keep finding a company is its people, and it is a great competitive external financing sources such as equity partnerships, advantage for us to have here a great team of very typical in the U.S., or the project financing most experienced experts, who are in fact the pioneers of common in Brazil and in Europe, namely in Poland. the wind industry, working together with very qualified We have been successful in raising funds over the last younger professionals whom we have brought on several years, and again in 2014, we raised a total of board along the way. Our business has been shaken €366 million. by numerous challenges, and I am personally grateful for the adaptability, both functional and geographical, Most importantly, the primary source of funds will still demonstrated by many of our employees. be the operating cash flow generated from the existing assets, expected to amount to €3.5 billion in 2014I am also thankful to the support to our shareholders, 17 period, which will remain to a significant extent always providing a solid backing to our strategy and available to fund the new investments. stimulating myself and my colleagues at the Executive team to accomplish our mission in the company even OUR BUSINESS PLAN EMBRACES better and better. THE GOAL OF RAISING €700 MILLION FROM ASSET ROTATION IN ITS ESSENCE, A COMPANY IS ITS PROCEEDS THAT WILL HELP PEOPLE. OUR BUSINESS HAS BEEN FINANCE OUR €2.5 BILLION SHAKEN BY NUMEROUS CHALLENGES INVESTMENT PLAN. AND I AM PERSONALLY GRATEFUL FOR THE ADAPTABILITY OF OUR EMPLOYEES. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 13 1.1. THE COMPANY IN BRIEF 1.1.1. VISION, VALUES AND COMMITMENTS A global energy VISION renewable company, leader in value creation, innovation and sustainability MISSION Aim to be a long-term market leader in the renewable energy sector, pursuing credibility through safety, value creation, social responsibility, innovation, and respect for the environment. VALUES Initiative Trust Excellence Innovation Sustainability through behaviour of shareholders, in the way we to create value aimed at the quality and attitude of our employees, perform in our areas of of life for current and people customers, operation future generations suppliers and other stakeholders We join conduct We ensure the We fulfil the We are leaders due We assume the social and professional participatory, commitments that to our capacity of and environmental rigour to enthusiasm competent and we embraced in anticipating and responsibilities and initiative, honest governance the presence of our implementing that result from our emphasizing team of our business shareholders performance thus work We avoid specific contributing toward We believe that We place ourselves greenhouse gas the development of the We listen to our the balance in our stakeholder’s emissions with the regions in which we are stakeholders and between private shoes whenever a energy we produce operating answer in a simple and professional decision has to be and clear manner live is fundamental made We demand in order to be excellence in We surprise our successful We promote the everything that stakeholders by development of we do anticipating their skills and merit needs COMMITMENTS 1.1.2. WORLD PRESENCE EDPR is a world leader in renewable energy, present in 12 countries in Europe and the Americas, managing a global portfolio of 9.0 GW of capacity installed, 443 MW under construction and much more in pipeline development, employing over 900 employees. IN THE WORLD EDPR North America 316 employees 3,984 MW operating USA +299 MW under construction EDPR Brazil +956 MW in pipeline with PPA 26 employees 84 MW operating braZil +120 MW under construction CanadA 30 MW operating +117 MW in pipeline with PPA EDPR produced 19.8 TWh of clean energy in 2014, of which mExico 180 MW in pipeline with PPA 47% in Europe, 52% in North America and 1% in Brazil EDPR Europe 577 employees (includes 143 employees in EDPR Holding) 2,368 MW operating spain 1,157 MW operating +2 MW under construction Portugal +6 MW under construction 340 MW operating france +430 MW of offshore wind in Belgium 71 MW operating pipeline development with PPA 392 MW operating poland Romania 521 MW operating +6 MW under construction 90 MW operating united 1.4 GW (max) of offshore wind Italy +10 MW under construction kingdom in pipeline under development 18 16 EDPR ·· 2014 EDPR ENERGY THAT ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT MAKES A THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE 1.1.3. BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Our renewable energy business grossly comprises the development, construction and operation of fully controlled wind farms and solar plants to generate and deliver clean electricity. DEVELOPMENT… Site identification Landowner agreement Renewable resource analysis Search for sites with top-class wind Contact local landowners and negotiate Install meteorological equipment to conditions or irradiance resource and leasing agreement collect and study wind profile and solar analyse grid connection feasibility radiance …DEVELOPMENT CONSTRUCTION… Obtain consents and permits Project evaluation and funding Layout design and equipment choice Engage with local public authorities to Evaluate potential operational and Optimize the layout of the farm and secure environmental, construction, financial risks and find appropriate select the best fit of equipment model operating and other licenses finance to the project based on the site characteristics …CONSTRUCTION OPERATION… Construction Opening ceremony Wind and solar plant operation Build access roads, prepare Celebrate the benefits of renewable Complete grid connection and start to foundations, assemble wind turbines or energy with local communities, generate renewable electricity solar panels, construct substation authorities and other stakeholders …OPERATION Data analysis Ongoing maintenance service Generate and deliver clean energy Monitor real-time operational data, Keep availability figures at the highest A better energy, a better future, a analyse performance and identify level possible and minimise failure better world! opportunities for improvement rates EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 19 17 1.1.4. STAKEHOLDERS (G4-24, G4-25, G4-26) Involving the stakeholders in our business is a strategic priority, by maintaining an open and transparent dialogue, to build and strengthen trust, share information and knowledge, anticipate challenges and identify cooperation opportunities to create value. We do so through four major guiding commitments: Comprehend, Communicate, Collaborate and Trust. These commitments underlie a policy that aims to go beyond mere compliance with the formal requirements of the law, thereby contributing to an effective and genuine engagement of our different stakeholders. COMPREHEND COMMUNICATE Include, Identify, Prioritize: We have dynamically Inform, Listen, Respond: We are committed to and systematically identified the Stakeholders that promoting two-way dialogue with Stakeholders through influence and are influenced by the Company, and we information and consulting initiatives. We listen, inform analyse and try to understand their expectations and and respond to Stakeholders in a consistent, clear, interests in the decisions that directly impact on them. rigorous and transparent manner, with the aim of building strong, durable close relationships. TRUST COLLABORATE Transparency, Integrity, Respect, Ethics: We Integrate, Share, Cooperate, Report: We aim to believe that the promotion of a climate of trust with collaborate with Stakeholders to build strategic our Stakeholders is crucial to establishing stable, longpartnerships that bring together and share knowledge, term relationships. Our relationship with stakeholders skills and tools, thereby promoting the creation of is based on values like transparency, integrity and shared value in a differentiating manner. mutual respect. Who are the stakeholders of EDPR? All persons or entities that influence or are influenced by our activities. They are organized in four segments: Democracy, Value Chain, Market and Social and Territorial Context. In 2014, the company has initiated in Spain its stakeholders management plan consisting of 5 main phases: 1) segmentation, 2) definition of stakeholders managers to follow up on the implementation of improvement initiatives, 3) quantitative analysis through a number of internal and external inquiries, 4) preparation of a conclusions report once the data relative to inquiries have been consolidated, and 5) action plan to be implemented by each of the stakeholder managers and coordinated by a steering committee. This plan will be replicated in other countries in the future with the goal of obtaining a global vision of the company’s relationships with stakeholders across its different locations. The table below lists the different interested parties, aggregated by described four key segments of stakeholders, interacting with our business in Spain: DE Segment Stakeholder M O C Financial Entities ET Government R K Competition Public Bodies Market Investors R Regulation Y M Parliament C Financial Competition A Entities and Polítical Parties A Energy Commission of Spanish Congress Shareholders International Democracy Spanish Euro Congressmen Investors Institutions Political parties TE employees Employees trade Value Chain Suppliers unions RR Employees NGO Land Owners ITO Associations AIN Local Suppliers Communities Local Communities CH RIA Social and Universities Local VALUE Territorial L EN Scientific social VIRONMENT Government City Councils Community economy Environment consumer & Media Energy Council or Energy Commissioners business associations and Customers Opinion Media and Opinion Leaders large Makers residential customers customers & L IA commercial industrial rbit po ed customers customers C SO 20 18 EDPR ·· 2014 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT ENERGY THAT MAKES MAKES A A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE EDPR organized a day of festivities in celebration of Global Wind Day at its Rabosera wind farm in Aragon (Spain) and in Leroy, Minnesota (USA) INITIATIVES SUCH AS THE CELEBRATION OF GLOBAL WIND DAY ARE AN INDICATION OF THE COMMITMENT TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN THE MUNICIPALITIES WHERE EDPR OPERATES EDPR celebrated Global Wind Day, a worldwide event that occurs annually on June 15, with a day of festivities at the Rabosera wind farm, located between the towns of Luna (Zaragoza) and Gurrea de Gállego (Huesca) in Spain. To celebrate this day, the Rabosera wind farm opened their doors to the public for guided educational tours of the facilities, accompanied by technical personnel, and visits to a wind tunnel. The day also incorporated educational sessions for children and design competitions. The event was attended by the head of the Energy and Mining Department of the Regional Government of Aragon, Marina Sevilla. She was accompanied by Ramón Tejedor, an advisor from the same department, and the director of the Huesca Local Industry and Innovation Service, Marta Patricia Rodríguez. Also present were a number of local representatives and officials from neighbouring cities. According to Rocío Sicre, Country Manager for EDPR in Spain, “initiatives like this are part of the sustainable philosophy of the company and a clear indication of our commitment to the local communities in the municipalities where we operate”. In the United States, the EDPR team in Leroy, Minnesota, was responsible for organizing events for Wind Day at the Pioneer Prairie and Prairie Star wind farms. In partnership with the LeRoy School, EDPR provided an afternoon of learning about science and engineering with a focus on wind energy. EDPR taught the students about the environmental impacts of renewable energies. After the students left, it was the turn of congressional advisors, journalists and tax consultants from Iowa and Minnesota, who learned about the O&M (Operations and Maintenance) of wind farms. The trip ended with a reception on site which served as a networking opportunity EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 21 19 1.2. 2014 IN REVIEW 1.2.1. KEY METRICS SUMMARY GENERATION INSTALLED CAPACITY TECHNICAL AVAILABILITY 9.0 GW 97.6% 19.8 Twh EBITDA + Net equity -0.1p.p. vs 2013 +3% VS 2013 NEW ADDITIONS LOAD FACTOR EMISSIONS AVOIDED +0.5 GW 30% 17.0mt CO2 +4% VS 2013 EBITDA + Net equity -0.2p.p. vs 2013 CASH NET INVESTMENTS NET DEBT 12 €538m €3.3 BILLION COUNTRIES +€105m capex YoY +0% vs 2013 1 New: Mexico EBITDA OPEX/MW €55k/MW 919 €903m -8% vs 2013 EMPLOYEES -2% vs 2013 +3% vs 2013 OPERATING NET PROFIT TRAINNING CASH-FLOW €707m €126m 83% 43hrs / employee +4% vs 2013 -€9m vs 2013 22 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 20 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT ENERGY THAT MAKES MAKES A A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE +471 MW OF CLEAN ENERGY COMMISIONED Project name Country MW Technology Estarreja Portugal 2 Solar In 2014 EDPR completed ten projects in five Headwaters US 200 Wind countries, including its first solar project in Ilza Poland 4 Wind Lone Valley US 30 Solar the US, located in California, and two more Overpowering Portugal 2 Wind wind farms Rising Tree North and 200 MW Preuseville France 6 Wind Radziejow Poland 18 Wind Headwaters. Rising Tree North US 99 Wind San Giovanni Italy 20 Wind Truc de L’Homme France 12 Wind EBITDA 393 ENEOP Portugal 78 Wind 2014 471 HEADWATERS LOCATION, ENERGY OUTPUT AND ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS Located in Randolph County in the state of Indiana (US), the Headwaters wind farm supplies emission free electricity to Indiana Michigan Power (a subsidiary of American Electric Power), through a long-term power purchase agreement. It employs the latest in turbine technology to generate 200 MW of domestic, renewable electricity enough to power more than 51,000 average Indiana homes with clean energy each year, preventing the annual emission of tons carbon dioxide a contributor to climate change, nitrogen oxide which causes smog, and sulphur dioxide which causes acid rain. The annual environmental benefits of the 332,000 tons of CO2 are equivalent to taking approximately 183,000 cars off of the road. Old and new wind power at Headwaters DEVELOPMENT More than 200 supportive landowners were attracted to participate in long-term lease and easement agreements that cover turbines, access roads and transmission corridors. EDPR also performed wind measures at the site during years to design the best layout for the terrain. CONSTRUCTION Construction works started and finished during 2014. The wind farm has a total of 100 turbines, 94.5 meters tall. It is connected to the grid at 345 kilovolt transmission line through a new substation, 10 miles transmission line and interconnection station. The project includes maintaining 80 miles of public roads and more than 35 miles of private access roads to the turbines. More than 250 direct and indirect jobs were created at the peak of construction. OPERATIONS EDPR created 14 full time permanent jobs in the area to help operate the power plant at the highest efficiency standards. The Headwaters wind farm helps provide energy security to the United States by diversifying the electricity generation portfolio, protecting against volatile natural gas spikes and utilizing a renewable, domestic source of energy. Headwaters wind farm does not impede land use for Indiana farmers EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 23 21 1.2.2. SHARE PERFORMANCE Share price increased +40% 160 EDPR PSI20 SX6E in 2014, significantly outperforming NYSE Euronext Lisbon PSI20 and Dow 140 +40% Jones Eurostoxx Utilities SX6E. 120 +12% EDPR has 872.3 million of shares listed and admitted to 100 trading in NYSE Euronext Lisbon. On December 31st 2014 EDPR had a market capitalization of 4.7 billion 80 euro, +40% above from the 3.4 billion euro at previous -27% year-end, equivalent to € 5.40 per share. In 2014 total 60 shareholder return was 41%, considering the dividend Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec paid on May 8th of € 0.04 per share. EDPR in Capital Markets 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Opening price (€) 3.86 3.99 4.73 4.34 6.63 Minimum price (€) 3.87 3.58 2.31 5.25 3.72 Maximum price (€) 5.70 4.36 4.86 3.89 7.01 Closing price (€) 5.40 3.86 3.99 4.73 4.34 Market capitalization (€ million) 4,714 3,368 3,484 4,124 3,783 Total traded volume: Listed & OTC (million) 396.84 448.15 446.02 463.56 544.52 …of which in NYSE Euronext Lisbon (million) 149.48 200.29 207.49 232.29 311.46 Average daily volume (million) 1.56 1.76 1.74 1.80 2.11 Turnover (€ million) 1,976.41 1,759.20 1,525.56 2,098.58 2,695.41 Average daily turnover (€ million) 7.75 6.90 5.96 8.17 10.45 Rotation of capital (% of total shares) 46% 51% 51% 54% 63% Rotation of capital (% of floating shares) 205% 229% 228% 239% 279% Share price performance +40% -3% -16% +9% -35% Total shareholder return +41% -2% -16% +9% -35% PSI 20 -27% +16% +3% -28% -10% Down Jones Eurostoxx Utilities +12% +9% -9% -25% -15% € 6.00 € 6.00 10.0 m 10.0 m Volumen Volume Precio Last Price Eventos Events 22 22 23 23 9.0 m 29 3029 9.0 m 17 17 31 30 31 € 5.50 € 5.50 15 15 28 18 28 8.0 m 18 21 25/26 27 8.0 m 21 25/26 27 11 11 14 16 7.0 m € 5.00 14 19 16 24 7.0 m 10 19 20 24 Volume (Millions) € 5.00 5 10 5 20 6.0 m Volume (Millions) 12 13 6.0 m 2 6 € 4.50 7 8 9 12 13 5.0 m 2 4 6 € 4.50 7 8 9 5.0 m 4 4.0 m € 4.00 3 4.0 m 1 3.0 m € 4.00 3 1 3.0 m 2.0 m € 3.50 1.0 m 2.0 m € 3.50 € 3.00 .0 m 1.0 m Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec € 3.00 .0 m ene feb mar abr may jun jul ago sep oct nov dic 1 EDPR secures PPA for new 200 MW wind 11 EDPR ex-dividend date (€0.04 per share), 521 EDPR executes a new asset rotation transaction in farm in the US, 8-Jan May the US, 20-Aug 2 EDPR executes project finance for its first 12 EDPR consortium is awarded with 1 GW of 22 EDPR established its first institutional partnership project in Canada, 16-Jan wind offshore capacity in France, 7-May structure for solar PV in the US, 1-Sep 3 EDPR discloses 2013 provisional operating 13 EDPR discloses 1Q14 financial results, 9-May 23 EDPR executes a new asset rotation transaction in data, 29-Jan France, 1-Oct 4 Spain published the renewables’ standards 14 EDPR presents in EDP Group Investor Day, 24 EDPR discloses 9M14 provisional operating data, for consultation, 3-Feb 14-May 15-Oct 5 EDPR discloses full year 2013 financial 15 Spain fully approves the new remuneration 25/26 EDPR established institutional partnership for 99 results, 26-Feb framework for wind energy assets, 23-Jun MW in the US & discloses 9M14 results, 29-Oct 6 EDPR executes project finance for 50 MW in 16 EDPR discloses 1H14 provisional operating 27 EDPR was awarded with long term sale Romania, 26-Mar data, 16-Jul agreements for 155 MW in the US, 13-Nov 7 EDPR holds Annual Sharebolder’s Meeeting, 17 EDPR established institutional partnership 28 EDPR executes a new asset rotation transaction in 08-Apr structure for 200 MW in the US, 17-Jul Canada, 20-Nov 8 EDPR discloses 1Q14 provisional operating 18 EDPR discloses 1H14 financial results, 30-Jul 29 EDPR establishes a MoU with EDP Brasil for the data, 22-Apr acquisition of a 45% stake in EDPR Brasil, 27-Nov 9 EDPR secures PPAs for new 150 MW wind 19 EDP Renováveis executes project finance for 30 Extension of key energy-­‐related tax incentives farm in the US, 23-Apr 70 MW in Poland, 4-Aug applicable to EDPR in the US, 22-Dec 10 EDPR enters the Mexican wind energy 20 EDPR secures new PPA for capacity already in 31 EDPR announces the sale of minority stakes in market, 28-Apr operation in the US, 13-Aug wind farms in Brazil to CTG, 29-Dec 24 22 EDPR ·· 2014 EDPR ENERGY THAT ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT MAKES A THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE 1.3. ORGANIZATION 1.3.1. SHAREHOLDERS EDPR shareholders are spread across 23 countries. EDP (“Energias de Portugal”) is the major one holding 77.5% of the share capital since launching the company’s IPO in June 2008. EDPR total share capital is, since its initial public offering (IPO) in June 2008, composed of 872,308,162 shares issued with a nominal value of five euros each, fully paid. All these shares are part of a single class and series and are admitted to trading on the NYSE Euronext Lisbon regulated market. MAJOR SHAREHOLDER, THE EDP GROUP The majority of the company’s share capital is owned by EDP Group, holding 77.5% of the share capital and voting rights, since launching the company’s IPO in June 2008. Others 19.4% EDP (“Energias de Portugal”) Group is a vertically integrated utility company, the largest generator, distributor and supplier of electricity in Portugal, has significant operations in electricity and gas in Spain and is MFS 3.1% the 4th largest private generation group in Brazil through its stake in Energias do Brasil. In the Iberian Peninsula, EDP is the third largest EDPR shareholders electricity generation company and one of the largest distributors of gas. EDP has a relevant presence in the world energy outlook, being present in 14 countries, with more than 9.8 million electricity customers and 1.3 million gas supply points and almost 12,000 employees around the world. EDP 77.5% In 2014, EDP had an installed capacity of 22.5 GW, generating 60.3 TWh, of which 33% come from wind. EDP has been recognised #1 worldwide in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index in the Utilities sector for the year 2013, and again in 2014, following the group performance in the economic, social and environmental dimensions. Its holding company, EDP SA, is a listed company whose ordinary shares are traded in the NYSE Euronext Lisbon since its privatization in 1997. Retail Other 10% OTHER QUALIFIED SHAREHOLDERS 1% Pension 3% Besides the qualified shareholding of EDP Group, MFS Investment SRI Management an American-based global investment manager formerly 16% known as Massachusetts Financial Services communicated to CNMV in Shareholder (ex-EDP) September 2013 an indirect qualified position, as collective investment by type institution, of 3.1% in EDPR share capital and voting rights. BROAD BASE OF INVESTORS Investment funds EDPR has a broad base of international investors. Excluding EDP Group, 80% EDPR shareholders comprise about 81,000 institutional and private investors spread worldwide. Institutional investors represent 90% of EDPR investor base (ex-EDP Group), while the remaining 10% stand private investors, most of whom are resident in Portugal. Within institutional investors, investment funds are the major type of RoW investor, followed by sustainable and responsible funds (SRI). EDPR is a RoE 2% member of several financial indexes that aggregate top performing 14% US companies for sustainability and corporate social responsibility. 28% WORLDWIDE SHAREHOLDERS FR 7% EDPR shareholders are spread across 23 countries, being United States Shareholders (ex-EDP) the most representative country, accounting for 28% of EDPR shareholder NO by country 8% base (ex-EDP Group), followed by United Kingdom, Portugal, Australia, Norway and France. In Rest of Europe the most representative countries are Netherlands, Switzerland and Andorra. AU UK 10% 18% PT 14% EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 25 23 1.3.2. GOVERNANCE MODEL Corporate governance is about promoting corporate fairness, transparency and accountability. EDPR’s corporate governance structure specifies the shareholders, board of directors, managers and other stakeholders’ rights and responsibilities and spells out the rules and procedures for making decisions on corporate affairs. It also incorporates the organization's strategic response to risk management. THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MODEL OF EDPR, AS A LISTED CORPORATION, IS DESIGNED TO ENSURE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY THROUGH A CLEAR SEPARATION OF DUTIES BETWEEN MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION OF THE COMPANY’S ACTIVITIES. The corporate governance structure adopted is the one in effect in Spain. It comprises a General Meeting of Shareholders and a Board of Directors that represents and manages the company. As required by the law and established in the company’s articles of association, the Board of Directors has set up four specialized committees. These are the Executive Committee, the Audit and Control Committee, the Nominations and Remunerations Committee and the Committee on Related-Party Transactions. This governance structure and composition was chosen to adapt the company’s corporate governance model also to the Portuguese legislation and it seeks, insofar it is compatible with the Spanish law, to correspond to the so-called “Anglo-Saxon” model set forth in the Portuguese Commercial Companies Code, in which the management body is a Board of Directors, and the supervision and control duties are of the responsibility of a separate body, a Supervisory Board. EDPR’s model attempts then to establish compatibility between two different systems of company law, through an Audit and Control Committee of independent members, although not exclusively separate from the Board of Directors. The experience of institutional operation of this adopted governance model has been proving to be appropriate to the organizational development of the company’s activities, because it still affords transparency and accountability between the management functions of the Executive Committee, the supervisory functions of the Audit and Control Committee and the specialized oversight by other different Board of Directors committees. GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS: • may also delegate executive powers to the ViceChairperson; • is the body where the shareholders participate; • must meet at least 4 times a year, preferably once a • has the power to deliberate and adopt decisions, by quarter; nonetheless, the Chairperson, on his own majority, on matters reserved by the law or the initiative or that of 3 Directors, shall convene a articles of association. meeting whenever he deems fit for the company’s interests; BOARD OF DIRECTORS (BOD): • its decisions are adopted by absolute majority among the Directors present in the meeting, where each • shall consist of no less than 5 and no more than 17 Director has one vote and the Chairperson has the Directors, including a Chairperson; their term of office casting vote in the event of a tie; shall be 3 years, and they may be re-elected once or more times for equal periods; The Chairperson of the BOD fully represents the company, using its name, implementing decisions of • its Chairperson is appointed by the members of the the General Meeting of Shareholders, Board of BOD, unless this is done by the General Meeting of Directors and the Executive Committee. Without Shareholders; it is the Vice-Chairperson, who is prejudice to the powers of the Chairperson under the appointed by the BOD on the proposal of the law and the articles of association, he also has the Chairperson, that replaces the Chairperson when he is powers of convening and presiding over the meetings unable to attend the meetings; of the BOD, establishing their agenda and directing discussions and decisions; acting as the company’s • has the broadest powers for the administration, highest representative dealing with public, sectorial or management and governance of the company, with no employers’ bodies; limitations other than the responsibilities expressly and exclusively invested in the General Shareholders The BOD has set up four specialized committees. Meeting, in the company’s articles of association or in These are the Executive Committee, the Audit and the applicable law; Control Committee, the Nominations and Remunerations Committee and the Committee on • may appoint, among the Directors, one Chief Related-Party Transactions. The members of these Executive Officers (CEO) or more, with a vote in favour committees shall maintain their positions in the of 2/3 of the Directors, after proposal of the respective committees for as long as they are Chairperson or 2/3 of the Directors; the competences Directors; nonetheless, the BOD may decide to of each CEO are those deemed appropriate in each discharge members at any time and the members may case by the BOD, with the only requirement being that resign said positions while still remaining Directors. they are delegable under the law and the articles of association; 24 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Board of Independent member Directors Chairman António Mexia Vice-Chairman and CEO João Manso Neto Executive Committee COO Europe & Brazil COO North America CFO Rui Teixeira João Paulo Costeira Gabriel Alonso Nuno Alves Audit and Control Committee Chairman Chairman Nominations and Remunerations Committee José Araújo e Silva Jorge Santos João de Mello Franco João Lopes Raimundo Related-Party Transactions Committee Chairman Manuel Menéndez José Ferreira Machado António Nogueira Leite Gilles August General Secretary Emilio García-Conde João Marques da Cruz Rafael Caldeira Valverde Acácio Piloto EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 27 25 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (EC): annual report on its supervisory activities and expressing an opinion on the management’s report, • shall consist of no less than 6 and no more than 9 the accounts and the proposals presented by the BOD; Directors, including a Chief Executive Officer (CEO); those responsibilities are all further detailed, among The CEO coordinates the implementation of the BOD others, in the Corporate Governance section at the end decisions and the Corporate and General Management of this report; functions, partially assigning those to the other • shall meet at least once every quarter and executive officers, namely: the Chief Financial Officer additionally whenever its Chairperson sees fit. (CFO), the Chief Operating Officer for Europe and Brazil (COO EU & BR) and the Chief Operating Officer for North America (COO NA). NOMINATIONS AND REMUNERATIONS The CFO proposes and ensures the implementation of COMMITTEE: the financial policy and management, including financial negotiation, management and control, cash • shall consist of no less than 3 and no more than 6 management optimization and financial risk Directors, including a Chairperson, who must be management policy proposal; he also coordinates and independent; prepares the business plan and the budget, manages • at least one of its members must be independent; / the financial statements reporting analyses the is constituted by independent members of the BOD; operational and financial performance, manages the relations with shareholders, potential investors and • its members should not be members of the EC; market analysts to promote the value of the company in the capital markets, and coordinates procurement • is a permanent body with an advisory nature which function and relations with key suppliers while recommendations and reports are not binding; ensuring the implementation of the procurement • has no executive functions; strategy and policy. • its main functions are to assist and report to the BOD The COO EU & BR and the COO NA coordinate their about appointments, re-elections, dismissals and platforms by developing, establishing and remunerations of the members of the BOD and their implementing the strategic plan for the renewable positions, as well as about appointments, dismissals energy business in their respective platforms, in and remunerations of senior management personnel; accordance with the guidelines set by the BOD; they those responsibilities are all further detailed, among are also responsible for planning, organizing and others, in the Corporate Governance section at the end managing resources, controlling, measuring and of this report; improving the management of projects and subsidiary companies to achieve expected results to make EDPR a • shall also inform the BOD on general remuneration leader in the renewable energy sector in their policy and incentives to Directors and senior respective platforms. management; • shall meet at least once every quarter and additionally whenever its Chairperson sees fit. AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE: • shall consist of no fewer than 3 and no more than 5 Directors, including a Chairperson; RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS COMMITTEE: • the majority of the members shall be independent; • shall consist of no fewer than 3 members, including a Chairperson; • is a permanent body and performs supervisory tasks independently from the BOD; • the majority of its members shall be independent; • its members are appointed by the BOD; • is a body belonging to the BOD; • the term of office of its Chairperson is 3 years, after • performs the duties of ratifying transactions, above which he may only be re-elected for a new term of 3 certain thresholds defined, between EDPR and EDP or years; nonetheless, chairpersons leaving the its related parties, qualified shareholders, directors, committee may continue as members. key employees or his relatives; those responsibilities are all further detailed, among others, in the Corporate • its competences are delegated by the BOD and Governance section at the end of this report; include proposing the appointment of the company’s auditors to the BOD for subsequent approval by the • shall meet at least once every quarter and General Meeting of Shareholders, supervising the additionally whenever its Chairperson sees fit; financial reporting and the functioning of the internal should this committee not ratify any transaction in its risk management and control systems, supervising duties, said transactions require the approval of 2/3 of internal audits and compliance, establish a direct the members of the BOD. contact with the external auditors, preparing an For further detailed information regarding the responsibilities and roles of the different social bodies, as well as 2014 activity, please refer to the Corporate Governance section, at the end of this report. The company also posts its up-to-date articles of association and regulations at www.edpr.com. 28 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 26 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT ENERGY THAT MAKES MAKES AA DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE 1.3.3. ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE The organization structure is designed to accomplish the strategic management of the company but also a transversal operation of all the business units, ensuring alignment with the defined strategy, optimizing support processes and creating synergies. EDPR organizational structure is divided in 3 key elements: a corporate center at the Holding and 2 platforms Europe & Brazil and North America. Within EDPR Europe & Brazil platform, there are 8 business units, one for each of the countries where the company operates, namely Spain, Portugal, France/Belgium, Italy, Poland, Romania, UK and finally Brazil. Similarly in the EDPR North America platform, there are 3 business units, that represent the operational regions in the continent: West (includes Canada), Central (includes Mexico) and East. EDPR Europe & North Brazil America France/ United West (i. Central (i Spain Portugal /Belgium Poland Romania Italy Kingdom Brazil Canada) Mexico) East ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL PRINCIPLES The model is designed with several principles in mind to ensure optimal efficiency and value creation. Accountability Critical KPIs and span of control are aligned at project, country, platform and holding alignment level to ensure accountability tracking and to take advantage of complementarities derived from end-to-end process vision. Client-service Corporate areas function as competence support centers and are internal service providers to all business units for all geographical non-specific needs. Business priorities and needs are defined by local businesses and best practices are defined and distributed by corporate units. Lean organization Execution of activities at holding level are held only when significant value is derived, coherently with defined EDPR holding role. Collegial Ensures proper counter-balance dynamics to ensure multiple-perspective challenge decision-making across functions. Clear and Platforms organizational models remain similar to allow for: transparent Easy coordination, vertically (holding-platforms) and horizontally (across platforms); Scalability and replicability to ensure efficient integration of future growth. EDPR HOLDING ROLE EDPR Holding seizes value creation, through the dissemination of best practices in the organization and the standardization of corporate processes to the platforms and the business units to improve efficiency. Its internal coordination model and interface with EDP group impacts both the company’s processes activities performed, processes steps, inputs and outputs, and decision-making mechanisms -, and the company’s structure, with an alignment of functions and responsibilities with the processes configuration. The EDPR Holding structure was designed to accomplish two fundamental roles: Strategic Management and Transversal Operation. Strategic Management covers to a) adopt a coordination model within the group, supporting the Executive Committee in the definition and control of the strategy policies and objectives; b) define specific strategic initiatives; c) review the accomplishment of the company’s business plan; d) define transversal policies, rules and procedures; e) control key performance indicators. Transversal Operation deals to i) ensure the alignment of all the platforms with the defined strategy; ii) capture synergies and optimize support processes; and iii) systematically and progressively concentrate supporting activities in shared service business units with the group. 02. Strategy 2.1. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 29 2.1.1. RENEWABLE ENERGY BENEFITS 29 2.1.2. COMPETITIVENESS OF WIND ENERGY 32 2.1.3. MARKETS CONTEXT 35 2.2. BUSINESS PLAN 42 2.2.1. SELECTIVE GROWTH 43 2.2.2. INCREASED PROFITABILITY 45 2.2.3. SELF-FUNDING MODEL 47 2.2.4. SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP 49 2.3. RISK MANAGEMENT 50 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS CULTURE Promoting cultural initiatives helps preserve historic and artistic heritage. In 2014, a Fado music show was brought from Portugal to Madrid. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 31 29 2.1. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 2.1.1. RENEWABLE ENERGY BENEFITS Renewable energy is helping improve energy security, reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and push electricity prices down, it is also triggering high returns for the domestic economies by generating local added value and job creation. The evolution of renewable energy over the past decade has surpassed all expectations. Global installed capacity from all renewable technologies have increased significantly; costs for most technologies have decreased considerably. In 2013, renewables accounted for more than 56% of net additions to global power capacity and represented far higher shares of capacity added in several countries. Renewable energy provided an estimated 19% of global final energy consumption in 2013 and continued to grow in 2014. Markets, manufacturing, and investment expanded further across the developing world, and it became increasingly evident that renewables are no longer dependent upon a small handful of countries. By early 2014, at least 144 countries had renewable energy targets and 138 countries had renewable energy support policies in place. According to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), the global renewable energy share can reach and exceed 30% by 2030 and the technologies are already available today to achieve this objective and around 40% of the total renewable energy potential in 2030 is in power generation. IEA 2014 Energy Outlook expects the share of renewables in total power generation to rise from 21% in 2012 to 33% in 2040, and to supply nearly half of the growth in global electricity generation. Renewable electricity generation, including hydropower, is expected nearly triple over 2012-2040, overtaking gas as the second-largest source of generation in the next couple of years and surpassing coal as the top source after 2035. Within renewables, wind onshore is clearly the leader. The most remarkable recent development is that in an increasing number of markets, wind power is the least cost option when adding new generation capacity to the grid, and prices continue to fall. Wind is today one of the biggest, cheapest, and fastest way to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other harmful air pollutants, and simultaneously uses no water. There are now commercial wind power installations in more than 90 countries with total installed capacity of close to 370 GW at the end of 2014, providing about 3% of global electricity supply in 2013. Renewables over total electricity generation 69%71% Analysts from Bloomberg New Energy Finance predict that wind will account for the largest share of the 30% of new 2011 2035 renewables added to the global power grid by 2030. 45% The GWEC Moderate scenario envisages wind would meet between 7.2% and 7.8% of global electrical demand in 36% 2020, and between 12.9% and 14.5% in 2030. 26% 28% 23% 25% Growth in wind installations will lead to a substantial 17% 17% 13% 13% reduction in CO2 emissions, create jobs for hundreds of 11% thousands of people and contribute to GDP growth. Wind 2% energy also offers major advantages for geopolitical reasons: wind is widely available throughout the world US EU OECD AsiaChina Middle East Africa Latin America Oceania and can help reduce energy and fuel import dependency and improves the security of supply, stabilizing and IEA New Policies Scenarios (central scenario, takes into account existing policy commitments and assumes that those recently announced are implemented, albeit in a reducing the cost of power generation over the long term. ) RENEWABLE ENERGY EFFECT ON THE ENERGY SYSTEM REDUCTION IN WHOLESALE PRICES According to EWEA’s “Wind energy and electricity prices” report prepared by Pöyry this merit order effect caused Renewable generation bid their output in wholesale by wind results in electricity price reductions of 3 to 23 € markets at zero cost as wind energy has no marginal per MWh. In Germany, with a share of 27.3%, cost. As power prices are determined by the intersection renewables took first place, replacing lignite for the of power supply and demand, bids at zero displace more largest share in energy consumption in 2014. As a expensive technologies shifting, consequently, the result, the wholesale price for power decreased to a supply curve. For a same level of demand, when wind record low of €33 per MWh (€38 in 2013). This allowed production is available, the market price goes down (the the German energy market to export to neighbour so-called “merit order effect ). An increasing supply of countries a record 5.6% of energy produced. renewable energy in Europe is pushing down wholesale electricity prices in most markets. IMPROVE ENERGY SECURITY energy dependency by enhancing their security of energy supply and minimizing their exposure to potential By investing in renewable energy, countries reduce their increases in fuel prices. This happens because wind, solar 32 30 EDPR ·· 2014 EDPR MANAGEMENT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE REPORT and hydro technologies use endogenous resources. On is offset by the avoided costs of importing fossil fuels the opposite side, fuel resources are scarce and alone. EWEA states in their “Avoiding fossil fuel costs with concentrated in some geographies which explains its high wind energy” report that in 2012 wind energy avoided and volatile price. €9.6 billion of fossil fuel costs. Depending on the decarbonisation scenario they assume for the future, they During 2011 Europe spent €406 billion on importing fossil estimate wind energy will avoid between €22 billion and fuels rising to €545 billion in 2012.The EU is highly €27 billion of fuel costs annually in 2020. Wind power also dependent on fossil-fuel import from Russia, particularly provides a valuable hedge against fuel price volatility, natural gas. Current political conflict between Ukraine and protecting both utilities and consumers. Utilities are able Russia may risk supply and is opening again Europe’s to lock in fixed, long-term contracts with wind power, energy independence discussions. protecting consumers against price spikes by providing a According to the European Commission, in 2010 long-term hedge against volatile future prices for fuel. In renewables avoided €30 billion in imported fuel costs. particular in US, financiers are conscious about the During the same year, the IEA estimates that cost of volatility in US gas prices and the likelihood that they will support for renewable energy in the EU was €26 billion, rise. highlighting that the cost of supporting renewable energy RENEWABLE ENERGY EFFECT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE ECONOMY COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE JOB CREATION competitiveness. Besides, the growth of the wind industry’s The power sector is responsible for Renewables play an important role contribution of the EU’s GDP is more than 40% of all carbon dioxide in employment creation and growth greater over 2007-2010 period, than emissions, and about 25% of our in the global economy. In 2013, the overall growth of the EU’s GDP total greenhouse gas emissions. approximately 6.5 million people during this same period, thus the Emissions need to peak and decline were already employed in the wind sector remains strong in in this decade to meet climate renewable energy industry periods of recession. change goals. worldwide, expanding from 5.7 million in 2012, a new study by the Ernst&Young report “Analysis of the Despite efforts to the International Renewable Energy value creation potential of wind decarbonisation of the energy sector Agency (IRENA) reveals. energy policies”, commissioned by and the various measures EDPR and Acciona in 2012, shows announced by governments, the According to the Global Wind Energy wind energy triggers higher returns main scenario of the IEA forecasts Council (GWEC), for every new MW for European economies than CCGTs an increase in emissions by about of capacity installed in a country in a power generation. The study shows 20% by 2040. This increase in given year, 14 full-time equivalent that the higher initial capital emissions is consistent with a global jobs per year are created through expenditures associated with wind temperature increase of 3.6°C in the manufacturing, component supply, energy are more than compensated long run, which is beyond the 2°C wind farm development, by the economic benefits generated limit (internationally accepted to construction, transportation, etc. by wind energy in terms of job avoid the most severe consequences creation, tax revenues, energy of climate change). security and abatement of CO2 CONTRIBUTION TO GDP GROWTH emissions. Promoting a shift from conventional fossil fuels to renewable energy is The large deployment of renewables In particular Ernst&Young report one of the most effective and worldwide has been possible thanks concludes that (i) wind energy feasible near-term ways of to the development of the provides a high contribution to GDP mitigating climate change. Wind and renewable industry, which, in most European countries, (ii) solar power's scalability, speed of consequently, represents an wind energy has significant job deployment and falling costs make increasingly share of the global creation potential. In Spain and them the best choice to achieve the economy. France, for example, wind power emissions reductions. These sources creates twice as many jobs than are not only carbon free, but also do Wind industry development is today CCGT per million euros invested, (iii) not emit harmful SOx, NOx or a key contributor to the GDP of wind energy generates more tax mercury pollution, protecting many economies worldwide. revenues than CCGT. Every Euro valuable air and water resources. According to a study conducted by invested in wind generates between the EWEA “The impact of wind Reducing emissions is also beneficial 27 and 52 euro cents in tax energy on jobs and the economy” for the economy. According to revenues in Europe, depending on published in April 2012, the direct IRENA Average health benefits due local tax policies. contribution of the wind energy to the mitigation of air pollution sector in the EU’s GDP was 17.6 In the US, according to the AWEA from fossil-fuel use are in the range billion Euros in 2010, which data, wind bolsters America’s of USD 2-5 per GJ, while carbon corresponds to 0,26% of the economy through a supply chain of dioxide mitigation benefits are in the European GDP. The same year, the nearly 500 manufacturing plants range of USD 3-12 per GJ. The total industry’s net export were worth 5,7 and over 2.500 companies investing of cost and benefits results in net billion euros and it´s worth noting in all stages of American wind savings of at least USD 123 billion, that only 9,9% of the wind energy power. and as high as USD 738 billion by inputs were imported, which 2030. illustrates the European wind EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 33 31 WIND OFFSHORE IN FRANCE EDPR, in a consortium, was awarded 1 GW of offshore wind energy in France, enlarging and diversifying its long-term profitable growth options into a top economy and an innovative technology that may represent about ¼ of the company’s capex by 2020. THE PROJECTS EDPR partnership created with GDF Suez, Neon Maritime and AREVA, in which EDPR holds a 43% noncontrolling stake, was selected by the French government, following a national public tender process ended last May, to develop, construct and operate two offshore wind farms in the areas of Tréport, HauteNormandie (0.5 GW) and the Isles of Yeu and Noirmoutier, Pays de la Loire (0.5 GW). The projects aim to build a local industrial ecosystem to form the emergence of robust offshore wind power sector which will generate economic activity and jobs and lay the foundations for further offshore wind energy expansion, and, at the end, are estimated to provide enough renewable energy to supply 1.6 million people when they become operational by 2021 while contributing to fight against climate change. TECHNOLOGY, INNOVATION AND THE ENVIRONMENT The choice of the new AREVA 8MW wind turbine will maximize the site production while reducing up to 40% the number of turbines needed for the wind farms and therefore also reducing the time of construction and optimizing maintenance. An optimized jacket foundation technical solution is to be installed at the two sites, allowing for the free passage through them of ocean swells and fish and thus providing an environmentallyfriendly operating installation. THE PARTNERSHIP The partners’ complementary experience was key to their proposal competitiveness outstanding for its exceptional concern to sustainability and local stakeholders. GDF Suez (47%) and EDPR (43%) possess a strong expertise in renewable energy, large scale industrial projects and offshore work, with combined operating assets of 36 GW and close to 7 GW under construction worldwide and involved in the development of 19 offshore wind projects representing 5 GW. Neon Marine (10%) provides the consortium its recognized experience as a local developer in the Yeu-Noirmoutier region with great technical and environmental expertise; since its foundation in 2008 it has invested more than € 6 million in development projects along the French coastline. AREVA is the industrial partner in the consortium in regard to its unique track record in the design and construction of offshore wind turbines thanks to its operation in the offshore field Alpha Ventus in the North Sea since 2009 as well as the ongoing development of 600 MW offshore projects. NEXT STEPS 2014-15: Ongoing information and dialogue with the public and local stakeholders, technical and financial feasibility studies and detailed environmental studies 2014: Beginning of the Research & Development activities in the AREVA’s new R&D centre in Rouen 2015-17: Selection of suppliers, principally of foundations, substations and installation and maintenance services 2018: Manufacturing of 8MW AREVA wind turbines to begin in Le Havre 2019-21: Construction of the wind farms in the two areas 2021: Commissioning and start of operation and maintenance 34 32 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2.1.2. COMPETITIVENESS OF WIND ENERGY It is more and more clear that wind energy is good, not only because it is green… but because it is competitive, it is in fact cheaper Wind is quickly approaching competitiveness with conventional power generation in all key global markets as cost-competitiveness continues to improve, driven by new, incremental technology improvements related to turbine size and the evolution of blade and tower technology. The financial advisory firm Lazard recently estimated that wind energy is more affordable than new natural gas or coal generation even without subsidies. Lazard’s numbers show the ‘levelized cost of energy’ (hereinafter abbreviated as LCoE) for wind power has decreased 58% since 2009, and 15% in the last year alone. LEVELIZED COST OF ENERGY IS THE RELEVANT BENCHMARK To assess the competitiveness of various power sources the levelized cost of electricity is the relevant benchmark. The LCoE determines the average cost of producing a unit of electricity over the lifetime of the generating source. It considers, on one hand, the total quantity of electricity produced by the source, and on the other hand, all the costs incurred by the source over its lifetime, including the original capex and ongoing opex, maintenance costs, the costs of fuels and any carbon emissions costs. It also takes into account the financing costs of the project, both deducting the cost of debt, for an appropriate level of debt financing, and considering a reasonable internal rate of return. Levelized Cost of Electricity 150-180 To assess the LCoE of a wind project, the key factors (€/MWh, EDPR analysis 2014) 110-170 include wind turbine costs and financing costs. The costs of operation are minimal. There are only geographic limitations about finding available locations with favourable wind resource conditions. Wind turbine costs have declined over the years, with the average price of turbines per MW much lower on larger 110 turbines than smaller ones. Costs decline as the trend toward larger turbines continues. Financing costs have 95 85 50-85 also improved, as the asset class for wind continues to 65-80 grow and mature, and the financing vehicles rely on stable cash flow generating contracts, interest rates are at historic lows also contributing to reduce the cost of capital. The outlook for wind is thus dependant on the wind levels of the areas it will be built and the cost of baseload alternatives. According to an internal analysis at EDPR, wind onshore with load factor levels of 21-26% produces a LCoE of €65-80 per MWh and is competitive to all other power generation alternatives (both conventional and renewable), with CCGT Coal Nuclear Hydro Wind Solar PV Wind the only exception of hydro in some cases. onshore offshore With gas prices expected to rise over the long term, given the large expected increase in demand for gas, the threshold for renewables to beat is becoming lower, and the LCoE of wind gets competitive with CCGT alternatives. In addition, natural gas price volatility reduces the reliability and ability to predict future power prices and further decreases the attractiveness for new gas plants. Moreover, for countries with no abundant local gas resources, wind is an attractive option not to depend on exogenous sources for their electricity supply. Regulatory environment is challenging for coal, related to the compliance of environmental requirements involving emissions and water use, and therefore coal has a LCoE that is materially higher than the CCGT baseload generators, despite the rise in gas prices. With extremely high initial investment and operating expenses, nuclear LCoE is unattractive today. For example, EDF awarded contract for difference for a new power plant in the UK expected to start operation by 2023 included a price per MWh in 2012 of GBP 92.5 and GBP 279 in 2058, as stated in a report by the European Commission. Also nuclear fleets are aging and facing shutdown decisions about security concerns following the recent Fukushima disaster. Hydro generation is a viable fuel source that is competitive today, the return economics are sensitive to construction costs and capacity factor but expansion of hydro is dependent on finding suitable locations. Insolation is an important metric for solar LCoE and newer more efficient panels may capture more sunlight over time, while module costs are expected to decline due to lower material and production costs. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 35 33 Wind offshore energy is at the start of the learning curve and is not competitive on a LCoE basis today, but according to MAKE Consulting, wind offshore shows potential to reduce LCoE by over 40% by 2025 through innovation and development of scale economies. Existing pipeline in Europe will help the industry achieve this scale making offshore more and more competitive. WIND IS COMPETITIVE Wind energy is competitive vis-à-vis CCGTs at different oil prices and load factors, even at currently low oil prices of $40-60 per oil barrel (CCGTs competitiveness dependent on oil prices as usually utilities' long-term gas contracts are oil-indexed). LCoE Load According to an internal analysis at EDPR, wind €/MWh Wind vs CCGT LCoE Factor onshore with a capex of €1.3M per MW, is competitive 120 23% with CCGT at LCoE basis for example with a wind load factor of 23% and a CCGT load factor of 34% and an 110 oil price of $60 per barrel, or with a wind load factor of 34% 25% it is already competitive with a CCGT load factor 100 of 34% and an oil price of $40 per barrel. This 57% highlights the importance of wind resource availability, 90 CCGT with just a lower than 10% increase in wind load factor offsetting 1/3 reduction in the oil price to the CCGT. 80 23% Also a strong case can be made for wind farms with 70 robust load factors, for example of 34%, that 25% competes with conventional CCGT power plants on 60 29% LCoE running at standard levels of utilization, like Wind 57%, and for any price level of fuel. 50 34% And for a wind farm running at an average level of 40 Recent 29% load factor, it is competitive with a CCGT running prices at standard level of 57% load factor from an oil price 30 above $50 per barrel. 20 Oil price Moreover, wind energy cost is unrelated to oil and gas 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 $/bbl prices, and thus allows for long-term cost predictability and visibility. RENEWABLES AND WIND ONSHORE ENERGY AS THE KEY GROWTH DRIVERS OF 2012-2020 WORLDWIDE ADDITIONS According to IEA World Energy Outlook 2014, renewables will account for c. 40% of worldwide capacity additions of 1,618 GW in the period of 2012-2020, and of that, wind onshore will represent nearly 50%, amounting to 316 GW. 2012-2020 Worldwide 2012-2020 Worldwide Additions Additions (GW) (GW) Coal Coal and and oil oil 220 220 Gas [CATEGORY Solar Solar PV PV 421NAME] 266 [VALUE] Renewables [VALUE] Wind Wind 652 316 316 Other Other CSP CSP Hydro 6060 Hydro 10 10 266 266 Nuclear Nuclear 57 57 This worldwide growth, excluding China, is expected to come in ¾ from areas where EDPR is already present, namely Europe (36%), North America (22%) and Latin America (16%). 36 34 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENTRY IN THE MEXICAN ENERGY MARKET In 2014 EDPR has entered the Mexican energy market signing a long-term electricity supply agreement, for the energy of a 180 MW wind farm to be installed in 2016, representing a sizeable entry in a low risk and attractive opening. THE PROJECT: The project is a wind farm to be located in a region with very strong wind resource in the state of Coahuila, in northern Mexico. The plant should start construction this year of 2015 to be in operation during 2016, being currently in a medium stage of development in terms of permitting and having a clear path to interconnection to the grid. The expected load factor for its capacity, currently designed for 180 MW, is above 40%. THE PARTNERSHIP: The project with operate in partnership with Industrias Peñoles, a well-known Mexico-based mining group – renowned for its high creditworthiness and knowledge of the local market – with who EDPR signed a supply agreement for the electricity from this project to be delivered in self-supply regime. The contract has a duration of 25 years and the price is set in US dollars. The deal was formalised in last June in front of the Presidents of the countries of Portugal and Mexico, respectively Mr. Aníbal Cavaco Silva and Mr. Enrique Peña Nieto. At the occasion, the CEO of Peñoles also paid a visit to EDPR’s Serra d’el Rei wind farm in Portugal to get a first-hand look how the company harvest the wind. STRATEGIC FIT: Mexican energy market meets the strategic fit criteria for EDPR, in terms of selective growth, self-funded and at increased profitability. The country is home to some of the strongest winds in the world so much that wind energy technology is competitive to shale-gas fired combined cycle thermal plants, with the plus of avoiding the exposure to gas prices volatility, which furthermore must be imported. An emerging economy with fast increasing electricity demand including from energy-intensive industries looking for competitive and long-term stable factor energy costs that generate an active market for PPAs to result from bilateral negotiations or competitive bids. Under adequate conditions, there is a local financial sector capable of providing non-recourse project financing at competitive costs. One of EDPR’s goals is to have 20% of its new growth in emerging markets, therefore this deal is an especially relevant achievement. Mexico is a country close to Houston in the US where EDPR has a strong base and shares the same language with Spain where EDPR has headquarters. The success of EDPR in securing new long term energy supply agreements reinforces the company’s low risk profile while providing solid visibility over the company’s growth prospects. OUTLOOK: EDPR is trustful this entry will provide a platform for further growth in the Mexican market. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 37 35 2.1.3. MARKETS CONTEXT Wind economics, energy policies and regulatory schemes/incentives drive wind energy globally. Europe should see lower, but still dynamic growth while the Americas should became the biggest growth engine. EUROPE GROWTH TO NORMALISE INCENTIVES-DRIVEN GROWTH Europe was a first mover and was the first region to see a real take-off in wind additions and share of wind output in total power mix. In 2014 renewable power installations accounted for 21 GW (or 79%) of new power capacity installations of 27 GW, according to EWEA. With nearly 12 GW of new capacity, wind accounted for 44% of new installations, totalling a cumulative installed capacity of 120 GW. About c. 7% of the power produced in Europe is now derived from wind energy. This has mostly been achieved through suitable remuneration schemes. The main reason for putting in place such incentives was originally a political push mainly motivated by environmental and security of supply concerns. This translated into the ambitious European ‘20-20-20’ targets to be reached by the end of 2020: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 1990 levels; a 20% share of renewables in total energy mix; a 20% improvement in energy efficiency. Renewables as a % of primary energy consumption – achieved and 2020 targets: Country 2004 2006 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020E Germany 6% 8% 9% 11% 12% 12% 13% 18% Spain 8% 9% 11% 14% 13% 14% 15% 20% Italy 6% 6% 7% 11% 12% 14% 15% 17% U.K. 1% 2% 2% 3% 4% 4% 5% 15% France 9% 10% 11% 13% 11% 13% 14% 23% EU (28) 8% 9% 11% 13% 13% 14% 15% 20% According to the European Renewable Energy Council, the UE is in the trajectory to meet with its 2020 targets, but the situation varies for each country. Italy is expected to meet its target while France, Poland and Spain are expected to lag behind. Progress towards the 2020 targets will continue with a new set of targets for 2030, The EU emissions trading system (ETS) reform and an increase in competitiveness as the main drivers. In October 24th European Council reached an agreement on 2030 Climate and Energy Policy Framework. A binding renewable energy target of at least 27% was set at European level, a binding EU target to reduce domestic greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 1990 levels and a non-binding energy efficiency target of 27% (to be re-visited by 2020). The framework does not mention individual targets for state implementation so it is not clear how efforts will be conducted at the national level. European Institutions have now to work in the governance system to set the framework to reach this 2030 targets. Renewable CO2 emissions Energy energy reduction efficiency 2020 20% 20% 20% targets 2030 At least 27% At least 40% At least 27% targets In the past, incentives mostly took two forms: 1) a fixed feed-in tariff (most common) or an incentive on top of the achieved power price (e.g. pool + premium) 2) a green certificate on top of power price The underlying idea was that market (merchant) power prices would not be enough to generate a reasonable return for renewable producers over the life of the assets. Granting incentives to enhance or even lock-in the achieved returns over the life of a project is a way to foster growth in renewable additions. 38 36 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE The regulatory push has been a success from the perspective of wind development and penetration. However, in the context of a worldwide recession, which triggered an increasing focus on costs efficiency and competitiveness we have seen as a consequence some remuneration schemes reduced over the recent years. This reorientation and rationalisation of renewables support is likely to restrain wind development in Europe. This now that penetration has reached c. 12% of the region’s capacity. The adjustment of remuneration schemes is taking place throughout several European markets, with previous dependence on administratively set feed-in tariffs or even pool + incentives changing mostly to fixed price auctions. In Spain, following the new remuneration framework introduced in 2013, standard remunerations were defined following the definition of typified parameters, published in February 2014, which classified all possible wind farms by their year of first operation. In order to calculate the standard remuneration, the regulation takes into account the revenues that were generated in the past and estimate the premium that is necessary to achieve a 7.4% return pre-tax, throughout the whole regulatory life of the wind farms. The standard parameters that define this remuneration can be modified every three and six years. In U.K. during 2014 the Electricity Market Reform came into effect, introducing the CfD mechanism that establishes an auction system for renewables. The first contract for difference allocation round was announced and the allocation framework was disclosed. The first allocation round was expected for October but delayed until February 2015 due to third party appeals. The budget for this round is 155 M£ in 2016/17 and 235 M£ until 2020/21 for pot 2 of ‘less established technologies’ (among which offshore wind is included). The Department of Energy & Climate Change (DECC) has also indicated that it intends to hold the second allocation round in October 2015. The size of this budget has raised concerns that many offshore projects may not be able to secure funding. In France, the government began to prepare a new comprehensive law in 2014 meant to completely reshape the energy sector. The Government is considering moving from current fixed feed-in tariff scheme to a more market-oriented scheme. The draft establishes a system whereby generators could receive a premium support payment on top of the market price for electricity (CfD type scheme as in UK). However, the implementation of this new support system will require consultations by the ministry and the process is unlikely to produce quick results. In Poland, a draft proposal to change the GC scheme into fixed price scheme granted through tenders was approved by the government in April 2014 and is currently under the parliamentary approval process – expected to be approved in 2015 Q1. The new tender scheme will apply for assets entering operation from January 1st 2016. Besides, this new regulation foresees a transitory process for already-operating wind farms. Under this process they would be entitled to switch into a fixed price scheme through a tender (or series of tenders) specific for operating projects. In Italy an auction system based on capacity quotas has been established where tender winning projects receive a 20 year fee-in tariff. A third tender for onshore wind received applications for 1.3 GW with only 365 MW awarded, meeting the available capacity but leaving potential wind power in an indeterminate state. There is uncertainty on future development as current regulation does not foresees additional tenders and the cap on support set by law in 2012 for non PV RES in close to be met. GROWTH STILL, ALBEIT AT A SLOWER PACE Overall, Europe should continue to grow consistently, even if at a slower pace. Improving wind economics and still stimulating green targets partially offset a less substantial regulatory support and an already sizeable installed base and penetration. On top of that, security of supply concerns will put more emphasis on a greater reliance on endogenous sources of energy, after the recent developments in Ukraine/Russia crisis. The focus has now shifted to growth at reasonable cost from a system cost competitiveness perspective, with also a reintroduced emphasis on security of supply, aiming to combine: cost competitiveness and affordability; reliability and security of supply; energy efficiency and ambitious green targets. Wind power will remain a key technology in reaching these goals. Growth in installed capacity can still nearly 95 GW of additions are needed up to 2020, representing nearly 50% of total global capacity additions ex AsiaPacific, and this justifies Europe should remain a core market for wind. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 39 37 U.S. TO LEAD THE WAY Growth in the US expected at c. 6.5 GW per year until 2017, will come from the need to meet environmental (RPS) targets and wind energy competitiveness. Incentives as PTCs and the prevalence of PPAs also play a key role. Historically, the typical framework of wind development in the US has been decentralised, with no national feed-in tariff. It involves the combination of two key drivers of the top line: • PPAs: long-term bilateral power purchase agreements by which a wind developer can sell its output at a fixed price, usually adjusted for inflation or a negotiated escalator. Demand for PPAs has been very strong, driven mainly by the need to meet renewable portfolio standards (RPS) targets but also from increasing improving relative competitiveness of wind energy. • PTCs: production tax credits are the dominant form of wind remuneration in the US, and represent an extra source of revenue per unit of electricity ($23/MWh in 2014), over the first 10 years of the asset’s life. There are other mechanisms as well, such as ITCs, investment tax credits equal to 30% of the initial capex usable in lieu of PTCs. The PPA + PTC combination allow wind energy companies to ‘lock-in’ a return over the life of the assets. The final goals targeted by the application of this framework involve cost competiveness and affordability, security of supply and environmental concerns. RPS DEMAND The renewable portfolio standards (RPS) are designed to require power suppliers to provide a minimum share of electricity from renewable sources, on a state-by-state basis. Over the last decades such standards have increased and by 2015 a total of 31 states have binding RPS objectives (of which 26 with targets above 8% of electricity from renewable sources), as shown in the table below, which excludes the 7 states with voluntary goals. Although those are implemented by states all-round the US, however a strong cluster is observed in the west/pacific cost and the north east. This typically represents 10% to 25% to be reached by 2020-25 for most states, and often foreseeing a gradual increase in the mandated percentage. This framework drives many utilities to setup auction systems (RFPs) to seek long-term power purchase agreements with renewable energy generators. Due to the competitiveness of wind energy, this technology has received the largest share of awarded PPAs. RPS objective 2015 2020+ RPS objective 2015 2020+ Arizona 4.5% 15% Montana 15% 15% California 23% 33% Nevada 20% 22% Colorado 17.3% 28.8% New Hampshire 13.8% 23.8% Connecticut 16% 27% New Jersey 12.2% 20.5% Delaware 13% 25% New Mexico 15% 20% District of Columbia 9.5% 20% New York 9.3% 9.3% Hawaii 15% 25% North Carolina 8% 12.5% Illinois 10% 20.5% Ohio 3.5% 8.5% Iowa 0.7% 0.7% Oregon 15% 20% Kansas 15% 20% Pennsylvania 14% 18.5% Maine 8% 13% Rhode Island 9.2% 16% Maryland 13% 20% Texas 5% 8.6% Massachusetts 8% 15% Vermont 8% 10.5% Michigan 10% 10% Washington 3% 15% Minnesota 20% 30% Wisconsin 10% 10% Missouri 8% 15% 40 38 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Moreover, the U.S. administration has also recently (June 2014) demonstrated increased disposition to establish climate change policies, such as the Clean Power Plan by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a plan to help cut carbon pollution from the power sector by 30% by 2030 (against 2005 levels). Power plants are responsible for about one-third of all US greenhouse gas emissions. This plan implies greater reliance on gas (CCGTs account for c. 40% of the planned reduction emissions), but also on alternative energy sources (c. 25% of the planned reduction emissions), and especially wind. WIND ENERGY COMPETITIVENESS The improving wind energy economics include decreasing capex and opex per MW, and even more per MWh due to the increase in load factors via technology improvements in wind turbines and also overall excellent wind resources in the US, especially in the regions with best resource available. In the west and east states, load factors are typically within 25-30%, while in the central states those are typically of 30-45%. This naturally makes wind energy further more competitive from a fundamental standpoint, even without incentives. INCENTIVES TO REMAIN Also in the US, there are concerns regarding the cost US wind energy additions (GW) 13.1 of renewable energy incentives to tax payers and final PTC extension energy consumers, mostly the PTCs. Since their inception, eligibility for these incentives has been 9.9 made possible for a couple of years at a time, over a 8.4 limited period, without any visibility on any further PTC extension extensions. Until now, there have been always 6.8 extensions, but this ‘stop and go’ approach limits 5.1 4.9 visibility on the investment horizon for wind energy companies. U.S. Congress has recently approved, in the mid of 1.1 December 2014, a one-year tax extension of the federal production tax credits for wind power through the end of 2014. As a result of this, wind energy 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 projects that begin construction until January 1st 2015 qualify for 10 years of PTCs of $23/MWh on the electricity output. Previous to this extension, PTCs were available for wind energy projects that had begun construction until January 1st 2014. Wind projects also have the option to choose, in lieu of the PTC, 30% as investment tax credits of the project cost. This regulatory support is efficient, albeit visibility over the long-term extension of the incentives in place, PTCs mostly, is limited. It would be valuable to have at least a medium-term view on these deals, even if including a progressive phasing out, as it would allow for improved planning and better value for consumers. The situation as it is creates a volatile growth market as off-takers typically take the years when PTCs are available to sign new agreements. PTCs are currently crucial, but their relative importance is likely set to decrease over time. The economics of wind power in the U.S. are rapidly improving, necessitating lower and lower PPA prices, to the point where wind is competitive on its own in some areas against other traditional technologies, on a ‘new-build’ basis. The various RPS and other environmental goals will still represent a substantial incentive, PTCs notwithstanding. GROWTH PROSPECTS Even absent the PTCs extension, demand growth in the U.S. market could still be motivated by other existing forces, primarily the planned coal capacity retirements, wind energy competitiveness as well as RPS compliance in several states. Approximately 42 GW of coal capacity has been announced to retire through 2020 of which we expect wind to absorb a significant share in the replacement of such retirements. Furthermore, renewable energy generation becomes more competitive as a direct result from coal retirement. A higher penetration of energy generated from natural gas can lead to more flexible grids, benefitting intermittent resources such as renewables. Regarding RPS targets in place to encourage renewable energy demand, we estimate 22 GW of wind will need to be added until 2020 in order to fulfil compliance with targets already established. From wind energy competitiveness alone, we believe an additional 7 GW can be added. A pipeline of 19 GW is known to exist as assets under construction eligible under the previous PTC expiration in December 2013 to be installed in the period of 2014-16, and we estimate some additional 14 GW may be added until 2020 from further PTC extensions, of which 6 GW from the last PTC expiration in December 2014, according to MAKE Consulting. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 41 39 LATIN AMERICA WITH GOOD POTENTIAL Latin America has not been a global driver of wind energy growth in the recent past, with only c. 8.5 GW of capacity installed as of the end of 2014. However, it will expectably see its installed base almost quintupling by 2020. The expected growth will be driven by the following key factors: large power generation capacity needs, due to fast growth in electricity consumption and increasing concern over potential chronic hydropower shortfalls (e.g. droughts) as hydro represents c. 60% of the region’s output; excellent wind resource, translated into best-in-class load factors, even higher than North America on average, therefore providing relatively low cost wind energy; low current penetration, with only just 0.5% of total electricity derived from wind; limited access to cheap gas, with expensive imports helping the relative competitiveness of wind vs CCGTs; growing regulatory support, mostly through organized tenders and preferable financing. The region is also a natural extension of the accelerating development that has been seen in the U.S. over recent years, given it is already a key market for large integrated European utilities (conventional generation and distribution, mostly). Brazil and Mexico are the main emerging wind hubs in the area. The regulation and remuneration of wind energy is a diverse mix of national schemes: • In Brazil, regulation initially focused on the PROINFA framework, established in 2002, which set a target in terms of capacity additions, with the selected projects getting a 20-year PPA with Eletrobras as off-taker, at a price defined by the government. The policy then evolved to embrace competitive but regulated auctions, with long-term PPAs reserved for wind only. Some preferential financing is provided by Brazilian development agencies and tariff incentives are put in place for some end-users to contract wind energy directly. Since 2009, new laws, including incentives for the establishment of local supply chains, gradually allowed wind to compete against other technologies, including thermal, through regulated auctions. The winning projects secure longterm PPAs with distribution companies. This new round of regulation is widely credited with being responsible for the recent take-off in Brazilian wind. • In Mexico there are no large-scale incentives or feed-in tariffs, but some tax incentives as the assets are allowed to be fully depreciated in their first year of operation. The current system is similar to the U.S. framework, and relies on bilateral PPAs between independent power producers and off-takers, typically over 15-20 years. At the end of 2013, the authorities of the country started a reform process to end the historical power monopoly and move closer to a liberalised energy market. This is also an opportunity for a new framework for wind remuneration, along with other needed reforms (such as the unbundling of the transmission system operator and the setting up of an independent regulator). Currently, the government now targets 10 GW to be installed by 2022 and 2 GW additions per year. 42 40 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE MOVING TOWARDS MARKET AUCTION-BASED ARRANGEMENTS One key feature of wind energy is the ability it affords to secure some visibility on the top line from its predictable and stable load factors over the long-run. Yet given that wind is a very capital-intensive technology, ensuring a guaranteed revenue stream is key to achieve a risk/return balance and allow value creation. There are differences in remunerations based on administratively set incentives (feed-in tariffs, green certificates, production tax credits) and market-based remunerations involving a certain degree of competition ex-ante (power purchase agreements, auctions). The following table summarizes the type of remuneration framework for wind and solar energy in key markets of EDPR: Country Type of remuneration Comments US PPAs + PTCs + RECs Possibility of using Investment Tax Credits instead of PTCs Spain Pool + incentives Recently switched from centralised feed-in-tariff Portugal Feed-in tariff France Feed-in tariff Recently held auctions for several offshore concessions Belgium Pool + green certificates Poland Pool + green certificates To introduce a new framework based on auctions by 2016 Romania Pool + green certificates Italy Auctions Recently switched from green certificates to competitive tenders UK Pool + incentives To switch to auctions by 2017 Germany Feed-in tariff To switch to auctions by 2013 Brazil Auctions Mexico PPAs Given the growing affordability concern about renewables to consumers, and recent cuts in remuneration, there is a shift towards market auction-based systems. This different regulatory framework can still achieve the needed renewable capacity additions that is an all-round best solution for the energy system as a whole and, in the end, to the consumer that benefits from lower energy bills, in part due to the lower risk that this system represents to the energy companies that allow to bid lower prices. This shift is already evident with the number of countries turning to public competitive bidding or tendering auctions rising from 9 in 2009 to 55 as of early 2014. The mechanism is already well developed in the Americas but not so much in Europe, where various schemes are in place in different countries, often based on feed-in tariff systems (e.g. Spain, Portugal, France) which were very effective in driving initial investments during the infancy phase of the technology, and contributing to a higher penetration of renewables. A market auction-based system, the like of bilateral PPAs or public tenders: provides visibility (normally between 15 to 25 years) to the energy companies, making cash-flows and returns more secure, and attracting the required investment of very high front-loaded capital costs; limits the regulatory risks as no centralised scheme is needed (of national feed-in tariff for example), and can still be flexibly combined with various incentives (such as PTCs); allows ex-ante competition favouring the most efficient technologies and the most valuable projects, and sends price signals to the sector, while preventing under or over-remuneration of the assets. A strong element in favour of market auction-based systems is those are a highly adaptable structure, with all variables getting embedded in the bid prices and the most competitive bids are awarded the contracts or the capacities. Prices determined this competitively reflect the quality of the local wind resource. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 43 41 SPAIN NEW REMUNERATION EXPLAINED The new regulation enacted is estimated to cut about €30 million of the company’s EBITDA on an average year, while opening a new exposure to wholesale prices to be stabilised through forward hedges in a comprehensive risk management approach. SPAIN NEW REGULATION: The remuneration for the renewable energy assets is now structured so that over the regulatory life, which is 20 years for wind energy assets, the standard asset receives a pre-tax return defined as the yield of the Spanish 10-year bonds plus 300 basis points. In broad terms, under the new remuneration scheme, wind energy assets commissioned up to 2003 sell its output at the market pool price and in addition receives an annual capacity complement. The amount of complement per MW is set to achieve the designed target return over the 20-years regulatory life for standard wind energy assets, meaning assets with average operating parameters (for example load factor, capex, opex, etc). The framework also considers a mechanism of caps and floors in order to adjust for deviations from the market pool price reference. For 2014, the regulation sets the pool price reference at € 48.2 per MWh, creating a collar limiting the range of possible prices to be earned between € 42.2 and €54.2 per MWh as depicted in the chart. Wind energy assets commissioned until 2003 are not entitled to capacity complement, as those wind farms are expected to reach the designed target return through selling its production at the market pool price alone. €/MWh The new framework was announced in 2013 through the Royal Decree59 Law 9 in July and included in the Law 24 in December. This regulatory modification is effective from July 12th 2013. In June 2014, the Spanish 55 government published, in its Order IET/1045, the parameters for renewable energy assets under the new remuneration framework, Realised price 51 approved the year before. 47 EXPECTED EBITDA IMPACT IN AN AVERAGE YEAR FOR EDPR: This 43 regulatory change is calculated to negatively impact EBITDA by around € 30 million in an average year of wind energy electricity output for EDPR, when compared to the previous framework (RDL 2/2013) which provided a 39 feed-in tariff regime. 36 40 44 48 52 56 60 Pool price THE YEAR OF 2014: The average market pool price in 2014 was €41.8 per Spain pool price, €/MWh 70 and EDPR GWh in 2014 700 MWh thus in the lower limit of the interval provided by the abovementioned collar set in the new regulation. Furthermore, pool prices were 60 600 lowest between January and April, when renewable energy output was at 50 500 the highest in the year. In 2014 EDPR benefited from a higher output, when compared to the average production in a standard year. However 40 400 this volume effect was more than offset by the low price effect and no hedging strategy in place. The new regulation parameters were only 30 300 known during the second half of the year, which unfeasible the 20 200 implementation of a hedging strategy for that period. 10 100 For the reasons above, this new regulatory change ended up negatively impacting EDPR’s EBITDA by more than the normally expected € 30 0 Jan 0 million in an average year. This unfortunate exception, in the first year of the new regulation, will be naturally normalized with the risk management Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct in place through the hedging approach described below. Nov Dec RISK MANAGEMENT: Of the total 2.2 GW EBITDA consolidated by EDPR in Spain, only 9% is not entitled to capacity payment, corresponding to the capacity commissioned up to 2003. Of the total 5.1 TWh of electricity output by EDPR in an average year, about 20% is exclusively exposed to the market pool price, including not only the electricity output from the capacity without complement but also the premium production that EDPR consistently reaches in Spain. In order to manage the market pool price risk for the exposed production, EDPR employs a hedging policy to guarantee prices whenever those are considered reasonable. With this hedging strategy, EDPR removes the volatility of future revenues, which may vary negatively from a possible spike in overall renewable energy production, while the opposing upside scenario may not hold so effectively. 44 42 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2.2. BUSINESS PLAN 2014-17 EDPR’s value creation strategic plan through 2017 remains in line with previous architecture, supported by three pillars with defined goals: Selective Growth, Increased Profitability and Self-funding Model. On May 2014, EDPR presented to the financial community its Business Plan for 2014-17 at the EDP Group Investor Day held in London. In the event were present about 200 financial markets participants, including press, online participants, investors, analysts and rating agencies, demonstrating a great interest from the financial community in the group’s equity story and strategy. Since inception, EDPR has been performing a strategy focused on selective growth and seamless execution, supported by core competences that yield superior profitability, while observing a low risk profile, all embedded within a distinctive and renowned sustainability course of action. As a result of undertaking such strategy, at the same time flexible enough to accommodate to changing business and economic environments, EDPR remains today a global leading company in the renewable energy industry. Selective Increased Self-funding Growth Profitability Model Solid value creation, investing in Profitable growth supported by Enhanced growth by an asset quality projects with predictable distinctive core competences and rotation program designed to prices through long term contracts unique know-how accelerate value creation Investing in quality >500 MW Maintaining high Strong Operating >97.5% €3.5bn projects per year availability levels Cash-Flow generation Growing in projects Leveraging quality 31.5% >85% Asset Rotation to €0.7bn w/ long-term contracts growth on distinctive Load visible enhance value growth (ex-CTG) already awarded wind assessment Factor Developing offshore: Net Investment post-2017 Increasing efficiency, -2% 1 GW awarded in FR supported by Asset €1.8bn growth reducing OPEX/MW CAGR and projects in the UK Rotation Program By delivering on its strategy, EDPR expects to achieve solid growth targets… Electricity Output EBITDA Net Profit Dividend Pay-out 9% CAGR 13-17 9% CAGR 13-17 11% CAGR 13-17 25-35% …and continue to lead in a green and competitive sector with increased worldwide relevance. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 45 43 2.2.1. SELECTIVE GROWTH The company has a wide range of projects in its pipeline. Diverse investment options are crucial for ensuring the projects that are finally constructed have good strategic fit, meaning for EDPR a low risk profile at superior profitability. This is the case for the selective growth strategy as set up in its current Business Plan. For 2014-17 a growth target of +2 GW (>500 MW/year) has been set, in projects to share those two key guidelines: 1) A low risk profile through high visibility over future cash-flows, with most of the new capacity to be constructed under long-term PPAs already awarded or available regulated feed-in tariffs. This greatly allows to lock-in the project profitability. 2) High operational performance, with the projects identified to be built at above portfolio average operating metrics, namely in terms of load factors. This contributes to reduce the burden on remuneration. ^2.0 [CAT EGO US RY 60% NAM ^1.5 EDPR to deliver >500MW/year E] in high quality projects: [PER CENT ^1.0 60% in US, 20% in Europe and 20% from AGE] emerging markets ^0.5 Euro pe Emerging [PER Emerging makets Europe CENT 2014 2015 2016 2017 markets [PERCENTAGE] 20% AGE] 20% 60% GROWTH FROM US, DRIVEN BY PPAS ALREADY SIGNED Following a period of low growth in the United States, this market has been again chosen as the main growth driver for the company over the next four years period. EDPR’s deep portfolio of projects in this market, maintenance of PTC tax benefits and strong demand for long-term PPAs from wind energy projects combined to provide this growth opportunity. Additionally, self-funding is available, through the availability of tax equity partnerships with the possibility of asset rotation transactions as well, given the strong interest from infrastructure and pension funds for equity stakes. Project economics on all of the new investments in the US are strong, with average load factors of about 43%, earning average PPA prices in the first year of $48/MWh, leading to double-digit IRR percentages. 20% GROWTH FROM EUROPE, FOCUSING ON LOW RISK FRAMEWORKS Certain European markets continue to provide good growth opportunities supported by regulatory frameworks that provide a low risk environment. In France, EDPR maintains 60-70 MW of projects under development in its pipeline to be available for construction and benefit from the existing feed-in tariff regime. In Italy, EDPR will build the 30 MW awarded in 2013, and participate in future energy auctions to generate new possible additions for 2015-17. In Poland, further growth is contingent to the approval of a new energy law, expected to be based in energy auctions, where EDPR maintains competitive projects in pipeline. Finally, in Portugal, the total capacity awarded back in 2006 to the ENEOP consortium will be completed, and the consequent asset splitting expected in 2015, and by then EDPR will acquire the control and full consolidation of the MW corresponding to its 40% stake. 20% FROM SELECTED EMERGING MARKETS, IN PROJECTS WITH LONG-TERM PPAS In Brazil, EDPR will install in 2015-17 the projects with PPA awarded in 2011 and 2013 for a total 236 MW, thus representing a significant increase in capacity from current portfolio of 84 MW. In 2014 EDPR has entered the Mexican energy market signing a long-term electricity supply agreement, for the energy of a 180 MW wind farm to be installed in 2016, representing a sizeable entry in a low risk and attractive opening. Mexico is as a country with great potential for wind energy and this entry can provide a solid platform for further growth in this market. Additionally, EDPR is to remain actively prospecting opportunities in new markets with strong fundamentals, namely high growth of electricity demand, robust renewable resources and availability of long-term energy supply agreements awarded through competitive schemes. 46 44 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE +1,255 MW FOR US GROWTH UNDER PPA Since 2013 EDPR has signed 1,530 MW in long-term sale agreements becoming the market leader and providing full visibility to its 1.2 GW growth target in US for 14-17 and to the profitability of our existing fleet with 275 MW of new PPAs for operational projects. Signing Project name Location Year MW Off-taker Duration (years) Nov-14 2 projects New York 2017 155 NYSERDA 20 Apr-14 Hidalgo Texas 2016 150 (undisclosed) 15-20 Jan-14 Waverly Kansas 2016 200 Kansas City Power & Light Co 20 Sep-13 Number Nine Maine 2016 250 Connecticut L&P and United Illuminating 15 Jul-13 Arbuckle Mountain Oklahoma 2015 100 Lincoln Electric System 20 Oct-13 Rising Tree South California 2015 100 Southern California Edison 20 Oct-13 Rising Tree North California 2014 20 Pacific Gas and Electric 20 Aug-13 Rising Tree North California 2014 80 Southern California Edison 20 Jun-13 Headwaters Indiana 2014 200 Indiana Michigan Power Co 20 New projects: 1,255 Aug-14 Rail Splitter Illinois 25 Hoosier Energy 15 (f/ 01.12.14) Apr-13 Blue Canyon II Oklahoma 151 Georgia Power 20 (f/ 01.01.16) Apr-13 Blue Canyon VI Oklahoma 99 Georgia Power 20 (f/ 01.01.16) Op. projects: 275 Since the one-year extension of the PTCs in early 2013, EDPR has moved rapidly securing new PPAs for future projects in the US, but also for EDPR EDPR operating projects. [PERCE 15% NTAGE] These long term sale agreements demonstrate not just EDPR’s skill in closing these commercial deals but foremost the company’s strong ability Others Others to position effectively a pipeline of quality projects, in suitable locations 41% 41% #2 #2 and stages of development as a key success factor to capture growth PPAs PPAsmarket marketshare share 15% 15% opportunities on-time. inin2013-14 2013-14 During the uncertainty about the PTC extension in 2014 two 20-year sale #3 #3 agreements for Renewable Energy Credits (“RECs”) were also signed with 8% 8% the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority #4 #4 (“NYSERDA”), subject to a new extension of the Production Tax Credits, #6 #6 #5 8% 5% 5% #5 8% which actually materialized one month after, in a clear move of 8% 8% anticipation by EDPR. 250 MW (2016) LOW RISK GROWTH: 155 MW (2017) The effectiveness of these agreements increases the visibility over the growth prospects and reinforces the company’s low risk 200 MW (2014) profile. In May 2014, EDPR 100 MW 200 MW presented its 2014-17 Business (2014) (2014) Plan including a growth strategy of 2 GW, of which 60% in the US, to 100 MW (2015) be based from projects with long 100 MW (2015) term sale agreements. The PPAs already signed for 1,255 MW 150 MW provide now full visibility to this (2016) target. EDPR secured long-term sale agreements for new growth in 7 US states EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 47 45 2.2.2. INCREASED PROFITABILITY One of the strategic pillars and that has always been a keystone of the company, setting it apart in the industry, is the drive to maximize the operational performance of its wind farms and solar plants. In this area, EDPR’s teams, namely in operations and maintenance, have established a strong track record that support challenging targets in 2014-17 Business Plan. For this period, EDPR has set targets in three key metrics: Availability (technical hourly availability), Load Factor and Opex/MW. These three metrics provide an overall view of the progress in our operations and maintenance, wind assessment and cost control efforts. They also serve as good indicators for the overall operational efficiency of the company. As part of the 9% annualised increase target for EBITDA up to 2017, EDPR is implementing new technologies to improve the productivity of its wind farms, innovative O&M solutions and leaner approaches. MAINTAINING HIGH LEVELS OF AVAILABILITY >97.5% Availability measures the percentage of time the fleet is fully operational. If an equipment has a 97.5% availability metric this means that, in a given period, it was available to generate energy 97.5% of the time, which leaves only 2.5% for preventative maintenance or repairs. Availability is a clear indicator of performance of the company’s operations and maintenance practices as it focuses on reducing to a minimum any malfunctions and performing maintenance activities in the shortest possible timeframe. Availability The company always maintained high levels of availability, and registered >97.5% above 97.5% in 2014, and has set a target of overcoming this already top mark in the period of 2014-17. EDPR will continue to look for further increases in availability through new predictive maintenance optimization measures supported by the 24/7 control and dispatch centre, in reducing damages most common during extreme weather and improving the scheduling of planned stops. Also a new spare parts warehousing strategy will be key in reducing downtime during unexpected repairs. LEVERAGING QUALITY GROWTH ON DISTINCTIVE WIND ASSESSMENT TOWARD 31.5% LOAD FACTOR Load factor (or net capacity factor) measures the speed and quality of the renewable resource at the wind turbines or solar panels. A load factor of 31.5% means the percentage of maximum theoretical energy output with 31,5 an equipment working at full capacity, in a given period. For example, for % 29.4 1 MW over a year, it equals to the production of 2,759.4 MWh (31.5% x 1 % MW x 24 hours x 365 days). Ensuring the assets generate the maximum amount of energy possible is a key success factor. With regards to the operating portfolio, optimizing load factor is strongly linked to improving availability as described and, if possible, introducing productivity enhancement retrofits that boost production by setting older equipment models with the most up-to-date technological improvements available to increase efficiency in the utilization of renewable resources available. With regards to wind farms and solar plants under development, maximizing load factor is mostly the Current P50 2017E expert work of energy assessment and engineering teams, designing an optimal layout of the plant, by fitting the positioning and choice among different equipment models with the characteristics of the site, specially the terrain, from the collected resource measurements and their estimated energy outputs. The company has consistently maintained levels of load factor in the range of 29-30%, having registered 29.8% in 2014, which is slightly above the 29.4% P50 (mean probability) assessment for the current fleet, and has set a target of 31.5% until the end of the 2014-17 period. 48 46 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE INCREASING EFFICIENCY, REDUCING OPEX/MW -2% In parallel with the top-line initiatives, the company focuses on strict cost control efforts to improve efficiency and gain additional profitability. Leveraging on the experience accumulated over time and its past performance (Opex/MW -5% CAGR 2010-2013), EDPR has set an ambitious to further reduce Opex/MW by -2% CAGR 20132017, despite the natural aging of its installed asset base. To achieve this target EDPR has developed a plan to tackle the main manageable costs in its costs structure. With regards to O&M, representing c. 30% of total Opex, EDPR expects to continue to obtain gains from its M3 system once wind farms are not subject to initial warranty contracts. With regards to SG&A and Personnel Costs, representing c. 50% of total Opex, the focus is to maintain a strict control plant to fully benefit from the economies of scale of a growing company. Levies, representing c. 20% of total Opex is basically non-manageable and increased in recent years, mostly penalised by the introduction of new taxes in some countries. M3 PROGRAM AND SELF-PERFORMANCE As EDPR’s fleet becomes more mature the initial Operations and Maintenance (O&M) contracts with the turbine suppliers expire. When that happens the company needs to decide between renewing the maintenance service and taking the risk and operate the wind farm on its own, whilst maintaining high levels of availability. The M3 (Modular Maintenance Model) program answers that question. Based on EDPR’s expertise, our O&M teams will decide on the optimal balance between external contractors and in-house maintenance. Usually, EDPR keeps control of high value-added activities such as maintenance planning, logistics and remote operations while outsourcing, under direct supervision, people intensive tasks. This methodology resulted in estimated savings of around 20% in the wind farms where the M3 system was implemented, which account for 40% of Europe’s fleet. On its turn, in the US the Blue Canyon V wind farm started its own pilot O&M program and is now fully operated by EDPR without any external help, immediately showing savings in operational expenses. Following this success other American plants will follow this model. An extraordinary example of the new efficiency achieved by the M3 program is the time needed to replace major components, which have being reduced from 5 months to 3 days. A new 2,000 square meter warehouse located in Castejón, Spain, is serving all the European countries. INCREASING TURBINE PRODUCTION EDPR is also creating value by improving its assets implementing new technologies on the turbines to boost the power output without requiring major component changes. EDPR’s Performance Analysis teams are collaborating with the manufacturers to determine the best practices to apply this new technology. By monitoring real-time conditions, the rotational speed of the generator can be increased while staying within the existing loads envelope, thus increasing the power output. The extra output increases the revenues of the wind farm, without major investments needed. This technology has successfully being applied on many turbines and it will keep being developed in the following years. LEAN PROGRAM Launched in 2011, EDPR’s Lean program focuses on optimizing process across the company’s business using the lean six sigma methodology. The objective is to leverage front-line personnel ideas and experience to improve the company’s revenues and costs, improve safety and reduce environmental impact. Within this strategy EDPR has implemented two programs, “Daily Lean” and “Lean improvement”. The first, “Daily Lean” applies continuous improvement to the day-to-day activities at our wind farms, with the objective of reducing repetitive and non-value added tasks. The last, “Lean Improvement”, developed by our performance engineers and our field personnel, identifies and solves issues that are common to a fleet of turbines or part of a fleet. This program implemented changes that help reduce the impact of lightning damage and reduce gearbox overheating, among others. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 49 47 2.2.3. SELF-FUNDING MODEL First presented in the May 2012 Investor Day, EDPR’s self-funding model has been one of the three supporting pillars of the company’s strategy thereafter. This self-funding model excludes any increase in corporate debt, and therefore relies on the combination of cash-flow from operating assets, external funds from tax equity and other structured project finances as well as proceeds from asset rotation transactions to finance the profitable growth of the business. OPERATING CASH-FLOW The primary source of funds for the company is the operating cash flow generated from the existing assets, which is firstly used to pay for the debt service and capital distributions to equity partners, while the excess is available to fund to pay dividends to the shareholders of EDPR or to fund new investments. Cash available for dividends and growth A strong operating cash-flow generation of about € 3.5 billion is expected for the (€bn) period 2014-17. Cash-flow available for dividends and new investments, of about c. +20% € 400 million in 2014, is expected to increase annually, on average, by about CAGR 20% until the end of the current business plan period in 2017. EDPR has indicated a dividend pay-out ratio policy in the range of 25-35% of its annual net profit, thus allowing that most of the cash-flow available to fund ^0.4 growth. The dividends paid in 2014 amounted to about € 35 million corresponding to low end of the range relative to the net profit of the previous year, representing only a small share of the available cash-flow generated in the period. 2014 2017E US TAX EQUITY AND OTHER PROJECT FINANCE STRUCTURES EDPR always aims to find external financing to its projects, namely through tax equity structures, typical of the US, and through other project finance structures, available in other geographies. The use of such structures fit in the self-funding model because they substitute the need of corporate debt. Moreover, the case of tax equity in the US also enables an efficient utilization of the tax benefits provided by the project thus improving its economics. In a simple view, under the tax equity partnerships, tax equity investors contribute a sizable part of the initial project investment, receiving in return almost all of the PTCs granted to the project for first ten years of operation. In the case of project finance, it is also a means to contract long-term debt in local currency at competitive costs in order to mitigate the refinancing risk and to reduce the foreign exchange risk by having a natural hedge between revenues and expenses. In 2014 EDPR closed three tax equity transactions relating to the total 329 MW capacity added in the US this year, and corresponding to tax equity financing proceeds of US$ 332 million (c. EUR 250 million). These transactions bring total tax equity financing proceeds ever raised by EDPR close to US$ 2.9 billion. Signing Project name Location MW Million Timing Counterparty Oct-14 Rising Tree North California 99 USD 109 4Q14 MUFG Union Bank Set-14 Lone Valley California 30 USD 33 4Q14 (undisclosed) Jul-14 Headwaters Indiana 200 USD 190 4Q14 BofA Merrill Lynch US Tax equity: 329 EUR 250 Aug-14 Korsze Poland 70 PLN 220 3Q14 Bank of China Mar-14 Solar PV plants Romania 50 EUR 30 3Q14 EBRD + BSTDB Jan-14 South Branch Canada 30 CAD 49 1Q14 (undisclosed) Project finance: 150 EUR 116 On the other hand, during 2014 EDPR also closed three more project finance deals, in Canada, Romania and Poland, amounting to project financing proceeds of c. € 116 million. In Eastern Europe alone, EDPR closed a total of eight project finances for a total of c. € 558 million, providing strong evidence of the company’s competences in developing top quality projects that allow to establish solid financial structures meeting the requirements of partners with very rigorous investment criteria. 50 48 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ASSET ROTATION Proceeds from asset rotation transactions are also important sources of funds to the self-funding model of EDPR in financing its profitable growth of the business. Such model enables the company to advance the value yet to be realized from the future cash-flows of its existing projects over their long remaining lifetime, and reinvest the corresponding proceeds in the development in additional new value accretive projects, with superior returns to the costs of the asset rotation proceeds themselves. These transactions involve the company selling minority stakes at the level of the projects (typically of 49%), and still maintaining full management control over these projects. Moreover, the scope of projects for these transactions tend to be mature projects, generally already operating and thus significantly de-risked, with a high quality in its future cash-flows, that can be attractive to low risk institutional investors from who EDPR can then source a competitive cost of finance. FIRST ASSET ROTATION DEAL WAS SIGNED IN LATE 2012, AND SINCE THEN A TOTAL EIGHT TRANSACTIONS HAVE BEEN CLOSED, BRINGING THE TOTAL AMOUNT RAISED TO € 1.2 BILLION. In 2014, three transactions have been closed, involving assets located in three countries: the US, France and Canada, with different infrastructure funds as counterparties. Also at the end of the year, in the context of the ongoing strategic partnership between EDP and China Three Gorges, one additional transaction was signed, this time relating to wind farm wind farms and projects in Brazil. Asset rotation target (€m) 700 600 500 WITH 2014 TRANSACTIONS ALONE, OVER 60% OF THE € 700 MILLION 400 ASSET ROTATION TARGET FOR 2014-17 PERIOD IS ALREADY 300 COMPLETED AND CLOSED AT COMPETITIVE MULTIPLES 200 100 0 2014-17 About the above mentioned strategic partnership between EDPR’s major shareholder, EDP, and CTG, apart from the transaction closed at the end of 2014, involving 49% of the 84 MW operating and the 237 MW under development from EDPR Brazil, for a total of R$ 365 million with financial closing expected by the mid of the following year, it is worth recalling EDPR received in the mid of 2013 the sum of € 368 million from the 49% sale of 615 MW in operation and 29 MW ready-to-build in EDPR Portugal, and signed at the end of that same year, a MoU envisaging the future sale of 49% of what the scope to be owned by EDPR in ENEOP after the asset splitting process of this consortium in Portugal, expected to occur in 2015. For the record, the referred strategic partnership was established at the end of 2011 and entered into force in May 2012, foreseeing a total € 2 billion investment by CTG until 2015 (including co-funding capex) in operating and ready-to-build renewable energy generation projects, that may include wind energy assets from EDPR and, as after agreed, selected hydro power plants from other EDP business units. Signing Location Scope MW Stake Million Million Timing Partner EV/MW Asset rotation: Nov-14 Canada 30 49% CAD 3.3 (3.3) Northleaf Capital Partners Oct-14 France 270 49% EUR 1.3 (1.9) EFG Hermes Aug-14 US 801+300 25-49% USD 1.5 (2.3) Fiera Axium Infrastructure Oct-13 France 100 49% EUR 1.3 (1.7) 1Q14 Axpo Sep-13 US 97 49% USD 1.0 (2.0) Fiera Axium Infrastructure Nov-12 US 599 49% USD 1.3 (2.4) 4Q12 Borealis Infrastructure ^EUR 719 Strategic partnership: Dec-14 Brazil 84+237 49% BRL 365 2Q15 China Three Gorges Dec-13 Portugal, ENEOP ^543 49% (MoU) 2Q15 “” Dec-12 Portugal 615+29 49% EUR 368 EUR 1.6 (2.4) 2Q13 “” EUR 481 EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 51 49 2.2.4. SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP EDPR, as a renewable energy company, creates great expectations in its stakeholders about Sustainability. Responding to these expectations the company keeps committed to excel in all three pillars of sustainability – namely the economic, the environmental and the social – defining a strategy of best practices. Following a culture of continuous improvement, 10 Sustainability goals were defined within the 2014-2017 Business Plan. This roadmap brings together the three sustainability pillars and is laid down in 10 different areas: Operational growth, Risk controlling, Economic value creation, Environment, Value circle, People, Governance, Stakeholder Engagement, Innovation and Society. Defined goals make performance measurable to help drive the company as a growing leader in value creation, innovation and sustainability. • Installed capacity: > 2,000 MWs additions 1 Maintain leadership position in RENEWABLE ENERGY PRODUCTION • Avoided CO2: +7% (CAGR vs. 2013) • < 1% emitted / avoided CO2 • EBITDA: +9% (CAGR vs. 2013) 2 CREATE VALUE while maintaining a LOW RISK profile • Net Profit: +11% (CAGR vs. 2013) • OPEX/MW: -2% (CAGR vs. 2013) 3 Optimize ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT • 100% Certified MWs (ISO 14001) • Maintain hazardous wastes and used water per 4 Maintain CIRCULAR ECONOMY in the internal management of the operations GWh ratios aligned with previous years • > 90% Hazardous wastes recovered 5 Ensure high SAFETY STANDARDS for employees and contractors • 100% Certified MWs (OHSAS 18001) • Zero accidents mind-set 6 Ensure a high standard ETHICAL PROCESS • Zero tolerance for unethical behaviours 7 Broaden and harmonize the mechanisms of periodic consultation of STAKEHOLDERS • Stakeholders plan development in 3 geographies Invest in employees development of CORE 8 COMPETENCIES and ensure continued com• >80% of employees in training activities • >30% of employees in volunteering activities promise with society through VOLUNTEERING 9 Promote INNOVATION in operation phase increasing assets efficiency • c. €10 million investment 10 Support SOCIAL AND EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES through Fundación EDP • c. €500 thousand per year investment 52 50 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2.3. RISK MANAGEMENT In line with EDPR’s controlled risk profile, Risk Management process defines the mechanisms for evaluation and management of risks and opportunities impacting the business, increasing the likelihood of the company achieving its financial targets, while minimizing fluctuations of results without compromising returns. RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS EDPR’s Risk Management Process is an integrated and transversal management model that ensures the implementation of best practices of Corporate Governance and transparency in the communication to the market and shareholders. This process is closely followed and supervised by the Audit and Control Committee, an independent supervisory body composed of non-executive members. The purpose of the Risk Management process is to ensure the alignment of EDPR’s risk exposure with the company’s desired risk profile. It consists in the identification and prioritization of risks, the development of adequate risk management policies and their implementation. Risk management policies are aimed to mitigate risks, without ignoring potential opportunities, thus, optimizing return versus risk exposure. Risk management is endorsed by the Executive Committee, supported by the Risk Committee and implemented in day-to-day decisions by all managers of the company. It is supported by three distinct organizational functions, each one with a different role: Strategy (Risk Profiler), Management (Risk Manager) and Controlling (Risk Controller): • RISK PROFILER: Responsible for identification and analyses of risks, defining policies and limits for risk management within the company; • RISK MANAGER: Responsible for day to day operational decisions and for implementing approved risk policies; • RISK CONTROLLER: Responsible for follow up of the result of risk taking decisions and for verifying alignment of operations with general policy approved by the Executive Committee. These three Risk Functions work together and meet in the Risk Committee, the forum to discuss global risk policies to be implemented and to control the risk exposure of the company. In order to separate business decisions from strategic analyses and the definition of new policies, EDPR created two distinct meetings of the Risk Committee with different periodicity: • RESTRICTED RISK COMMITTEE: Held every month, it reviews the risk of new transactions such as new power purchase agreements, new investments, energy price and FX hedges, along with pipeline status and EBITDA @Risk. It helps to control the implementation of defined policies and the exposure to most important risk factors. • RISK COMMITTEE: Held every quarter, it is the forum where new strategic analyses are discussed and new policies are proposed for approval to the Executive Committee. Additionally, EDPR´s overall risk position is reviewed. RISK AREAS AND MAIN RISK FACTORS Risk Management at EDPR is focused on covering all market, credit and operational risks of the company. In order to have a holistic view of risks, they were grouped in Risk Areas covering the entire business cycle of EDPR. The following list summarizes Risk Areas defined within EDPR: • COUNTRIES & REGULATIONS: Changes in regulations may impact EDPR’s business in a given country; • REVENUES: Revenues received by EDPR’s projects may diverge from what is expected; • FINANCING: EDPR may not be able to raise enough cash to finance its planned Capex; or to fulfil its financial obligations due to changes in exchange rates or bankruptcy of counterparties; • WIND TURBINE CONTRACTS: Changes in turbine prices may impact projects’ profitability; or there may not be sufficient turbine supply to build planned wind farms; • PIPELINE DEVELOPMENT: EDPR may deliver an installed capacity different from its targets or suffer delays and/or anticipations in its installation; • OPERATIONS: Projects may deliver a volume different from expected due to turbine availability; financial results can be impacted by human errors. Within each Risk Area, risks are classified in Risk Groups and finally into Risk Factors. Those are the source of the risk and the purpose of Risk Management at EDPR is to measure, control and eventually mitigate all risk factors that affect the company. The following table summarizes the Risk Areas, Risk Groups and main Risk Factors of the company’s business and the Risk Management mitigation strategies, general and specific to the year 2014. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 53 51 The full description of the risks and how they are managed can be found in the Corporate Governance chapter. RISK AREA • RISK GROUPS AND RISK FACTORS § Risk Management mitigation strategies at EDPR COUNTRIES & REGULATIONS • COUNTRY RISK (Macroeconomic, Political, Natural disasters) • REGULATORY RISK (Incentive system, Incentive level, Tax, Operations) § Careful selection of energy markets based on country risk and energy market fundamentals § Diversification in markets and remuneration schemes § Active involvement in all major wind associations in all markets where EDPR is present REVENUES § MARKET PRICE RISK (Electricity, Green Certificates, REC, Basis) § PRODUCTION RISK (NEH uncertainty, Wind volatility, Generation profile, Curtailment) • Regulated remunerations schemes in many markets in which EDPR operates • Hedge of market exposure through long term power purchase agreements (PPA) or short-term financial hedges FINANCING § FINANCIAL MARKETS RISK (Exchange rate, Interest Rate) § COUNTERPARTY RISK (Credit, Operational) § LIQUIDITY RISK • Natural hedging, maintaining debt and revenues in same currency • Execution of FX forwards to eliminate exchange rate transaction risk • Fixed interest rates • Counterparty credit analysis and compliance with policy • Alternative funding sources such as Tax equity structures and Multilateral/ Project Finance agreements WIND TURBINE CONTRACTS § TURBINE PRICE RISK (Demand/offer, Macroeconomics and commodity prices) § TURBINE SUPPLY RISK • Signing of medium term agreements with turbine manufacturers to ensure visibility of turbine prices and supply • Relying on a large base of turbine suppliers to ensure supply and signing contracts before engaging in tender auctions PIPELINE DEVELOPMENT § EXECUTION RISK (Construction, Installation, Supply chain) § DEVELOPMENT RISK (PPA contract, construction + environmental + interconnection permits) • Counterparty credit and technical analysis • Supervision of EDPR’s engineering team • Flexible CODs in PPAs to avoid penalties • Employment of a “buffer” to ensure targets are achieved • Partnerships with strong local teams • Track recurrent operational risks during construction and development OPERATIONS • WIND TURBINE PERFORMANCE (Technology, Availability) • Closure of technical warranties and medium term full – scope maintenance agreements with suppliers • Adequate preventive and scheduled maintenance • PHYSICAL ASSETS • Insurance against physical damage and business interruption • PERSONNEL (Turnover, Health and safety) • Attractive remuneration packages and training • LEGAL (Compliance, Fraud) • Revision of all regulations that affects EDPR activity (environmental, taxes…) • PROCESSES • Control of internal procedures • INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES (Technical network, Corporate network) • Redundancy of servers and control centres of wind farms 54 52 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE During 2014, EDPR reviewed or defined three Global Risk Policies: Counterparty Risk Policy: EDPR has credit and operational exposure to counterparties. During 2014, Counterparty Risk Policy was reviewed to monitor operational counterparty risk and establish limits to this exposure. It is already implemented across the company. Interest Rate Risk Policy: Due to historical low level of interest rates, Interest Rate Risk Policy was reviewed to align it with current market situation, maintaining a conservative approach but benefitting from current rates in the short and medium term. It will be implemented during 2015. Operational Risk Policy: Using Basilea’s Advanced Measurement Approach, EDPR measured Expected and Unexpected Losses from operational risk and defined the guidelines for a new policy. It will be implemented during 2015, including the change of some internal procedures to mitigate impact of recurrent risks. Reviewed policies during 2014 focused on risks with different level of impacts in EDPR’s financial results, allowing to establish an updated holistic view of the risks of the company. EDPR RISK MATRIX BY RISK GROUP Operational Risk Reviewed policies in 2014 + Financial Financial Market Production IR FX price Turbine Likelihood Personnel IT Execution price Pipeline develop. Physical Legal assets Turbine Liquidity Country Regulatory perform. Turbine supply Counter Processes -party Potential financial impact + FOCUS ON OPERATIONAL RISK AT EDPR WHAT IS OPERATIONAL RISK? Operational Risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. This definition includes legal risk, but excludes strategic and reputational risk. AREAS WITH OPERATIONAL RISK From an operational perspective, EDPR classifies its risks in seven different categories: Development, Construction, Operation, IT, Legal, HR and Processes. LIMITS OF NET INCOME @RISK EDPR monitors Net Income @Risk, which consists on the worst case Net Income (measured as Expected-P90 of Net Income distribution) considering deviations from market, counterparty (credit) and operational. The new analysis performed during 2014 on operational risk at EDPR has permitted a more accurate measure of Net Income @Risk within EDPR. Reassessed Expected Net Market Risk Counterparty Operational DiversificationWorst case Net Income Risk Risk Income (P90) 03. PERFORMANCE 3.1. ECONOMIC 55 3.1.1. OPERATIONAL 55 3.1.2. FINANCIAL 58 3.2. ENVIRONMENT 66 3.2.1. ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT 66 3.2.2. BIODIVERSITY 67 3.2.3. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 68 3.3. STAKEHOLDERS 69 3.3.1. EMPLOYEES 69 3.3.2. LOCAL COMMUNITIES 72 3.3.3. SUPPLIERS 74 3.4. INNOVATION 75 3.5. INTEGRITY AND ETHICS 77 3.6. EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION 79 other reporting topics 80 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS A commitment to clean energy in an increasingly sustainable world, allied with a strong focus on technological innovation. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 57 55 3.1. ECONOMIC 3.1.1. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE 2014 was a year of firsts as EDPR built its first project in California, first solar project in the United States and Portugal, and realized the completion of ENEOP. MW NCF GWh YE14 YE13 Var. FY14 FY13 Var. FY14 FY13 Var. Spain 2,194 2,194 28% 29% -1pp 5,176 5,463 -5% Portugal 624 619 +4 30% 29% +1pp 1,652 1,593 +4% Rest of Europe 1,413 1,353 +60 24% 25% -1pp 2,495 2,132 +17% Europe 4,231 4,167 +64 27% 28% -1pp 9,323 9,187 +1% US 3,805 3,476 +329 33% 32% +1pp 10,145 9,769 +4% Canada 30 30 27% 59 North America 3,835 3,506 +329 33% 32% +1pp 10,204 9,769 +4% Brazil 84 84 32% 31% +1pp 236 230 +3% EDPR: EBITDA 8,149 7,756 +393 30% 30% 19,763 19,187 +3% ENEOP 533 455 +78 Other equity consolidated 353 353 Spain 174 174 United States 179 179 EDPR: EBITDA + Net Equity 9,036 8,565 +471 EDPR CONTINUES TO DELIVER SOLID SELECTIVE GROWTH With a top quality portfolio present in ten countries, EDPR has a strong BR track record and proven capability to execute superior projects and deliver 1% on targets. The installed asset base of 9.0 GW is not only young, on ES 26% average 5 years, it is also mostly certified in terms of environmental and health and safety standards. NA 9.0 GW Since 2008, EDPR has doubled its installed capacity with the additions of 44% EBITDA + Net Equity 4.6 GW, resulting in a total installed capacity of 9,036 MW (EBITDA + Net Equity). As of year-end 2014, EDPR had installed 4,938 MW in Europe, 4,014 MW in North America and 84 MW in Brazil. PT 13% During 2014 EDPR added 471 MW to its installed capacity, of which 329 MW were in North America and 142 MW in Europe. RoE 16% 2014 INSTALLATIONS CONCENTRATED IN THE UNITED STATES Project name Country MW Tech The largest growth in MW occurred RoE ENEOP Portugal 78 Wind due to the completion of 329 MW 13% Estarreja Portugal 2 Solar in the U.S., including 30 MW of Headwaters US 200 Wind their first solar project and 99 MW Ilza Poland 4 Wind in California, which represents an Lone Valley US 30 Solar entry into a new state for EDPR. PT All of the MW had previously 17% Overpowering Portugal 2 Wind +471 MW in 2014 Preuseville France 6 Wind secured long-term power purchase Radziejow Poland 18 Wind contracts, thus providing long term Rising Tree North US 99 Wind stability and visibility on the US San Giovanni Italy 20 Wind revenue stream. Total EBITDA + 70% Truc de L’Homme France 12 Wind Net Equity installed capacity EDPR 471 surpassed 4.0 GW in the U.S.. 58 56 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE In Europe, half of the growth in capacity came from the completion of the ENEOP project resulting in an additional 78 MW to reach a grand total of 533 MW, which corresponds to EDPR’s 40% participation in the Eólicas de Portugal consortium. In addition to the first solar project installed in the U.S., in 2014 EDPR also installed its first solar project in Portugal of 2 MW. All in all, Portugal installed 82 MW (78 MW ENEOP + 2 MW Solar + 2 MW Wind overpowering). In Poland, EDPR continues to see positive growth with the installation of 22 MW, 18 MW from the Radziejów wind farm located in the central region and 4 MW from Ilza, which brings that project’s total capacity to 54 MW. EDPR added 18 MW to its installed capacity in France with the completion of the Truc de l'Homme wind farm of 12 MW and 6 MW from the Preuseville project. Truc de l’Homme presented numerous developmental challenges that were eventually overcome. Preuseville is an extension of an existing wind farm in north-west France. After success in the 2014 auctions in Italy, EDPR was able to deliver on 20 MW with the San Giovanni project. Located in the Basilicata Region, the project also represents the installation of the first Vestas V110 2MW 95 meter hub height wind turbines in EDPR’s fleet, in a very complex orography with huge slopes and earthworks. NEARLY 90% OF 2015 EXPECTED CAPACITY ADDITIONS ALREADY UNDER CONSTRUCTION By the end of 2014, EDPR had over 443 MW under construction all related to projects to be delivered in 2015. In the U.S., EDPR had 299 MW under construction related to two wind farms with PPAs already secured, Waverly (200 MW in Kansas) and Rising Tree South (99 MW in California). In addition to the capacity already under construction, during 2015 EDPR will also start construction on the Arbuckle wind farm (100 MW in Oklahoma, US), which has a secured PPA. Although no new capacity was added during the year in Brazil, EDPR has 120 MW under construction, related to the Baixa do Feijão projects after successfully bidding in the A5 auction for 20 year PPAs schedule to start in 2016. In Europe, 24 MW were under construction: 10 MW in Italy, 6 MW in Portugal, 6 MW in Poland and 2 MW in Spain related to a turbine prototype. 88% OF EDPR’S INSTALLED CAPACITY IS COVERED BY ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION The Environmental Management System (EMS) is developed in accordance with the ISO 14001 international standard and certified by an independent certifying organization. These consensus standards are considered the world’s benchmark for EMS Management Systems and is a guarantee that EDPR sites, regardless of its regulatory environment are aligned and at the same level of compliance. Assets' Average Age & Useful Life In addition to operating high quality and safe assets, 0 Assets'5 Average 10 Age 15 & Useful 20 Life25 30 EDPR also has a young portfolio with an average operating age of 5 years, with an estimate of at least 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Spain 6.8 20 years of useful life remaining to be captured. Spain 6.8 In Europe, EDPR’s portfolio had an average age of 5 Portugal 5.6 Portugal 5.6 years, in North America 5 years, and in Brazil 4 years. France 5.2 Throughout the entire process, from development to France 5.2 Belgium 4.9 operations, EDPR maintains the highest standards in Belgium 4.9 construction quality, integrity, and sustainability. Poland 2.5 Poland 2.5 Considerable efforts were conducted to restore the Romania 2.4 land and biodiversity to either its original state or an Romania 2.4 improved state, for example by removing hazardous Italy 1.2 wastes uncovered during construction in California or Italy 1.2 burying high voltage lines underground to diminish US 4.9 visual impact. During the construction of the solar US 4.9 Canada 1.0 plants in the U.S., nearly 35 acres of conservation Canada [VALUE].0 lands for preserving habitat for desert species were Brazil 3.9 created. In Indiana, over 120 kilometres of public Brazil 3.9 county roads were maintained and nearly half of those EDPR 5.2 were strengthened. EDPR 5.2 However, environmental sustainability is not the only concern. In Italy, an archaeological area was found by the archaeological surveillance team resulting in a very deep campaign to discover and catalogue all the archaeological findings and protect them against the earthworks to be performed. Similarly in California, palaeontologists sifted through over 100 cubic yards of soil in an area of potential significance and all finds will be curated in a museum. All in all, the total value created by the installation of nearly 0.5 GW is greatly positive. EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 59 57 3% INCREASE IN YOY GENERATION 19.2 TWh 19.8 TWh EDPR generated 19.8 TWh during 2014. When adding the over 1 TWh produced from our equity projects, enough clean energy was produced to BR 1% BR 1% serve nearly 50% of the electricity demand of Portugal. The 3% year over year increase in the electricity output benefited from NA 51% NA 52% the capacity additions over the last 12 months and the strong wind resource in North America throughout 2014. EDPR achieved a 30% load factor during 2014, which is in line with last RoE 11% RoE 13% year, maintaining its leading position within the wind sector and reflecting PT 8% PT 8% the intrinsic quality of the wind farms. EDPR also achieved a stellar 98% availability. EDPR continues to leverage ES 28% ES 26% on its competitive advantages to maximize wind farm output and on its diversified portfolio to mitigate the wind volatility risk. FY13 FY14 PREMIUM PERFORMANCE AND DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO DELIVERS BALANCED OUTPUT NA NA 32% 33% EDPR’s operations in North America were the main driver for the electricity production growth in 2014, increasing by +4% YoY to 10.2 TWh and represented 52% of the total output (51% in 2013). This performance was EDPR EDPR driven by EDPR’s unique ability to capture the strong wind resource 30% 30% available and the contribution from new additions. EDPR achieved a 33% load factor in North America, +1pp vs. 2013, further reflecting the high quality assets. EU Production growth in Europe was mainly due to reaping the benefits from 28% EU the installed capacity in 2013, which help offset the decline in year over 27% year load factor. All countries deliver positive growth except for Spain where 2013 was considered an above average year. FY13 FY14 Iberia delivered a 28% load factor (vs. 29% in 2013), although a decline YoY, the efficiency achieved was above normal expectations and 2013 was an exceptional year for Spain. Moreover, EDPR delivered once again a solid premium over the Spanish market average load factor (+2pp). The Rest of Europe operations delivered a 24% load factor (25% in 2013) and posted higher year over year generation. Poland increased its production by 253 GWh as new capacity and a solid resource contributed to the strong performance. Higher production in Italy was mainly due to a full year of operations for capacity installed in 2013. The remaining countries delivered stable growth of 28 GWh. In 2014, EDPR's output in Brazil increased 3% YoY to 236 GWh, as a result of a higher wind resource during the year, and led to a higher load factor of 32%. The Tramandaí wind farm continues to deliver above average load factors. CARBON FREE EMISSIONS The 19.8 TWh of electricity produced has zero carbon emissions, thus contributing to the world’s fight against climate change. Based on each countries’ thermal emission factors, an estimate of 17 million tons of CO2 equivalent emissions were avoided that would have otherwise been emitted by burning fossil fuels to generate the same amount of electricity in the geographies where EDPR is present. 60 58 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE 3.1.2. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVENUES TOTALLED 1.3 BILLION EUROS AND EBITDA SUMMED 903 MILLION EUROS In 2014, EDPR revenues totalled 1,277 million euros, a decrease of 40 million euros when compared to 2013 mainly driven by the lower selling price but mitigated by the 3% output increase. EDPR’s average selling price decreased 6% as the result of the lower average selling price in Europe and partially offset by the higher average selling price in North America and Brazil. In Europe, revenues evolution was mainly impacted by EDPR operations in Spain, following the change in assets remuneration framework with the approval of RDL 413/2014 in June 2014 in addition to the unfavourable pool prices, and minimized by EDPR’s younger assets and load factor. EBITDA decreased 17 million euros year on year to 903 million euros, as a result of the top-line evolution and partially offset by lower net operating costs. EBITDA margin increased from 70% to 71%, demonstrating EDPR control over costs and strong efficiency levels. Financial Highlights (€m) 2014 2013 p% / € Income Statement Revenues 1,277 1,316 (3%) EBITDA 903 921 (2%) Net Profit (attributable to EDPR equity holders) 126 135 (7%) Cash-Flow Operating Cash-Flow 707 677 +4% Net investments 515 548 (6%) Balance Sheet Assets 14,316 13,058 +1,258 Equity 6,331 6,089 +241 Liabilities 7,986 6,969 +1,017 Liabilities Net Debt 3,283 3,268 +14 Institutional Partnerships 1,067 836 +230 NET PROFIT REACHED 126 MILLION EUROS Impacted by the top line evolution, Net Profit decreased 7% year over year to 126 million euros, while Adjusted Net Profit decreased 25% to 105 million euros, adjusted for non-recurring events, forex differences and capital gains. ROBUST CASH-FLOW Operating Cash-Flow increased 4% to 707 million euros, higher than the net investments of the period. In 2014, EDPR received 215 million euros related to the financial closing of the asset rotation transactions signed in October 2013 with Axpo Group, and in October and November 2014 with EFG Hermes and Northleaf respectively. In August 2014, EDPR structured an additional asset rotation transaction with Fiera Axium for a portfolio of wind farms in the United States, which final financial close is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2015. Additionally, in 2014, a cash grant of 22 million euro was collected in Poland. Capital expenditures (Capex) totalled 732 million euros reflecting the capacity additions in the year and the capacity under construction, leading to Net Investments of 515 million euro. As a result of forex translation (impact 170 million euros), investments done in the period, robust cash-flow generation, the execution of the asset rotation strategy and close monitoring of operating costs, Net Debt increase by 14 million euros. Note: 2013 figures are restated for comparison purposes with IFRS 11 (mandatory from Jan 1st 2014) EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 61 59 INCOME STATEMENT SOLID TOP LINE PERFORMANCE DESPITE REGULATORY CHANGES EDPR revenues totalled 1,277 million euros, a 3% decrease on the back of a lower average selling price and forex depreciation, mitigated by the positive impact from higher volumes. The impact in the average selling price is mainly driven by changes in Spanish remuneration for renewable assets and negatively magnified by the low market price in the period. Other operating income increased by 4 million euros, while Operational expenses (Opex) – defined as Operating costs excluding Other operating income decreased by 18 million euros, leading to a 8% decrease in the Opex per average MW. Excluding levies and write-offs, Opex per average MW decreased by 6% and Opex per MWh by 5%, showing strict control over costs and strong efficiency levels. Impacted by the top line, EBITDA decreased 2% to 903 million euros, while EBITDA margin improved to 71% versus 70% in 2013. Operating income (EBIT) summed 422 million euros, reflecting the 8% higher depreciation and amortisation costs. In 2014, impairments had an impact of 27 million euros in EBIT, mainly as a consequence of a new longterm scenario with more conservative assumptions for EDPR operations in Romania. At the financing level, Net Financial Expenses decreased 5%. Net interest costs increased 3% due to higher average net debt (+123 million euros versus previous year) along with a stable 5.2% cost of debt. Institutional Partnership costs in 2014 were 7% lower, while capitalised expenses increased by 11 million euros. Forex differences and derivatives had a negative impact of 5 million euros, as the positive impact from Leu was offset by the US dollar appreciation and Zloty depreciation. Share of profits of associates increased by 7 million euros to 22 million Net Profit (€m) euros, mainly reflecting EDPR’s interest in ENEOP, the positive 135 performance of United States associate companies and a Purchase Price 126 126 Allocation post the acquisition of a company in Mexico, offsetting the negative performance of Spanish associate companies. 89 Pre-Tax Profit amounted to 194 million euros and income taxes decreased 80 to 16 million euros, due to the positive effect of the approved corporate tax reform in Spain (income tax will be reduced to 25% in 2016 and beyond) impacting deferred assets and liabilities. Non-controlling interests in the period totalled 52 million euros, an increase of 18 million euros on the back of the non-controlling interests sold to CTG in the context of the EDP strategic partnership, to Fiera Axium, Axpo Group, EFG Hermes and Northleaf as part of the execution of the asset rotation strategy. All in all, Net Profit decreased to 126 million euros. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Consolidated Income Statement (€m) 2014 2013 p% Revenues 1,277 1,316 (3%) Other operating Income 46 41 +10% Supplies and services (257) (255) +1% Personnel costs (66) (66) (1%) Other operating costs (96) (116) (17%) Operating Costs (net) (374) (396) (6%) EBITDA 903 921 (2%) EBITDA/Net Revenues 71% 70% +1pp Provisions (0.0) (1.3) (98%) Depreciation and amortisation (500) (465) +8% Amortization of government grants 19 18 +3% EBIT 422 473 (11%) Financial Income / (expenses) (250) (262) (5%) Share of profits of associates 22 15 +48% Pre-tax profit 194 226 (14%) Income taxes (16) (57) (71%) Profit of the period 178 169 +5% Net Profit Equity holders of EDPR 126 135 (7%) Non-controlling interest 52 34 +53% 62 60 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE BALANCE SHEET TOTAL EQUITY INCREASES BY 242 MILLION EUROS Total Equity of 6.3 billion euros increased by 242 million euros during year, of which 131 million euros attributable to non-controlling interests. The increased equity attributable to the shareholders of EDPR by 111 million euros is mainly a result of the 126 million euros of Net Profit, reduced by the 35 million euros in dividend payments. Total liabilities increased 15% by +1,017 million euros, mainly in accounts payable (+549 million euros), financial debt (+236 million euros) and institutional partnerships (+231 million euros). With total liabilities of 8.0 billion euros, the debt-to-equity ratio of EDPR stood at 126% by the end of 2014, which is an increase from the 114% in 2013. Liabilities were mainly composed of financial debt (49%), liabilities related to institutional partnerships in the US (13%) and accounts payable (24%). Liabilities to tax equity partnerships in the US stood at 1,067 million euros, and including +217 million euros of new tax equity proceeds received in the 2014. Deferred revenues related to institutional partnerships primarily represent the non-economic liability associated to the tax credits already realized by the institutional investor, arising from accelerated tax depreciation, and yet to be recognized as income by EDPR throughout the remaining useful lifetime of the respective assets. Deferred tax liabilities reflect the liabilities arising from temporary differences between the accounting and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Accounts payables include trade suppliers, PP&E suppliers, deferred income related to investment grants received and derivative financial instruments. As total assets totalled 14.3 billion euros in 2014, the equity ratio of EDPR reached 44%, versus 47% in 2013. Assets were 77% composed of net PP&E property, plant and equipment, reflecting the cumulative net invested capital in renewable energy generation assets. Total net PP&E of 11.0 billion euros changed to reflect 749 million euros of new additions during the year of and 630 million euros from forex translation (mainly as the result of a US Dollar appreciation), and reduced by 487 million euros for depreciation charges, impairment losses and write-offs. Net intangible assets mainly include 1.4 billion euros from goodwill registered in the books, for the most part related to acquisitions in the US and Spain, while accounts receivable are mainly related to loans to related parties, trade receivables, guarantees and tax receivables. Statement of Financial Position (€m) 2014 2013 p% Assets Property, plant and equipment, net 11,013 10,095 918 Intangible assets and goodwill, net 1,405 1,301 104 Financial investments, net 376 346 30 Deferred tax assets 46 109 (63) Inventories 21 15 6 Accounts receivable – trade, net 146 202 (56) Accounts receivable – other, net 859 655 204 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 0 0 Collateral deposits 81 78 3 Cash and cash equivalents 369 255 114 Total Assets 14,316 13,058 1,258 Equity Share capital + share premium 4,914 4,914 Reserves and retained earnings 742 623 119 Net profit (equity holders of EDPR) 126 135 (9) Non-controlling interests 549 418 131 Total Equity 6,331 6,089 242 Liabilities Financial debt 3,902 3,666 236 Institutional partnerships 1,067 836 231 Provisions 99 65 34 Deferred tax liabilities 270 367 (97) Deferred revenues from institutional partnerships 735 672 63 Accounts payable – net 1,912 1,363 549 Total Liabilities 7,986 6,969 1,017 Total Equity and Liabilities 14,316 13,058 1,258 EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 63 61 CASH FLOW STATEMENT STRONG OPERATING CASH FLOW In 2014, EDPR generated Operating Cash-Flow of 707 million euros, a 4% increase from the prior year. EDPR continues to benefit from the strong cash-flow generation capabilities of its assets in operation. Operating Cash Flow (€m) The key items that explain 2014 cash-flow evolution are the following: 707 • Funds from operations, resulting from EBITDA after net interest 666 677 643 expenses, share of profits of associates and current taxes, increased to 567 668 million euros; • Operating Cash-Flow, which is the EBITDA net of income tax and adjusted by non-cash items (namely income from US institutional partnerships and write-offs) and net of changes in working capital, amounted to 707 million euros; • Capital expenditures with the ongoing construction and development works totalled 732 million euros. In Europe capex totalled 164 million euros, mainly in Rest of Europe, while 543 million euros were invested in North America, the core growth of EDPR 2014-17 business plan. Other net investing activities amounted to +198 million euros, mostly 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 reflecting equipment suppliers invoices already booked but not yet paid and a government grant for investments collected in Poland; • Pursuing its asset rotation strategy, in 2014 EDPR signed agreements with Fiera Axium, EFG Hermes, Northleaf and CTG (in the context of EDP strategic partnership). In 2014 EDPR received 215 million euros of proceeds regarding EFG Hermes, Northleaf and Axpo Group (signed in Brazil October 2013) transactions. The settlement of Fiera Axium transaction is 4% expected to occur in the first quarter of 2015; Europe 22% • Net proceeds from Institutional Partnerships reached 148 million euros. In 2014, EDPR secured three institutional tax equity financing structures in the United States for a total of 332 million US Dollars. Proceeds received in 2014 from these transactions totaled 289 million US Dollars (217 million euros); Capex Breakdown • Total net dividends and other capital distributions paid to minorities, by Platform including the payment of dividends to EDPR shareholders (35 million euros), amounted to 79 million euros. Forex & Other had a negative impact increasing Net Debt by 291 million euros, mainly explained by North America the impact from US dollar appreciation and other forex translation (170 74% million euros), and shareholder loans to associates. All in all, Net Debt increased by 14 million euros, to 3,283 million euros by year end. In line with the self-funded business model and focus on operational excellence, EDPR continues to benefit from the solid free cashflow generation capabilities of its premium assets. Cash Flow (€m) 2014 2013 p% EBITDA 903 921 (2%) Current Income Tax (50) (89) (44%) Net interest costs (207) (199) +4% Share of profits of associates 22 15 +48% FFO (Funds from operations) 668 648 +3% Net interest costs 207 199 +4% Income from associated companies (22) (15) +48% Non-cash items adjustments (130) (125) +4% Changes in working capital (16) (30) (44%) Operating Cash Flow 707 677 +4% Capex (732) (627) +17% Financial Investments (19) (47) (58%) Changes in working capital related to PP&E suppliers 192 (180) Government Grants 22 91 (76%) Net Operating Cash Flow 173 (86) Sale of non-controlling interests and shareholders' loans 215 402 (47%) Proceeds/(Payments) related to Institutional partnerships 148 (36) Net interest costs (post capitalisation) (180) (183) (2%) Dividends net and other capital distributions (79) (58) +37% Forex & Other (291) (21) Decrease / (Increase) in Net Debt (14) 19 64 62 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE FINANCIAL DEBT LONG-TERM AND STABLE DEBT PROFILE EDPR’s total Financial Debt increased by 234 million euros to 3.8 billion Variab Variable euros, reflecting US Dollar appreciation, investments done in the period le 8% and the proceeds from the execution of the asset rotation transactions. 8% Loans with EDP group, EDPR’s principal shareholder, accounted or 76% of the debt, while loans with financial institutions represented 24%. To continue to diversify its funding sources EDPR keeps on executing top Debt Debt Interest Interest quality projects enabling the company to secure local project finance at Rate Rate Type Type competitive costs. In 2014, EDPR closed three project finance Profile Profile transactions: i) 49 million Canadian dollars for 30 MW of EDPR’s first wind farm in Canada; ii) 30 million euros for 50 MW of solar power plants in operation in Romania; iii) 220 million Zlotys for 70 MW wind farm in Poland. Fixed Fixed As of December 2014, 52% of EDPR's financial debt was Euro 92% 92% denominated, 39% was funded in US Dollars, related to the company's investment in the United States, and the remaining 9% was mostly related with debt in Polish Zloty and Brazilian Real. EDPR’s debt has a long-term profile as 85% of the financial debt has a 2018 and beyond maturity. EDPR continues to follow a long-term fixed rate funding strategy, matching the Operating Cash-Flow profile with its financial costs and therefore mitigating interest rate risk. Accordingly, 92% of EDPR’s financial debt has a fixed interest rate and, as of December 2014, the average interest rate was 5.2%, stable year on year. INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS Debt Maturity Profile Liabilities referred to Institutional Partnerships increased 230 million euros 85% to 1,067 million euros, due to US dollar appreciation in December 2014 versus December 2013, the benefits captured by the tax equity partners and the establishment of new institutional tax equity financing structures during the period. 8% 5% 2% Financial Debt (€m) 2014 2013 p€ 2015 2016 2017 >2018 Nominal Financial Debt + Accrued interests 3,902 3,666 +236 Collateral deposits associated with Debt 81 78 +2 Total Financial Debt 3,821 3,588 +234 Cash and Equivalents 369 255 +113 Loans to EDP Group related companies and cash pooling 170 64 +106 Financial assets held for trading 0.1 (0.1) Cash & Equivalents 538 319 +219 Cost of Debt Net Debt 3,283 3,268 +14 5.4% 5.2% 5.2% 5.2% 5.2% Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 65 63 EUROPE REVENUES Revenues (€m) In Europe, EDPR delivered revenues of 747 million euros, a decrease of 73 820 778 million euros versus 2013, reflecting the impact from the lower average 747 selling price of 93 million euros, which offset the positive effect from the 635 increase in output, of 21 million euros. 562 In detail, the decrease in revenues was a result of lower revenues in Spain (-93 million euros), mitigated by the increase in revenues in Portugal (+5 million euros) and Rest of Europe (+16 million euros). Consequently, the contribution from Spain decreased from 53% to 46%, while contribution from Portugal and Rest of Europe increased from 20% to 22% and 27% to 31%, respectively. AVERAGE SELLING PRICE 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The average selling price in Europe decreased 10% to 80 euros per MWh, mainly driven by Spanish changes in the remuneration framework for renewable assets, and in Rest of Europe by the lower realised price in Romania, with green certificates being sold at the floor of the regulated collar. Average Selling Price (€/MWh) NET OPERATING COSTS 94 88 89 84 Net Operating Costs decreased 12% year on year, to 202 million euros, as 80 a results of 12 million euros decrease in Operating costs and a 15 million euros increase in Other operating income, mainly due to a price adjustment in the sale of Portuguese assets to CTG following lower corporate taxes in Portugal. EDPR strict control over costs and high level of efficiency is reflected in the 11% decreased of Opex per average MW in operation ratio, reaching 57.3 thousand euros. All in all, EBITDA in Europe totalled 544 million euros, leading to an EBITDA margin of 73%, while EBIT reached 275 million euros. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Europe Income Statement (€m) 2014 2013 p€ Revenues 747 820 (9%) Other operating income 27 12 +128% Supplies and services (141) (138) +2% Personnel costs (22) (26) (12%) Other operating costs (65) (78) (16%) Operating Costs (net) (202) (230) (12%) EBITDA 544 590 (8%) EBITDA/Net Revenues 73% 72% +1pp Provisions (0.0) (0.1) (79%) Depreciation and amortisation (271) (236) +15% Amortization of government grants 2 1 +46% EBIT 275 355 (23%) 66 64 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE NORTH AMERICA REVENUES Revenues (US$m) In 2014, Revenues increased 7% to 672 million US Dollars, supported by 672 5% increase in the average selling price and 4% increase in production. 620 628 577 506 AVERAGE SELLING PRICE Average selling price increased by 5% versus 2013, to 51 US Dollars per MWh, propelled by higher output towards wind farms under PPA/Hedge. Selling prices for the production exposed to wholesale electricity prices also went up, from 32 US Dollars per MWh in 2013 to 41 US Dollars per MWh, benefiting from higher gas prices, due to low gas inventories and unusually cold winter in the first months of 2014, and an increase in REC prices. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 NET OPERATING COSTS Net Operating Costs increased 2% to 194 million US Dollars, mainly due to the lower Other operating income that offset the decrease in operating costs. The decrease in other operating income reflects the 18 million US Dollars from the restructuring of the off-taking volumes of a PPA for 200 MW in 2013. A strict control over costs and high efficiency levels resulted in 7% decrease in Opex per MW, to 61 thousand US Dollars. INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS AND GOVERNMENT GRANTS Income from Institutional Partnerships totalled 164 million US Dollars. Cash The projects that opted for the cash grant benefited from lower Grant depreciation charges, booked in the income statement as amortisation of 27% government grants, totalling 23 million US Dollars. In 2014, EDPR established three institutional tax equity financing US Installed Capacity structures for a total amount of 332 million US Dollars, in exchange for by Tax Incentive PTC/ ITC an interest in the 200 MW Headwaters wind farm, 30 MW Lone Valley Cash Tax solar PV plant and 99 MW Rising Tree North. Grant Tax Equity 60% Equity 13% All in all, EBITDA went up 9% to 477 million US Dollars, leading the EBITDA margin to increase to 71%. North America Income Statement (US$m) 2014 2013 p% Electricity Sales & Other 508 462 +10% Income from Institutional Partnerships 164 166 (1%) Revenues 672 628 +7% Other operating income 23 40 (43%) Supplies and services (145) (143) +1% Personnel costs (37) (38) (3%) Other operating costs (36) (49) (27%) Operating Costs (net) (194) (190) +2% EBITDA 477 438 +9% EBITDA/Net Revenues 71% 70% +2pp Provisions (2) Depreciation and amortisation (292) (288) +1% Amortization of government grants 23 23 +0% EBIT 208 171 +22% EDPR EDPR· 2014 · 2014ANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 67 65 BRAZIL REVENUES Revenues (R$m) In Brazil, EDPR reached revenues of 78 million reais, representing a year 78 on year increase of 13%, mainly explained by the higher average selling 70 price. 62 45 AVERAGE SELLING PRICE The average selling price in Brazil increased 12% to R$346 per MWh, 8 basically reflecting the PPA update price according with inflation type adjustment. EDPR installed capacity in Brazil, 84 MW, is fully under incentive programs 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 for renewable energy development. These programs provide long-term visibility, setting long-term contracts to sell the electricity produced for 20 year, which translates into a stable and visible cash-flow generation throughout the projects’ life. NET OPERATING COSTS Net Operating Costs increased during the year by 3 million reais, mainly due to higher Other operating costs and at a lesser extend due to the increase in personnel costs, mitigated by lower supplies and services. Following the outstanding top line performance, in 2014, EBITDA reached 48 million reais, an increase of 15% versus previous year, with the EBITDA margin increasing to 61%. Brazil Income Statement (R$m) 2014 2013 p% Revenues 78 70 +13% Other operating income 0.0 Supplies and services (19) (22) (15%) Personnel costs (4) (3) +27% Other operating costs (8) (2) +202% Operating Costs (net) (31) (28) +9% EBITDA 48 41 +15% EBITDA/Net Revenues 61% 59% +2pp Provisions (0.1) Depreciation and amortisation (19) (18) +1% Amortization of government grants 0.1 EBIT 29 23 +27% 68 66 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE 3.2. ENVIRONMENT 3.2.1. ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT EDPR is a leading company in renewable energy. We produce clean and green energy, energy without emissions. Our strategy towards the environment is based on four pillars: the generation of CO2-free and water-free energy, minimization of environmental impacts during the life-cycle of our wind farms, respect for the biodiversity and a culture of responsibility and recycling. Even though we are in a clean energy business, we go beyond our commitment with the environment by fostering a corporate culture in which initiatives and activities are consistent with environmental responsibility. Therefore we are committed to minimize the environmental impact of our operations and measure the footprint from our administrative activities and plants electricity consumption, representing 0.2% of the emissions avoided. Despite this low impact we encourage reducing these emissions by improving our practices. EDPR’s small footprint regarding CO2 emissions and water is due to administrative activities and plants electricity consumption. ZERO WATER LOW WASTE EMISSIONS FREE GENERATION • Virtually no water used in • 26 kilograms of hazardous • Zero carbon emissions wastes per GWh electricity generation • Avoided 17.0 million tons • 96% of hazardous wastes • 0.56 litres of consumed of CO2 emission recovered water per MWh OVERALL POSITIVE IMPACT IN BIODIVERSITY EDPR… • Co-exists peacefully and abundantly with most wildlife • Mitigates climate change; being a zero-emission company is the best way to protect biodiversity • Respects biodiversity in all phases of the plant’s life-cycle • Seeks a positive biodiversity balance, defining initiatives to prevent, correct and compensate identified risks EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 69 67 3.2.2. BIODIVERSITY In the long term, EDPR aims to contribute to an overall positive balance to the world’s objective of reducing biodiversity loss due to human activity, one of today’s greatest challenge. In an effort to seek a positive balance in biodiversity, measure is to prevent problems arising from erosion as numerous initiative were performed in 2014: well as improving the landscape integration. Since 2013 and until late 2014, the actions that have been made, were plantations and hydro-seeding, IBERIAN WOLF slopes restructuring and drainage structures The Iberian wolf is a species subject to particular improvement. Furthermore, aged rock slope labors attention as stated in the specific legislation for the were carried out for optimal integration. After protection and preservation of its habitat. It is completion of each performance, environmental estimated that there are nearly 300 specimens of technicians along with the companies in charge of the Iberian wolf in Portugal whose habitat extends from environmental monitoring, keep tracking the evolution. the district of Viseu to the north of the country. So far, 16.2 hectares have been hydro-seeded, 24,215 EDPR has several wind farms in this area, which have units were planted and 2.83 hectares have been been developed with the contribution of specialists in integrated in landscape. Results to date are Iberian wolf. Tracking programs were established in satisfactory and the development of more planned the most sensible areas, as well as mitigation and measures are expected for 2015. compensation measures for this species and its habitat. GOLDEN EAGLE STUDY Many of these measures are intended to reduce the conflict between the local population and the Iberian The golden eagle population status largely affects the wolf, trying to direct the wolf towards the wild prey manner by which EDPR develops and operates its wind species existing in their habitat. projects in adherence with the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Action (BGEPA). EDPR has contributed funding to the Oregon Eagle RAINWATER COLLECTION SYSTEMS Foundation (OEF) and the Washington Department of In 2014, as part of one of its environmental targets Fish and Wildlife (WDFW) to conduct state-specific within environmental management system, EDPR has efforts to understand population status of eagles in conducted a series of implementations of rainwater those states. Thus far, OEF has completed four years uptake systems in several Spanish substations. of surveys, and WDFW has completed two years. Results of these surveys are forthcoming, but initial The main objective is to reduce water consumption results do not indicate that Washington and Oregon from other less sustainable sources in such a way that, eagle populations are in large decline. taking advantage of rainwater, good environmental practice is done and a trend towards a self-sufficiency model is performed. Before the establishment of the BAT CURTAILMENT STORY target, there were already 14 installations using this system and, from the implementation to date, Direct mortality at wind turbines is currently the rainwater systems have been installed in further 17 greatest concern for bats in general at wind facilities substations. As a result of this measure, today 53% of the water consumed in Spain is rainwater origin. EDPR has instituted a conservation program that incorporates feathering* operational wind turbines During 2015 it is expected this system to be installed below the manufacturer’s operational cut-in speed in another 5 substations, so that almost 80% of from ½ hour before sunset to ½ hour after sunrise Spanish installations would benefit from this supply. during the fall migration period (August 1st to October 15th). Additionally, this type of systems were implemented in other European geographies, 65% of the water used in Starting in 2014, seven of EDPR’s wind facilities fully Portugal and 100% in Belgium is rainwater collected. feathered all wind turbines below the manufacturer’s operational cut-in speed for the fall migration season. EDPR will continue to implement this conservation plan ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION in future years and will enhance the functionality at many sites for the 2015 season. EDPR has launched an environmental restoration program in several Spanish facilities. The aim of this 70 68 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE 3.2.3. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT EDPR is strongly committed to contribute to the protection of the environment and biodiversity through a proactive environmental management of its wind farms in operation, as is stated in our Environmental and Biodiversity policies (detailed information available at www.edpr.com). The operation stage of wind farms, with a useful life of 25 years, stands as the core of our business. According to this, we are conscious of the importance of proper management of environmental matters in our facilities in operation, which is assured through the Environmental Management System (EMS). WHAT IS THE EMS? EDPR’s Environmental Management System (EMS) is a framework that helps the company achieve its environmental goals through consistent control of its operations, applicable to operations and maintenance phase of wind farms and solar PV plants, with the aim of improving its environmental performance. The system ensures focus on relevant environmental aspects, compliance with legal requirements while setting environmental objectives and targets to improve our environmental performance at country and platform levels. HOW DOES THE EMS PROCESS WORK? The implementation efforts of EDPR EMS started in 2008. All this is sustained by a continual improvement of the environmental performance mind-set and a qualified team aligned with the environmental strategy of the company. Both, our environment specialists and the network of external partners working with us, stand out for their extensive professional experience and knowledge of the environmental field. Potential Environmental Aspects Corporate Risk Objectives and Policy Assessment targets program Legal Requirements CONTROL, MONITORING AND AUDIT HOW IS THE EMS CERTIFIED? 7,954 The EMS is developed in accordance with the ISO 14001 international EDPR MW certified standard and certified by an independent certifying organization. These ISO 14001 consensus standards are considered the world’s benchmark for EMS Management Systems and is a guarantee that EDPR sites, regardless of its regulatory environment are aligned and at the same level of compliance. In 2014, EDPR accomplished its target to have its EMS certified ISO 14001 3,958 in all its wind farms in the US operating by then, adding 3.655 certified 3,664 MW to its portfolio of almost 100% European sites in operations certified 2,193 in 2014 in Europe. 88% of EDPR’s 9.0 GW installed capacity is covered by ISO 14001 certification, including 7,649 EBITDA MW and 958 305 Equity MW. 290 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 71 69 3.3. STAKEHOLDERS 3.3.1. EMPLOYEES To attract, develop and retain talent is a main goal of EDPR’s Human Resources strategy. At EDPR, our people are very important and we, as a responsible employer, want to retain them by offering quality employment that can be balanced with personal life. Despite a difficult macroeconomic environment, our employee base increased by three percent over last year to reach 919. New employees have the opportunity to join a company with a strong work culture that emphasizes team work within a diverse environment represented by 24 nationalities. We strive to offer our workforce with opportunities to develop professionally and to assume new roles to reach the company’s goals. Our employees are distributed globally as 21% of our employees work at EDPR Holding, 46% within the European Platform, 30% within the North American Platform and 3% in Brazil. All are encouraged to take advantage of the functional and geographic mobility opportunities so they can assume more responsibilities. HIRING As part of the employee recruiting strategy, EDPR is environment based on team building. committed to hiring the brightest people and seeks • Career Development: EDPR recognizes the potential employees attending top universities and importance of career development, helps employees business schools. We have carried out different acquire knowledge to master the business, and initiatives to enhance employer branding by rewards employees for their innovation, hard work participating in different Employer forums and hosting and performance. visits from top-tier universities. EDPR offers an internship program aimed at giving young • Diversity: EDPR has a diverse team, with employees professionals work experience and potentially from a wide range of backgrounds and cultures. identifying future employees with growth potential who • Sustainability: EDPR aims to encourage can contribute to the future development of the environmental, economic and social stewardship by business. its employees. EDPR hires talented individuals who are passionate At EDPR, we hire top talent ensuring a nonabout the industry and share our vision and purpose. discriminatory selection processes. This is confirmed in When hiring, the company takes into account not only the Code of Ethics which contains specific clauses of the specific job skills for a certain position but also the non-discrimination and equal opportunities in line with behavioural skills, which are at the base of the the company’s culture of diversity. organisational culture. As a company devoted to sustainability, EDPR aims to combine career goals with In 2014, EDPR hired 120 employees, 29% of which are company values. women. EDPR additionally offered 69 long term internships and 22 summer internships. • Team Oriented Environment: EDPR promotes an INTEGRATION EDPR has a strong company culture, and wants new company, our business, and depending on the hires to be able to understand this culture and quickly employee’s profile, a visit to one of the wind farms or adopt it in their day-to-day activities. To encourage the remote control dispatch centre. In 2013, EDPR this, new hires are involved in a number of workshops introduced a new integration tool called the Induction and team building activities aimed at improving Plan that was further developed in 2014. New hires integration and gaining a better understanding of the spend a few days at the corporate headquarters and company. are guided by colleagues from different areas to learn key aspects of their job and gain a better Our Welcome Day, a three day event for new hires, understanding of their work and how it contributes to allows new employees to obtain basic knowledge of the the mission of EDPR. SAFE ENVIRONMENT Guaranteeing a healthy and safe work environment for To support our strategy on health and safety, we have our employees and contractors is fundamental in all implemented proper management systems. These aspects of the business. EDPR’s Health and Safety systems are adapted to each country, with specific policy, available on our website, reflects the company’s standards and procedures based on the regulation and commitment to the prevention of occupational risks best practices. associated with our activities. 7270 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE The Management System is being certified OHSAS 18001:2007. During 2014, MW certified MW certified EDPR achieved an important milestone with the implementation of the OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 [VALU 7,695 E] (*) Environmental Management System in the United States. With the (*) implementation, almost 88% of EDPR’s capacity is now OHSAS 18011 certified. During 2014, EDPR registered an injury rate of 4.50 and a severity rate of 140. The increase in the injury rate is mainly driven by an increase in the 3,387 3,387 number of accidents with short-term absences; however, the average 2,707 2,707 duration of the absence was lower versus 2013. Additionally, the severity 2,194 2,194 rate increased due to a long-term absence coming from 2013. 1,647 1,647 848 848 Overall, the trend improves despite the increase in the number of accidents recorded. In 2015, greater focus on communicating the policies and the realization of benefits from OHSAS certification achieved during 2009 2010 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2014 will help drive improvements in the ratios. (*) 7,660 (*) MW EBITDA 7,660 MW EBITDA and 305 MW and 305 MW Equity Equity BENEFITS AND WORK LIFE BALANCE EDPR is committed to offer a competitive and morale. compensation and benefits package to recognize the EDPR has work-life balance programs and aims to work and talent of our employees. The compensation constantly improve and provide the most suitable policy addresses the needs of local markets and benefits to employees. Often specific benefits are only provides flexibility to adapt to the specifics of each applicable to certain countries in which EDPR is region. In addition to a fixed base compensation, there present. As an example of normalizing key benefits is a variable component that depends on a across the countries, EDPR employees in the United performance evaluation measured against the States and non-Iberian European countries can now company’s performance, area and individual KPIs. enjoy extended time off when they get married. Our performance based compensation is an important Additionally, employees in the United States can now tool to promote a greater focus from our employees on enjoy their birthday as paid leave. not only the company’s objectives but personal and Since 2011, EDPR’s practices have been recognized team objectives as well. In order to be competitive in with the Family Responsible Employer Certification the marketplace and recruit the best talent, EDPR (EFREmpresa Familiarmente Responsable) by the reviews and benchmarks itself against local markets in MásFamilia Foundation, in Spain. This certification order to offer the most attractive benefits packages. reflects EDPR’s commitment to promote a healthy At EDPR, we understand the importance of maintaining work-life balance for its employees. EDPR stood out for a balance between work and personal commitments. its effectiveness in terms of scheduling flexibility, This understanding has led to an increase of family support, equal opportunities and its ambitious employees’ satisfaction, while boosting productivity, policy of continuous improvement. DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING €1.6 million invested in training 43 hours of training per employee €1,755 in training per employee *Calculated with Average Headcount POTENTIAL APPRAISAL Assessing the potential of our talented pool of potential assessment process is independent from employees is a fundamental tool in people performance appraisal and is based on a 360 degree management. The purpose of the annual Potential evaluation model which considers feedback from Appraisal is to prepare employees to achieve his/her oneself, peers, subordinates and the manager. top potential development based on a set of strategic In 2014, in order to reinforce communication and skills. All of EDPR’s employees, regardless of their transparency, EDPR carried out meetings, led by the professional category, are evaluated yearly to executive team and directors, with employees determine their development potential by providing the explaining the 2014 Transversal area objectives that most suitable training. EDPR creates tailored apply to each platform. development plan to address specific needs. The TRAINING PLAN Each year a customized Training Plan is created based continuous improvement. EDPR is committed to offer on the results of the potential performance employees an attractive career plan, as well as assessment. The plan provides a framework for advanced education and training opportunities. managing training within the company, in close In 2014, the number of training hours increased to alignment with the business strategy. When defining 38,298, representing 43 hours of training per our strategy for the future, we strive to align current employee. Almost 83% of our employees received and future demands of the organization with our training during 2014. employees’ capabilities while fulfilling their professional During 2014, EDPR introduced the Executive development expectations and supporting their Development Program in collaboration with the EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 73 71 Instituto de Empresa (IE), a top ranked global Expanding upon the Coaching Program, initially business school in Madrid, Spain. The MBA style developed for the High Potential Program (HIPO), one program, offered 34 participants advanced education on one coaching sessions were provided by directors of in subjects ranging from Strategy and Leadership to the company to a wider pool of participants to advance Finance and Operations Management. The multi-month professional development and soft skills. Since program culminated in a group presentation of a promoting talent from within is a strategic choice, the solution to several business challenges in front of HIPO program was continued to further develop the members of the Executive Committee, the HR Director, skills of high potential employees. The program and an IE Director. involves various modules focusing on communication, leadership, and analysis of market trends. RENEWABLE ENERGY SCHOOL The Renewable Energy School, which forms part of the During the year, 30 training sessions were delivered in corporate EDP University, is an established platform for Europe, the United States, and Brazil, representing a internal capacity building and knowledge sharing. total of 8,431 training hours and 730 attendances. In 2014, which corresponds to the third academic year The School engaged 80 internal experts in the of the School, the focus was on streamlining the preparation and delivery of the training courses. training activities to ensure greater alignment between Next year, EDPR plans to have a similar level of the training offers of the School and the needs of activity. To prepare the Training Plan for 2015, the different employees. The School worked closely with School has developed individual training roadmaps for managers and the Human Resources department to each of its employees in Europe in order to guide improve the process of selecting participants to ensure managers and their teams and to facilitate the greater relevance and value creation. Significant effort selection of the most relevant courses. was also dedicated to improving the existing courses Since the beginning of the project in 2011, the School through greater usage of EDPR specific case studies has already reached 804 employees of EDPR in all the and practical exercises designed to enrich the geographies. employees’ learning experience. PROMOTIONS & MOBILITY All our employees are covered by our performance mobility is of upmost importance as a powerful tool to evaluation system that collects information from share EDPR culture and best practices with new several data sources to evaluate employee markets where we plan to enter. performance. During 2014, 73 employees had functional or In the context of fostering workers’ growth through geographical mobility including 8 new expatriates diversity of experience, EDPR encourages professional (expats). EDPR now has a total of 23 expats. mobility. To support the global growth strategy, COMMUNICATION EDPR is committed to provide employees with the best newsletter with human resources related news. The workplace experience. To help determine key drivers of publication includes upcoming events, training and employee satisfaction, EDPR ran a survey in 2013 to volunteering opportunities, social benefits, collect, analyse and act upon the results. After holding information on new hires, ongoing recruitments, and workshops to further discuss the results, an Action is an important tool to share the social initiatives Plan was created to improve satisfaction during 2014. with the employees. The plan was primarily focused on improving In addition to open communication channels communication within the company. It is important to established for employees, satisfaction surveys are have open lines of communications with employees so conducted every two years to gather opinions and gain in order to improve the channels, different measures an understanding of the motivation and satisfaction were implemented: level of employees. The participation rate in the last • Meetings with the CEO: During these meetings, survey reached 95% with a satisfaction score of 77%. employees are given the opportunity to share their During 2014, the Great Place to Work (GPTW) point of view of the business from their positions and organization named EDP Renewables in Poland the learn about the strategy of the company and how best place to work. EDPR also continued to be among this relates to their day-to-day tasks. This is a great the 50 best companies to work for in the GPTW opportunity for employees to better understand their Rankings in Spain and the UK. impact on the business. Almost 85% of our employees already had the chance to meet the CEO. EDPR’s ability to attract, develop, and retain talent is a testament to its commitment to excelling in all areas. • Meetings with HR: EDPR is keen on connecting with It’s no wonder that EDPR continues to be among the employees. HR regularly holds organized meetings 50 best companies to work for as determined by the with a small group of employees to discuss important Great Place to Work rankings. A motivated workforce issues via an open forum. Almost 85% of the aligned with the company’s strategy is one of the key employees have participated. drivers behind our ability to deliver on results during 2014. • HR Monthly: EDPR employees receive a monthly 74 72 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE 3.3.2. LOCAL COMMUNITIES EDPR is well aware of the impact that our activity has in the local communities where we develop our sites and how we can maximize those potential benefits for the company and the inhabitants of the surrounding areas through an open communication with our stakeholders. Therefore, we establish a relationship of trust and collaboration with the communities where we have presence from the very initial stages of our projects, organizing informative sessions, we hold open dialogs with these communities, to explain the benefits of wind and solar energy. We also organize volunteering activities to promote a sustainable development of the society. The dialog with the surrounding community is an integral part of our business activity. We carry on discussions and meetings with the local stakeholders during all the phases of the sites, to learn about their concerns and to define the best way to address them. It is also a means to communicate some of EDPR’s core values to the local community. FUNDACIÓN EDP Fundación EDP’s mission is to strengthen the developed internally such as the volunteering commitment of the EDP Group in Spain, with special programmes or the interrelation with the community emphasis on those social, cultural, environmental and activities, and many others developed by third educational areas related to research that spearheads parties such as Fundación Sociedad, Educación y global sustainable development. Desarrollo, several food banks or Fundación Cerro Verde. As such, Fundación EDP has promoted during 2014 a whole series of initiatives in Spain, funded by EDPR: EDPR has devoted more than 0.5 million euros in 2014 to support the activities of Fundación EDP. For 2015 • In the educational area EDPR has kept and reinforced EDPR will keep supporting the activities of Fundación the previously existing initiatives, namely the EDP, including the new social programme called “EDP trainees programme, the sixth edition of the Solidaria 2015” to contribute to improve the quality of University Challenge contest and the Green life and the integration of social disadvantaged people. Education grants for young students. In addition to these, EDPR has implemented for its first time the Details of these activities can be obtained in the web initiative “Tu Energía”, to explain primary education page of Fundación EDP (www.fundacionedp.es). students the importance of renewable energy and the differences with fossil energy sources. The EDPR devotes time and resources to local communities programme was attended by 3,862 students in in all countries in which it operates. Therefore, and in Albacete province. line with EDP Foundation's strategy, its activities are focused on three pillars: education, social and • In the environmental area Fundación EDP has been environment. EDPR has several modalities of supporting, among others, two sounding projects collaboration with communities, initiatives that only carried out by the University of Málaga and by involve the company, others in which it does it along Fundación del Patrimonio Natural de Castilla y León, with their employees and others in which are EDPR respectively. In both cases the programmes are employees who dedicate their resources or time to studying and implement actions to protect several these activities. Thereby, EDPR shows that is a species of birds of prey. company concerned about one of its key stakeholders both at organizational and individual level. • And in the social area EDPR together with Fundación EDP has supported several initiatives, some SOLIDARITY TEAMBUILDING In 2014, taking the opportunity that most of the employees in Europe were together in Madrid in order to assist to the Annual Meeting, a team-building event took place December 2014. 600 employees were challenged to spend one full morning assembling a large variety of furniture that EDPR then distributed to several Spanish non-profit organizations. Soñar Despierto, Espiral, Nuestra Señora de los Desamparados, Corazones Menudos and Afanias were the NGOs involved. More than 2,400 hours dedicated together to a one same goal, collaborate with the disadvantaged. This activity reinforces the team spirit and EDPR’s commitment with community. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 75 73 CHRISTMAS CAMPAIGN IN POLAND EDPR’s support to local Community in Poland is increasing year by year. One of the most relevant actions this year was the collaboration between EDPR and the local authorities during the 2014 Christmas campaign. EDPR organizes this initiative each year in all the polish regions where the Company is present. The campaign was addressed to more than 500 kids aged between 3 and 14 years old, who received several packages with Christmas presents. All this in addition to the enjoyment of a Christmas party that was specially organized for them in each of the towns, where kids enjoyed a memorable and festive day with colleagues and relatives. These type of events receive high recognition by the community. KILOS GLOBAL SOLIDARITY CAMPAIGN Kilos Global Solidarity Campaign is an EDPR initiative that aims to collect food and products of first necessity. Food and products donated by EDPR employees are collected in each office and then distributed to local NGOs. This initiative was developed in Spain, Romania, the UK, Italy, Poland and the US where more than 825 kilos were collected. Through this project, 9 NGOs of 6 countries will receive the solidarity impact of EDPR employees. Moreover, in countries where EDPR has more presence, Spain and the US, employees also participated in volunteering activities with these NGOs. The possibility of being involved in all the process help employees to develop their volunteering capabilities. GREEN EDUCATION Green Education is a scholarship program launched by EDPR in 2011 with the purpose of offering financial support for the educational development of children and young ones coming from families with limited resources. During 2014, EDPR has continued providing education grants to 107 students from Spain, Portugal, Poland, Romania, France, Italy and the UK based on their academic merits and financial situation. The commitment with EDPR with society and the new generations is constant and growing. Proof of that is the number of Green Education program scholarships has increased respect to last year. This program creates strong ties with the communities. PARTE DE NÓS – IT’S UP TO US! In June, the EDPR Group volunteering campaign “Parte de Nós” dedicated several activities across Europe and North America to the Environment. Employees were invited to participate as well as their families and friends. In Spain, volunteers collaborated with non-profit organization “Fundación Oxígeno” in Tubilla del Lago (Burgos) by restoring the lagoon of Valcabadillo. In Italy volunteers worked together with Legambiente on cleaning an area that will be used as an urban garden. Also in Houston, volunteers met in the Urban Harvest to help maintaining a community garden. In the UK the organization Lothian Conservation Volunteers did environmental conservation works in Edinburgh. In the US, EDPR collaborated with Urban Harvest Community Garden. Volunteers helped harvest the garden’s vegetables and improve the appearance of the garden. The objective of “Parte de Nós” is to sensitize the community with the conservation of nature and biodiversity. During 2014, 67 volunteers in Spain, Italy and the US have collaborated in this Campaign with more than 500 hours contributions in their own time. 7674 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE 3.3.3. SUPPLIERS The performance of suppliers is essential for the success of EDPR. The company bases its relationship with suppliers on trust, collaboration and the creation of shared values shared, and this results in a joint capacity to innovate, strengthen sustainability policy and improve the quality of our operations. This significantly contributes to EDPR keeping the leadership in its areas of operation and it is a factor inducing competitiveness in the markets in which it operates. The importance of sustainability in the supply chain is a key thing for EDPR. EDPR’s Code of Ethics defines the core values that must be respected and the framework of the relationship with suppliers. Moreover, our Health & Safety and our Environmental Management Systems require our employees and all other individuals working on behalf of EDPR to follow a series of best practices in those areas, as required in our Environmental and H&S Policy. EDPR Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Certified suppliers Certified suppliers Department to put our values and principles into practice, therefore when 74% 74% procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all 67% 67% 65% 65% reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption and the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics. Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, 25% 25% this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. In 2014, about 67% of EDPR’s suppliers in Corporate and Europe had Occupation Health & Safety system and 74% Environmental system. In Europe & Europe Corporate & Corporate North America North America North America, 25% and 65% of the companies have environmental and Environmental system or equivalents Occupational H&S system or equivalents health and safety management systems, respectively. Occupational H&S system or equivalents Environmental system or equivalents • Europe includes suppliers above 500k euros; • Europe includes suppliers above 500k euros; SUPPLY CHAIN DEVELOPMENT IN THE UK • North America started capturing • North Americadata Sustainability started capturing as part of the supplier Sustainabilityindata qualification 2014;as part of the supplier The development of offshore wind energy brings significant new markets qualification in 2014; and opportunities to Scotland and the UK. As a developing industry, • North America figures consider Biodiversity North America figures consider Biodiversity offshore wind requires the development of new enterprises and • programs as Environmental Management programs System . as Environmental Management diversification of existing enterprise to undertake the works associated System. with the deployment of infrastructure. MORL a joint venture between EDPR and Repsol Nuevas Energias UK has worked with a variety of agencies to enable businesses local to the Moray Firth, Scotland and the UK to take advantage of the new offshore wind market. As result of this work, new companies were created and also spurred the establishment of new joint ventures with broad-­‐ranging capabilities. Since 2012 MORL’s competitive tender process has driven the development of 7-­‐ 8MW turbines suitable for deeper water, high wind sites which are capable of reducing the cost of energy. Where monopoles have been the industry standard in the past, MORL is driving competition between next generation substructures. Successful deployment will support the evolution of the industry, establishing the standard for the rest of R3 and opening new areas of seabed worldwide to development. Additionally, MORL has identified partners in both the public and private sector to identify the skills gap and develop strategies to fill it. Resolving the skills gap has already yielded benefits beyond the UK market. Skills which were established developing MORL’s projects were successfully exported to France where EDPR won both sites of the French Round 2 tender. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 77 75 3.4. INNOVATION Innovation is about new technologies for more renewable energy such as offshore wind but that is not all: it is also about attitude, looking for ongoing improvement every day at what we do. INNOVATION IN DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION OPTIMIZATION OF WIND FARM LAYOUT AND CONSTRUCTION During the construction of a wind farm, finding the optimal design for wind farm foundations is critical to control capex requests. Optimal superficial foundations are those that minimize the volume for the specific conditions of the site, while ensuring all applicable safety requirements. However, in the case of deep foundations (piloted ones), finding the optimal solution is more complex as it is a process of optimizing a number of different variables: shape of the foundation and the number, diameter, type and length of the piles. EDPR internally developed an algorithm to obtain the optimal design piloted foundation for a wind farm project once known the wind turbine weight and the geotechnical information of the site. WIND FARM OPTIMIZATION MODEL After three years of work, the Department of Energy Assessment EDPR created the edpWOM (Windfarm Optimization Model) program. It is a specific software for estimating annual energy production and optimization of layout adapted to the particularities of the company. This program has been the reference tool in the project offshore Moray Firth. The programming environment allows simulations automatically and in a reduced period of time compared to other commercially available software. One of its strengths is that being a code generated internally, supports any modification or addition of new criteria according to the needs of the project at the time, without modelling the data again as with the other standard software marketed. It is able to optimize according to different adaptable and independent criteria according to the study to be performed (production, deep foundation costs, financial variables, offshore...). INNOVATION IN OPERATIONS REGULATION OF ACTIVE AND REACTIVE SEVERAL WIND FARMS ON THE SAME NODE The topology of certain parks EDPR, evacuating several wind farms through the same node, creates a new challenge for EDPR, it is considered as a single wind farm for compliance with grid code proposes (regulation of active, reactive or voltage). There are no commercial tools to control grid code compliance in these specific situations when different technologies interact. EDPR developed a control system that depending on the data collected at the node and the data from each one of the difference sites, balance and send the appropriate instructions to each wind farm control system to guarantee grid code compliance. This requires some preliminary simulations of static and dynamic wind turbines and control systems behaviour for each site, to be able to define the balancing control algorithms. MINIMIZING IMBALANCE COSTS One of the main challenges at EDPR consist on minimizing the error in the energy estimates of the six intraday market sessions, and thus minimizing the imbalance costs. To do so, EDPR has developed an adaptive system based on a non-conventional technology in the energy sector that corrects the original estimates based on the historical errors committed in past predictions. These algorithm improvements not only reduce costs but also enhances the integration of wind energy in the national electricity system. 78 76 EDPR 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 ENERGY THAT THAT MAKES ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT MAKES A REPORT A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EDP Inovação is the EDP group company responsible for promoting innovation and research and development within the different business units within the group, EDPR among them. It operates in three distinct areas: 1) technological development; 2) innovation in products, organization and processes; 3) transversal support for R&D+i. WINDFLOAT The ‘WindFloat’ project is one of the flagstaffs of the renewable R&D project list at EDP, with a deep waters offshore prototype that has been reporting excellent results after three years in operation under harsh conditions, having to endure waves up to 15 meters high, off the coast of Aguçadoura in the north of Portugal. This is the most ambitious innovation project on floating offshore technology conducted worldwide so far, the first wind energy turbine in open waters in the Atlantic ocean, and also the first time for a triangular semi-submersible floating structure supporting a 2 MW wind turbine allowing the utilization of offshore winds with great stability at water depths below 40 meters, existing at long distances from the coast. It is the first offshore wind energy project in the world not requiring the use of any heavy offshore lifting equipment. The whole process of final assembly, installation and commissioning preparation was performed on land, in a controlled environment. When the construction on land was completed in dry docks located in Setúbal, south of Lisbon, the structure was towed for about 350 kilometres in the open water. The capability to undertake the towing operation under such circumstances can be attributed to the performance and stability of WindFloat. These factors also allow any ready-to-use commercial wind turbines of any manufacturer to be installed on WindFloat. The project is a partnership between EDP, Repsol, Principle Power, A. Silva Matos, Vestas and InovCapital and is also supported by the Innovation Support Fund (FAI), involving more than 60 suppliers, more than two thirds are Portuguese. In March, while the competition for the offshore wind energy capacity tender in France was ongoing, EDPR hosted French journalists to visit the ‘Windfloat’ project. The journalists met at the dispatch centre in Oporto, and were flown by helicopter to see from the sky, this project live and in action. In July, French mayors from 20 municipalities also paid a visit to this project, this time going on a boat out in the ocean to see the turbine operate. These visits were a great opportunity for EDPR to demonstrate how wind energy generation works offshore, while strengthening ties with key opinion leaders in France, a country that has historically relied greatly on nuclear energy. Last October, João Manso Neto participated in an international conference held in Lisbon, organized by the Wave Energy Centre (WavEC) in partnership with the United States Embassy in Portugal, where companies, research centres, public agencies and political decision-makers gathered to discuss about the transatlantic efforts to create a technology cluster capable of leveraging the tremendous economic potential of the sea. Wind offshore renewable energy was highlighted at the event and EDPR solid commitment to developing technologies for offshore wind exploration showcased with the WindFloat case. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 79 77 3.5. INTEGRITY AND ETHICS Ethical behaviour is absolutely essential for the functioning of the economy. EDPR recognizes its importance and complexity, and is committed to address ethics and its compliance. But is employees’ responsibility to comply with ethical obligations. GOVERNANCE MODEL FOR ETHICS ETHICS COMMITTEE Ethics are the cornerstone of EDPR strategy, to the extent The Ethics Committee will receive, register, process that EDPR has a Code of Ethics that goes beyond just and report to the Board of Directors all reports defining the company principles to be adopted, but also regarding violations of the Code in matters of how employees and any other service provider working legislation and ethics, establishing, if appropriate, on behalf of EDPR should behave when dealing with the corrective actions. company stakeholders. The code of Ethics has its own regulation that defines a process and channels to report The Ethics Committee is composed of three members: any potential incident or doubt on the application of the the presidents of the Audit and Control Committee, the code. The Ethics Ombudsman is behind this Related Parties Transactions Committee, and the communication channel, and to analyse and present to Appointments and Remuneration Committee. the Ethics Committee any potential ethical problem. The The Committee’s main functions include: code is communicated and distributed to all employees and interested parties, and complemented with tailored • Proposing corporate ethics instruments, policies, training sessions. goals and targets. • Monitoring application of the Code of Ethics, laying CODE OF ETHICS down guidelines for its regulation and overseeing its proper application by the Company and its EDPR’s Code of Ethics applies to all company subsidiaries. employees, regardless of their position in the • Analysing reported violations of the Code of Ethics, organization and working location, and they all must deciding on their relevance and admissibility. comply with. Our suppliers should be aligned with the • Deciding if there is any need for a more in-depth spirit of our Code of Ethics, and this is reflected in our investigation to ascertain the implications and procurement policies. persons involved. During 2014, a revision of the code was approved, to • Appointing the Ethics Ombudsman. reinforce some areas such as integrity, human rights, compliance with the legislation and transparency. In ETHICS OMBUDSMAN addition, the revised code, is divided into principles of In the first meeting of the Ethics Committee held in action, engagement with stakeholders and ethical 2011, EDPR’s Ethics Ombudsman was nominated. process. This division aims to clearly state which are the values and the behaviours with stakeholders that The Ethics Ombudsmen plays an essential role in the anyone representing EDPR should have, and how the ethics process. He guarantees impartiality and process of overseeing the code compliance works. objectivity in registering and documenting all complaints of ethical nature submitted to him. He After this revision, the code was announced and monitors their progress and ensures that the identity published on the Company’s intranet and sent by eof the complainants remains confidential, while mail by the General Secretary to all employees. All entering into contact with them whenever appropriate, new hires find the Code of Ethics included in the until the case is closed. welcome pack that each employee receives when entering the Company and are required to return it EDPR ETHICS PROCESS with a signed acknowledgment. EDPR stakeholders, both internal and external, can CODE OF ETHICS REGULATION easily start an ethical process or resolve doubts through the Ethics Channel, either contacting via eThe Code of Ethics regulation, adopted by the Board of mail the Ethics Ombudsman or filling the form Directors in 2011, aims to regulate the application within available in the corporate website. The Ethics EDPR of the Code of Ethics. Particularly, it defines the Ombudsman guarantees transparency and professional procedures for the reception, registration and processing secrecy throughout the entire process. of information received by the Company concerning violations of the Code in matters of legislation, ethics, In addition, EDPR provides employees with a conduct in the work environment, human rights, equal whistleblowing channel enabling them to report directly opportunities, integrity, relations with customers and and confidentially to the Audit and Control Committee suppliers, environment and sustainability. The Regulation any practice presumed illicit or any alleged accounting of the Code of Ethics features aspects such as: or financial irregularity in their Company. • Job description and responsibilities; In 2014 there were no communications to the Ethics • Procedures; Ombudsmen regarding any irregularity at EDPR and no • Confirmation, investigation and corrective measures; communications regarding any irregularity with material • Confidentially and anonymity; Management impact at EDPR though the whistleblowing channel. supervision and revision. 80 78 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT ENERGY MAKES A THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE DIFFERENCE Reports of alleged violations of the Code of Ethics must be submitted to Identify an alleged violation of the the Ethics Ombudsmen, indicating personal data and a detailed code of ethics description of the situation. Ombudsman performs a summary Ethics Ombudsmen first confirms the events reported and submits a investigation preliminary report on the initial confirmations to the Ethics Committee. Ethics Committee decides if the Ethics Committee analyses every situation reported and decides as to complaint portrays a violation whether it should be classified as a violation of the Code of Ethics. When conducting an investigation, the Company shall abide by the law and When a violation is confirmed, the its own in-house rules. After the investigation is complete, the Committee Committee opens an investigation decides whether any corrective or disciplinary action is required. ETHICS PROGRAM ANTI-BRIBERY REGULATION Our commitment to ethics is reflected in our Ethics In order to ensure compliance with the standards of Program. It was first launched in 2010 and in order to Anti-bribery Regulation in every geography where renew ethical behaviours within the company and EDPR operates, the Company has developed an Antitransmit the new additions to the code, will be Bribery Policy of application to all EDPR Group, which performed again during the first half of 2015. The was approved by its Board of Directors on December, Ethics program is an important tool to assess the 2014. This Anti-Corruption Policy will involve a series current status and promote awareness on the issue of new procedures regarding the relationships of EDPR internally. The Program consists of an interpretative employees with external parties, namely the approval guide of the Code of Ethics, a survey to assess how of certain actions regarding hospitality to and from ethics is understood by EDPR’s workers and a training external parties, charitable donations, and program. During 2015, the training program will sponsorships. This Policy will be implemented in the consist on a transversal online session, to transmit Group throughout 2015. general concepts to all employees, and specific on-site sessions, tailored to the different work positions and A full description of the Ethics governance model can associated risks. be found in the Corporate Governance Report. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS EDPR is committed to respect freedom of trade union association and recognise the right to collective bargaining. Our commitment is reflected in the Code of Ethics, employee working for companies of the group, and its compliance is controlled through the Ethics including EDPR. Channel, where stakeholders can anonymously report on any infraction. Despite not taking an active part in the negotiations, EDPR wants to facilitate the broadcast At EDPR, from 919 employees, 21% were covered of any update in those agreements. For example, in by collective bargaining agreements. Collective Portugal, during 2014 a new collective bargaining bargaining agreements apply to all employees agreement was negotiated. EDPR organized training working under an employment relationship with and sessions for its employees to inform about the for the account of the some companies of EDPR results of those negotiations. group, regardless of the type of contract, the professional group into which they are classified, During the last years, EDPR has performed different their occupation or job. However, matters relating benchmark analysis of the benefits stated at the to the corporate organization itself, the laws of each different collective bargaining agreements that country or even usage and custom in each country apply to our employees, comparing them against result in certain groups being expressly excluded the benefits offered by the company and, in general from the scope of collective bargaining agreements. terms, the company offers a more competitive benefits package compared to what is stated in the The collective bargaining agreements that are collective bargaining agreement. applied at EDPR are usually negotiated at state level or regional level, and EDPR may be just one of the During 2014, representatives of the company held players among other leading sectorial companies in different meetings with employees’ representatives the negotiation with employees’ representatives, to deal with some critical topics that affect EDPR, and in some cases, governmental representatives. such as the health and safety of its employees, or In Portugal and Brazil, EDP negotiates its own the bonus payment that is being done in Brazil. In agreements with employees, and those apply to all France, EDPR representatives defined a roadmap with the elected employees’ representatives with the actions to follow in the short term. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 81 79 3.6. EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION REMUNERATION STRUCTURE EDPR’s remuneration policy approved by the General Shareholders Meeting on April 8th 2014 (with 99.6% votes in favour), submitted by the Board of Directors after a proposal of its Nominations and Remunerations Committee (that composed of three non-executive and independent Directors), defines a structure with a fixed remuneration for all members of the Board and a variable remuneration, with annual and multi-annual components, for the members of the Executive Committee. Annual Fixed base Variable remuneration (cash) remuneration (cash bonus) Multi-annual The maximum annual variable remuneration approved by the General Shareholders Meeting for all the executive members of the Board of Directors was €1 million per year. EDPR has not incorporated any share remuneration or share purchase options plans as components of remuneration of its Directors. Variable annual and multiannual remuneration are a percentage of fixed annual component, with a superior weight for multi-annual vs annual component. The value of variable annual remuneration may range between 0% and 85% of the 80% of annual fixed remuneration. The value of variable multi-annual remuneration may range between 0% and 85% of the 120% of annual fixed remuneration. For the CFO and COOs there is a qualitative evaluation by the CEO about the annual performance, weighting 20% in the calculation of the annual variable remuneration and 32% of the multi-annual variable remuneration. The remaining is calculated based on the KPIs and respective weights indicated below. The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) used to determine the amounts of the annual and multi-annual variable are aligned with the strategic grounds of the Company: growth, risk/return and efficiency. These are the same for all members of the Executive Committee, although with specific targets for in the case of the Chief Operating Officers for Europe/Brazil and North America. KPI Weight Total Shareholder Return vs. Peers & PSI 20 15% Incremental MW (EBITDA + Net Equity) 15% ROIC Cash % 8% EBITDA 12% Net Income 12% Technical Availability 6% Opex / MW 6% Capex / MW 6% *) Sustainability 10% Employee satisfaction 5% Appreciation of the Remuneration Committee 5% *) based on external performance evaluation using a Sustainability Index methodology that benchmarks the company to its sector 82 80 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE OTHER REPORTING TOPICS RELEVANT SUBSEQUENT EVENTS EDPR executes a new asset rotation transaction in the US During the third quarter of 2014, EDP Renováveis S.A. (EDPR) has reached an agreement with Fiera Axium Infrastructure US L.P. (Fiera Axium) to sell a minority cash equity interest in a US wind portfolio with a total production capacity of 1,101 MW. Fiera Axium’s interest in the portfolio will represent 394.5 MW and is the second asset rotation transaction announced by EDPR with Fiera Axium, further strengthening the existing partnership. The portfolio is comprised of 9 operating wind farms. All of the wind farms have long-term offtake agreements in place. Based on i) the transaction price and ii) the expected tax equity liabilities of the projects, the total enterprise value on the 1,101 MW portfolio amounts to US 1.7 billion of US Dollar translating to 1.54 million of US Dollar/MW. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals. The offer contemplates an initial funding to occur upon obtaining regulatory approvals and a final funding to occur upon achievement of commercial operations of the assets under construction. Acquisition by EDPR of 45% of the share capital of EDP Renováveis Brasil In November 2014, EDP Renováveis, S.A. and EDP Energias do Brasil (EDP Brasil) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding envisaging the acquisition by EDPR of 45% of the share capital of EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. controlled by EDP Brasil. Following this transaction EDPR will control 100% of the share capital of EDPR Brasil. EDPR Brasil operates 84 MW of wind energy and has in execution 237 MW of wind energy projects with longterm power purchase agreements (PPAs) awarded in the 2011 and 2013 energy auctions. EDPR announces the sale of minority stakes in wind farms in Brazil to CTG In December 2014, EDP Renováveis, S.A. through its subsidiary EDPR Brasil entered into an agreement with CWEI (Brasil) Participações Ltda, a subsidiary of CTG to sell an equity shareholding of 49% in both operational and under development wind farms in Brasil. The transaction scope covers 84 MW in operation, as mentioned above, with an average age of 4 years, as well as 237 MW under development, remunerated according to longterm awarded contracts to sell the electricity produced for 20 years. EDP Renováveis executes project finance for 120 MW in Brazil On 26 January 2015, EDP Renováveis, S.A. (EDPR) has executed project finance structure agreements with the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES) for the Baixa do Feijão project, which comprises four wind farms with a total capacity of 120 MW. The Baixa do Feijão project is currently under construction and is located in the State of Rio Grande do Norte, one of the windiest locations of Brazil. The long-term contracted debt facilities amount to 306 million of Brazilian Reais and its financial closing is subject to customary conditions. The execution of this agreement reflects EDPR financing strategy to contract long-term debt in local currency at competitive prices in order to mitigate the refinancing risk and to reduce the foreign exchange risk by having a natural hedge between revenues and costs. In December 2011, at the Brazilian energy A-5 auction, these four projects were awarded with 20-year Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) starting in January 2016. INFORMATION ON AVERAGE PAYMENT TERMS TO SUPPLIERS In 2014 total payments made from Spanish companies to suppliers, amounted to €107,975 thousands with a weighted average payment period of 62.4 days, therefore grossly in line with the payment period stipulated by law of 60 days. Notwithstanding, the company is maintaining an optimization of its internal processes in order to settle all payments due within the maximum legal period. 04. GRI REPORT 4.1 GRI PRINCIPLES 83 4.2. PRINCIPLE OF MATERIALITY 84 4.3. GRI REPORT 86 4.3.1. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 86 4.3.2. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 88 4.3.3. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 94 4.4. EXTERNAL CHECKS 105 4.4.1. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT 105 4.4.2. GRI MATERIALITY DISCLOSURES 107 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS THE FUTURE Engaged with the community through its voluntary programmes and initiatives that promote social welfare. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 85 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 83 85 4.1. GRI PRINCIPLES (G4-18, G4-20, G4-21, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27) This is the sixth year EDPR publishes an integrated report describing the company’s performance, with respect to the three pillars of sustainability: economic, environmental and social. Information is presented according to G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for Sustainability Reporting and provides also information on the additional electricity sector supplement indicators directly related to the company business, which is the power generation from renewable sources, basically wind. A full GRI index for the report can be found in our website http://www.edpr.com/sustainability/documents-library-andpublications/documentation-gri/. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact is an initiative of the United Nations launched in 2000 that defines guideline directives for businesses that opt to contribute to sustainable development. EDPR has become signatory of this initiative and is committed to put these principles into practice, informing society of the progress it has achieved. In addition, the company has a Code of Ethics that contains specific clauses on the respect for human rights. In compliance with the Code, EDPR expresses its total opposition to forced or compulsory labour and recognizes that human rights should be considered fundamental and universal, based on conventions, treaties and international initiatives like the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization and the Global Compact. Our Procurement Manual also includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put these principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. To learn more about the UN Global Compact, please visit www.unglobalcompact.org. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE The GRI directives define a set of indicators and recommendations to create a global standard for disclosing information concerning the three sustainability pillars: economic, environmental and social performance. A company’s adherence to these directives means that it concurs with the concept and practices of sustainability. The whole report, including environmental and social indicators contemplated by the GRI, was audited by KPMG. The GRI framework defines a list of principles to help organizations ensure that the content of the report is balanced and accurate. EDPR applied these principles as the basis for the 2014 Annual Report. To learn more about the GRI guidelines, please visit www.globalreporting.org. GRI COVERAGE This Annual Report follows G4 Guidelines in its accordance with Core Option and GRI Materiality Disclosures Service has verified that the General Standard Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27 are correctly located in both the GRI Content Index and in the text of the final report. Additionally, its content has been assured according to ISAE 3000 by KPMG. Materiality Sustainability Context Accuracy, Clarity, Comparability and Reliability This report includes the relevant This report is placed in the information for the company’s context of the company The information presented follows the stakeholders, as derived from the strategy to contribute to the GRI directives aim to make materiality studies performed. sustainable development of information comparable, traceable, society, whenever possible. accurate and reliable. Stakeholder Inclusiveness Completeness Timeliness and Balance The concerns and the feedback The information presented in this received from our stakeholders were Unless otherwise stated, this report relates to FY2014. EDPR is taken into account during the report covers all the company’s committed to report sustainability report’s creation. subsidiaries and is presented in information at least once a year. For additional information about our a balanced and objective Additionally, sustainability information stakeholders, please refer to The perspective. is reported in market reports. Company and Stakeholders Section or visit our website. 86 84 86 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 4.2. PRINCIPLE OF MATERIALITY (G4-18, G4-20, G4-21, G4-26, G4-27) The macro-economic context, where the challenges of sustainability are increasing, summing up with the diversity of EDPR’s stakeholders, results in a large and complex list of important issues, which must be prioritised according to its relevance and significance. An issue is considered material when it influences the decision, the action and the performance of an organization and its stakeholders. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES EDPR’s material issues were identified and the results achieved supported the preparation of this Annual Report, as reflected in the company’s management strategy and, in particular, in its agenda for sustainability. METHODOLOGY The methodology adopted is based on the Accountability standards and information is collected corporately and in business units. Materiality is obtained by the interception of the issues identified by stakeholders with the importance given internally by the business. The topics identified by the company are prioritized according to the frequency with which they appear in different categories analysed. RELEVANCE FOR SOCIETY Society vector resulted from the following analysis vectors: Regulation Completed based on the recognized regulatory risk. Benchmark A benchmark was carried out with 25 international companies with operations in the electricity and gas market, and headquartered in countries where EDPR is present, chosen based on the external recognition of its sustainability practices: Cemig; Duke Energy; E.ON; Endesa; Iberdrola; Enel; Terna; GDF Suez; Gas Natural; RWE; EDF; Snam Rete Gas; Spectra Energy Corp; PPL CORPORATION; PSEG; Fortum; National Grid; CPFL Energia; Eskom; Nextera Energy; Acciona; Enel Green Power; AGL; Vestas; Gamesa. International studies It was conducted a study of the materially more relevant topics, that were identified by studies of sustainability strategy analysis, oriented to gas or electric sector. Analysed studies: 1) Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What stakeholders want to know? (Global Reporting Initiative); 2) Electric Utilities Empowering Stakeholders (WBCSD); 3) Global Expert Perspectives on the state of Sustainable Development (GlobeScan); 4) GEO5 for business: Impacts on a changing environment of the corporate world (UNEP); 6) Expect the unexpectable: Building business value in a changing world (KPMG); 7) What do investors expect from non-financial reporting? ACCA Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. 8) Gestão Origami Estudo Sectorial Energia Eléctrica, 2012 (specific study for EDPR Brasil). SRI Surveys Identification of the topics most frequently requested by ethical investors was conducted by consulting the following survey respondents: Ethisphere; SAM (Dow Jones Sustainability Index Support Company); Evalueserve (FTSE4Good Support Company); VIGEO; OEKOM; ISE (Corporate Sustainability Index managed by Bovespa, Brazil). EDPR stakeholders’ different expectations EDPR updated results from the survey conducted to external stakeholders of the company in an internal workshop in order to evaluate whether the results obtained the previous year continued to be representative for the company stakeholders. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 87 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 85 87 RELEVANCE FOR BUSINESS EDPR conducted an internal workshop to define the vector importance for business. The workshop consisted on the filter of the topics that were not considered material for EDPR, and sorting the different topics by weighting each. The average contribution was considered the importance value for the business. RESULTS (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, 64-26, G4-27) Results are presented aggregated based on the thematic proximity and their respective positioning in the global matrix. The scope of this materiality matrix covers the whole value chain of EDPR. 88 86 88 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 4.3. GRI REPORT This sustainability report responds to the GRI G4 Guidelines indicators, and also provides information on the additional electricity sector supplement indicators directly related to the company business, which is the power generation from renewable sources. EDPR is not a traditional utility company, as its core business is based on generating electricity from renewable sources and does not include power distribution or power commercialization. As a result exceptions may exist for GRI and Sector Supplement indicators. We also consider as our final product the electricity produced by our wind energy assets. EDPR is committed to the progressive improvement of the information provided. According to GRI Guidelines, this chapter presents sustainability performance indicators to describe the company’s performance in 2014 for each one of the applicable or material GRI indicators. This section also includes references to other chapters of this integrated report, so it can be used as an index to find the company’s management approach and strategy regarding specific topics. A complete GRI index can be found at http://www.edpr.com/sustainability/documents-library-and-publications/documentation-gri/. 4.3.1. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4 DMA Renewable energies have a strong influence in the local communities. Assets are usually constructed in remote locations, bringing positive economic benefits to the local communities, while contributing to the world fight against climate change. Additionally, we believe that innovation is key to sustain competitive advantage and support growth. For us, innovation is about new technologies for more renewable energy such as offshore wind but that is not all: it is also about attitude, looking for ongoing improvement every day at what we do. A detailed disclosure of different projects lead by EDPR can be found at Innovation section. Moreover, EDPR in partnership with the different companies of the EDP Group, EDP Inovação is responsible for performing Research & Development (R&D) activity and its expenditure. A detailed disclosure of the total expenditure in R&D can be found at www.edp.pt. G4 EC1 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED €m Economic value generated and distributed 2014 2013 Turnover 1,171 1,249 Other income 169 167 Gains/(losses) on the sale of financial assets 0 0 Share of profit in associates 22 16 Financial income 102 108 Economic Value Generated 1,463 1,540 Cost of raw material and consumables used 18 18 Supplies and services 257 263 Other costs 96 121 Personnel costs 66 67 Financial expenses 351 372 Current tax 50 93 Dividends 79 76 Economic Value Distributed 918 1,010 Economic Value Accumulated 546 530 G4 EC2 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND OTHER RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE ORGANIZATION'S ACTIVITIES DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE The non-renewable power sector is responsible for producing more than 40% of all CO2 emissions by burning fossil fuels and about 25% of the total greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). Promoting a shift from conventional fossil fuels to renewable energy is one of the most effective and feasible near-term ways of mitigating climate change. The company’s growth plans of pure renewable energy represent a solid commitment to foster the use of green energy sources. Moreover, we are committed to support the use the best technologies available in order to preserve natural resources and reduce pollution. + For additional information on indirect economic impacts of our energy, please refer to the Global Macro Trends Section. Note: Source: Global Wind Energy Outlook GWEC (Global Wind Energy Council) G4 EC3 COVERAGE OF THE ORGANIZATION'S DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 89 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 8789 + Information on EDPR benefit plan obligations, can be found in Note 2, Benefits Section and Note 10 in our Financial Statements G4 EC4 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENT + Information on EDPR financial assistance received from government through Production Tax Credits, Cash Grants and other Tax savings in the US, can be found in Income from institutional partnerships in US wind farms and Amortisation of deferred income (government grants) in our Consolidated Income Statement and additional details on Note 7 and Note 12 in our Financial Statements G4 EC5 RANGE OF RATIOS OF STANDARD ENTRY LEVEL WAGE COMPARED TO LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE AT SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION % Standard entry level wage vs local minimum wage 2014 2013 Europe 234% 247% North America 187% 195% Brazil 390% 430% The values presented in the table above shows the average standard entry level wage compared to the local minimum wage for each one of the countries where we have presence. To protect the privacy of employees’ wages in those countries where our headcount is smaller, we do not disclose the information by country and gender. G4 EC6 PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY AT SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION Our Code of Ethics contains specific clauses of non-discrimination and equal opportunities in line with the company’s culture of diversity. This is reflected in our procedures for hiring people via a non-discriminatory selection processes. A potential employee’s race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, marital status, disability, political orientation or opinions of any other nature, ethnic or social origin, place of birth or trade union membership are not considered. There are no specific procedures explicitly requiring local recruitment. However a high percentage of our employees are hired from the same country in which the company operates. Directors % of local hires 2014 % Europe 77% North America 81% Brazil 100% Corporate 36% G4 EC7 DEVELOPMENT AND IMPACT OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS AND SERVICES SUPPORTED Wind and solar energy require infrastructure investments which benefit surrounding communities. This includes the reinforcement of existing electricity networks and the rehabilitation of existing roads or the construction of new roads. The investment in roads is necessary in order to transport heavy equipment (wind turbine components, power transformers, etc.) to the site during construction. The improved road system facilitates future maintenance activities after construction works, as well as improves access to remote locations for the surrounding communities. During the operation of our wind farms, these roads are maintained and further opportunities may be identified to increase the positive impact in the community. The integration of our generation capacity may also require upgrades in the distribution and transmission grids that belong to the system operators. Those upgrades indirectly benefit the quality of service offered in the surrounding areas by minimizing electricity supply interruptions. In 2014, EDPR invested 1.6 million Euros to developing these types of infrastructures. G4 EC8 UNDERSTANDING AND DESCRIBING SIGNIFICANT INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS, INCLUDING THE EXTENT OF IMPACTS Wind and solar energies create a positive impact on the local economies in terms of turnover, Gross Value Added (GVA), employment created and also in terms of energy security. 90 88 90 EDPR ·· 2014 EDPR ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE + For additional information on indirect economic impacts of our energy, please refer to the Global Macro Trends Section. G4 EC9 PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS AT SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION Although at EDPR, there is no specific policy or in-house procedure for preferring locally based suppliers. MORL a joint venture between EDPR and Repsol Nuevas Energias UK has supported the evolution of the new offshore wind market local industry in the UK. Additionally, during the construction of our projects, the local community can see an influx of temporary local construction workers and suppliers that provide a positive impact on the local economy. + For additional information on local suppliers practices in the UK, please refer to Suppliers Section. 4.3.2. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE G4 DMA EDPR is a leading company in renewable energy. We produce clean and green energy, energy without emissions. Our strategy towards the environment is based on four pillars: the generation of CO2-free and waterfree energy, a strategy to minimize impacts during the life-cycle of our wind farms, a culture of respect for the biodiversity and a culture of a responsibility and recycling. EDPR is strongly committed to contribute to the protection of the environment and biodiversity through a proactive environmental management of its wind farms in operation, as is stated in our Environmental and Biodiversity policies. EDPR promotes biodiversity conservation and aspires to have an active role in contributing to the world’s objective of reducing biodiversity loss. Wind farms development and operation typically occurs in rural areas where wind resource is abundant and the operation of wind farms is compatible with current ecosystem. We define specific measures to monitor and promote the local fauna conservation in all our business activities as reflected in our company’s Biodiversity Policy. The operation stage of wind farms, with a useful life of 25 years, stands as the core of our business. According to this, we are really conscious of the importance of proper management of environmental matters in our facilities in operation, which is assured through the Environmental Management System (EMS). Our environmental strategy focuses on three core aspects: legal compliance, management of environmental risks and continuous improvement. Numerous environmental appraisal and monitoring procedures are incorporated in all phases of the business processes ensuring that these central pillars are enforced. + For additional information about what sets EDPR apart in terms of environmental management, please refer to the Environment section. G4 EN3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION Wind turbines require a small amount of electricity to operate. This energy consumption is generally selfconsumed. Given the intermittency of wind generation we sometimes need to consume electricity from the grid. The indirect CO2 emissions related to the consumed electricity is around 0.2% of the emissions avoided by the company. Energy consumption 2014 2013 (%) Wind farms: Electricity consumption (MWh) 63,192 54,430 16% Offices: Electricity consumption (MWh) 2,419 2,411 0% Gas (MWh) 28 25 10% Note: Gas conversion factor: 0.2931 Kwh/m 3 G4 EN6 REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION Our activity is based on clean energy generation, and we produce about 300 times the electricity we consume. However, we are conscious about promoting a culture of rational use of resources and we promote many internal campaigns to promote sustainable behaviours as is explained in the following pages. + For additional information about our initiatives to promote sustainable behaviours, please refer to the EN19 Indicator. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 91 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 89 91 G4 EN8 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE Generation from wind energy does not consume water in its operational processes. The water is consumed only for human use. The consumption of water per GWh generated accounts for 0.56 litres/MWh. Even so, the company actively seeks to adopt more eco-efficient practices. An example of this is that in 2014 seventeen substations had rain water collection and treatment systems installed to cover their own water supply needs. + For additional information about what sets EDPR apart in terms of environmental management, please refer to Environment section. G4 EN11 OPERATIONAL SITES OWNED, LEASED, MANAGED IN, OR ADJACENT TO, PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED AREAS Position in Facility area in protected Protected area Type of relation with area Country and Facility name operation protected area (ha) (%) Attribute Status BE Cerfontaine W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 BE Chimay W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 FR Ségur W I 1.3 100% T National FR Ayssènes – Le Truel W I 1.3 100% T National FR Marcellois W I 1.1 100% T Natura 2000 FR Massingy W I 0.9 100% T Natura 2000 PT Pena Suar W I 10.0 100% T Natura 2000 PT Fonte da Quelha W I 6.3 100% T Natura 2000 PT Alto do Talefe W I 8.9 100% T Natura 2000 PT Madrinha W I 4.1 100% T Natura 2000 PT Safra-Coentral W I 19.9 100% T Natura 2000 PT Negrelo e Guilhado W I 9.1 100% T Natura 2000 PT Testos W PW 3.5 31% T Natura 2000 PT Fonte da Mesa W PW 7.2 85% T Natura 2000 Natura 2000 PT Serra Alvoaça W PW 7,6 63% T / National PT Tocha W I 6.7 100% T Natura 2000 PT Padrela/Soutelo W PW 0.4 17% T Natura 2000 PT Guerreiros W PW 0.9 11% T Natura 2000 PT Vila Nova W PW 1.3 11% T Natura 2000 PT Serra do Mú W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 RO Pestera W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 RO Sarichioi W PW 0.1 0% T Natura 2000 RO Burila Mica S I 22.7 100% T Natura 2000 SP Ávila W A 0.0 0% T-F Natura 2000 SP Sierra de los lagos W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 Natura 2000 SP Tahivilla W A 0.0 0% T / National SP Buenavista W A 0.0 0% T-M Natura 2000 SP Mostaza W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 SP Los Almeriques W A 0.0 0% T-F Natura 2000 SP Serra Voltorera W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 SP Sierra de Boquerón W I 10.4 100% T Natura 2000 SP Villoruebo W PW 2.0 41% T-F Natura 2000 SP Villamiel W PW 4.9 75% T-F Natura 2000 SP La Cabaña W PW 8.2 53% T Natura 2000 SP Hoya Gonzalo W PW 0.7 4% T Natura 2000 SP La Mallada W PW 1.4 8% T-F Natura 2000 SP Corme W PW 2.6 17% T-M Natura 2000 SP La Celaya W PW 9.1 70% T-F Natura 2000 SP Monseivane W PW 17.3 98% T-F Natura 2000 SP Tejonero W PW 1.0 6% T Natura 2000 SP Las Monjas W PW 0.006 0% T-F Natura 2000 SP Puntaza de Remolinos W PW 1.8 57% T Natura 2000 SP Planas de Pola W PW 6.2 55% T Natura 2000 92 90 92 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Position in Facility area in protected Protected area Type of relation with area Country and Facility name operation protected area (ha) (%) Attribute Status SP Coll de la Garganta W PW 0.001 0% T-F Natura 2000 SP Loma del Suyal W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 SP Cerro del Conilete W PW 0.01 0% T Natura 2000 SP Cerro del Conilete W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 PL Zgorzelec W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 IT Laterza W A 0.0 0% T Natura 2000 Natura 2000 IT Castellaneta W A 0.0 0% T / National BR Tramandaí W I 706.0 100% T National BE – Belgium; FR – France; PT – Portugal; RO – Romania; SP – Spain; PL – Poland; IT – Italy; BR-Brasil W – Wind farm; S – Solar plant A – Adjacent; PW – Partially within; I – Inside T – Terrestrial; T-F Terrestrial-Freshwater; T-M Terrestrial Marine Please visit our environmental information on the sustainability section our website for updated information, www.edpr.com. G4 EN12 DESCRIPTION OF SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS OF ACTIVITIES, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES ON BIODIVERSITY IN PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED AREAS Potential environmental impacts are analysed in detail in the environmental impact studies of the projects. Additionally feasible alternatives are assessed and preventive, corrective and compensation measures are determined. The company has defined general procedures in its Environmental Management System to prevent, correct or compensate impacts in the environment. In addition, efforts are intensified with specific monitoring procedures in the small number of sites located inside or close to protected areas. For additional information, visit our environmental information on the sustainability section our website, www.edpr.com. G4 EU13 BIODIVERSITY OF OFFSET HABITATS COMPARED TO THE BIODIVERSITY OF THE AFFECTED AREAS In the small number of sites located inside or close to protected areas, we intensify our efforts with specific monitoring procedures, as defined in our Environmental Management System. For additional information, visit our environmental information on the sustainability section our website, www.edpr.com. G4 EN13 HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED After the construction period, it is our duty to return the site to its initial state. Therefore, we perform morphological restoration and reseeding works. In 2014, almost 2 ha of affected land were restored. EDPR has been collaborating for the past years with the Natural Heritage Foundation of Castilla y León (Spain). EDPR, through Fundación EDP, and FPN have decided to support a series of environmental actions tending to conserve the kite, which is a bird species especially protected in which EDPR has an interest within their strategy of managing biodiversity and environmental risks inherent in their activity. The new agreement was signed in late 2014 and some of the actions considered were: • Design and construction of a fixed dunghill and two mobile dunghills in the province of Salamanca • Repair and improvement of existing dunghills (Lagunilla, La Alberca, The Jaque, etc ...) • Performances of recovery and improvement of the species habitat • Awareness and environmental education activities • Acquisition of materials for combating poisonings EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 93 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 9193 • Radiolabeling 4 kite specimens G4 EN15 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) EDPR’s Scope 1 emissions represent 283 tons of CO2 equivalent. 183 tones are emitted by gas consumption in our offices* and the rest of it is related to SF6. Part of the equipment used for electricity generation purposes contains SF6 gasses and during 2014 we registered emissions of 4.37 kg of this gas, which is equivalent to 100t CO2 eq**. Note: Gas consumption emissions were estimated according to the GHG protocol. SF6 gas conversion factor: 22.8 tCO2/kg SF6 (4th IPCC Assessment Report) G4 EN16 ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) Our indirect emissions represent 0.2% of the total amount of emissions avoided and approximately 77% of the emissions are from the necessary electricity consumption by the wind farms. EDPR’s CO2 indirect emissions represent 29,887 tons, 28,821 tons driven by electricity consumption by the wind farms and 1,066 tons electricity consumption by the offices. Note 1: The emission factors used are based on the following sources: Portugal EDP, Turbogás, Pego, Rede Eléctrica Nacional (REN), and Entidade Reguladora dos Serviços Energéticos (ERSE); Spain – Red Eléctrica de España (REE); Brazil Ministry of Science and Technology SIN (National Interconnected System); USA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database (eGRID) for each state emission factor; Other European Countries CERA, Global Insight. Note 2: Electricity consumption emissions were calculated with the global emission factors of each country and state within the US. G4 EN17 – OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) Our work requires our employees to travel and commute. Based on our estimates, the transportation used by our employees accounted for a total of 7,189 tons of CO2 emissions. SCOPE 1,2,3 CO2 eq emitted in 2014 CO2 eq emitted in 2013 (k tons) (k tons) 0.1 1.2 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.1 4.4 4.4 1.4 1.2 1.2 1.2 23.4 28.8 Wind Farms Energy Consumption Wind Farms Energy Consumption Offices Energy Consumption Offices Energy Consumption Company Vehicle Fleet Company Vehicle Fleet Business Travel by Plane Business Travel by Plane Business Travel by Train Business Travel by Train Employee Commuting Employee Commuting SF6 SF6 Note: Transport emissions were calculated according to the DEFRA standard. Employee commuting emissions were calculated from data collected in a survey to all employees. 94 92 94 EDPR ·· 2014 EDPR ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE REPORT G4 EN19 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS Our core business activity inherently implies the reduction GHG emissions. Wind and solar energy has zero carbon emissions, contributing to the world’s fight against climate change and does not produce harmful SOx, NOx, or mercury emissions, protecting valuable air and water resources. We estimated that our activities avoided the emission of 16,993 thousand tons of CO2. Even though our activity is based on the clean energy generation, we are conscious about promoting a culture of rational use of resources. During 2014, we continued promoting initiatives that foster environmental best practices in our offices. Note: To calculate the emissions avoidance, the energy generation has been multiplied by the CO 2 eq emission factors of each country and state within the US. We considered the emission factor of just fossil fuel energy, as we considered that by increasing the generation of renewable energy, we are displacing these technologies, while other renewable technologies and nuclear plants will continue with its quota of generation. G4 EN23 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD More than 90% of the hazardous waste produced by wind farms is related to oil and oil-related wastes such as oil filters or oil containers, used mainly for lubrication of the turbines. The consumption of this oil is based on certain pre-defined replacement time frequencies (between 2 and 5 years, based on the component, oil type and manufacturer). The company has been actively working to improve the recycling rate of its hazardous wastes, through authorized waste haulers, reaching a 96% recycling rate in 2014 from a 75% in 2011. The following table summarizes the amount wastes generated per GWh in our facilities and the rate of recycling. 1 Waste generated by EDPR 2014 2013 (%) Total waste (t) 1,092 910 20% Total waste (kg/GWh) 55.2 47.4 +16% Total hazardous waste (kg/GWh) 26.2 30.0 -13% % of hazardous waste recovered 95.9% 95.4% 0.6% Annual fluctuations in hazardous waste generated are heavily dependent on the pluri-annual oil replacement programs above mentioned. Non-hazardous wastes generated by the company include metals, plastics, paper or domestic garbage which is recycled in their vast majority. Note 1: In Europe, the method of disposal has been indicated by the waste hauler, while in the US the disposal method has been determined by the organizational defaults of the waste hauler. Waste generated by EDPR does not include Brazil wind farms. Note 2: For the purposes of this report, all wastes have been classified as Hazardous or Non-hazardous according to European Waste Catalogue; however, in each country where EDPR has a geographic presence, each wind farm is required to adhere to national law by following company procedures for handling, labelling, and storage of wastes to ensure compliance. In cases, like in the United States, when our operations generate small quantities of substances which fall into additionally-regulated categories–such as used oils and universal wastes–we follow strict standards for handling and disposal of these waste types to ensure we remain compliant with all applicable laws. G4 EN24 TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT SPILLS Given our activity and our locations, oil spills and fires are the major environmental risks the company faces. The Environmental Management System is designed and implemented to prevent emergency situations from happening. But in case they happen, the system covers the identification and management of these, including the near-miss situations. EDPR defines as significant spill the ones above 0.16 m3 that reached the ground. Additionally, EDPR registers near miss situations, when registered incident does not reach the category of significant spill. In 2014, we had 6 significant spills with a total volume of 1.58 m3 of oil spilled, and 1 incipient fire with an area of 25 m2 of dry scrub burned. All cases were properly managed: oil spills were confined early and contaminated soil was collected and managed; the incipient fire occurred in an agricultural area with some dry bushes without significant natural value, being promptly suffocated by the staff on site using the fire extinguishers. Additionally, 30 near miss were registered driven by small oil leaks that did not reach bare soil. EDPR performs regular environmental drills to guarantee that our employees are familiar with the risks and have received the appropriate training to prevent and act, if necessary. G4 EN29 MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS During 2014, the company did not receive any penalty for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 95 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 93 95 G4 EN30 SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF TRANSPORTING PRODUCTS AND OTHER GOODS AND MATERIALS USED FOR THE ORGANIZATION'S OPERATIONS, AND TRANSPORTING MEMBERS OF THE WORKFORCE The main environmental impact was from employees traveling and commuting for business activities. + For additional information about our emissions registered due to employees’ transportation, please refer to the EN15 Indicator. G4 EN31 TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EXPENDITURES AND INVESTMENTS BY TYPE In 2014, 7.3 million euros were invested and 3.7 million euros were expended in environmental related activities (includes personnel costs). + For additional information about environmental protection expenditures and investments, please refer to Note 42 in our Financial Statements. G4 EN 32 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA Our Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put sustainability principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Procedures to guarantee this accomplishment are defined. Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. Moreover, EDPR is governed by a strong sense of ethics and requires that its suppliers do not have conflicts with EDPR ethical standards. Acceptance of alignment with the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics is also required. + For further information please refer to Suppliers Section. G4 EN 33 SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN Our Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put sustainability principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Procedures to guarantee this accomplishment are defined. Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. Moreover, EDPR is governed by a strong sense of ethics and requires that its suppliers do not have conflicts with EDPR ethical standards. Acceptance of alignment with the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics is also required. + For further information please refer to Suppliers Section. G4 EN34 NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS EDPR has no knowledge of any environmental formal grievance recorded during 2014 in any of its grievance channels. 96 94 96 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 4.3.3. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 4.3.3.1. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4 DMA To attract, develop and retain talent in a safe environment are the main goals of EDPR’s Human Resources strategy. Our people are a very important asset and we, as a responsible employer, want to retain by offering quality employment that can be balanced with personal life. EDPR seeks talented individuals who are passionate about the industry and share our vision and purpose. We have carried out different initiatives to enhance employer branding by participating in different Employers forums and hosting visits from top-tier universities. We are also committed to offer employees an attractive career development plan, as well as continuous education and training opportunities. This vision is key in aligning current and future demands of the organization with employees’ capabilities, while fulfilling their professional development expectations and supporting their continued employability. Guaranteeing the health, safety and well-being of our employees is top priority at EDPR. This stern commitment is supported by our Health and Safety policies and initiatives, as well as, a strong track record. EDPR has a zero accidents goal stated in our Health & Safety policy. + For additional information on our Human Resources strategy, please refer to Employees section. G4 10 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE, EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, AND REGION. In 2014, EDPR employed 919 people, 21% worked at EDPR holding, 46% in the European Platform, 30% in the North American Platform and 3% in Brazil. # Workforce Breakdown 2014 % Female 2013 % Female Total 919 31% 890 31% By Employment type: Full time 894 29% 869 29% Part time 25 96% 21 95% By Employment Contract: Permanent 904 31% 884 31% Temporary 15 20% 6 33% By Country: Spain 340 32% 340 31% Portugal 63 13% 64 13% France 39 26% 34 26% Belgium 2 0% 2 0% Poland 39 31% 39 31% Romania 34 41% 34 41% Italy 23 43% 22 41% UK 37 41% 31 35% USA 311 33% 296 34% Canada 4 0% 4 0 Brazil 26 23% 24 29% Mexico 1 0% The average number of contractors’ workers during the period has been 805 in Europe, 925 in North America and 60 in Brazil. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 97 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 95 97 G4 LA1 TOTAL NUMBER AND RATE OF EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER, AND REGION Throughout the year, EDPR hired 120 employees while 91 are no longer with the company, resulting in a turnover ratio of 11%, which is lower than the previous year. # Employee Turnover New Hires Departures Turnover Total 120 91 11% By Age Group: Less than 30 years old 63 21 21% Between 30 and 39 years old 38 46 10% Over 40 years old 19 24 8% By Gender: Female 35 25 11% Male 85 66 12% By Country: Spain 17 13 4% Portugal 4 3 6% France 4 5 11% Belgium 0 0 0% Poland 2 2 5% Romania 4 3 10% Italy 4 3 15% UK 11 5 22% USA 66 50 19% Canada 0 0 0% Brazil 0 0 0% G4 EU17 DAYS WORKED BY CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES INVOLVED IN CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES Contractors involved in construction, operation and maintenance activities worked 638,387 days during 2014. G4 EU18 PERCENTAGE OF CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES THAT HAVE UNDERGONE RELEVANT HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING As an integral part of our health & safety strategy, we conduct several training courses and risk assessment activities according to the potential risks identified for each position within the company. We are equally concerned with the health and safety standard of our employees and contractors. To this extent our contractors are subject to a health and safety screening when they bid to work for our company. Once the contractor is selected, they are required to present proof of having completed the required training. Almost 100% of contractors that have undergone relevant health and safety training during 2014. G4 LA2 BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES THAT ARE NOT PROVIDED TO TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES, BY MAJOR OPERATIONS As a responsible employer we offer quality employment that can be balanced with personal life. The package of benefits provided to full-time employees does not differ from that offered to part-time employees, and generally it goes beyond what is agreed in collective bargaining agreements. This benefits package includes by medical insurance, life insurance, pension plan and conciliation measures. 98 96 98 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE G4 LA3 RETURN TO WORK AND RETENTION RATES AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE, BY GENDER # Maternal and Paternal leave Maternal Paternal Return to work Spain 10 19 29 Portugal 0 2 2 France 2 3 5 Belgium 0 0 0 Poland 1 2 3 Romania 0 2 2 Italy 2 1 3 UK 2 1 3 USA 5 13 18 Canada 0 0 0 Brazil 0 2 2 Mexico 0 0 0 Total 22 45 67 In 2014, 67 employees enjoyed a maternal or paternal leave and only four left the company during the year due to the market characteristics not derived from his maternal / parental leave. Additionally, in 2013 of the 65 employees who left on parental leave, all returned and none extended their leave. G4 EU15 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES ELIGIBLE TO RETIRE IN THE NEXT 5 AND 10 YEARS BROKEN DOWN BY JOB CATEGORY AND BY REGION # Employees eligible to retire in 10 years in 5 years By employment category: Top Management 4 2 Senior Management 14 5 Management 6 4 Senior Management without team 1 0 Associates & Senior Specialists 12 7 Specialists 6 3 Support, Operational & Administrative Technicians 8 7 By Country: Spain 10 5 Portugal 11 4 Poland 2 1 USA 27 17 Brazil 1 1 Note that the employees eligible to retire in the next 5 years is with 60 years reference and in the next 10 years with 57 years reference. G4 11 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS # Employees covered by 2014 % collective bargaining agreements Spain 48 14% Portugal 61 97% France 32 82% Belgium 2 100% Poland 0 0% Romania 0 0% Italy 23 100% UK 1 3% USA 0 0% Brazil 26 100% Mexico 0 0% From EDPR’s 919 employees, 21% were covered by collective bargaining agreements. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 99 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 97 99 Collective bargaining agreements apply to all employees working under an employment relationship with and for the account of the some companies of EDPR group, regardless of the type of contract, the professional group into which they are classified, their occupation or job. However, matters relating to the corporate organization itself, the laws of each country or even usage and custom in each country result in certain groups being expressly excluded from the scope of collective bargaining agreements. + For further information please refer to the Employees section. G4 LA4 MINIMUM NOTICE PERIOD(S) REGARDING SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONAL CHANGES, INCLUDING WHETHER IT IS SPECIFIED IN COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS Per country case law, EDPR may have a minimum period which it must comply with for giving formal notice of organizational changes at the companies in the Group with an impact on employees. However, it is customary to communicate significant events to the affected groups in advance. As an employer in the United States, EDPR complies with the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) Act Guide to Advance Notice of Closings and Layoffs. Employees who have worked more than six months and 20 hours a week are required to receive 60 days’ notice in the event of closings and layoffs. G4 LA5 PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKFORCE REPRESENTED IN FORMAL JOINT MANAGEMENTWORKER HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES THAT HELP MONITOR AND ADVISE ON OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAMS A significant part of our organization plays a fundamental role in the implementation of our health and safety policy. The company created health and safety committees that collect information from different operational levels and involve employees in the definition and communication of a preventive plan. During 2014, 1.0% of our employees attended health and safety committee meetings, representing 40% of our workforce. In addition, a new committee was created in Brazil to complement those already active in Spain, France, UK and in the US. G4 LA6 RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, AND ABSENTEEISM, AND NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED FATALITIES BY REGION AND BY GENDER # H&S Indicators (EDPR and contractors 2014 2013 personnel)3 Number of industrial accidents 23 11 Europe 19 9 North America 4 2 Brazil 0 0 Number of industrial fatal accidents 0 0 Europe 0 0 North America 0 0 Brazil 0 0 Working days lost by accidents caused 718 433 Europe 666 367 North America 52 66 Brazil 0 0 Injury Rate (IR)1: 4.50 2.51 Europe 7.32 2.80 North America 1.72 1.93 Brazil 0 0 Lost work day rate (LDR)2: 141 99 Europe 256 114 North America 22 64 Brazil 0 0 1 Injury Rate calculated as [# of accidents/Hours worked * 1,000,000] 2 Lost Work Day Rate calculated as [# of working days lost/Hours worked * 1,000,000] 3 Minor first aid injuries are not included and number of days is calculated as the number of calendar days 4 There have been only an accident with a woman involved, which took place in Spain, with a 13 days absence G4 LA8 EDUCATION, TRAINING, COUNSELLING, PREVENTION, AND RISK-CONTROL PROGRAMS IN PLACE TO ASSIST WORKFORCE MEMBERS, THEIR FAMILIES, OR COMMUNITY MEMBERS REGARDING SERIOUS DISEASES As an integral part of our health & safety strategy, we conduct several training courses and risk assessment activities according to the potential risks identified for each job within the company. 100 98 100 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE During 2014, 815 training activities were carried out, to address the hazards associated with their job responsibilities, representing over 6,423 hours of training. Each one of our offices and wind farms in Europe and the US has its own emergency plan with contact details and instructions to follow in case of an emergency. EDPR conducted 216 drills to be prepared for emergency situations in offices and wind farms. G4 LA8 HEALTH AND SAFETY TOPICS COVERED IN FORMAL AGREEMENTS WITH TRADE UNIONS The large majority of EDPR’s collective bargaining agreements address employees’ rights and duties of the company regarding health & safety. G4 LA9 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Training Metrics 2014 2013 Number of Training Hours (#) 38,289 29,298 Training Investment (k€) 1,580 1,372 Number of Attendances (#) 4,566 2,563 + For a complete description of our Training and Human Resources strategy, please refer to Employees section. G4 LA10 PROGRAMS FOR SKILLS MANAGEMENT AND LIFELONG LEARNING THAT SUPPORT THE CONTINUED EMPLOYABILITY OF EMPLOYEES AND ASSIST THEM IN MANAGING CAREER ENDINGS We strive to offer our total workforce with opportunities to develop professionally and assume new roles to reach the goals of the company. Employees are encouraged to take advantage of the functional and geographic mobility opportunities. + For a complete description of our Training and Human Resources strategy, please refer to Employees section. G4 LA11 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS, BY GENDER All of EDPR’s employees, regardless of their professional category, are evaluated yearly to determine their development potential by providing the most suitable training. EDPR creates tailored development plan to address specific needs. The potential assessment process is independent from performance appraisal and is based on a 360 degree evaluation model which considers feedback from oneself, peers, subordinates and the manager. G4 LA12 COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ACCORDING TO GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP MEMBERSHIP, AND OTHER INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY + A detailed description of the governance bodies can be found at the Corporate Governance Section of this report, Annex I Biographies. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 101 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 99 101 G4 LA13 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY OF MEN TO WOMEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY # M/F Salary Ratio Headcount Female M/F Salary Executive Management (Officers) 2 0 n/a Top Management 33 5 105% Senior Management 115 27 111% Management 88 29 111% Senior Management without team 23 5 77% Associates & Senior Specialists 357 93 105% Specialists 239 72 96% Support, Operational & Administrative Technicians 62 54 76% G4 LA14 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING LABOUR PRACTICES CRITERIA Our Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put sustainability principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Procedures to guarantee this accomplishment are defined. Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. Moreover, EDPR is governed by a strong sense of ethics and requires that its suppliers do not have conflicts with EDPR ethical standards. Acceptance of alignment with the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics is also required. + For further information please refer to Suppliers Section. G4 LA15 SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS FOR LABOR PRACTICES IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN Our Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put sustainability principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Procedures to guarantee this accomplishment are defined. Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. Moreover, EDPR is governed by a strong sense of ethics and requires that its suppliers do not have conflicts with EDPR ethical standards. Acceptance of alignment with the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics is also required. + For further information please refer to Suppliers Section. G4 LA16 NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT LABOR PRACTICES FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS In 2014, EDPR did not record any incidents related to labour practices in any of its grievance channels. 4.3.3.2. HUMAN RIGHTS G4 DMA EDPR became a signatory to the UN Global Compact, an initiative of the United Nations launched in 2000 that defines guideline directives for businesses that opt to contribute to sustainable development. EDPR also has a Code of Ethics that contains specific clauses for the respect for human rights. In compliance with the Code, EDPR expresses its total opposition to forced or compulsory labour and recognizes that human rights should be considered fundamental and universal, based on conventions, treaties and international initiatives like the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization and the UN Global Compact. Our Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put sustainability principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Procedures to guarantee this accomplishment are defined. 102 100 102 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. Moreover, EDPR is governed by a strong sense of ethics and requires that its suppliers do not have conflicts with EDPR ethical standards. Acceptance of alignment with the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics is also required. + For further information about the Code of Ethics and the Ethics Channel please visit the Corporate Governance Section of this report, II. Reporting Of Irregularities or visit our ethics information on the corporate governance section, in our website, www.edpr.com. Moreover, additional information is detailed in the Integrity and ethics section. G4 HR1 TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS THAT INCLUDE HUMAN RIGHTS CLAUSES OR THAT UNDERWENT HUMAN RIGHTS SCREENING EDPR has a Code of Ethics that contains specific clauses for the respect for human rights. Our Procurement Manual also includes a chapter to put the UN Global Compact principles into practice. G4 HR2 TOTAL HOURS OF EMPLOYEE TRAINING ON POLICIES AND PROCEDURES CONCERNING ASPECTS OF HUMAN RIGHTS THAT ARE RELEVANT TO OPERATIONS, INCLUDING THE PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED In 2011, EDPR started an Ethics training program in Europe for all country managers, directors and senior managers with a team, holding a double objective: • To enhance EDPR’s ethical process and all the tools and documents available in the company • To prepare them to give ethics training to their teams. Each manager was responsible for providing training to his/her team during the first quarter of 2012. During 2015, EDPR will launch an update on this Ethics training program based on the new Code of Ethics. All EDPR employees will be involved. G4 HR3 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN In 2014, EDPR did not record any incidents of discrimination. G4 HR4 OPERATIONS IDENTIFIED IN WHICH THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MAY BE AT SIGNIFICANT RISK, AND ACTIONS TAKEN TO SUPPORT THESE RIGHTS EDPR’s Code of Ethics has specific clauses concerning the right to exercise freedom of association. The company has no knowledge of any activity carried out that could jeopardize the right of freedom of association or the right to adhere to collective bargaining agreements. G4 HR5 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS HAVING SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOR, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR EDPR’s Code of Ethics has specific clauses against child or forced labour. The company did not identify any operation that could have a significant risk for incidents of child labour, forced and compulsory labour or indigenous rights. + For further information about the Code of Ethics and the Ethics Channel please visit the Corporate Governance Section of this report, II. Reporting Of Irregularities or visit our ethics information on the corporate governance section, in our website, www.edpr.com. Moreover, additional information is detailed in the Integrity and ethics Section. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 103 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 101 103 G4 HR6 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS HAVING SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR, AND MEASURES TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR EDPR’s Code of Ethics has specific clauses against child or forced labour. The company did not identify any operation that could have a significant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour or indigenous rights. + For further information about the Code of Ethics and the Ethics Channel please visit the Corporate Governance Section of this report, II. Reporting Of Irregularities or visit our ethics information on the corporate governance section, in our website, www.edpr.com. Moreover, additional information is detailed in the Integrity and ethics Section. G4 HR8 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF VIOLATIONS INVOLVING RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES AND ACTIONS TAKEN EDPR did not identify any operation that could have a significant risk for incidents with indigenous rights. G4 HR9 TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEWS OR IMPACT ASSESSMENTS EDPR has renewable plants in operation in 10 countries and is present in 12 countries, all of which are within the scope of the Code of Ethics premises and regulation. G4 HR10 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING HUMAN RIGHTS CRITERIA Our Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put sustainability principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Procedures to guarantee this accomplishment are defined. Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. Moreover, EDPR is governed by a strong sense of ethics and requires that its suppliers do not have conflicts with EDPR ethical standards. Acceptance of alignment with the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics is also required. + For further information please refer to Suppliers Section. G4 HR11 SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN Our Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put sustainability principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Procedures to guarantee this accomplishment are defined. Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. Moreover, EDPR is governed by a strong sense of ethics and requires that its suppliers do not have conflicts with EDPR ethical standards. Acceptance of alignment with the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics is also required. + For further information please refer to Suppliers Section. G4 HR12 NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS In 2014, EDPR did not record any incidents related to human rights practices in any of its grievance channels. + Additional information on the Whistleblowing Channel and the Ethics Channel can be found at the Corporate Governance Section of this report, II. Reporting Of Irregularities or visit our ethics information on the corporate governance section, in our website, www.edpr.com. Moreover, additional information is detailed in the Integrity and ethics Section. 104 102 104 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 4.3.3.3. SOCIETY G4 DMA Wind and solar energies create a positive impact on the local economies in terms of turnover, Gross Value Added (GVA), employment created and also in terms of energy security. Land leases and taxes are a large contribution to the yearly budget for the municipalities where it is present. In addition, EDPR devoted 1.3 million Euros in social projects to support education and community related activities in 2014. + Additional information on the Community Engagement Section of this report and in our website www.edpr.com. G4 SO1 PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS We are well aware of the impact that our activity has in the local communities where we develop our wind farms and how we can maximize those potential benefits for the company and the inhabitants of the surrounding areas through an open communication with our stakeholders. Therefore, we establish a relationship of trust and collaboration with the communities where we have presence from the very initial stages of our projects, organizing informative sessions, we hold open dialogs with these communities, to explain the benefits of wind energy. We also organize volunteering and sport activities to promote a sustainable development of the society. Our business generates further indirect positive impacts in the areas where we are present, through local hiring and procurement and the development of infrastructures and the payment of taxes and rents. + Additional information on the Community Engagement Section of this report and in our website www.edpr.com. G4 SO2 OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL OR POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES Wind farm energy is a long lasting economic development driver for the municipalities where it is present. EDPR performance of studies assessing the impact on the environment and the community before the construction, this studies include the most significant issues for the affected areas such as emissions, wastes, changes to land use, changes in landscape, health and safety impacts, affected economic activities, impacts on infrastructure, existence of historical and cultural heritage, presence of indigenous communities, and the need to displace local populations. During operation, grievance mechanisms are also available to ensure that suggestions or complaints are properly recorded and addressed. This allows us not only to solve the complaints but to introduce improvements in our processes. A good example is the way we handle the complaints related to possible interferences with TV signal in France. We have set a procedure involving the town halls to facilitate and speed up the collection of these complaints as soon as they arise, a proper analysis and communication with the plaintiff and a fast satisfactory resolution. EDPR has different programs in place to assess and manage the impact on communities, and to maximize the shared value of our projects. + Additional information on the Community Engagement Section of this report and in our website www.edpr.com. G4 SO3 TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS ASSESSED FOR RISKS RELATED TO CORRUPTION AND THE SIGNIFICANT RISKS IDENTIFIED EDPR analyses all the new markets were enters operations through a Market overview. This study also evaluates the corruption risk. During 2014, EDPR has entered in Mexico and this study was prepared. EDPR during 2014, has developed an Anti-Bribery Policy of application to all EDPR Group. This Anti-Corruption Policy will involve a series of new procedures regarding the relationships of EDPR employees with external parties, namely the approval of certain actions regarding hospitality to and from external parties, charitable donations, and sponsorships. This Policy will be implemented in the Group throughout 2015. + Additional information on the Code of Ethics and the Ethics Channel can be found at the Corporate Governance Section of this report, II. Reporting Of Irregularities or visit our ethics information on the corporate governance section, in our website, www.edpr.com. G4 SO4 COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES In order to ensure compliance with the standards of Anti-bribery Regulation in every geography where EDPR operates, the Company has developed an Anti-Bribery Policy of application to all EDPR Group, which was approved by its Board of Directors on December, 2014. This Anti-Corruption Policy will involve a series of new procedures regarding the relationships of EDPR employees with external parties, namely the approval of certain EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 105 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 103 105 actions regarding hospitality to and from external parties, charitable donations, and sponsorships. This Policy will be implemented in the Group throughout 2015. + For further information about the Code of Ethics and the Ethics Channel please visit the Corporate Governance Section of this report, II. Reporting Of Irregularities or visit our ethics information on the corporate governance section, in our website, www.edpr.com. Moreover, additional information is detailed in the Integrity and ethics Section. G4 SO5 CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN EDPR has no knowledge of any corruption-related incidents recorded during 2014. Moreover, the company has internal procedures to monitor compliance with the Code of Ethics and defines actions to be taken in case of incidents. + For further information about the Code of Ethics and the Ethics Channel please visit the Corporate Governance Section of this report, II. Reporting Of Irregularities or visit our ethics information on the corporate governance section, in our website, www.edpr.com. Moreover, for additional information is detailed in the Integrity and ethics Section. G4 SO6 -TOTAL VALUE OF FINANCIAL AND IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES, POLITICIANS, AND RELATED INSTITUTIONS BY COUNTRY EDPR made no contributions to political parties in 2014. G4 SO7 TOTAL NUMBER OF LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR, ANTI-TRUST, AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES AND THEIR OUTCOMES EDPR has no knowledge of any legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices recorded during 2014. G4 SO8 MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS During 2014, the company received a total penalty of 206,503 euros mainly taxrelated. G4 SO9 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING CRITERIA FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY Our Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put sustainability principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Procedures to guarantee this accomplishment are defined. Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. Moreover, EDPR is governed by a strong sense of ethics and requires that its suppliers do not have conflicts with EDPR ethical standards. Acceptance of alignment with the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics is also required. + For further information please refer to Suppliers Section. G4 S10 SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON SOCIETY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN Wind farm energy is a long lasting economic development driver for the municipalities where it is present. EDPR has different programs in place to assess and manage the impact on communities, and to maximize the shared value of our projects. Our Procurement Manual includes a chapter that guides each Purchasing Department to put sustainability principles into practice, therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services EDPR appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Procedures to guarantee this accomplishment are defined. Additionally, EDPR collects sustainability information for the main services provider to be used in the supplier’s selection. In Europe, this is made by an independent partner and in the US by internal questionnaires. Moreover, EDPR is governed by a strong sense of ethics and requires that its suppliers do not have conflicts with EDPR ethical standards. Acceptance of alignment with the spirit of EDPR’s Code of Ethics is also required. 106 104 106 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE In the UK, EDPR supports the development of the supply chain in the region in order to maximize the value retained by our operations. + Additional information on Suppliers Section. G4 SO11 NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT IMPACTS ON SOCIETY FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS (G4-27) EDPR has registered 60 complains during 2014 regarding society impacts. 36 due to related to possible interferences with TV signal in France, 11 related to noise and 10 in the US due to roads access issues. All of them answered in a short period of time and with related cost corrective actions valuated in 23,159 euros. + Additional information on the Whistleblowing Channel and the Ethics Channel can be found at the Corporate Governance Section of this report, II. Reporting Of Irregularities or visit our ethics information on the corporate governance section, in our website, www.edpr.com. Moreover, additional information is detailed in the Integrity and ethics Section. 4.3.3.4. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4 DMA Our core business and health & safety initiatives are focused on the electricity generation and not in its final consumption. G4 EU25 NUMBER OF INJURIES AND FATALITIES TO THE PUBLIC INVOLVING COMPANY ASSETS, INCLUDING LEGAL JUDGMENTS, SETTLEMENTS AND PENDING LEGAL CASES OF DISEASES During 2014, EDPR did not identify injuries or fatalities to the public involving company assets. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 107 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 105 107 4.4. EXTERNAL CHECKS 4.4.1. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT 108 106 108 EDPR ENERGY 2014 ANNUAL EDPR ·· 2014 REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 109 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 107 109 4.4.2. GRI MATERIALITY DISCLOSURES We are a registered Organizational Stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and support the mission of the GRI to develop globally accepted sustainability reporting guidelines through a global, multi-stakeholder process. Additionally, this Annual Report follows G4 Guidelines in its accordance with Core Option and GRI Materiality Disclosures Service has verified that the General Standard Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27 are correctly located in both the GRI Content Index and in the text of the final report. A full GRI index for the report can be found in our website. 05. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PART I INFORMATION ON SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE, ORGANISATION AND 111 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A. SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE 111 B. CORPORATE BOARDS AND COMMITTEES 115 C. INTERNAL ORGANISATION 128 D. REMUNERATION 139 E. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS 145 PART II CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 150 ASSESSMENT ANNEX PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS AND BIOGRAPHIES OF THE MEMBERS 155 OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS THE PRESERVATION OF BIODIVERSITY Supporting the study of the golden eagle and financing six years of research by the Oregon Eagle Foundation and the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 113 ENERGY ·THAT EDPR 2014 ANNUAL MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 111 PART I: INFORMATION ON SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE, ORGANIZATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A. SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE I. CAPITAL STRUCTURE ..................................... 112 II. SHAREHOLDINGS AND BONDS HELD ................................................................................. 113 114 112 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE I. CAPITAL STRUCTURE 1. CAPITAL STRUCTURE EDP Renováveis, S.A. (hereinafter referred to as EDP EDPR main shareholder is EDP Group, with 77.5% of Renováveis, EDPR or the Company) total share capital share capital and voting rights. Excluding EDP Group is, since its initial public offering (IPO) in June 2008, holding, EDPR shareholders comprise about 81,000 EUR 4,361,540,810 consisting of issued and fully paid institutional and private investors spread across more 872,308,162 shares with nominal value of EUR 5.00 than 23 countries with main focus in United States, each. All the shares are part of a single class and United Kingdom, Portugal, Australia, Norway and series and are admitted to trading on the NYSE France. Euronext Lisbon regulated market. Institutional Investors represented 90% of Company Codes and tickers of EDP Renováveis SA share: shareholders (ex-EDP Group), mainly Investments ISIN: .............................................. ES0127797019 and SRI funds, while Private Investors, mostly Bloomberg Ticker (NYSE Euronext Lisbon): ... EDPR PL Portuguese, stand for 10%. Reuters RIC: ............................................. EDPR LS 2. RESTRICTIONS TO THE TRANSFERABILITY OF SHARES EDPR’s Articles of Association have no restrictions on the transferability of shares. 3. OWN SHARES EDPR does not hold own shares. 4. CHANGE OF CONTROL EDPR has not adopted any measures designed to services or guarantees. The relevant subsidiaries will prevent successful takeover bids. be obliged to provide for the cancellation or replacement of all outstanding guarantees within 60 The Company has taken no defensive measures for days of the change of control event. cases of a change in control in its shareholder structure. In the cases of intra-group services agreements and according to the Frame Agreement signed between EDPR has not entered into any agreements subject to EDP Renováveis S.A. and EDP Energias de Portugal the condition of a change in control of the Company, S.A., the contracts will maintain their full force as long other than in accordance with normal practice. In the as EDP maintains its share capital above 50% or the case of financing of certain wind farm projects, right to exercise directly or indirectly more than 50% lenders have the right to approve change in control at of voting rights on EDPR’s share capital. Even if the the borrower if the later ceased to be controlled, share capital of EDP or its voting rights are below directly or indirectly, by EDPR. In the case of 50%, the contract is maintained as long as half of the guarantees provided by EDP Group companies, if EDP, Members of the Board or of EDPR’s Executive directly or indirectly ceases to have the majority of Committee are elected through an EDP proposal. EDPR then EDP is no longer obliged to provide such 5. SPECIAL AGREEMENTS REGIME EDPR does not have a system for the renewal or being held or exercised by only one shareholder withdrawal of counter measures particularly to provide individually or together with other shareholders. for the restriction on the number of votes capable of 6. SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENTS The Company is not aware of any shareholders’ agreement that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 115 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 113 II. SHAREHOLDINGS AND BONDS HELD 7. QUALIFIED HOLDINGS Qualifying holdings in EDPR are subject to the Spanish In 2014 EDPR did not receive notifications regarding Law, which regulates the criteria and thresholds of the qualified holdings. shareholder’s holdings. Pursuant the Article 23 and Article 24, of the Spanish Securities Market Law (“Ley As of December 31st 2014 the following qualified de Mercado de Valores”) EDPR is providing the holdings were identified: following information on qualifying holdings and their voting rights as at December 31st 2014. Shareholder # Shares % Capital % Voting Rights EDP Group: EDP Energias de Portugal S.A. Sucursal en España 541,027,156 62.0% 62.0% Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico S.A. 135,256,700 15.5% 15.5% Total EDP Group: 676,283,856 77.5% 77.5% EDP Group detains 77.5% of EDPR capital and voting rights, of which 62.0% through EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A. – Sucursal en España and 15.5% through its fully owned Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A.. MFS Investment Management: Total MFS Investment Management 27,149,038 3.1% 3.1% On September 24th 2013, MFS Investment Management, an American based active and global asset manager, reported to CNMV its indirect qualified position as collective investment institution. Total Qualified Holdings 703,432,894 80.6% 80.6% As of December 31st 2014, EDPR’s shareholder Management detaining 77.5% and 3.1% of EDPR structure consisted of a total qualified shareholding of capital respectively. 80.6%, with EDP Group and MFS Investment 8. SHARES HELD BY THE MEMBERS OF THE MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BOARDS The table below reflects the number of EDPR shares regulatory and supervisory entities (CMVM – Comissão owned, directly or indirectly, by the Board Members, de Mercado de Valores Mobiliários – in Portugal and as of December 31st of 2014. The transactions of CNMV – Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores – shares by EDPR Board Members are reported to the in Spain). Transactions in 2014 # Shares as of 31st Dec 2014 Board Member Type Date # Shares Price Direct Indirect Total António Mexia 3,880 320 4,200 João Manso Neto Nuno Alves 5,000 5,000 Rui Teixeira 12,000 370 12,370 Gabriel Alonso 26,503 26,503 João Paulo Costeira 3,000 3,000 João Lopes Raimundo 170 670 840 João Manuel de Mello Franco 380 380 Jorge Santos 200 200 José Araújo e Silva 80 80 Manuel Menéndez Menéndez Rafael Caldeira Valverde Gilles August João Marques da Cruz 1,200 1,200 Acácio Piloto 300 300 António Nogueira Leite 400 400 José Ferreira Machado 630 630 116 114 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 9. POWERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors is vested with the broadest exploitations by acknowledging the course of the powers to manage, supervise and govern the Company businesses and operations, managing the Company, with no other limitations besides the investment of funds, making extraordinary powers expressly granted to the exclusive jurisdiction depreciations of bonds in circulation and realizing of General Meetings in Article 13 of the Company’s anything that it is considered appropriate to obtain Articles of Association or in the applicable law. Within maximum gains towards the object of the Company; this context, the Board is empowered to: • Freely appoint and dismiss Directors and all the • Acquire on a lucrative or onerous title basis personal Company’s technical and administrative personnel, and real property, rights, shares and interests that defining their office and their retribution; may suit the Company; • Agree any changes of the registered office’s address • Sell and mortgage or charge personal and real within the same borough; property, rights, shares and interests of the Company and cancel mortgages and other rights in • Incorporate under the law all sorts of legal persons; rem; contribute and assign all sorts of assets and rights, as well as entering merger and cooperation • Negotiate and conclude as many loans and credit agreements, association, grouping and temporary operations that it may deem appropriate; union agreements between companies or businesses and joint property agreements and agreeing their • Enter and formalize all sorts of acts or contracts with alteration, transformation and termination; public entities or private persons; • All further powers expressly granted to the Board in • Exercise civil and criminal actions and all further these Articles or in the applicable law. This list is actions to be undertaken by the Company, without limitations and has a mere indicative nature. representing it before governmental officers, authorities, corporations, governing, administrative, Regarding the decisions to increase the share capital, administrative-economic, administrative-litigation the Board of Directors does not have this power but, and judicial courts, labour courts and the labour subject to prior delegation from the General sections (“Juzgados de lo Social e Salas de lo Shareholders’ Meeting, would be able to decide the Social”) of the Supreme Court and of the High increase of the share capital. This delegation must Courts of the Autonomous Communities, with no comply with the law and the By-Laws. limitations whatsoever, including before the European Court of Justice, and in general before the On the other hand, the General Shareholders’ Meeting Government, in all its levels and hierarchies; to may also delegate to the Board of Directors the power intervene or promote, follow and terminate, through to implement an adopted decision to increase the all procedures and instances, the processes, court share capital, indicating the date or dates of its sections or proceedings; to accept decisions, to file implementation and establishing any other conditions any kind of appeal, including the cassation one and that have not been specified by the General other extraordinary appeals, to discontinue or Shareholders’ Meeting. The Board of Directors may confess, to agree an early termination of a use this delegation wholly or in part and may also proceeding, to submit litigious questions to decide not to perform it in consideration of the arbitration judges, and to carry out all sorts of conditions of the Company, the market, or any notices and requirements and to grant a Power of particularly relevant events or circumstances that Attorney to Court Representatives and other justify said decision, of which the General representatives, with the case-related powers and Shareholders’ Meeting must be informed at the end of the powers which are usually granted to litigation the time limit or limits for performing it. cases and all the special powers applicable, and to As of today this power has never been delegated. revoke such powers; On December 24th, 2014 a modification to the Spanish • Agree the allotment of dividends; Companies Law has entered into force (Ley 31/2014). • Call and convene General Meetings and submit to This Law will be applicable from 2015 onwards. One of them the proposals that it deem appropriate; the modifications is regarding the Board of Directors powers according to the new wording of article 249 of • Direct the Company and organize its operations and Spanish Companies Law. 10. SIGNIFICANT BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN THE HOLDERS OF QUALIFYING HOLDINGS AND THE COMPANY Information on any significant business relationships between the holders of qualifying holdings and the Company are on topic 90 of this Report. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 117 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 115 PART I: INFORMATION ON SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE, ORGANIZATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B. CORPORATE BOARDS AND COMMITTEES I. GENERAL MEETING ......................................... 116 II. MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION.. 117 III. SUPERVISION ......................................................... 125 IV. STATUTORY AUDITOR ................................... 126 V. EXTERNAL AUDITOR ...................................... 126 118 116 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE I. GENERAL MEETING A. COMPOSITION OF THE PRESIDING BOARD OF THE GENERAL MEETING 11. BOARD OF THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING The Members of the Board of the General April 9th, 2015. Shareholders’ Meeting are the Chairman of the General Shareholders’ Meeting, the Chairman of the The Secretary of the General Shareholders’ Meeting is Board of Directors, or his substitute, the other Emilio García-Conde Noriega who was nominated as Directors, and the Secretary of the Board of Directors. Secretary of the Board of Directors on December 4th, 2007. The Secretary of the Board of Directors The Chairman of the General Shareholders’ meeting is mandate does not have a date for the end of the term José António de Melo Pinto Ribeiro, who was elected according to the Spanish Companies Law since he is a on the general meeting of April 8th 2014 for a threenon-Member of the Board. year term. The Chairman of the General Shareholders’ Meeting of The Chairman of the Board of Directors is António EDPR has the appropriate human and logistical Mexia, who was re-elected on June 21st, 2011 for a resources for his needs. Therefore in addition to the three-year term. Although the term of office has resources provided by the Company’ Secretary the ended on June 21st, 2014, according to EDPR’s Company hires a specialized entity to collect, process personal law is still in force till the next Ordinary and count the votes on each General Shareholders’ General Shareholders’ Meeting that will take place on Meeting. B. EXERCISING THE RIGHT TO VOTE 12. RESTRICTIONS VOTING RIGHTS Each share entitles its holder to one vote. EDPR’s Articles of Association have no restrictions regarding voting rights. 13. VOTING RIGHTS EDPR’s Articles of Association has no reference to a competence, by mail or electronic communication. maximum percentage of voting rights that may be exercised by a single shareholder or by shareholders Remote votes can be revoked subsequently by the that are in any relationship. All shareholders, same means used to cast them within the time limit irrespective of the number of shares that they own, established for the purpose or by personal attendance may attend a General Shareholders’ Meeting and take at the General Shareholders’ Meeting by the part in its deliberations with right to speak and vote. shareholder who casted the vote to his/her representative. In order to exercise their right to attend, the Company informs in its Summon and Shareholders The Board of Directors approves a Shareholder’s Guide of the General Shareholders’ Meeting that the Guide for the General Shareholders’ Meeting, detailing shareholders must have their shares registered in mail and electronic communication voting forms their name in the Book Entry Account at least five (5) among other matters. It is at the shareholder’s days in advance of the date of the General disposal at www.edprenovaveis.com. Shareholders’ Meeting. Votes by mail shall be sent in writing to the place Any shareholder with the right to attend may be indicated on the summon of the meeting, represented at the General Shareholders’ Meeting by accompanied by the documentation indicated in the a third party, even if this person is not a shareholder. Shareholder’s Guide. Pursuant to the terms of article Such pPower of Attorney is revocable. The Board of 15 of the Articles of Association, mail-in votes must be Directors may require shareholders’ Power of Attorney received by the Company before midnight (24.00 to be in the Company’s possession at least two (2) hours) of the day before the scheduled meeting date days in advance, indicating the name of the of the first call. representative. In order to vote by electronic communication, the Said powers of attorney shall be specific to each shareholders who requested will receive a password General Shareholders’ Meeting and can be evidenced, within the time limit and in the form established in the in writing or by remote means of communication, such call of the General Shareholders’ Meeting. Pursuant to as mail post. the terms of article 15 of the Articles of Association, electronic votes must be received by the Company Shareholders may vote on the meeting’s agenda, before midnight of the day before the scheduled relating to any matters of the Shareholder’s meeting date of the first call. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 119 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 117 14. DECISIONS THAT CAN ONLY BE ADOPTED BY A QUALIFIED MAJORITY According to EDPR’s Articles of Association and as represent less than fifty percent (50%) of the established on the law, both ordinary and subscribed voting capital, the above mentioned extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meetings are resolutions will only be validly adopted with the validly constituted when first called if the favourable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the present or Shareholders, either present or represented by proxy, represented capital in the General Shareholders’ represent at least twenty five percent (25%) of the Meeting. subscribed voting capital. On the second call, the General Shareholders’ Meeting will be validly EDPR has not established any mechanism that may constituted regardless of the amount of the capital intend to cause mismatching between the right to present. receive dividends or the subscription of new securities and the voting right of each common share and has To validly approve the issuance of bonds, the increase not adopted mechanisms that hinder the passing of or reduction of capital, the transformation, merger or resolutions by shareholders, including fixing a quorum spin-off of the Company, and in general any for resolutions greater than that provided for by law. necessary amendment to the Articles of Association, the Ordinary or Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Concerning the above mentioned and according to the will need: on the first call, that the Shareholders, modification introduced on the Spanish Companies either present or represented by proxy, represent at Law published on December 24th, 2014, EDPR will least fifty percent (50%) subscribed voting capital present on the next General Shareholders Meeting a and, on the second call, that the Shareholders, either proposal to modify the Articles of Association in order present or represented by proxy, represent at least to include the changes introduced the new percentage twenty five percent (25%) of the subscribed voting for the valid constitution of the General Shareholders capital. In the event that the shareholders attending Meeting that are more favourable to the shareholders and more protective of their position. II. MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION A. COMPOSITION 15. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MODEL EDPR is a Spanish Company listed in a regulated stock EDPR’ bodies for the management and supervision exchange in Portugal. EDP Renováveis’ corporate model are the following: organization is subject to its personal law and to the extent possible, to the recommendations contained in • General Shareholders’ Meeting the Portuguese Corporate Governance Code, (“Código • Board of Directors de Governo das Sociedades”) approved by the Comissão do Mercado de Valores Mobiliários (CMVM) • Executive Committee (Portuguese Securities Market Commission) in July • Audit and Control Committee 2013. This governance code is available to the public at CMVM website (www.cmvm.pt). • External auditor The organization and functioning of EDPR corporate The purpose of the choice of this model is to adapt, to governance model aims to achieve the highest the extent possible, the Company’s corporate standards of corporate governance, business conduct governance structure to the Portuguese legislation. The and ethics referenced on the best national and governance model adopted by EDPR therefore seeks, as international practices in corporate governance. far as it is compatible with its personal law, to correspond to the so-called “Anglo-Saxon” model set EDPR has adopted the governance structure in effect forth in the Portuguese Commercial Companies Code, in Spain. It comprises a General Shareholders’ in which the management body is the Board of Meeting and a Board of Directors that represents and Directors, and the supervision and control duties are of manages the Company. the responsibility of an Audit and Control Committee. As required by law and the Articles of Association, the The experience of institutional operating indicates that Company’s Board of Directors has set up four the governance model adopted by the shareholders is committees. These are the Executive Committee, the appropriate to the corporate organization of EDPR Audit and Control Committee, the Nominations and activity, especially because it affords transparency and Remunerations Committee and the Related-Party a healthy balance between the management functions Transactions Committee. of the Executive Committee, the supervisory functions In order to ensure a better understanding of EDPR of the Audit and Control Committee and oversight by corporate governance by its shareholders, the different Board of Directors special committees. Company posts its updated Articles of Association as The institutional and functional relationship between well as its Committees Regulations at the Executive Committee, the Audit and Control www.edprenovaveis.com. Committee and the other non-executive members of The governance model of EDPR was designed to the Board of Directors has been of internal harmony ensure the transparent, meticulous separation of conductive to the development of the Company’s duties and the specialization of supervision. business. 120 118 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 16. RULES FOR THE NOMINATION AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS According to Article 29.5 of the Company’s Articles of and 243 of the Spanish Companies Law, shareholders Association, the Nominations and Remunerations may group their shares until constituting an amount Committee is empowered by the Board of Directors to of capital equal or higher than the result of dividing advise and inform the Board regarding nominations the company’s capital by the number of Directors, and (including by co-option), re-elections, dismissal and in such case said shareholders are entitled to remuneration of Board Members and of its duties, as nominate a number of Directors equal to the result of well as regarding the composition of the several the fraction using only whole amounts. Those making Committees of the Board. The Committee also advises use of this power cannot intervene in the nomination on the appointment, remuneration and dismissal of of the other members of the Board of Directors. top management officers. The Committee proposes the nomination and re-election of the Directors and of In case of a vacancy, pursuant to Article 23 of the the members of the various Committees by presenting Articles of Association and 244 of the Spanish a proposal with the names of the candidates that Companies Law, the Board of Directors may co-opt a considers having the best qualities to fulfil the role of shareholder, who will occupy the position until the Board Member. The Board of Directors submit a next General Shareholders’ Meeting, to which a proposal to the General Shareholders’ Meeting, which proposal will be submitted for the ratification of said should be approved by majority for an initial period of co-option. Pursuant to Article 248 of the Spanish three (3) years and may re-elect these members once Companies Law, the co-option of Directors must be or more times for further periods of three (3) years. approved by absolute majority of the Directors at the meeting. Pursuant to Article 23 of the Articles of Association 17. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Pursuant to Articles 20 and 21 of the Company’s The number of Board Members was established in Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall seventeen (17) members according to the decision of consist of no less than five (5) and no more than the General Shareholders’ Meeting held on June 21st, seventeen (17) Directors. The term of office shall be 2011. of three (3) years, and may be re-elected once or more times for equal periods. Date of first Date of End of Board Member Position appointment re-election term António Mexia Chairman 18/03/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Manso Neto Vice-Chairman, CEO 18/03/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Nuno Alves Director 18/03/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Rui Teixeira Director 11/04/2011 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Gabriel Alonso Director 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Paulo Costeira Director 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Lopes Raimundo Director 04/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Manuel de Mello Franco Director 04/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Jorge Santos Director 04/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 José Araújo e Silva Director 04/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Manuel Menéndez Menéndez Director 04/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Rafael Caldeira Valverde Director 04/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Gilles August Director 14/04/2009 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Marques da Cruz Director 16/05/2012 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Acácio Piloto Director 26/02/2013 21/06/2014 António Nogueira Leite Director 26/02/2013 21/06/2014 José Ferreira Machado Director 26/02/2013 21/06/2014 Despite the fact that the term of office of all the force till the next Ordinary General Shareholder’s Members of the Board ended on June 21st, 2014, Meeting, which is foreseeing to take place on April 9th, according to the Spanish Law, EDPR’s personal law, 2015. the Members of the Board maintain their terms in full 18. EXECUTIVE, NON-EXECUTIVE AND INDEPENDENT MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS EDPR’s Articles of Association, which are available for Following the recommendations of CMVM, Article 12 of consultation on the Company’s website the Board of Directors regulations requires that at (www.edprenovaveis.com), contains the rules on least twenty-five percent (25%) of the Members of independence for the fulfilment of duties in any body the Board have to be independent. Article 20.2 of of the Company. The independence of the Directors is EDPR’s Articles of Association defines independent evaluated according to the Company’s personal law, members of the Board of Directors as those who are the Spanish law. able to perform their duties without being limited by EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 121 EDPR ENERGY· 2014 ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 119 relations with the Company, its shareholders with • People who are in any other situation of significant holdings, or its Directors and comply with incompatibility or prohibition under the law or the other legal requirements. Articles of Association. Under Spanish law, people, among others, who are i) aged under eighteen (18) In addition, pursuant to Article 23 of the Articles of years, (ii) disqualified, iii) competitors; (iv) Association, the following may not be Directors: convicted of certain offences, or (v) hold certain • People who are Directors of or are associated with management positions are not allowed to be any competitor of EDPR and those who are related Directors. to the above. A Company shall be considered to be a The Chairman of EDPR’s Board of Directors does not competitor of EDPR if it is directly or indirectly have executive duties. involved in the generation, storage, transmission, distribution, sale, or supply of electricity or The following table includes the executive, noncombustible gases and also those that have executive and independent members of the Board of interests opposed to those of EDPR, a competitor or Directors. The independent members mentioned any of the companies in its Group, and Directors, below meet the independence and incompatibility employees, lawyers, consultants, or representatives criteria’s required by the law and the Articles of of any of them. Under no circumstances shall Association. companies belonging to the same group as EDPR, including abroad, be considered competitors; Board Member Position Independent António Mexia Chairman and Non-Executive Director João Manso Neto Executive Vice-Chairman and Executive Director Nuno Alves Executive Director Rui Teixeira Executive Director Gabriel Alonso Executive Director João Paulo Costeira Executive Director João Lopes Raimundo Non-Executive Director Yes João Manuel de Mello Franco Non-Executive Director Yes Jorge Santos Non-Executive Director Yes José Araújo e Silva Non-Executive Director Yes Manuel Menéndez Menéndez Non-Executive Director Rafael Caldeira Valverde Non-Executive Director Yes Gilles August Non-Executive Director Yes João Marques da Cruz Non-Executive Director Acácio Piloto Non-Executive Director Yes António Nogueira Leite Non-Executive Director Yes José Ferreira Machado Non-Executive Director Yes 19. PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS AND BIOGRAPHIES OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The positions held by the members of the Board of companies and other relevant curricular information is Directors in the last five (5) years, those that they available in the Annex of this Report. currently hold, positions in Group and non-Group 20. FAMILY, PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS WITH QUALIFYING SHAREHOLDERS Qualifying Shareholders in EDPR are subject to the • António Mexia; Spanish Law, which regulates the criteria and thresholds of the shareholder’s holdings. As of • João Manso Neto; December 31st 2014, and as far as the Company was • Nuno Alves; informed, there are no family or business relationships of Members of the Board of Directors with qualifying • Manuel Menéndez Menéndez; shareholders but only professional relationships due to • João Marques da Cruz. the fact that some of the Members of EDPR’s Board of Directors are currently Members of the Board of Or employees in other companies belonging to EDP’s Directors in other companies belonging to the same group, which are the following: group as EDP Energias de Portugal S.A., which are the following: • Rui Teixeira; • João Paulo Costeira. 122 120 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 21. MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE According to the Spanish Law and Spanish companies’ from what occurs on the Portuguese companies in practices, the daily management of the business is which a ”Conselho de Administração Executivo” takes guaranteed by a Chief Executive Officer who is the assignment of areas of business and each empowered to ensure the day-to-day management of Executive Director is responsible to and for an area of the Company. This type of organization is different business. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Emílio Garcia-Conde João Manso Neto General Secretary CEO João Paulo Costeira Gabriel Alonso Rui Teixeira COO Europe, Brazil & COO North America CFO Nuno Alves South Africa & Mexico B. FUNCTIONING 22. BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULATIONS EDPR’s Board of Directors Regulations is available to www.edprenovaveis.com and at the Company’s the public on the Company’s website at headquarters at Plaza de la Gesta, 2, Oviedo, Spain. 23. NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors held six (6) meetings during the attendance percentage of the participation of the the year ending on December 31st, 2014. Minutes of Directors to the meetings held during 2014: all meetings were drawn. The table below expresses Board Member Position Attendance António Mexia Chairman and Non-Executive 83.5% João Manso Neto Executive Vice-Chairman and CEO 100% Nuno Alves Executive 100% Rui Teixeira Executive 100% Gabriel Alonso Executive 83.5% João Paulo Costeira Executive 100% João Lopes Raimundo Non-Executive and Independent 83.5% João Manuel de Mello Franco Non-Executive and Independent 100% Jorge Santos Non-Executive and Independent 100% José Araújo e Silva Non-Executive and Independent 100% Manuel Menéndez Menéndez Non-Executive 83.5% Rafael Caldeira Valverde Non-Executive and Independent 83.5% Gilles August Non-Executive and Independent 66.8% João Marques da Cruz Non-Executive 66.8% Acácio Piloto Non-Executive and Independent 100% António Nogueira Leite Non-Executive and Independent 83.5% José Ferreira Machado Non-Executive and Independent 100% The percentage reflects the meetings physically meeting has delegated its voting rights on other attended by the Members of the Board. During 2014, Member of the Board. none of the Members of Board who could not attend a 24. COMPETENT BODY FOR THE PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Nominations and Remunerations Committee is the of Directors supervises de effective functioning of its body responsible for the evaluation of the Committees and as well as the performance of the performance of the Executive Directors. According to delegated bodies and Directors designated. Article 249 of the Spanish Companies Law, the Board EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 123 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 121 25. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CRITERIA The criteria’s for assessing the Executive Directors’ performance are described on topics 70, 71 and 72 of the Report. 26. AVAILABILITY OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS EDPR’s members of the Board of Directors are fully outside the group, and other relevant activities available for the performance of their duties having no undertaken by members of the Board of Directors constraints for the execution of this function throughout the financial year are listed in the Annex simultaneously with other positions. The positions of this report. held at the same time in other companies within and C. COMMITTEES WITHIN THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OR SUPERVISORY BOARD AND BOARD DELEGATES 27. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ COMMITTEES Pursuant to Article 10 of the Company’s Articles of • Nominations and Remunerations Committee Association the Board of Directors may have delegated bodies. The Board of Directors has created • Related-Party Transactions Committee four Committees: The Board of Directors’ Committees regulations are • Executive Committee available to the public at the Company’s website, www.edprenovaveis.com. • Audit and Control Committee 28. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Pursuant to Article 27 of the Company’s Articles of • João Manso Neto, who is the Chairman and CEO Association, the Executive Committee shall consist of no less than four (4) and no more than seven (7) • Nuno Alves Directors. • Rui Teixeira Its constitution, the nomination of its members and • Gabriel Alonso the extension of the powers delegated must be approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the • João Paulo Costeira Board of Directors. Additionally, Emilio García-Conde Noriega is the The Board of Directors established the number of Secretary of the Executive Committee. members of the Executive Committee of five (5), plus the Secretary. The current members are: 29. COMMITTEES COMPETENCES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE of a tie, the Chairman shall have the casting vote. FUNCTIONING Executive Directors shall provide any clarifications needed by the other Directors or corporate bodies In addition to the Articles of Association, this whenever requested to do so. committee is also governed by its regulations approved on June 4th, 2008 and amended on April The composition of the Executive Committee is 23rd, 2013. The committee regulations are available to described on the previous topic. the public at www.edprenovaveis.com. The Executive Committee is a permanent body to The Executive Committee shall meet at least once a which all the competences of the Board of Directors month and whenever is deemed appropriate by its that are delegable under the law and the Articles of Chairman, who may also suspend or postpone Association can be delegated, with the exception of meetings when he sees fit. The Executive Committee the following: shall also meet when requested by at least two (2) of its members. • Election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors; The Chairman of the Executive Committee, who is • Nomination of Directors by co-option; currently also the Vice-Chairman of the Board of • Request to convene or convening of General Directors, shall send to the Chairman of the Audit and Shareholders’ Meetings; Control Committee invitations to the Executive Committee meetings and the minutes of those • Preparation and drafting of the Annual Management meetings. The Chairman of the Board of Directors also Report and Accounts and submission to the General receives the minutes of the meetings of the Executive Shareholders’ Meeting; Committee. • Change of registered office; and Meetings of the Executive Committee are valid if half • Drafting and approval of the proposal for mergers, of its members plus one are present or represented. spin-off, or transformation of the Company. Decisions shall be adopted by majority. In the event 124 122 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ACTIVITY subjects related to the auditing process, and receiving and maintaining information on any other In 2014 the Executive Committee held 49 meetings. questions regarding accounting subjects; The Executive Committee main activity is the daily management of the Company. • Preparing an annual report on its supervisory activities, including eventual constraints, and expressing an opinion on the Management Report, AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE the Accounts and the proposals presented by the COMPOSITION Board of Directors; Pursuant to Article 28 of the Company’s Articles of • Receiving notices of financial and accounting Association and Articles 8 and 9 of the Committee’s irregularities presented by the Company’s Regulations, the Audit and Control Committee consists employees, shareholders, or entity that has a direct of no less than three (3) and no more than five (5) interest and judicially protected, related with the members. Company social activity; According to Article 28.5 of the Articles of Association • Engaging the services of experts to collaborate with the term of office of the Chairman of the Audit and Committee members in the performance of their Control Committee is three (3) years after which may functions. When engaging the services of such be re-elected for another term of three (3) years. experts and determining their remuneration, the João Manuel de Mello Franco was first elected on 2008 importance of the matters entrusted to them and and re-elected on 2011. the economic situation of the Company must be taken into account; Considering that on June 21st, 2014 João Manuel de Mello Franco ended the term of his office as Chairman • Drafting reports at the request of the Board and its of the Audit and Control Committee, the Board of committees; Directors decided on its meeting held on April 8th, • Reflecting on the governance system adopted by 2014 to nominate Jorge Santos for the position of EDPR in order to identify areas for improvement; Chairman of the Audit and Control Committee, following the opinion presented by the Nominations • Any other powers entrusted to it by the Board of and Remuneration Committee. Directors or the Articles of Association. João Manuel de Mello Franco remains as member of FUNCTIONING the Audit and Control Committee according to Article In addition to the Articles of Association and the law, 28.5 of the Articles of Association. this committee is governed by its regulations The Audit and Control committee consists of three (3) approved on June 4th, 2008 and amended on May 4th, independent members, plus the Secretary. As of 2010 available to the public at December 31st, 2014, the members of the Audit and www.edprenovaveis.com. Control Committee are: The committee shall meet at least once a quarter and • Jorge Santos, who is the Chairman additionally whenever its Chairman sees fit. • João Manuel de Mello Franco Decisions shall be adopted by majority. The Chairman shall have the casting vote in the event of a tie. • João Lopes Raimundo 2014 ACTIVITY Additionally, Mr. Emilio García-Conde Noriega is the Secretary of the Audit and Control Committee. In 2014, the Audit and Control Committee’s activities included the following: COMPETENCES • Monitor the closure of quarterly accounts, the first The competences of the Audit and Control Committee half-year and year-end accounts, to familiarize itself are as follows: with the preparation and disclosure of financial • Reporting, through the Chairman, at General information, internal audit, internal control and risk Shareholders’ Meetings on questions falling under its management activities; jurisdiction; • Analysis of relevant rules to which the committee is • Proposing the nomination of the Company’s auditors subject in Portugal and Spain; to the Board of Directors for subsequent approval by • Assessment of the external auditor’s work, the General Shareholders’ Meeting, as well as the especially concerning with the scope of work in 2014 contractual conditions, scope of the work – specially and approval of all “audit related” and “non-audit” concerning audit services, “audit related” and “nonservices; audit” – annual activity evaluation and revocation or renovation of the auditor nomination; • Supervision of the quality and integrity of the financial information in the financial statements and • Supervising the finance reporting and the participation in the Executive Committee meeting at functioning of the internal risk management and which these documents were analysed and control systems, as well as, evaluate those systems discussed; and propose the adequate adjustments according to the Company necessities; • Drafting of an opinion in the individual and consolidated annual reports and accounts, in a • Supervising internal audits and compliance; quarterly, half year and yearly basis; • Establish a permanent contact with the external • Pre-approval of the 2014 Internal Audit Action Plan; auditors to assure the conditions, including the independence, adequate to the services provided by • Supervision of the quality, integrity and efficiency of them, acting as the Company speaker for these the internal control system, risk management and EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 125 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 123 internal auditing; members may resign said positions while still remaining Company Directors. • Reflection on the corporate governance system adopted by EDPR; COMPETENCES • Analysis of the evolution of the SCIRF project; The Nominations and Remunerations Committee is a permanent body belonging to the Board of Directors • Information about the whistle-blowing; with an informative and advisory nature and its • Quarterly and annual report of its activities. recommendations and reports are not binding. The Audit and Control Committee found no constraints The Nominations and Remunerations Committee has no during its control and supervision activities. executive functions. The main functions of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee are to assist A report on the activities of the Audit and Control and report to the Board of Directors about nominations Committee in the year ended on December 31st, 2014 (including by co-option), re-elections, dismissals, and the is available to shareholders at remuneration of the Board Members and its position www.edprenovaveis.com. about the composition of the Board of Directors, as well as the nominations, remuneration, and dismissal of senior management personnel. The Nominations and NOMINATIONS AND REMUNERATIONS COMMITTEE Remunerations Committee shall also inform the Board of COMPOSITION Directors on general remuneration policy and incentives to them and the senior management. These functions Pursuant to Article 29 of the Company’s Articles of include the following: Association and Articles 8 and 9 of its Regulations, the Nominations and Remunerations Committee shall • Defining the standards and principles governing the consist of no less than three (3) and no more than six composition of the Board of Directors and the (6) members. At least one of its members must be selection and nominations of its members; independent and shall be the Chairman of the • Proposing the nominations and re-election of committee. Directors in cases of nominations by co-option and The members of the committee shall not be members in other cases for the submission to the General of the Executive Committee. The Nominations and Shareholders’ Meeting by the Board of Directors; Remunerations Committee is constituted by • Proposing to the Board of Directors the candidates independent members of the Board of Directors, in for the different committees; compliance with Recommendation 49 of the Unified Code of Good Governance (Código Unificado de Buen • Proposing to the Board, within the limits established Gobierno), as amended by CNMV Circular 4/2007 of in the Articles of Association, the remuneration December 27th. The code lays down that the system, distribution method, and amounts payable Nominations and Remunerations Committee must be to the Directors; entirely constituted by external Directors numbering no fewer than three (3). As it is made up of independent • Making proposals to the Board of Directors on the Directors (in Spain the committee may only be conditions of the contracts signed with Directors; comprised of Directors), it complies to the extent • Informing and making proposals to the Board of possible with the recommendation indicated in chapter Directors regarding the nominations and/or removal II.3.1 of the Portuguese Code of Corporate of executives and the conditions of their contracts Governance. and generally defining the hiring and remuneration On April 8th, 2014 the Board of Directors approved policies of executive staff; adjustments to the Nominations and Remunerations • Reviewing and reporting on incentive plans, pension Committee. João Manuel de Mello Franco was elected plans, and compensation packages; Chairman of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee as Jorge Santos resigned. Below is the • Any other functions assigned to it in the Articles of new composition of the Committee. Association or by the Board of Directors. The Nominations and Remunerations Committee FUNCTIONING consists of three (3) independent members, plus the In addition to the Articles of Association, the Secretary. Nominations and Remunerations Committee is The current members are: governed by its Regulations approved on June 4th, 2008. The committee’s regulations are available at • João Manuel de Mello Franco, who is the Chairman www.edprenovaveis.com. • António Nogueira Leite This committee shall meet at least once every quarter and also whenever its Chairman sees fit. This • Rafael Caldeira Valverde committee shall draft minutes of every meeting held Additionally, Emilio García-Conde Noriega is the and inform the Board of Directors of its decisions at Secretary of the Nominations and Remunerations the first Board meeting after each committee meeting. Committee. Decisions shall be adopted by majority. The Chairman shall have the deciding vote in the event of a tie. None of the committee members are spouses or up to third degree relatives in direct line of the other 2014 ACTIVITY members of the Board of Directors. In 2014 the Nominations and Remunerations The committee members shall maintain their positions Committee activities were: for as long as they are Company Directors. • Performance evaluation of the Board of Directors Nonetheless, the Board may decide to discharge and the Executive Committee; members of the committee at any time and the 126 124 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE • Drafting update and consequent approval of the of the EDPR Group for the fiscal year before; Performance Evaluation and Remuneration Model for 2014-2016; • Ratifying any modification of the Framework Agreement signed by EDPR and EDP on May 7th, 2008; • Drafting of the Remuneration Policy to propose to the Board of Directors and to be approved at the • Making recommendations to the Board of Directors General Shareholders Meeting; of the Company or its Executive Committee regarding the transactions between EDPR and • Annual Report of their activities. related entities with EDP and related entities; • Asking EDP for access to the information needed to RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS COMMITTEE perform its duties; COMPOSITION • Ratifying, in the correspondent term according to the necessities of each specific case, the Pursuant to Article 30 of the Articles of Association, transactions between Qualifying Holdings other than the Board of Directors may set up other committees, EDP with entities from the EDP Renováveis Group such as the Related-Party Transactions Committee. whose annual value is superior to EUR 1,000,000; This committee shall consist of no fewer than three (3) members. The majority of the members of the • Ratifying, in the correspondent terms according to Related Party Transactions Committee shall be the necessities of each specific case, the independent, although in the case of this committee it transactions between Board Members, “Key has one non-independent member, Nuno Alves. Employees” and/or Family Members with entities from EDP Renováveis Group whose annual value is Members of the Related Party Transactions Committee superior to EUR 75,000. shall be considered independent if they can perform their duties without being conditioned by relations In case the Related Party Transactions Committee with EDPR, its majority shareholders or its Directors does not ratify the commercial or legal relations and, if this is the case, meet the other requirements between EDP or its related entities and EDP of the applicable legislation. Renováveis and its related entities, as well as those related with Qualifying Holders other than EDP, Board The Related-Party Transactions committee consists of Members, “Key Employees” and/or there Family two (2) independent members and one (1) nonMembers, such relations must be approved by 2/3 of independent member, as described above, plus the the members of the Board of Directors as long as half Secretary. of the members proposed by entities different from The current members are: EDP, including independent Directors, vote favourably, except when a majority of members expresses its • José Ferreira Machado, who is the Chairman approval prior to submitting the matter to the Related Party Transactions Committee for its approval. • João Manuel de Mello Franco The terms of part 1 above shall not apply to • Nuno Alves transactions between EDP or its related entities and Additionally, Emilio García-Conde Noriega is the EDP Renováveis or its related entities carried out Secretary of the Related Party Transactions under standardized conditions and are applied equally Committee. to different related entities of EDP and EDP, even standardized price conditions. The committee members shall maintain their positions for as long as they are Company Directors. FUNCTIONING Nevertheless, the Board may decide to discharge In addition to the Articles of Association, the Relatedmembers of the committee at any time and the Party Transactions Committee is governed by its members may resign said positions while still regulations approved on June 4th, 2008 and amended remaining Company Directors. on February 28th, 2012. The committee’s regulations COMPETENCES are available at www.edprenovaveis.com. The Related Party Transactions Committee is a The committee shall meet at least once a quarter and permanent body belonging to the Board of Directors additionally whenever its Chairman sees fit. that performs the following duties, without prejudice, This committee shall draft minutes of every meeting to others that the Board may assign to it: held and inform the Board of Directors of decisions • Periodically reporting to the Board of Directors on that it makes at the first Board meeting held after the commercial and legal relations between EDPR or each committee meeting. related entities and EDP or related entities; Decisions shall be adopted by majority. The Chairman • In connection with the approval of the Company's shall have the casting vote in the event of a tie. annual results, reporting on the commercial and 2014 ACTIVITY legal relations between the EDPR Group and the EDP Group and the transactions between related entities In 2014, the Related Party Transactions Committee during the fiscal year in question; revised, approved and proposed to the Board of Directors the approval of all agreements and contracts • Ratifying transactions between EDPR and/or related between related parties submitted to its consideration. entities with EDP and/or related entities by the stipulated deadline in each case, provided that the Chapter E – I, topic 90, of this report includes a value of the transaction exceeds EUR 5,000,000 or description of the fundamental aspects of the represents 0.3% of the consolidated annual income agreements and contracts between related parties. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 127 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 125 III. SUPERVISION A. COMPOSITION 30. SUPERVISORY BOARD MODEL ADOPTED EDPR’s governance model, as long as it is compatible management body is a Board of Directors, and the with its personal law, the Spanish law, corresponds to supervision and control duties are of the responsibility the so-called “Anglo-Saxon” model set forth in the of an Audit and Control Committee. Portuguese Commercial Companies Code, in which the 31. COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE Composition of Audit and Control Committee is Control Committee are available on the chart of topic reflected on topic 29. The term of office and the dates 17. of first appointment of the members of the Audit and 32. INDEPENDENCE OF THE MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE Information concerning the independence of the independence of the members of the Board and of its members of the Audit and Control Committee is Committees is evaluated according to the Company’s available on the chart of topic 18 of the report. As personal law, the Spanish law. mentioned on the first paragraph of topic 18, the 33. PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS AND BIOGRAPHIES OF THE MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE Professional qualifications of each member of the curricular information, are available in the Annex of Audit and Control Committee and other important this report. B. FUNCTIONING 34. AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE REGULATIONS The Audit and Control Committee regulations are www.edprenovaveis.com and at the Company’s available to the public at the Company’s website, headquarters at Plaza de la Gesta, 2, Oviedo, Spain. 35. NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD BY THE AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE In 2014, the Audit and Control Committee held fifteen The Audit and Control Committee also attended three (15) meetings, six (6) of those meetings were plenary meetings organized by EDP’s General Supervisory and the other nine (9) were with the different Board and participated in September on the Annual departments whose activity development was Meeting of the Audit and Control Committees’ of EDP’s discussed with the Committee. On September 6 th and Group. 7th, 2014, the Chairman of the Audit and Control Committee visited EDPR Poland and met with the local The following table shows the attendance percentage teams. to the meetings of the Audit and Control Committee by its members: Member Position Attendance Jorge Santos Chairman 100% João Manuel de Mello Franco Vocal 83.5% João Lopes Raimundo Vocal 83.5% 36. AVAILABILITY OF THE MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE The members of the Audit and Control Committee are inside and outside the group, and other relevant fully available for the performance of their duties activities undertaken by members of this Committee having no constraints for the execution of this function throughout the financial year is listed in the Annex of simultaneously with positions in other companies. The this report. positions held simultaneously in other companies 128 126 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE C. POWERS AND DUTIES 37. PROCEDURES FOR HIRING ADDITIONAL SERVICES TO THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR In EDPR there is a policy of pre-approval by the Audit specific service, which considered the following and Control Committee for the selection of the aspects: (i) such services having no effect on the External Auditor and any related entity for non-audit independence of the External Auditor and any services, according to Recommendation IV.2 of the safeguards used; and (ii) the position of the External Portuguese Corporate Governance Code. This policy Auditor in the provision of such services, notably the was strictly followed during 2014. External Auditor’s experience and knowledge of the Company. The services, other than auditing services, provided by the External Auditor and entities in a holding Furthermore, although hiring services other than relationship with or incorporated in the same network auditing services to the External Auditor is admissible, as the External Auditor were previously approved by it is envisaged as an exception. In 2014 such services the Audit and Control Committee according to Article reached only around 5% of the total amount of 8.2, b) of its Regulations and upon review of each services provided to the Company. 38. OTHER DUTIES OF THE AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE Apart from the competences expressly delegated on • Definition of the Company’s hiring policy concerning the Audit and Control Committee according to Article persons who have worked or currently work with the 8 of its Regulations and in order to safeguard the External Auditors; independence of the External Auditor, the following powers of the Audit and Control Committee were • Review, with the External Auditors, of the scope, exercised during the 2014 financial year and should planning, and resources to be used in their services; be highlighted: • Responsibility for the settlement of any differences • Nominate and hire the External Auditor and between the Executive Committee and the External responsibility for establishing their remuneration as Auditors concerning financial information; well as pre-approval of any services to be hired from • Contracts signed between EDPR and its Qualified the External Auditor and perform its direct and Shareholders that were analysed by the Audit and exclusive supervision; Control Committee. This information is included on • Assessment of the qualifications, independence, and the annual report of the Audit and Control performance of the External Auditors, and obtaining, Committee regarding those cases that needed a yearly and directly from the External Auditors, previous opinion from the committee. written information on all relations existing between Within this context, it should be particularly stressed the Company and the Auditors or associated that the External Auditor’ independence was persons, including all services rendered and all safeguarded by the implementation of the Company’s services in progress; in fact, the Audit Committee, in policy for the pre-approval of the services to be hired order to evaluate independence, obtained from the to External Auditors (or any entity in a holding External Auditors information on their independence relationship with or incorporating the same network as in light of article 62B of Decree-Law no. 224/2008 of the External Auditors), which results from the 20 November 2008, which amends the articles of application of the rules issued by SEC on this matter. association of the Chartered Accountant Professional According to such policy, the Audit and Control Association; Committee makes an overall pre-approval of the • Review of the transparency report, signed by the services proposal made by the External Auditors and a Auditor and disclosed at its website. This report specific pre-approval of other services that will covers the matters provided for under article 62A of eventually be provided by the External Auditors, Decree-Law no. 224/2008, including those regarding particularly tax consultancy services and services the quality control internal system of the audit firm other than “audit and audit related” services. and the quality control procedures carried out by the competent authorities; IV-V. STATUTORY AND EXTERNAL AUDITORS 39-41. According to the Spanish law, the External described on the Portuguese Law. Consequently, the Auditor (“Auditor de Cuentas”) is nominated by the information regarding points 39 to 41 is available on General Shareholders’ Meeting and corresponds to the chapter V of the report, points 42 to 47. statutory auditor body (“Revisor Oficial de Contas”) 42. EXTERNAL AUDITOR IDENTIFICATION The External Auditor is, since 2007, KPMG Auditores Cuentas” of a seven year term for the partner in S.L., a Spanish Company, whose partner in charge of charge of the accounts auditing which ended in 2013. EDPR accounts auditing is, since January 2014, KPMG Auditores S.L. is registered at the Spanish Estibaliz Bilbao. Estibaliz Bilbao replaced the previous Official Register of Auditors under number S0702 and partner, Ana Fernandez Poderós, due to the limitation with Tax Identification Number B-78510153. imposed by article 19.2 of the “Ley de Auditoría de EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 129 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 127 43. NUMBER OF YEARS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR KMG Auditores S.L. is in charge of EDPR’s accounts auditing having carried these duties for the last eight consecutive years. 44. ROTATION POLICY According to CMVM’s Recommendation IV.3 of its consecutive year as EDPR’s External Auditor, therefore 2013 Corporate Governance Code, the companies compliant with Recommendation IV.3 of the shall rotate the auditor after two or three terms Portuguese Corporate Governance Code. According to whether they are of four or three years, respectively, the Spanish Law, EDPR’s personal law, there is no being the maximum nine years. As of December 31st, limitation to the rotation of the auditing firm but only 2014, KPMG Auditores S.L. has ended its eight (8th) to the responsible partner, as described in topic 42. 45. EXTERNAL AUDITOR EVALUATION The Audit and Control Committee is responsible for II.2.2, it was the first and direct recipient and the the evaluation of the External Auditor according to the corporate body in charge of the permanent contact competences granted by its Regulations. The with the external auditor on matters that may pose a evaluation of the Audit and Control Committee is risk to their independence and any other matters made once a year. The Audit and Control Committee related to the auditing of accounts. It also receives acts as the company speaker for the relevant matters and stores information on any other matters provided with the External Auditor and establishes a permanent for in legislation on audits and in auditing standards in contact throughout the year to assure the conditions, effect at any time. The External Auditor within the including the independence, adequate to the services scope of its duties, verified the implementation of the provided by them related to the auditing process, and remuneration policies and systems of the corporate receiving and maintaining information on any other bodies as well as the efficiency and effectiveness of questions regarding accounting subjects. In 2014, the internal control mechanisms and report any according to the Audit and Control Committee’s shortcomings to the supervisory body of the competences and in line with Recommendations Company. 46. NON-AUDIT SERVICES CARRIED OUT BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR According to the rules described on topic 29 of this • KPMG's assistance in the process of IRS tax Report, in EDPR there is a policy of pre-approval by examination for the 2009 tax year; the Audit and Control Committee for the selection non-audit services according to Article 8.2, b) of the • Tax services to prepare six technical memos on PTC Audit and Control Committee Regulations. qualification for six wind farms. Below are the details of non-audit services provided KPMG was engaged to provide the above mentioned during 2014 by the External Auditor for EDPR’s services due to it’s in depth knowledge of the group business units: activities and tax related matters. These engagements did not risk the independence of the • Tax and accounting due diligence services for the External Auditor and were pre-approved by the acquisition of a new wind farm; Audit and Control Committee prior to rendering the services. • KPMG's assistance in the process of IRS tax examination; 47. EXTERNAL AUDITOR REMUNERATION IN 2014 € thousand Portugal Spain Brazil US Other Total % Audit and statutory audit 141.6 588.4 137.8 760.3 631.6 2,259.8 86% Other assurance and reliability services 228.6 16.7 245.3 6% Sub-total audit related services 141.6 817.0 137.8 760.3 648.4 2,505.1 92% Tax consultancy services 53.0 135.2 188.2 7% Other services unrelated to statutory auditing 10.5 3.0 13.5 1% Sub-total non-audit related services 10.5 53.0 135.2 3.0 201.8 8% Total 152.1 870.0 137.8 895.5 651.4 2,706.8 100% 130 128 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE PART I: INFORMATION ON SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE, ORGANISATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C. INTERNAL ORGANISATION I. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION ................... 129 II. REPORTING OF IRREGULARITIES....... 129 III. INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT .................................................... 130 IV. INVESTOR ASSISTANCE ............................. 137 V. WEBSITE – ONLINE INFORMATION 138 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 131 EDPR ENERGY· 2014 ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 129 I. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 48. AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company In the event the shareholders attending represent less are of the responsibility of the General Shareholders’ than fifty percent (50%) of the subscribed voting Meeting who has the power to decide on this matter. capital, the resolutions referred to in the present According to Article 17 of the Company’s Articles of paragraph will only be validly adopted with the Association (“Constitution of the General Shareholders’ favourable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the present or Meeting, Adoption of resolutions”), to validly approve any represented capital in the General Shareholders’ necessary amendment to the Articles of Association, the Meeting. Ordinary or Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting will need: On December 24th, 2014, entered into force the new • On first call, that the Shareholders either present or wording of the Spanish Companies Law (“Ley de represented by proxy, represent at least fifty Sociedades de Capital”), Ley 31/2014, with percent (50%) of the subscribed voting capital. modifications regarding the amendments of the Articles of Association that will be proposed on the • On second call, that the Shareholders either present next General Shareholders’ Meeting to be introduced or represented by proxy, represent at least twenty on EDPR’s Articles of Association. five percent (25%) of the subscribed voting capital. II. REPORTING OF IRREGULARITIES 49. IRREGULARITIES COMMUNICATION CHANNELS WHISTLEBLOWING ETHICS CHANNEL AND CODE OF ETHICS EDPR has always carried out its activity by EDPR has a Code of Ethics published on its intranet, consistently implementing measures to ensure the which includes principles like transparency, honesty, good governance of its companies, including the integrity, non-discrimination, equal opportunity, and prevention of incorrect practices, particularly in the sustainability. areas of accounting and finance. The Code of Ethics has been widely circulated among EDPR provides the Group workers with a channel employees of the Group through internal enabling them to report directly and confidentially to communications mechanisms, individual shipments, the Audit and Control Committee any practice delivery to new employees, and intranet publishing. presumed illicit or any alleged accounting and/or On February 2014, the Board of Directors approved an financial irregularity in their Company, in compliance updated version of the Code of Ethics. with the provisions of CMVM Regulation no. 4/2013. There is a strong commitment by the Company in With this channel for reporting irregular accounting relation to the dissemination and promotion of and financial practices, EDPR aims: compliance with the Code available to all employees through training, questionnaires, and open discussions • Guaranteeing conditions that allow workers to freely of the findings. report any concerns they may have in these areas to the Audit and Control Committee; There is also an Ethics Channel and Ethics Regulation to articulate any specific claims of the Code of Ethics • Facilitating the early detection of irregular and to resolve doubts on all matters relating to the situations, which, if practised, might cause serious Code of Ethics. damage to the EDPR Group, its workers, customers, and shareholders. Communications regarding possible breaches of the Code of Ethics are sent to the Ethics Ombudsman, which Contact with the Company’s Audit and Control performs a first analysis, forwarding its conclusion to the Committee is only possible by email and post, and Ethics Committee of EDPR, which receives, records, access to information received is restricted. processes, and reports to the Board of Directors. Any complaint addressed to the Audit and Control In 2014 there were no communications to the Ethics Committee will be kept strictly confidential and the Ombudsmen regarding any irregularity at EDPR. whistle-blower will remain anonymous, provided that this does not prevent the investigation of the ANTI-BRIBERY POLICY complaint. S/he will be assured that the Company will not take any retaliatory or disciplinary action as a In order to ensure compliance with the standards of result of exercising his/her right to blow the whistle on Anti-bribery Regulation in every geography where irregularities, provide information, or assist in an EDPR operates, the Company has developed an Antiinvestigation. Bribery Policy of application to all EDPR Group, which was approved by its Board of Directors on December The Secretary of the Audit and Control Committee 19th, 2014. This Anti-Corruption Policy will involve a receives all the communications and presents a series of new procedures regarding the relationships quarterly report to the members of the Committee. of EDPR employees with external parties, namely the approval of certain actions regarding hospitality to In 2014 there were no communications regarding any and from external parties, charitable donations, and irregularity at EDPR. sponsorships. This Policy will be implemented in the Group throughout 2015. 132 130 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE III. INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT 50. INTERNAL AUDIT EDPR Internal Audit Department is composed by six control and design of models, documentation, people. The function of EDPR’s Internal Audit is to evaluation and reporting. carry out an objective and independent assessment of the Group’s activities and of its internal control In line with the general principles of the model situation, in order to make recommendations to adopted by EDPR for the management of the SCIRF, improve the internal control mechanisms over the COSO Internal Control Integrated Framework systems and management processes in accordance 2013 (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the with the Group’s objectives. Treadway Commission), the responsibility for overseeing the Internal Control System lies in the Additionally, EDPR has a Responsibilities Model and a Board of Directors and the Audit and Control SCIRF Manual (Internal Control System over Financial Committee. The CEO is accountable before the Board, Reporting), in which individuals, governing bodies and must ensure the proper functioning and effectiveness committees responsible for implementing and of the SCIRF, promoting its design, implementation managing the internal control system are indicated. and maintenance. The Executive Committee must support the CEO in this task, guiding the development The Responsibilities Model includes the functions and of the Entity Level Controls of the Company and the main activities in the management and maintenance controls in their areas of responsibility, relying when of the system at all levels of the organization including necessary on other levels of the organization. Also, monitoring activities related to the annual cycle, the the Senior Managers are responsible for evaluating implementation of controls and documentation of any deficiencies and implementing appropriate evidence and supervision activities. improvement opportunities. The SCIRF Manual incorporates the general principles To fulfil these responsibilities, EDPR’s Internal Audit of the Internal Control System over Financial offers support and advice to the management and Reporting, as well as the methodology used, the development of the SCIRF. procedures for ensuring the effectiveness of internal 51. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF INTERNAL AUDIT The Internal Audit function in EDPR Group is a corporate function carried out by the Internal Audit Board of Directors Department, that reports both to the Chairman of EDPR’s Executive Committee and to EDPR’s Audit and Control Committee. Executive Audit and Control Committe Committe Internal Audit 52. RISK MANAGEMENT EDPR’s Risk Management is as an integrating element Risk Policies are defined and implemented across the of all organizational processes and decisions and not a company. These policies are aimed to mitigate risks stand-alone activity separated from the main activities without compromising potential opportunities, thus, of the company. It includes from strategic planning to optimizing return versus risk exposure. evaluation of new investments and contracts. During 2014, EDPR defined or reviewed three new Risk Management at EDPR is supported by three Global Risk Policies: Counterparty Risk Policy, Interest distinct organizational functions, each one with a Rate Risk Policy and Operational Risk Policy. These different role: Strategy (Risk Profiler), Management policies are already implemented or will be (Risk Manager) and Controlling (Risk Controller). implemented throughout 2015. Market, credit and operational risks are identified and assessed and, following the result of the assessment, 53. RISK AREAS AND RISK FACTORS Risk Management at EDPR is focused on covering all 2. Revenues Revenues received by EDPR’s projects market, credit and operational risks of the company. may diverge from what is expected; In order to have a holistic view of risks, they were grouped in Risk Areas following EDPR’s business cycle. 3. Financing EDPR may not be able to raise enough The following list summarizes Risk Areas defined cash to finance its planned Capex; or to fulfil its within EDPR: financial obligations due to changes in exchange rates or bankruptcy of counterparties; 1. Countries & regulations Changes in regulations may impact EDPR’s business in a given country; EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 133 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 131 4. Wind turbine contracts Changes in turbine prices EDPR is managing its exposure to regulatory risks may impact projects’ profitability; or there may not be through diversification by being present in several sufficient turbine supply to build planned wind farms; countries and through participation as an active member in several wind associations. 5. Pipeline development EDPR may deliver an installed capacity different from its targets or suffer Regulatory Risk in each of EDPR’s countries is delays and/or anticipations in its installation; monitored continuously, considering current regulation, potential drafts of new laws, feedback 6. Operations Projects may deliver a volume from associations, evolution of installed renewable different from expected due to turbine availability; generation capacity and other inputs. EDPR has financial results can be impacted by human errors. developed an internal quantitative assessment of Within each Risk Area, risks are classified in Risk Regulatory Risk that serves as an indicator for Groups and finally into Risk Factors. Risk factors are changes in supporting schemes. This measure is the source of the risk and the purpose of Risk updated annually in all EDPR’s geographies. Management at EDPR is to measure, control and Regulatory Risk is also considered ex-ante at the eventually mitigate all risk factors that affect the moment of the investment, through sensitivity company. analyses that are performed to evaluate its impact in project profitability under different scenarios. 1. COUNTRIES AND REGULATIONS 1. I) COUNTRY RISK 2. REVENUES Country Risk is defined as the probability of 2. I) MARKET PRICE RISK occurrence of a financial loss in a given country due to EDPR faces limited electricity price risk as it pursues a macroeconomics, political or natural disasters. EDPR strategy of being present in countries or regions with has defined a Country Risk Policy that assesses long term visibility on revenues. In most countries country risk through an internal scoring based on where EDPR is present, prices are determined through publicly available data. This internal scoring is regulated framework mechanisms. In those countries compared with external assessments from renowned with no regulated tariffs, power purchase agreements parties. Each risk factor affecting country risk is are negotiated with different offtakers to eliminate evaluated independently to decide on potential electricity and Green Certificate or REC price risks. mitigating actions: Despite EDPR’s strategy of eliminating market price • Macroeconomic Risk: Risks from the country’s risk, EDPR still has some wind farms with merchant economic evolution, affecting revenue or cost time exposure. of the investments In Europe, EDPR operates in countries where the • Political Risk: All possible damaging actions or selling price is defined by a feed-in-tariff (Portugal, factors for the business of foreign firms that France and Italy) or in markets where, on top of the emanate from any political authority, governmental electricity price, EDPR receives either a pre-defined body or social group in the host country regulated premium or a green certificate, whose price • Natural disaster risk: Natural phenomena is achieved on a regulated market (Spain, Belgium, (seismicity, weather) that may impact negatively in Poland, and Romania). EDPR is also developing the business conditions. investment activity in the UK, where current incentive system is based on green certificates but will change Before approving a new project in a new geography, to a feed in tariff. EDPR analyses the risk of the new country and compares it to our existing portfolio. Mitigation In countries with a pre-defined regulated premium or measures may be decided when this risk is above a a green certificate scheme, EDPR is exposed to certain threshold. electricity price fluctuations. Considering current PPAs in place, EDPR is exposed to electricity price risk in 1. II) REGULATORY RISK Romania, in Poland and partially in Spain. Additionally, in European countries with a green The development and profitability of renewable energy certificate scheme (Romania and Poland), EDPR is projects are subject to policies and regulatory exposed to fluctuation on the price of green frameworks. The jurisdictions in which EDPR operates certificates. provide different types of incentives supporting energy generated from renewable sources. The US market does not provide a regulated framework system for the electricity price. Remuneration schemes have become less competitive Nevertheless, renewable generation is incentivized in some countries due to the financial crisis and it through PTCs (Production Tax Credits) and regional cannot be guaranteed that current support will be RPS programs that allow receiving RECs (Renewable maintained in all EDPR’s geographies or that future Energy Credit) for each MWh of renewable generation. renewable energy projects will benefit from current REC prices are very volatile and depend on the support measures. Regulation promoting green regional supply/demand equilibrium in the relevant energy has been revised or is under revision in some market. of the countries where EDPR is present. Most of EDPR’s capacity in the US has predefined In the US, renewable generation from wind has been prices determined by bundled (electricity + REC) longincentivized through Production Tax Credits (PTC) at a term contracts with local utilities in line with the Federal level for projects demonstrating beginning of Company’s policy of avoiding market price risk. construction before end of 2014. Additionally, it is still Despite existing long term contracts, some EDPR’s incentivized through State RPS Programs that allow wind farms in the US do not have PPA and are selling receiving RECs (Renewable Energy Credit) for each merchant with exposure to electricity and REC price MWh of renewable generation. 134 132 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE risks. Additionally, some wind farms with existing a wind farm is stopped by the TSO (Transmission PPAs do not sell their energy where it is produced and System Operators) for external reasons to the are therefore exposed to basis risk (different in price company. Examples of cases of curtailment are between the location where energy is produced and upgrades in transmission lines, high level of that where energy is sold). renewable generation production with low demand (very exceptional). In Ontario (Canada), the selling price is defined by a long term feed-in-tariff, thus, there is no electricity EDPR mitigates wind resource volatility and price exposure. seasonality through geographical diversification of its asset base in different countries and regions. In Brazilian operations, the selling price is defined through a public auction which is later translated into • EDPR acknowledges the correlation between a long-term contract. Electricity price exposure is different wind farms in its portfolio that allows for this almost null, with little exposure for the production geographical diversification, which enables EDPR to above or below the contracted production. partially offset wind variations in each region and to keep the total energy generation relatively steady. Under EDPR’s global approach to minimize the Currently, EDPR is present in 12 countries: Spain, exposure to market electricity prices, the Company Portugal, France, Belgium, Poland, Romania, UK (no evaluates on a permanent basis if there are any generation), Italy, US, Canada, Brazil and Mexico (no deviations to the pre-defined limits (measured generation). through EBITDA at risk, Net Income at risk and total merchant exposure). • In some geographies there is an inverse correlation between wind volume and electricity price, implying a EDPR intends to eliminate Green Certificates and REC natural hedge. price risk with the signing of bundled PPAs with private offtakers, which include the sale of the EDPR has analysed in detail the potential use of electricity and the Green Certificate or REC. In some financial products to hedge wind risk, and EDPR might cases, the offtaker may be interested in contracting use this product to mitigate risk in specific cases. only the Green Certificate or the REC, thus a GCPA (Green Certificate Purchase Agreement) or a RECPA Profile risk and curtailment risk are managed ex-ante. (REC Purchase Agreement) is signed. During 2014, For every new investment, EDPR factors the effect EDPR signed or reviewed PPAs in Europe for 716 MW that expected generation profile and curtailment will and in the US for 459 MW. have on the output of the wind farm. Generation profile and curtailment of EDPR’s wind farms are In those geographies with remaining merchant constantly monitored by Risk department to detect exposure, EDPR uses various commodity hedging potential future changes. instruments in order to minimize the exposure to fluctuating market prices. In some cases, due to the lack of liquidity of financial derivatives, it may not be 3. FINANCING possible to successfully hedge all merchant exposure (i.e. no financial derivatives exist for green certificates 3. I) RISKS RELATED TO FINANCIAL MARKET nor RECs). EDPR finances its wind farms through project finance In 2014, EDPR financially hedged most of its or corporate debt. In both cases, a variable interest generation in Poland and Romania. In Spain, hedges rate might imply significant fluctuations in interest were distributed along 2014 but unhedged volumes payments. were affected by significant low prices in Q1. On the other hand, due to EDPR’s presence in several As aforementioned, some US wind farms have countries, revenues denominated in different exposure to electricity price risk or basis risk currencies. Consequently, exchange rate fluctuations (difference in electricity price between locations). may have a material adverse effect on financial results. EDPR hedges electricity price and basis exposures 3. I) A) INTEREST RATE RISK through financial swaps or FTR (Financial Transmission Rights). Given the policies adopted by EDPR Group, current exposure to variable interest rate is not significant The market of GCPA or RECPA is very illiquid and few and financial cash flows are substantially independent financial derivatives exist for Green Certificates nor from the fluctuation of interest rates. RECs. Therefore, all exposure to Green Certificates or REC prices cannot be eliminated. The purpose of interest rate risk management policies is to reduce the exposure of long term debt cash flows 2. II) ENERGY PRODUCTION RISK to market fluctuations, mainly by contracting long The amount of electricity generated by EDPR’s wind term debt with a fixed rate. farms is dependent on weather conditions, which vary • When long term debt is issued with floating rates, across locations, from season to season and from year EDPR settles derivative financial instruments to swap to year. Variation on the amount of electricity that is from floating to fixed rate. generated affects EDPR’s operating results and efficiency. • EDPR has a portfolio of interest-rate derivatives with maturities of up to 13 years. Sensitivity analyses of Not only the total wind production in a specific the fair value of financial instruments to interest-rate location is relevant, but also the profile of production. fluctuations are periodically performed. Wind usually blows more at night than at daytime, when energy prices are lower. Generation profile will Taking into account risk management policy and affect the discount in price of a wind farm versus a approved exposure limits, the Finance team identifies, baseload generation. evaluates, and submits the financial strategy appropriate to each project/location for the Executive Finally, curtailment of a wind farm will also affect its production. Curtailment occurs when the production of EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 135 EDPR ENERGY· 2014 ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 133 Committee’s approval. Global Risk Area supports the competitiveness, credit notation and replacement cost Finance team in interest rate hedging decisions. of the counterparty. Repricing calendar of debt is continuously monitored 3. III) LIQUIDITY RISK together with interest rates in order to detect good timing for interest rate hedging. Liquidity risk is the risk of EDPR not meeting its financial obligations. 3. I) B) EXCHANGE RATE RISK EDPR’s strategy to manage liquidity risk is to ensure EDPR has international operations and is exposed to that its liquidity is sufficient to meet financial liabilities the exchange-rate risk resulting from investments in when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, foreign subsidiaries. Currently, currency exposure is and without incurring unacceptable losses or risking to U.S. dollar, Romanian leu, Polish zloty, Brazilian damage to EDPR’s reputation. Different funding real, British pound and Canadian dollar. sources are used such as Tax Equity investors, multilateral organizations, project finance, corporate EDPR hedges risk against currency fluctuations by debt and asset rotation. financing in the same currency as the revenues of the project. When local financing is not available, EDPR EDPR uses a financial model to forecast liquidity risk hedges debt cash flows though cross currency interest in the medium and long term to meet strategic targets rate swaps. previously set (EBITDA, debt ratio and others). EDPR also contracts foreign exchange forwards to hedge the risk in specific transactions, mainly in payments to suppliers which may be denominated in 4. WIND TURBINE CONTRACTS different currencies. The wind turbine generator (WTG) is a key element in EDPR’s hedging efforts minimize exchange rate the development of EDPR’s wind-related energy volatility, but do not eliminate completely this risk due projects, as the shortfall or an unexpected sharp to high costs associated to hedging FX in certain increase in WTG prices can dramatically affect situations. development of new projects and their profitability. 3. II) COUNTERPARTY RISK WTG represents on average 70 to 80% of an onshore wind farm capital expenditure, and around 40% of an Counterparty credit risk is the risk that the offshore wind farm. counterparty to a transaction could default before the final settlement of the transaction’s cash flows. An 4. I) WIND TURBINE PRICE RISK economic loss could occur, either a direct economic Price of wind turbines is affected, not only by market loss if the transaction has a positive value at the fluctuations of the materials used in the turbines, but moment of default (counterparty credit risk) or a also by the demand of wind turbines. replacement cost due to change of the counterparty (counterparty operational risk). For every new project, EDPR secures the demand risk that might increase price of the turbines. During 2014, EDPR updated its Global Counterparty Risk Policy to account for Counterparty Operational With regards to market risk of the materials used to Risk. It is now implemented across the company. manufacture wind turbines, an escalation formula is negotiated with wind turbine manufacturers. EDPR 3. II) A) COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK might hedge some of the market exposure of this If the transactions or portfolio of transactions with the escalation formula if exposure is above a precounterparty has a positive economic value at the established limit and the market is liquid. time of default, an economic loss would occur. 4. II) WIND TURBINE SUPPLY RISK To control credit risk at EDPR, thresholds of Expected The demand for new wind farms may offset the offer Loss and Unexpected Loss are established as defined of turbines by WTG manufacturers. Currently, the in Basel Standards and re-evaluated monthly. If local component requirement in some geographies threshold is surpassed by any counterparty or by the (Ex: Brazil) creates this shortfall situation. company as a whole, mitigation measures are implemented in order to remain within the preEDPR faces limited risk to the availability and price established limit. increase of WTG’s due to existing framework agreements with major global wind turbines suppliers. 3. II) B) COUNTERPARTY OPERATIONAL RISK The Company uses a large mix of turbines suppliers in If the transactions or portfolio of transactions with the order to diversify wind turbine supply risk. counterparty does not have a positive economic value For geographies with specific requirements of local at the time of default, it will impact operations. component, EDPR does not engage in a project before Despite no direct loss at the time of default, the securing the supply of wind turbines. replacement of the counterparty could imply a cost to EDPR due to potential delays, higher contract value with a new counterparty (replacement costs), etc. 5. PIPELINE Construction and O&M subcontractors are 5. I) DEVELOPMENT RISK counterparties to which EDPR is exposed from an operational point of view. Wind farms are subject to strict regulations at different authority levels (international, national, To minimize the probability of incurring in potential state, regional and local) relating to the development, replacement costs with counterparties, EDPR’s policy construction, grid interconnection and operation of concerning counterparty operational risk is managed power plants. Among other things, these laws by an analysis of the technical capacity, regulate landscape and environmental aspects, 136 134 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE building licenses, land use and land securing and While execution risk in onshore wind farms is access to the grid issues. significant, but not relevant, for offshore wind farms it could be higher. While level of exigency might be different depending on the geographies, EDPR acknowledges a trend for During the design phase, EDPR engineering teams legislations to align towards concentrating the most supervise the engineering and the installation method. restrictive rules and development risks on the Construction is subcontracted to experienced consenting (environmental and urban permissions) construction companies, after verifying their and interconnection (connection of the wind farm to creditworthiness. the national grid). For offshore wind farms, EDPR has partnered with In this context, EDPR’s experience gathered in large companies with previous experience in large different countries is useful to anticipate and deal with electricity generation projects or offshore similar situations in other countries. construction, in order to benefit from their knowledge and share the execution risk. During the development and design phase, EDPR focuses on the optimization of its projects. By In both cases, a critical path analysis is performed to mastering the variables, such as choice of locations, assess the reliability of construction and installation lay-out, etc, the objective is to make our projects plan. more resilient to permitting risks. Additionally, EDPR mitigates development risk by 6. OPERATIONS generating optionality, with development activities in 12 different countries (Spain, Portugal, France, 6. I) WIND TURBINE PERFORMANCE RISK Belgium, Poland, Romania, UK, Italy, US, Canada, Brazil and Mexico) and a portfolio of projects in Wind farm output depends upon the operating several stages of maturity. EDPR has a large pipeline availability of the turbines and the operating of projects that provide a “buffer” to overcome performance of the equipment, mainly the potential delays in the development of prioritized components of wind turbines and transformers. projects, ensuring growth targets and being able to EDPR mitigates this risk by using a mix of turbine compensate permitting delays in some geographies. suppliers which minimizes technological risk, avoiding 5. II) EXECUTION RISK exposure to a unique manufacturer. During the construction of the foundations, EDPR also engages wind turbine suppliers through interconnection and substation of a wind farm, and medium-term full-scope maintenance agreements to the installation of the wind turbines, different events ensure alignment in minimizing technology risk. (bad weather, accidents, etc) might occur that could Finally, EDPR has created an O&M program with imply an over cost or a delay in the commercial adequate preventive and scheduled maintenance operation date of the wind farm: program. • The delay implies a postponement of cash flows, EDPR externalized non-core technical O&M activities of affecting profitability of the investment. its wind farms, while primary and value added activities continue controlled by EDPR. • When a wind farm has a PPA, a delay of the commercial operation date might imply the payment of LDs, with the consequent loss of revenues and the impact on annual financial results. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 137 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 135 54. RISK FUNCTIONS AND FRAMEWORK Risk Management at EDPR is supported by three different role: Strategy (Risk Profiler), Management distinct organizational functions, each one with a (Risk Manager) and Controlling (Risk Controller). Risk functions Description • Global Risk Department provides analytically supported proposals to general strategic issues Strategy – General risk strategy & policy • Responsible for proposing guidelines and policies for risk management within the company • Implement defined policies by Global Risk Management – Risk management & risk business decisions • Responsible for day-to-day operational decisions and for related risk taking and risk mitigating positions • Responsible for follow-up of the results of risk taking decisions and for contrasting alignment of Controlling – Risk control operations with general risk policy approved by the board These three Risk Functions work together following power purchase agreements, new investments, EDPR’s Risk Framework, through which major energy hedges along with pipeline status and the strategic questions of the Executive Committee are EBITDA at Risk. It helps to control the translated into specific guidelines or policies, to be implementation of defined policies and the exposure used by managers in their day-to-day decisions. The to most important risk factors. Risk Committee is the forum where the different Risk Functions discuss the policies to be implemented and • Risk Committee: Held every quarter, it is the forum control the risk exposure of the company. where new analyses are discussed and newly defined policies are proposed in order to send to the EDPR’s Risk Committee integrates and coordinates all Executive Committee for approval. Additionally, Risk Functions and assures the link between EDPR’s overall risk position is reviewed. corporate’s risk appetite and defined strategy and the operations of the company. • By the end of 2014 the Executive Committee approved the creation of a Financial Risk Committee. In order to separate discussions on business decisions The Committee will held meetings every quarter from new analyses and the definition of new policies, starting in 2015 and will be a forum to review EDPR has created three distinct meetings of the Risk financial strategy and mitigation measures for main Committee with different periodicity: financial risks (FX and interest rates). • Restricted Risk Committee: Held every month, it covers the risk of new transactions such as new 55. DETAILS ON THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS IMPLEMENTED IN THE COMPANY REGARDING THE PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING FINANCIAL INFORMATION With the purpose of not only controlling risks, but also preparation of qualified financial information, managing them ex-ante, EDPR has created Global assessment of the risks of financial reporting, Risk policies that are enforceable at a Global Level. existence of control activities to mitigate risks of These policies are proposed and discussed in the Risk error, information and communication and evaluation Committee and approved by the Executive mechanisms. Committee. SCOPE REVISION AND UPDATE During 2013, EDPR defined or reviewed four Global Risk Policies, which are already implemented or in the The SCIRF Manual includes the annual update of the process to be implemented throughout 2014: scope that aims to identify companies, areas and processes that must be included in the scope of • Energy Price Hedging Policy SCIRF, according to criteria of materiality and risk, including the risk of error or fraud. • Counterparty Credit Risk Policy The risk analysis included in the scoping process for • Country Risk Policy SCIRF, includes both the different types of risk • FX Risk Policy (operational, economic, financial, technological or legal) and the control objectives of financial reporting Compliance with Global Risk policies is verified every (existence and occurrence, completeness, month in the Restricted Risk Committee. measurement, presentation, disclosure and comparability, and rights and obligations in terms of INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM OVER FINANCIAL their potential impact on the financial statements). REPORTING The results of the updated scope with the EDPR has an Internal Control System over Financial methodology outlined are communicated at all levels Reporting (SCIRF) updated and monitored in line with of the organization involved in the SCIRF and international standards of Internal Control. supervised by the Audit Committee. This system covers the main aspects of the COSO framework: maintaining a control environment for the 138 136 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE CONTROL ACTIVITIES administration and management of the systems, facilities and operations (back-ups, security incidents) In documented SCIRF processes and controls, and their proper monitoring and planning. These information capture mechanisms are established activities are developed taking into account the (including identification of the scope of consolidation) requirements of control and supervision. and steps and checks that are carried out for the preparation of the financial information that will be Among the activities of SCIRF’s scope update, there is part of consolidated financial statements are specified. a periodic analysis of the existence of service suppliers that perform relevant activities in relation to The procedures for review and approval of financial the processes of preparing financial information. information are provided by the areas of Planning and Control, and Administration, Consolidation and Tax. SCIRF SUPERVISION Financial information is monitored in the scope of its competences by the Audit Committee, prior to the The Audit Committee supervises the SCIRF in the formulation of the accounts by the Board of Directors. scope of the exercise of their activities through the monitoring and supervision of the developed The SCIRF includes control activities related to these mechanisms for SCIRF’s implementation, evolution processes, embodied in Entity Level Controls, Process and evaluation, and the results of the scope analysis Controls and General Computer Controls. These and the extent of the situation in terms of coverage. processes include review and approval activities of the To this end, the Audit Committee is assisted by the financial information which are described in the Internal Audit Department. processes of elaboration of individual accounts, preparation of consolidated accounts and processing EDPR has an Internal Audit Department under the of consolidated financial statements. President of the Executive Committee and is overseen by the Audit Committee as provided in the Basic EDPR has descriptions of Competency Profiles for the Internal Audit Act. Positions to be carried out in the exercise of the main features of each position that includes a description of The main functions of the Internal Audit Department their main responsibilities. These include the are set out in the Basic Internal Audit Act, which descriptions of the key positions of those involved in includes, among others, the evaluation activities of the preparation of financial information. These internal control systems, including the internal control descriptions include responsibilities in the preparation system over financial reporting. of financial information and compliance with internal The annual work plans of the Audit Department obtain control procedures. the opinion of the Audit Committee, which is reported The documentation of processes and associated about their implementation. controls designed include among others, the Among these activities, Internal Audit supports the completion of closure activities by completing monthly Audit Committee in monitoring the implementation closing checklists by entity, setting time limits for the and maintenance of SCIRF and reports the results of closures, the identification of the relevance of the the evaluation, improvement actions identified and operations in order to be reviewed at the appropriate their evolution. level, conducting analytical reviews of financial information, the existence of limitations in systems to The entity has action plans for improvement actions prevent erroneous records or by unauthorized identified in SCIRF’s assessment processes, which are persons, analysis of deviations from the budget, the accompanied and supervised by the Internal Audit analysis in Executive Committees of relevant and Department, considering their impact on the financial significant facts that could cause a significant impact information. on the accounts, or the allocation of responsibilities Also in the year 2014, as in previous years, a process for calculating amounts to be provisioned for them to of self-certification was made by the heads of the be carried out by authorized personnel with the right various process owners regarding proper skills. documentation update on SCIRF controls and In addition to the mentioned processes, major processes in their area of responsibility and the transactional processes resulting from the scope are implementation of controls with corresponding documented. The description of the activities and evidence. controls are designed with the aim of ensuring the SCIRF EVALUATION registration, evaluation, appropriate presentation and disclosure of transactions in financial reporting. Besides the monitoring and evaluation activities described in the preceding paragraph, in case the Control activities of EDPR’s SCIRF also include those auditors identified internal control weaknesses in the relating to systems and information technology scope of their financial audit work, they are expected (Computer General Controls) following an to communicate these circumstances to the Audit international reference, the COBIT framework (Control Committee, which regularly monitors the results of Objectives for Information and related Technologies). the audit work. The importance of this area is that information systems are the tools with which financial information Additionally, in 2014 the EDPR Group decided to have is prepared, and is therefore relevant for transactions its SCIRF audited by the external auditor. As a result conducted with them. of its evaluation, the external auditor issued a report with a favourable opinion on SCIRF of the EDPR These control activities include those related to access Group, according to ISAE 3000 (International control to applications and systems, segregation of Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000). duties, management of corrective and preventive maintenance, new projects implementation, EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 139 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 137 IV. INVESTOR ASSISTANCE 56. INVESTOR RELATIONS DEPARTMENT EDPR seeks to provide to shareholders, investors, and presentations, hand-outs, key data files and interim stakeholders all the relevant information about the presentations. Company and its business environment, on a regular basis. The promotion of transparent, consistent, On each earnings announcement, EDPR promotes a rigorous, easily accessible, and high�quality conference call and webcast, at which the Company’s management updates the market on EDPR’s activities. information is of fundamental importance to an On each of these events shareholders, investors and accurate perception of the Company’s strategy, analysts had the opportunity to directly submit their financial situation, accounts, assets, prospects, risks, questions and to discuss EDPR’s results as well as the and significant events. Company’s outlook and strategy. EDPR, therefore, looks to provide investors with EDPR IR Department is coordinated by Rui Antunes accurate information that can support them in making and is located at the Company’s head offices in informed, clear, and concrete investment decisions. Madrid, Spain. The department structure and contacts The Investor Relations Department was created to are as follows: ensure a direct and permanent contact with all market IR Contacts: related agents and stakeholders, to guarantee the Rui Antunes, Head of Planning & Control, Investor equality between shareholders and to prevent Relations and Sustainability imbalances in the information access. Calle Serrano Galvache 56 The EDPR Investor Relations Department (IR) is the Centro Empresarial Parque Norte intermediary between EDPR and its actual and Edificio Olmo – 7th floor potential shareholders, the financial analysts that 28033 – Madrid – España follow Company’s activity, all investors and other Website: www.edprenovaveis.com/investors members of the financial community. The main E-Mail: ir@edpr.com purpose of the department is to guarantee the Phone: +34 902 830 700 / Fax: +34 914 238 429 principle of equality among shareholders, by In 2014, EDPR promoted and participated in several preventing asymmetries in access the information and events, namely EDP Group investor day, road shows, reducing the gap between market perception and presentations to investors and analysts, meetings and Company’s strategy and intrinsic value. The conference calls. During the year, EDPR management department responsibility comprises developing and and the IR team attended to 15 broker conferences, implementing EDPR’s communication strategy and held 29 roadshows and 6 reverse roadshows, along preserving an appropriate institutional and informative with conference calls and meetings, totalling more relationship with the financial market, the stock than 400 interactions with institutional investor in 21 exchange at which EDPR shares trade and the of the major financial cities across Europe, US, regulatory and supervisory entities (CMVM – Comissão Canada, Australia and Asia. de Mercado de Valores Mobiliários – in Portugal and CNMV – Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores – EDPR IR Department was in permanent contact with in Spain). capital markets agents, namely financial analysts who evaluate the Company. In 2014, as far as the EDPR is clearly aware of the importance of detailed Company is aware, sell�side analysts issued more and transparent information, delivered on-time to the market. Consequently, EDPR publishes Company’s than 170 reports evaluating EDPR’s business and price sensitive information before the opening or performance. following the closing of the NYSE Euronext Lisbon At the end of the 2014, as far as the Company is stock exchange through CMVM’s information system aware of, there were 21 institutions elaborating and, simultaneously, make that same information research reports and following actively EDPR activity. available on the website investors’ section and As of December 31st, 2014, the average price target through the IR department’s mailing list. In 2014, of those analysts was of Euro 5.72 per share with the EDPR made 47 press releases. Additionally, the IR majority reporting “Buy” recommendations on EDPR’s Department also elaborates and makes available share: 11 Buys, 9 Neutrals and 1 Sell. quarterly, semi-annual and annual results Company Analyst Price Target Recommendation Bank of America Merrill Lynch Pinaki Das € 5.90 Neutral Barclays Monica Girardi € 4.90 Equalweight BBVA Daniel Ortea € 5.62 Outperform Berenberg Lawson Steele € 5.75 Buy BES Felipe Echevarria € 6.30 Buy BPI Flora Trindade € 7.10 Buy Caixa BI Helena Barbosa € 5.50 Buy Citigroup Antonella Bianchessi € 6.30 Buy Deutsche Bank Virginia Sanz de Madrid € 5.50 Hold 140 138 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Company Analyst Price Target Recommendation Exane BNP Manuel Palomo € 4.50 Underperform Fidentiis Daniel Rodríguez € 5.78 Hold Goldman Sachs Manuel Losa € 6.40 Neutral JP Morgan Javier Garrido € 5.30 Overweight Kepler Cheuvreux Jose Porta € 5.25 Hold Macquarie Shai Hill € 5.75 Outperform Main First Fernando Garcia € 5.70 Outperform Morgan Stanley Carolina Dores € 6.30 Overweight Natixis Philippe Ourpatian € 5.00 Neutral Santander Bosco Mugiro € 6.50 Buy Société Générale Jorge Alonso € 5.20 Hold UBS Alberto Gandolfi € 5.50 Neutral 57. MARKET RELATIONS REPRESENTATIVE EDPR representative for relations with the market is the Executive Member of the Board, Rui Teixeira. 58. INFORMATION REQUESTS In 2014, EDPR was present in several events with During the year, IR Department received more than analysts and investors, such as EDP Group investor 600 information requests and interacted 410 times day, road shows, presentations, meetings and with institutional investors. On average, information conference calls, communicating EDPR’s business requests were replied in less than 24 hours, with plan, strategy and its operational and financial complex requests being replied within one week time. performance. As of December 31st 2014 there was no pending information request. V. WEBSITE – ONLINE INFORMATION 59-65. EDPR considers online information a powerful tool in regulations, EDPR website also carries financial and the dissemination of material information, updating its operational updates of Company’s activities ensuring website with all the relevant documents. Apart from an easy access to the information. all the required information by CMVM and CNMV EDPR website: www.edprenovaveis.com Information Link www.edprenovaveis.com/investors/corporateCompany information governance/companys-name www.edprenovaveis.com/our-company/who-we-are www.edprenovaveis.com/investors/corporateCorporate by-laws and bodies/committees regulations governance www.edprenovaveis.com/investors/corporateMembers of the corporate bodies governance/directors Market relations representative / IR department www.edprenovaveis.com/investors/contact-ir-team www.edprenovaveis.com/ourMeans of access company/contacts/contact-us www.edprenovaveis.com/investors/reports-andFinancial statements documents results Corporate events Agenda www.edprenovaveis.com/investors/calendar www.edprenovaveis.com/investors/shareholdersGeneral Shareholders’ Meeting information meeting-2 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 141 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 139 PART I: INFORMATION ON SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE, ORGANISATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE D. REMUNERATION I. POWER TO ESTABLISH ................................ 140 II. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ..............140 III. REMUNERATION STRUCTURE ..............140 IV. REMUNERATION DISCLOSURE ............ 142 V. AGREEMENTS WITH REMUNERATION IMPLICATION ........... 144 VI. SHARE-ALLOCATION AND/OR STOCK OPTION PLANS ................................. 144 142 140 EDPREDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE I. POWER TO ESTABLISH 66. COMPETENCES TO DETERMINE THE REMUNERATION OF THE CORPORATE BODIES The Nominations and Remunerations committee is a Executive management of the Company; the permanent body belonging to the Board of Directors Declaration on Remuneration Policy; the evaluation with an informative and advisory nature. Its and compliance of the KPI’s (Key Performance recommendations and reports are non-binding. Indicators); the annual and multi annual variable remuneration, if applicable, and also proposes the As such, the Nominations and Remunerations remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors and Committee has no executive functions. The main members of the Board Committees. functions of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee are to assist and inform the Board of The Board of Directors is responsible for the approval Directors regarding the nominations (including by coof the above mentioned proposals except concerning option), re-elections, dismissals, and the the Declaration on the Remuneration Policy. remuneration of the Board Members and its position about the composition of the Board of Directors, as The Declaration on the Remuneration Policy is well as the nominations, remuneration, and dismissal submitted by the Board of Directors to the approval of of senior management personnel. the General Shareholders’ Meeting as an independent proposal. According to the Company’s Articles of The Nominations and Remunerations Committee is the Association the Board of Directors remuneration is body responsible for proposing to the Board of subject to a maximum value that can only be modified Directors the determination of the remuneration of the by a Shareholders agreement. II. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 67. NOMINATIONS AND REMUNERATIONS COMMITTEE The Composition of the Nominations and The Nominations and Remunerations Committee did Remunerations Committee is reflected on topic 29 of not hire any external consultancy services the report. corresponding to 2014. 68. KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE REGARDING REMUNERATION POLICY The Chairman of the Nominations and Remunerations mentioned on his biography available in the Annex of Committee has knowledge and experience regarding this report, together with the biographies of all other Remuneration Policy as member of the Remuneration members of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee of a Portuguese listed company as Committee. III. REMUNERATION STRUCTURE 69. REMUNERATION POLICY Pursuant to Article 26 of the Company’s Articles of Pursuant to Article 26.4 of the Company’s Articles of Association the Directors shall be entitled to a Association, the rights and duties of any kind derived remuneration which consists of (i) a fixed amount to from the condition of Board Member shall be be determined annually by the General Shareholders’ compatible with any other rights and obligations either Meeting for the whole Board of Directors and of (ii) fixed or variable that could correspond to the Board attendance fees regarding the Board Meetings. Members as a consequence of other employment or professional engagements, if any, carried out in the The above mentioned article also establishes the Company. Variable remuneration resulting from said possibility of the Directors being remunerated with contracts or from any other relationship, including Company shares, share options, or other securities being a Board Member, will be limited to a maximum granting the right to obtain shares or by means of shareannual amount to be established by the General indexed remuneration systems. In any case, the system Shareholders’ Meeting. chosen must be approved by the General Shareholders’ Meeting and comply with current legal provisions. The maximum annual remuneration approved by the General Shareholders Meeting for the variable The total amount of the remunerations that the remuneration for all the executive members of the Company will pay to its Directors under the terms Board of Directors was EUR 1,000,000 per year. provided in the previous paragraphs shall not exceed the amount determined for that effect by the General EDPR, in line with EDP Group corporate governance Shareholders’ Meeting. The maximum remuneration practice, has signed an Executive Management approved by the General Shareholders’ Meeting, for Services Agreement with EDP, under which the all the members of the Board of Directors was EUR Company bears the cost for such services to some of 2,500,000 per year. the members of the Board of Directors to the extent their services are devoted to EDPR. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 143 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 141 The non-executive Directors only receive a fixed No Director has entered into any contract with the remuneration, which is calculated on the basis of their Company or third parties that have the effect of work exclusively as Directors or with their mitigating the risk inherent in the variability of the membership on the Nominations and Remunerations remuneration established by the Company. Committee, Related Party Transactions Committee, and the Audit and Control Committee. Those members In EDPR there aren't any payments for the dismissal who are seated in two different Committees don’t or termination of Director's duties. accumulate two remunerations. In these cases, the The remuneration policy for the Directors of the remuneration to be received is the one that Company is submitted each year to the General corresponds to the highest value. Shareholders’ Meeting for approval. EDPR has not incorporated any share remuneration or share purchase options plans as components of the remuneration of its Directors. 70. REMUNERATION STRUCTURE The remuneration policy proposed by the Nominations the remuneration structure in terms of its and Remuneration Committee and approved by the components, as well as to keep the same nominal General Shareholders’ Meeting on April 8th, 2014 (the value of fixed annual component as the one in force Remuneration Policy), defines a structure with a fixed during the 2011-2013 period, having adjusted at the remuneration for all members of the Board of end of such period the fix remuneration of the CFO, Directors and a variable remuneration, with an annual COO EU and COO NA motivated by the end of their component and a multi-annual component for the expatriation contracts, not incurring in any cost members of the Executive Committee. increase to the company, revising the KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) for variable multi-annual and For the period 2014-2016, it was decided to maintain annual components. 71. VARIABLE REMUNERATION Variable annual and multi-annual remuneration multi-annual variable remuneration. The other 80% applies to the members of the Executive Committee. will be calculated based on the weights indicated in the next paragraph for the annual variable The variable annual remuneration may range from 0 remuneration and 68% for the multiannual variable. to 68% of the annual fixed remuneration and the multi-annual remuneration from 0 to 120% of the The KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) used to annual fixed remuneration. determine the amounts of the annual and multiannual variable regarding to each year of the term are For Executive Committee Members that are also aligned with the strategic grounds of the Company: Officers, there will be a qualitative evaluation of the growth, risk control and efficiency. These are the CEO about the annual performance. This evaluation same for all members of the Executive Committee, will have a weight of 20% for the final calculation in although with specific targets for the platforms in the the annual variable remuneration and 32% in the case of COO’s: Target Group Key Performance Indicator Weight Total Shareholder Return vs. Peers & PSI 20 15% Growth Incremental MW (EBITDA + Net Equity) 15% ROIC Cash % 8% Risk – Return EBITDA 12% Net Income 12% Technical Availability 6% Efficiency Opex / MW 6% Capex / MW 6% Sustainability 10% Other Employee satisfaction 5% Appreciation of the Remuneration Committee 5% According to the Remuneration Policy approved by the if all the above mentioned KPI’s were achieved and General Shareholders’ Meeting, the maximum variable the performance evaluation is equal or above 110%. remuneration (annual and multi-annual) is applicable 72. MULTI-ANNUAL REMUNERATION EDPR Shareholders approved on the last General the multi-annual variable remuneration, subject to the Shareholders’ Meeting that took place on April 8th, positive performance of the Company, in line with 2014, a modification in the remuneration policy to CMVM corporate governance practices. incorporate the deferral for a period of three years of 73. VARIABLE REMUNERATION BASED ON SHARES EDPR has not allocated variable remuneration on the Executive Directors have had access to. shares and does not maintain Company shares that 144 142 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 74. VARIABLE REMUNERATION BASED ON OPTIONS EDPR has not allocated variable remuneration on options. 75. ANNUAL BONUS AND NON-MONETARY BENEFITS The key factors and grounds for any annual bonus the expatriation contracts of EDPR’s Officers, there is scheme are described on topics 71 and 72. no longer house allowance benefits. In 2014, the nonAdditionally, the Officers, with the exception of the monetary benefits corresponded to EUR 63,532.47. CEO received the following non-monetary benefits: company car and Health Insurance. Given the end of The Directors do not receive any relevant nonmonetary benefits as remuneration. 76. RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLAN The retirement savings plan for the members of the applicable in their home country. The retirement Executive Committee that are also Officers, acts as an savings plan has been approved by the General effective retirement supplement with a range between Shareholders’ Meeting on April 8th, 2014 (the 3% to 6% of their annual salary. The percentage is Remuneration Policy included the retirement plan). defined according with the retirement savings plan IV. REMUNERATION DISCLOSURE 77. BOARD OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The remuneration paid by EDPR to the members of the Board of Directors for the year ended on December 31st 2014 was as follows: Variable (€) Remuneration Fixed (€) Total (€) Annual Multi-annual Executive Directors: a) João Manso Neto (CEO) a) Nuno Alves Rui Teixeira b) 61,804 61,804 b) Gabriel Alonso João Paulo Costeira b) 61,804 61,804 Non-Executive Directors: a) António Mexia João Lopes Raimundo 60,000 60,000 João Manuel de Mello Franco 73,333 73,333 Jorge Santos 66,667 66,667 José Araújo e Silva 45,000 45,000 Manuel Menéndez Menéndez 45,000 45,000 Rafael Caldeira Valverde 55,000 55,000 Gilles August 45,000 45,000 João Marques da Cruz a) Acácio Piloto 45,000 45,000 António Nogueira Leite 55,000 55,000 José Ferreira Machado 60,000 60,000 Total 673,608 673,608 a) António Mexia, João Manso Neto, Nuno Alves and João Marques da Cruz do not receive any remuneration from EDPR. EDPR and EDP signed an Executive Management Services Agreement according to which EDPR pays to EDP a fee for the services rendered by these Board Members. b) Rui Teixeira, Gabriel Alonso and João Paulo Costeira, as Officers and members of the Executive Committee receive their remuneration as Directors and/or other Group companies’ employees, as described on the table below. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 145 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 143 According to the Executive Management Services The retirement savings plan for the members of the Agreement signed with EDP, EDPR is due to pay an Executive Committee, excluding the Officers, acts as amount to EDP, for the services rendered by the an effective retirement supplement and corresponds Executive Managers and the Non-executive Managers. to 5% of their annual salary. The amount due under said Agreement for the management services rendered by EDP in 2014 is The non-executive Directors may opt between a fixed EUR 1,107,341, of which EUR 1,017,341 refers to the remuneration or attendance fees per meeting, in a management services rendered by the Executive value equivalent to the fixed remuneration proposed Members and EUR 90,000 to the management for a Director, taking into consideration the duties services rendered by the non-executive Members. carried out. 78. REMUNERATION FROM OTHER GROUP COMPANIES As mentioned on the 2013 Corporate Governance • Rui Teixeira with EDP Energias de Portugal S.A. Report, due to the termination of the expatriation Sucursal en España; conditions of three Officers (Rui Teixeira, CFO; João Paulo Costeira, COO EU, BR & South Africa; and • João Paulo Costeira with EDP Energias de Portugal Gabriel Alonso COO NA & Mexico), new employment S.A. Sucursal en España; and, contracts were signed with other group companies, as • Gabriel Alonso with EDP Renewables North America follows: LLC. The total remuneration of the Officers, ex-CEO, was the following: Variable (€) Member Fixed (€) (*) Annual (*) Multi-annual Rui Teixeira 228,196 75,000 235,000 João Paulo Costeira 228,196 75,000 235,000 Gabriel Alonso 301,874 75,000 235,000 Total 758,266 225,000 705,000 (*) Corresponds to the 2014 annual variable and multi annual variable 2011-2013. 79. REMUNERATION PAID IN FORM OF PROFIT SHARING AND/OR BONUS PAYMENTS In EDPR there is no payment of remuneration in the the reasons for said bonuses or profit sharing being form of profit sharing and/or zbonus payments and awarded. 80. COMPENSATION FOR RESIGNED BOARD MEMBERS In EDPR there is no compensation paid or owed to former executive Directors concerning contract termination during the financial year. 81. AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE REMUNERATION (*) Member Position Remuneration (€) Jorge Santos Vocal / Chairman since April 8th 2014 66,667 João Manuel de Mello Franco Chairman up to April 8th 2014 / Vocal 73,333 João Lopes Raimundo Vocal 60,000 (*) The non-executive Directors receive only a fixed remuneration, which is calculated based on their work exclusively as Directors or with their membership on the Nominations and Remunerations Committee, Related-Party Transactions Committee, and/or the Audit and Control Committee. 82. REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING In 2014, the remuneration of the Chairman of the General Shareholders’ Meeting of EDPR was EUR 15,000. 146 144 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE V. AGREEMENTS WITH REMUNERATION IMPLICATION 83-84. EDPR has no agreements with remuneration implication. VI. SHARE-ALLOCATION AND/OR STOCK OPTION PLANS 85-88. EDPR does not have any Share-Allocation and/or Stock Option Plans. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 147 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 145 PART I: INFORMATION ON SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE, ORGANISATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE E. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS I. CONTROL MECHANISMS AND PROCEDURES ......................................................... 146 II. DATA ON BUSINESS DEALS .................. 149 148 146 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE I. CONTROL MECHANISMS AND PROCEDURES 89. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTROLLING MECHANISMS In order to supervise the transactions between the Directors according to Article 8.2, i) of its Regulations. Group Companies’ and its qualified shareholders, the This information is included on the annual report of Board of Directors has created the Related-Party the Audit and Control. The mechanisms established on Transactions Committee, a permanent body with both committees regulation and also the fact that one delegated functions. The Related-Party Transactions of the members of the Related-Party Transactions Committee duties are described on topic 29 of the Committee is member of the Audit and Control Report. The Audit and Control Committee also Committee constitutes a relevant element for an supervises the transactions with qualified adequate evaluation of the relations established shareholders when requested by the Board of between EDPR and third entities. 90. TRANSACTIONS SUBJECT TO CONTROL DURING 2014 During 2014, EDPR has not signed any contracts with exception of Brazil, where it shall engage its activities the members of its corporate bodies or with holders of through a joint venture with EDP Energias do Brasil qualifying holdings, excluding EDP, as mentioned S.A., for the development, construction, operation, below. and maintenance of facilities or activities related to wind, solar, wave and/or tidal power, and other However, EDPR closed a transaction with China Three renewable energy generation technologies that may Gorges (CTG), qualified shareholder of EDP, but not of be developed in the future. Nonetheless, the EDPR, through its subsidiary EDP Renováveis Brasil agreement excludes technologies being developed in S.A. (“EDPR Brasil”), for the sale of an equity hydroelectric power, biomass, cogeneration, and shareholding of 49% in both operational and under waste in Portugal and Spain. development wind farms in Brazil. The transaction scope covers 84 MW in operation, with an average It lays down the obligation to provide EDP with any age of 4 years, as well as 237 MW under information that it may request from EDPR to fulfil its development, remunerated according to long-­‐term legal obligations and prepare the EDP Group’s awarded contracts to sell the electricity produced for consolidated accounts. The framework agreement 20 years. The financial closing is pending approval of shall remain in effect for as long as EDP directly or regulatory authorities in Brazil and China. For this indirectly owns more than 50% of the share capital of transaction, EDPR’s Audit and Control Committee EDPR or nominates more than 50% of its Directors. issued a favourable opinion according to Recommendation V.2 of CMVM. EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT SERVICES Regarding related-party transactions, EDPR and/or its AGREEMENT subsidiaries have signed the contracts detailed below with EDP Energias de Portugal S.A. (hereinafter, EDP) On November 4th, 2008 EDP and EDPR signed an or other members of its group not belonging to the Executive Management Services Agreement that was EDPR subgroup. renewed on May 4th, 2011 and effective from March 18th, 2011 and renewed again on May 10th, 2012. The contracts signed between EDPR and its related parties have been analysed by the Related-Party Through this contract, EDP provides management Transactions Committee according to its competences, services to EDP Renováveis, including matters related as mentioned on the previous topic, and have been to the day-to-day running of the Company. Under this concluded according to the market conditions. agreement EDP nominates four people from EDP to be The total amount of supplies and services in 2014 part of EDPR’s Management: i) two Executive Managers which are members of the EDPR Executive incurred with or charged by the EDP Group was EUR Committee, including the CEO, and (ii) two Non16.6 million, corresponding to 6.5% of the total value Executive Managers, for which EDP Renováveis pays of Supplies & Services for the year (EUR 256.6 EDP an amount defined by the Related Party million). Committee, and approved by the Board of Directors The most significant contracts in force during 2014 and the Shareholders Meeting. Under this contract, are the following: EDPR incurred an amount of EUR 1,107,341 for the management services rendered in 2014. FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT POTENTIAL ACQUISITION OF 45% OF THE SHARE The framework agreement was signed by EDP and CAPITAL OF EDP RENOVÁVEIS BRASIL S.A. BY EDPR on May 7th, 2008 and came into effect when the EDP RENOVÁVEIS S.A. latter was admitted to trading. The purpose of the framework agreement is to set out the principles and EDP Renováveis, S.A. (“EDPR”) and EDP Energias do rules governing the legal and business relations Brasil, S.A. (“EDP Brasil”) have signed a Memorandum existing when it came into effect and those entered of Understanding (“MoU”) envisaging the acquisition into subsequently. by EDPR of 45% of the share capital of EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. (“EDPR Brasil”) controlled by The framework agreement establishes that neither EDP Brasil. Following this transaction EDPR will control EDP nor the EDP Group companies other than EDPR 100% of the share capital of EDPR Brasil. The and its subsidiaries can engage in activities in the field purchase price to be paid will be agreed between the of renewable energies without the consent of EDPR. parties in consideration of the value attributed to EDPR shall have worldwide exclusivity, with the EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 149 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 147 EDPR Brasil and its subsidiaries and certified by a between both companies, remunerated on arm’s fairness opinion issued by a renowned financial length basis. As of December 31st 2014, there are two institution Completion of this transaction is subject to different current accounts with the following balance regulatory approval and other customary closing and counterparties: conditions, and is expected to occur until the end of the first half of 2015. • in USD, EDPR SF with EDP SFE for a total amount of EUR 32,308,521 in favour of EDPR SF; • in EUR, EDPR SF with EDP SFE for a total amount of FINANCE AGREEMENTS AND GUARANTEES EUR 136,625,957 in favour of EDPR SF. The most significant finance agreements between EDP The agreements in place are valid for one year as of Group companies and EDPR Group companies were date of signing and are automatically renewable for established under the above described Framework equal periods. Agreement and currently include the following: CROSS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE SWAPS LOAN AGREEMENTS Due to the net investment in EDPR NA, EDPR Brazil, EDPR (as the borrower) has loan agreements with and Polish companies, EDPR’s accounts were exposed EDP Finance BV (as the lender), a Company 100% to the foreign exchange risk. With the purpose of owned by EDP Energias de Portugal S.A. Such loan hedging this foreign exchange risk, EDPR settled the agreements can be established both in EUR and USD, following Cross Currency Interest Rate Swap (CIRS): usually have a 10-year tenor and are remunerated at rates set at an arm’s length basis. As of December • in USD/EUR, with EDP Sucursal for a total amount of 31st 2014, such loan agreements totalled EUR USD 2,632,613,000; 1,451,042,386 and USD 1,836,699,611. • in BRL/EUR, with EDP Energias de Portugal SA for a total amount of BRL 118,000,000; COUNTER-GUARANTEE AGREEMENT • in PLN/EUR, with EDP Energias de Portugal SA for a total amount of PLN 710,132,653. A counter-guarantee agreement was signed, under which EDP or EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España (hereinafter guarantor HEDGE AGREEMENTS – EXCHANGE RATE or EDP Sucursal) undertakes on behalf of EDPR, EDP Renewables Europe SLU (hereinafter EDPR EU), and EDP Energias de Portugal S.A., EDPR and EDP EDPR North America LLC (hereinafter EDPR NA) to Servicios Financieros España SLU entered into several provide corporate guarantees or request the issue of hedge agreements with the purpose of managing the any guarantees, on the terms and conditions transaction exposure related with the short term requested by the subsidiaries, which have been positions in the North American, Polish, and Romanian approved on a case by case basis by the EDP subsidiaries, fixing the exchange rate for EUR/USD, executive board. EUR/PLN and EUR/RON in accordance to the prices in the forward market in each contract date. As of EDPR will be jointly liable for compliance by EDPR EU December 31st 2014, the total amount of Forwards and EDPR NA. The subsidiaries of EDPR undertake to and Non Delivery Forwards by geography and indemnify the guarantor for any losses or liabilities currency are as following: resulting from the guarantees provided under the agreement and to pay a fee established in arm’s • Polish operations, for EUR/PLN, a total amount of length basis. Nonetheless, certain guarantees issued PLN 218,036,836 (NDFs) and PLN 156,608,820 prior to the date of approval of these agreements may (FWDs); have different conditions. As of December 31st 2014, • Romanian operations, for EUR/RON a total amount such counter-guarantee agreements totalled EUR of RON 63,648,349 (FWDs); 34,181,464 and USD 211,500,000. • US operations, for EUR/USD a total amount of USD There is another counter-guarantee agreement 329,000,000 (NDF). signed, under which EDP Energias do Brasil, SA or EDPR undertakes on behalf of EDPR Brasil, to provide corporate guarantees or request the issue of any guarantees, on the terms and conditions requested by HEDGE AGREEMENTS – COMMODITIES the subsidiaries, which have been approved on a case EDP and EDPR EU entered into hedge agreements for by case basis by the EDPR executive board. Each 2014 for a total volume of 1.802.056 MWh (sell party undertakes to indemnify the other pro-rata to its position) and 612.230 MWh (buy position) at the stake of any losses or liabilities resulting from the forward market price at the time of execution related guarantees provided under the agreement and to pay with the expected sales of energy in the Spanish a fee established in arm’s length basis. As of market. December 31st 2014, such counter-guarantee agreements totalled BRL 87,858,811. CONSULTANCY SERVICE AGREEMENT CURRENT ACCOUNT AGREEMENT On June 4th, 2008, EDP and EDPR signed a consultancy service agreement. Through this EDP Servicios Financieros España SLU and EDPR agreement, and upon request by EDPR, EDP (or signed an agreement through which EDP Servicios through EDP Sucursal) shall provide consultancy Financieros España manages EDPR’s cash accounts. services in the areas of legal services, internal control The agreement also regulates a current account systems, financial reporting, taxation, sustainability, 150 148 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE regulation and competition, risk management, human INFORMATION TECHONOLOGY MANAGEMENT resources, information technology, brand and SERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN EDP communication, energy planning, accounting and RENOVÁVEIS S.A. AND EDP ENERGIAS DE consolidation, corporate marketing, and organizational PORTUGAL S.A. development. On January 1st, 2010 EDPR and EDP signed an IT The price of the agreement is calculated as the cost management services agreement. incurred by EDP plus a margin. For the first year, it The object of the agreement is to provide to EDPR the was fixed at 8% based on an independent expert on information technology services described on the the basis of market research. For 2014 the estimated contract and its attachments by EDP. cost of these services is EUR 2,407,776. This was the total cost of services provided for EDPR, EDPR EU, and The amount incurred for the services provided in 2014 EDPR NA. totalled EUR 265,293.77. The duration of the agreement is one (1) year tacitly The initial duration of the agreement is one (1) year renewable for equal periods. from date of signing and it is tacitly renewed for a new period of one (1) year. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT Either party may renounce the contract with one (1) month notice. On May 13th, 2008, EDP Inovação S.A. (hereinafter EDP Inovação), an EDP Group Company, and EDPR signed an agreement regulating relations between the REPRESENTATION AGREEMENT WITH two companies regarding projects in the field of HIDROELÉTRICA DEL CANTÁBRICO S.A. FOR THE renewable energies (hereinafter the R&D Agreement). EDP RENOVÁVEIS S.A. PORTFOLIO IN SPAIN The object of the R&D Agreement is to prevent On October 27th, 2011 EDPR and Hidroeléctrica del conflicts of interest and foster the exchange of Cantábrico S.A. signed an Agreement for knowledge between companies and the establishment Representation services. of legal and business relationships. The agreement forbids EDP Group companies other than EDP The object of this agreement was to provide EDPR Inovação to undertake or invest in companies that representation services in the market and risk undertake the renewable energy projects described in management for a fix tariff based in volume the agreement. (€0.12/MWh) in the electricity market. The R&D Agreement establishes an exclusive right on The initial duration of the agreement is one (1) year the part of EDP Inovação to project and develop new from date of signing and it is tacitly renewed for a renewable energy technologies that are already in the new period of one (1) year. pilot or economic and/or commercial feasibility study phase, whenever EDPR exercises its option to undertake them. CONSULTANCY AGREEMENT BETWEEN EDP RENOVÁVEIS BRASIL S.A., AND EDP ENERGIAS The agreement shall remain in effect for as long as DO BRASIL S.A. EDP directly or indirectly maintains control of more than 50% of both companies or nominate the majority The object of the agreement is to provide to EDP of the members of the Board and Executive Renováveis Brasil S.A. (hereinafter EDPR Brasil) the Committee of the parties to the agreement. consultancy services described on the contract and its attachments by EDP – Energias do Brasil S.A. (hereinafter EDP Brasil). Through this agreement, and MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES AGREEMENT upon request by EDPR Brasil, EDP Brasil shall provide BETWEEN EDP RENOVÁVEIS PORTUGAL S.A., consultancy services in the areas of legal services, AND EDP VALOR – GESTÃO INTEGRADA DE internal control systems, financial reporting, taxation, RECURSOS S.A. sustainability, regulation and competition, risk management, human resources, information On January 1st, 2003, EDPR Promoção e Operação technology, brand and communication, energy S.A., and EDP Valor – Gestão Integrada de Recursos planning, accounting and consolidation, corporate S.A. (hereinafter EDP Valor), an EDP Group Company, marketing, and organizational development. signed a management support service agreement. The amount incurred to EDP Brasil for the services The object of the agreement is the provision to EDPR provided in 2014 totalled BRL 41,916.35. – Promoção e Operação S.A. by EDP Valor of services in the areas of procurement, economic and financial The amount incurred in 2014 is significantly lower management, fleet management, property comparing with 2013 since most of the services in the management and maintenance, insurance, scope of this contract have been internalized in EDPR occupational health and safety, and human resource Brasil. management and training. The initial duration of the agreement is one (1) year The remuneration paid to EDP Valor by EDPR from date of signing and it is tacitly renewed for a Promoção e Operação S.A. and its subsidiaries for the new period of one (1) year. services provided in 2014 totalled €797,062.29. The initial duration of the agreement was five (5) years from date of signing and it was tacitly renewed for a new period of five (5) years on January 1st, 2008. Either party may renounce the contract with one (1) year’s notice. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 151 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 149 SUPPLY SERVICES AND INFRA-STRUCTURES The object of this agreement is the provision to EDPR AGREEMENT BETWEEN EDP RENEWABLES Europe S.L.U of communication services and technical EUROPE S.L.U, HIDROCANTÁBRICO DISTRIBUCIÓN assistance related to the infra-structures of energy ELÉCTRICA S.A.U AND HIDROELÉCTRICA DEL production. CANTÁBRICO S.A. The amount incurred to HCDE for the services On January 10th, 2012 EDP Renewables Europe S.L.U, provided in 2014 totalled EUR 20,095.54. Hidrocantábrico Distribución Eléctrica S.A.U (HCDE) and Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico S.A. signed a supply The initial duration of the agreement is one (1) year services and infra-structures agreement. from date of signing and it is tacitly renewed for a new period of one (1) year. 91. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO THE SUPERVISORY BODY FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF THE BUSINESS DEALS The most significant contracts signed between EDPR the EDP Renováveis Group whose annual value is and its Qualified Shareholders are analysed by the superior to EUR 1.000.000. This information is Related-Party Transactions Committee according to its included on the annual report of the Audit and Control competences, as mentioned on topic 89 of the report Committee regarding those cases whose previous and by the Audit and Control Committee when opinion was requested. The mechanisms established requested. on both committees regulations and also the fact that one of the members of the Related-Party Transactions According to Article 9.1 c) of the Related-Party Committee is a member of the Audit and Control Transactions Committee Regulation, the committee Committee constitutes a relevant element for an analyses and supervises, according to the necessities adequate evaluation of the relations established of each specific case, the transactions between between EDPR and third entities. Qualifying Holdings other than EDP with entities from II. DATA ON BUSINESS DEALS 92. DETAILS OF THE PLACE WHERE THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INCLUDING INFORMATION ON BUSINESS DEALINGS WITH RELATED PARTIES ARE AVAILABLE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH IAS 24, OR ALTERNATIVELY A COPY OF SAID DATA. The information on business dealings with related parties is available on Note 37 of the Financial Statements. 152 150 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE PART II: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSESSMENT 1. DETAILS OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE IMPLEMENTED According to article 2 of CMVM Regulation 4/2013, The CMVM Corporate Governance Code and its EDPR informs that the present Report has been Regulations are available at CMVM website, drafted under the Recommendations of CMVM’S www.cmvm.pt. Corporate Governance Code published on July, 2013. 2. ANALYSIS OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE IMPLEMENTED The following table shows the CMVM and according to the results of the reflection made by recommendations set forth in the code and indicates the Audit and Control Committee, the governance EDPR’s compliance with it and the place in this report model that was adopted has been ensuring an in which they are described in more detail. effective performance and articulation of EDPR Social Bodies and proved to be adequate to the Company’s During 2014, EDPR has continued its consolidation governance structure without any constraints to the task as to the Company’s governance principles and performance of its checks and balances system practices. The high level of compliance with the best adopted to justify the changes made in the governance practices by EDPR was once again Governance practices of EDPR. recognised by an independent study developed in 2014 by the Universidade Católica Portuguesa The explanation of CMVM’s recommendations that (Portuguese Catholic University) at the request of AEM EDPR does not adopt or that the Company deems not – Associação de Empresas Emitentes de Valores applicable, reasoning and other relevant comments as Cotados em Mercado (Portuguese Listed Companies well as reference to the part of the report where the Association), within which the Company was given the description may be found, are in the table below. maximum rating – AAA based on the Company’s 2013 Governance Report and compliance with the In this context, EDPR states that it has adopted the abovementioned CMVM Recommendations. CMVM recommendations on the governance of listed companies provided in the Portuguese Corporate Also in order to comply with the Recommendation Governance Code, with the exceptions indicated II.2.5 of the Portuguese Corporate Governance Code, below. #.#. CMVM RECOMMENDATIONS Statement of compliance I. VOTING AND CORPORATE CONTROL I.1. Companies shall encourage shareholders to attend and vote at general meetings and shall not set an excessively large number of shares required for the entitlement of one vote, and implement Adopted the means necessary to exercise the right to vote by mail and electronically. Chapter B – I, b), topic 12 and 13 I.2. Companies shall not adopt mechanisms that hinder the passing of resolutions by shareholders, Adopted including fixing a quorum for resolutions greater than that provided for by law. Chapter B – I, b), topic 14 I.3. Companies shall not establish mechanisms intended to cause mismatching between the right to receive dividends or the subscription of new securities and the voting right of each common Adopted share, unless duly justified in terms of long-term interests of shareholders. Chapter B – I, b) topic 14 I.4. The Company’s articles of association that provide for the restriction of the number of votes that may be held or exercised by a sole shareholder, either individually or in concert with other shareholders, shall also foresee for a resolution by the General Assembly (5 year intervals), on whether that statutory provision is to be amended or prevails – without super quorum Not requirements as to the one legally in force – and that in said resolution, all votes issued be Applicable counted, without applying said restriction. Chapter A – I, topic 5 I.5. Measures that require payment or assumption of fees by the Company in the event of change of control or change in the composition of the Board and that which appear likely to impair the free transfer of shares and free assessment by shareholders of the performance of Board Members, Adopted shall not be adopted. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 153 EDPR ENERGY· 2014 ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 151 #.#. CMVM RECOMMENDATIONS Chapter A – I, Topic 2 and 4 II. SUPERVISION, MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT II.1. SUPERVISION AND MANAGEMENT II.1.1. Within the limits established by law, and except for the small size of the Company, the board of Directors shall delegate the daily management of the Company and said delegated powers shall Adopted be identified in the Annual Report on Corporate Governance. Chapter B – II, Topic 21, 28 and 29 II.1.2. The Board of Directors shall ensure that the Company acts in accordance with its objectives and shall not delegate its responsibilities as regards the following: i) define the strategy and general Not policies of the Company, ii) define business structure of the group iii) decisions considered Applicable strategic due to the amount, risk and particular characteristics involved. (“According to the previous wording of the Spanish Companies Law, the matters referred to in this recommendation could be delegated by the Board of Directors on the Executive Committee. On December 24th, 2014, a new wording of the Spanish Companies Law, Ley 31/2014, entered into force introducing modifications regarding the delegation of powers by the Board of Directors (articles 249 bis and 529 ter). This new wording is applicable from 2015 onwards. On the next General Shareholders’ Meeting foreseeing to take place on April 9th, 2015, will be submitted to the shareholders’ approval a proposal for the modification of some of the Clauses of EDPR’s Articles Association. One of those modifications is that the Board of Director will not be able to delegate these responsibilities”) II.1.3. The General and Supervisory Board, in addition to its supervisory duties supervision, shall take full responsibility at corporate governance level, whereby through the statutory provision or by equivalent means, shall enshrine the requirement for this body to decide on the strategy and major policies of the Company, the definition of the corporate structure of the group and the decisions that shall be considered strategic due to the amount or risk involved. This body shall Not also assess compliance with the strategic plan and the implementation of key policies of the Applicable Company. (The governance model adopted by EDPR, as it is compatible with its personal law, corresponds to the so-called “Anglo-Saxon” model set forth in the Portuguese Commercial Companies Code, in which the management body is a Board of Directors, and the supervision and control duties are of the responsibility of an Audit and Control Committee.) II.1.4. Except for small-sized companies, the Board of Directors and the General and Supervisory Board, depending on the model adopted, shall create the necessary committees in order to: a) Ensure a competent and independent assessment of the performance of the executive Directors and its own overall performance, as well as of other committees; Adopted b) Reflect on the system structure and governance practices adopted, verify its efficiency and propose to the competent bodies, measures to be implemented with a view to their improvement. Chapter B – II, C), Topic 27, 28 and 29 II.1.5. The Board of Directors or the General and Supervisory Board, depending on the applicable model, should set goals in terms of risk-taking and create systems for their control to ensure that the Adopted risks effectively incurred are consistent with those goals. Chapter B – III, C), III – Topic 52, 53, 54 and 55 II.1.6. The Board of Directors shall include a number of non-executive members ensuring effective Adopted monitoring, supervision and assessment of the activity of the remaining members of the board. Chapter B – II, Topic 18 and Topic 29 154 152 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE #.#. CMVM RECOMMENDATIONS II.1.7. Non-executive members shall include an appropriate number of independent members, taking into account the adopted governance model, the size of the Company, its shareholder structure and the relevant free float. The independence of the members of the General and Supervisory Board and members of the Audit Committee shall be assessed as per the law in force. The other members of the Board of Directors are considered independent if the member is not associated with any specific group of interests in the Company nor is under any circumstance likely to affect an exempt analysis or decision, particularly due to: a. Having been an employee at the Company or at a Company holding a controlling or group relationship within the last three years; b. Having, in the past three years, provided services or established commercial relationship with the Company or Company with which it is in a control or group relationship, either directly or as a partner, board member, manager or Director of a legal person; c. Being paid by the Company or by a Company with which it is in a control or group relationship besides the remuneration arising from the exercise of the functions of a board member; d. Living with a partner or a spouse, relative or any first degree next of kin and up to and including the third degree of collateral affinity of Board Members or natural persons that are direct and indirectly holders of qualifying holdings; Adopted e. Being a qualifying shareholder or representative of a qualifying shareholder. Chapter B – II, Topic 18 II.1.8. When Board Members that carry out executive duties are requested by other Board Members, Adopted said shall provide the information requested, in a timely and appropriate manner to the request. Chapter B – II, C) Topic 29 II.1.9. The Chair of the Executive Board or of the Executive Committee shall submit, as applicable, to the Chair of the Board of Directors, the Chair of the Supervisory Board, the Chair of the Audit Committee, the Chair of the General and Supervisory Board and the Chairperson of the Financial Adopted Matters Board, the convening notices and minutes of the relevant meetings. Chapter B – II, C) Topic 29 II.1.10. If the chair of the board of Directors carries out executive duties, said body shall appoint, from among its members, an independent member to ensure the coordination of the work of other Not non-executive members and the conditions so that said can make independent and informed applicable decisions or to ensure the existence of an equivalent mechanism for such coordination. (The Chairperson of EDPR’s Board of Directors does not have executive duties) Chapter B – II, A) – Topic 18 II.2 SUPERVISION II.2.1. Depending on the applicable model, the Chair of the Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee or the Financial Matters Committee shall be independent in accordance with the applicable legal Adopted standard, and have the necessary skills to carry out their relevant duties. Chapter B – II – Topic 18; Chapter B – II, C) Topic 29; and Chapter B – III, A) – Topic 32 II.2.2. The supervisory body shall be the main representative of the external auditor and the first recipient of the relevant reports, and is responsible, inter alia, for proposing the relevant remuneration and ensuring that the proper conditions for the provision of services are provided Adopted within the Company Chapter B – C), Topic 29; and Chapter B – V, Topic 45 II.2.3. The supervisory board shall assess the external auditor on an annual basis and propose to the competent body its dismissal or termination of the contract as to the provision of their services Adopted when there is a valid basis for said dismissal. Chapter B – II, Topic 29; Chapter B – III, C) – Topic 38; and Chapter B – III – V, Topic 45 II.2.4. The supervisory board shall assess the functioning of the internal control systems and risk Adopted management and propose adjustments as may be deemed necessary. Chapter B – II, Topic 29; and Chapter B – III, C) – III, Topic 50 and 51 II.2.5. The Audit Committee, the General and Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board decide on the work plans and resources concerning the internal audit services and services that ensure compliance with the rules applicable to the Company (compliance services), and should be recipients of reports made by these services at least when it concerns matters related to accountability, identification or resolution of conflicts of interest and detection of potential Adopted improprieties. Chapter B – II, Topic 29 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 155 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 153 #.#. CMVM RECOMMENDATIONS II.3. REMUNERATION SETTING II.3.1. All members of the Remuneration Committee or equivalent should be independent from the executive Board Members and include at least one member with knowledge and experience in Adopted matters of remuneration policy. Chapter D – II – Topic 67 and 68 II.3.2. Any natural or legal person that provides or has provided services in the past three years, to any structure under the board of Directors, the board of Directors of the Company itself or who has a current relationship with the Company or consultant of the Company, shall not be hired to assist the Remuneration Committee in the performance of their duties. This recommendation also Not applies to any natural or legal person that is related by employment contract or provision of Applicable services with the above. Chapter D – II – Topic 67 II.3.3. A statement on the remuneration policy of the management and supervisory bodies referred to in Article 2 of Law No. 28/2009 of 19 June, shall also contain the following: a) Identification and details of the criteria for determining the remuneration paid to the members of the governing bodies; b) Information regarding the maximum potential, in individual terms, and the maximum potential, in aggregate form, incurred to members of corporate bodies, and identify the circumstances whereby these maximum amounts may be payable; d) Information regarding the enforceability or unenforceability of payments for the dismissal or Adopted termination of appointment of Board Members. Chapter D – III – Topic 69 II.3.4. Approval of plans for the allotment of shares and/or options to acquire shares or based on share Not price variation to Board Members shall be submitted to the General Meeting. The proposal shall Applicable contain all the necessary information in order to correctly assess said plan. Chapter V – III, Topic 73 and 85 II.3.5. Approval of any retirement benefit scheme established for members of corporate members shall be submitted to the General Meeting. The proposal shall contain all the necessary information in Adopted order to correctly assess said system. Chapter D – III, Topic 76 III. REMUNERATION III.1. The remuneration of the executive members of the board shall be based on actual performance Adopted and shall discourage taking on excessive risk-taking. Chapter D – III, Topic 69, 70, 71 and 72 III.2. The remuneration of non-executive Board Members and the remuneration of the members of the supervisory board shall not include any component whose value depends on the performance of Adopted the Company or of its value. Chapter D – III, Topic 69; and Chapter D – IV, Topic 77 III.3. The variable component of remuneration shall be reasonable overall in relation to the fixed Adopted component of the remuneration and maximum limits should be set for all components. Chapter D – III, Topic 71 and 72 III.4. A significant part of the variable remuneration should be deferred for a period not less than three years, and the right of way payment shall depend on the continued positive performance of the Adopted Company during that period. Chapter D – III, Topic 72 III.5. Members of the Board of Directors shall not enter into contracts with the Company or with third Adopted parties which intend to mitigate the risk inherent to remuneration variability set by the Company. Chapter D – III, Topic 72 III.6. Executive Board Members shall maintain the Company's shares that were allotted by virtue of variable remuneration schemes, up to twice the value of the total annual remuneration, except for Not those that need to be sold for paying taxes on the gains of said shares, until the end of their Applicable mandate. Chapter D – III, Topic 73 156 154 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE #.#. CMVM RECOMMENDATIONS III.7. Not When the variable remuneration includes the allocation of options, the beginning of the exercise Applicable period shall be deferred for a period not less than three years. Chapter D – III, Topic 74 III.8. When the removal of board member is not due to serious breach of their duties nor to their unfitness for the normal exercise of their functions but is yet due on inadequate performance, the Company shall be endowed with the adequate and necessary legal instruments so that any Adopted damages or compensation, beyond that which is legally due, is unenforceable. Chapter D – III, Topic 69 and 72 IV. AUDITING IV.1. The external auditor shall, within the scope of its duties, verify the implementation of remuneration policies and systems of the corporate bodies as well as the efficiency and effectiveness of the internal control mechanisms and report any shortcomings to the supervisory Adopted body of the Company. Chapter B – III – V, Topic 45 IV.2. The Company or any entity with which it maintains a control relationship shall not engage the external auditor or any entity with which it finds itself in a group relationship or that incorporates the same network, for services other than audit services. If there are reasons for hiring such services which must be approved by the supervisory board and explained in its Annual Report on Corporate Governance said should not exceed more than 30% of the total value of services Adopted rendered to the Company. Chapter B – III – V, Topic 46 IV.3. Companies shall support auditor rotation after two or three terms whether four or three years, respectively. Its continuance beyond this period must be based on a specific opinion of the supervisory board that explicitly considers the conditions of auditor’s independence and the Adopted benefits and costs of its replacement. Chapter B – III – V, Topic 44 V. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS V.1. The Company's business with holders of qualifying holdings or entities, with which they are in any type of relationship pursuant to article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code, shall be conducted Adopted during normal market conditions. Chapter B – C), Topic 90 V.2. The supervisory or oversight board shall establish procedures and criteria that are required to define the relevant level of significance of business with holders of qualifying holdings or entities with which they are in any of the relationships described in article 20/1 of the Portuguese Adopted Securities Code – thus significant relevant business is dependent upon prior opinion of that body. Chapter B – C), Topic 89 and 91 VI. INFORMATION VI.1. Companies shall provide, via their websites in both the Portuguese and English languages, access Adopted to information on their progress as regards the economic, financial and governance state of play. Chapter B – C) – V, Topics 59-65 VI.2. Companies shall ensure the existence of an investor support and market liaison office, which responds to requests from investors in a timely fashion and a record of the submitted requests Adopted and their processing, shall be kept. Chapter B – C) – IV, Topic 56 EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 157 EDPR ENERGY· 2014 ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 155 ANNEX PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS AND BIOGRAPHIES OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANTÓNIO MEXIA Born: 1957 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Chairman of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA • Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal SA • Permanent Representative of EDP Energias de Portugal SA Sucursal en España, and Representative of EDP Finance BV • Chairman of the Board of Directors of EDP Energias do Brasil SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Member of the General Supervisory Board of Banco Comercial Português (BCP), 2008 Main positions in the last five years: • Minister of Public Works, Transport and Communication for Portugal’s 16th Constitutional Government • Chairman of the Portuguese Energy Association (APE) • Executive Chairman of Galp Energia • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Petrogal, Gás de Portugal, Transgás and Transgás-Atlântico • Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Galp Energia • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Gás de Portugal and Transgás • Director of Banco Espírito Santo de Investimentos • Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of ICEP (Portuguese Institute for Foreign Trade) • Assistant to the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade Other previous positions: • Assistant Lecturer in the Department of Economics at Université de Genève (Switzerland) Education: • BSc in Economics from Université de Genève (Switzerland) • Postgraduate lecturer in European Studies at Universidade Católica JOÃO MANSO NETO Born: 1958 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Executive Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Executive Committee (CEO) of EDP Renováveis SA • Chairman of the Board of Directors of EDP Renewables Europe SL, EDP Renováveis Brasil SA and EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros S.L. • Executive Director of EDP Energias de Portugal SA, Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico SA, EDP Energía Gás SL, EDP Energia Ibérica SA, Naturgás Energia Grupo SA • Permanent Representative of EDP Energias de Portugal SA Sucursal en España, and Representative of EDP Finance BV • Chairman of the Board of Directors of EDP Gás.com Comércio de Gás Natural SA and ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of the Operador del Mercado Ibérico de Energía, Polo Español (OMEL) • Member of the Board of OMIP – Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal), SGPS, S.A Main positions in the last five years: • Member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal SA • Chairman of EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia SA • CEO and Vice-Chairman of Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico SA • Vice-Chairman of Naturgás Energia Grupo SA • Member of the Board of the Operador del Mercado Ibérico de Energía, Polo Español (OMEL) • Member of the Board of OMIP – Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal) SGPS SA Other previous positions: • Head of the International Credit Division, and General Manager responsible for Financial and South Retail areas at Banco Português do Atlântico, • General Manager of Financial Management, General Manager of Large Corporate and Institutional Businesses, General Manager of the Treasury, Member of the Board of Directors of BCP Banco de Investimento and Vice-Chairman of BIG Bank Gdansk in Poland at Banco Comercial Português • Member of the Board of Banco Português de Negócios • General Manager and Member of the Board of EDP Produção Education: • Degree in Economics from Instituto Superior de Economia • Post-graduate degree in European Economics from Universidade Católica Portuguesa • Professional education course through the American Bankers Association (1982), the academic component of the Master’s Degree program in Economics at the Faculty of Economics, Universidade Nova de Lisboa • Advanced Management Program for Overseas Bankers at the Wharton School in Philadelphia NUNO ALVES Born: 1958 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Executive Member of the Board of Directors and Member of the Executive Committee of EDP Renováveis SA • Chairman of the Board of Directors of EDP Estudos e Consultoria SA, EDP Imobiliária e Participações SA, Energia RE SA, Sãvida Medicina Apoiada SA, SCS Serviços Complementares de Saúde SA • Executive Director of EDP Energias de Portugal SA, EDP Energias do Brasil SA and Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico SA • Permanent Representative of EDP Energias de Portugal SA Sucursal en España, and Representative of EDP Finance BV • Manager of Balwerk Consultadoria Económica e Participações Sociedade Unipessoal Lda Main positions in the last five years: • Member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal SA (CFO) Other previous positions: • In 1988, he joined the Planning and Strategy Department of Millennium BCP • Associate Director of the Millennium BCP bank’s Financial Investments Division • Investor Relations Officer for the Millennium BCP Group • Coordinating Manager of Millennium BCP Retail network • Head of the Capital Markets Division of Millennium BCP Investimento • Co-Head of Millennium BCP Investment Banking Division • Chairman and CEO of CISF Dealer, the brokerage arm of Millennium BCP Investimento • General Manager of Millennium BCP • Executive Board Member of Millennium BCP Investimento, responsible for BCP Group Treasury and Capital Markets Education: • Degree in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering • Master in Business Administration by the University of Michigan 158 156 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE RUI TEIXEIRA Born: 1972 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors, Member of the Executive Committee and Chief Financial Officer of EDP Renováveis SA • Director of EDP Renewables Canada Ltd, EDP Renewables Europe SL, EDP Renewables Polska SP zoo, EDP Renewables SGPS SA, EDP Renewables UK Ltd, EDP Renováveis Brasil SA, EDP Renováveis Portugal SA, EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros SL, EDPR PT Promoção e Operação SA and South Africa Wind & Solar Power SLU Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: (none) Main positions in the last five years: • Chief Financial Officer of EDP Renováveis SA • Member of the Executive Committee of EDP Renováveis SA • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA Other previous positions: • Assistant Director of the commercial naval department of Gellweiler Sociedade Equipamentos Marítimos e Industriais, Lda • Project Manager and ship surveyor for Det Norske Veritas, with responsibilities for offshore structures, shipbuilding, and ship repair • Consultant at McKinsey & Company, focussing on energy, shipping, and retail banking • Head of the Corporate Planning and Control within the EDP Group • Chief Financial Officer of EDP Renewables Europe SL (former NEO) Education: • Master of Science degree in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering from the Institute Superior Técnico de Lisboa • Master in Business and Administration from the Universidade Nova de Lisboa • Advance Management Program from Harvard Business School GABRIEL ALONSO Born: 1973 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors, Member of the Executive Committee and Chief Operating Officer for North America of EDP Renováveis SA • Director of EDP Renewables North America LLC and EDP Renewables Canada Ltd Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) Main positions in the last five years: • Chief Operating Officer for North America of EDP Renováveis SA • Member of the Executive Committee of EDP Renováveis SA • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA Other previous positions: • He joined EDP in early 2007 as Managing Director for North America • Chief Development Officer (CDO) and Chief Operating Officer (COO) of EDPR NA Education: • Law Degree and a Master of Science Degree in Economics, each from the University of Deusto in Spain • Advanced Management Program at The University of Chicago Booth School of Business JOÃO PAULO COSTEIRA Born: 1965 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors, Member of the Executive Committee and Chief Operating Officer for Europe & Brazil of EDP Renováveis SA • Chairman of the Board of Directors of EDP Renewables Italia SRL, EDP Renewables France Holding SA, EDP Renewables SGPS SA, EDP Renewables South Africa Ltd, EDP Renováveis Portugal SA, EDPR PT Promoção e Operação SA, ENEOP 2 SA, Greenwind SA and South Africa Wind & Solar Power SLU • Director of EDP Renewables Europe SL, EDP Renewables Polska SP zoo, EDP Renewables Romania SRL, EDP Renewables UK Ltd, EDP Renováveis Brasil SA and EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros SL Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: (none) Main positions in the last five years: • Chief Operating Officer for Europe, Brazil and South Africa of EDP Renováveis SA • Member of the Executive Committee of EDP Renováveis SA • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA Other previous positions: • Commercial Director of Portgás • General Manager of Lisboagás (Lisbon’s Natural Gás LDC), Managing Director of Transgás Industria (Liberalized wholesale customers), and Managing Director of Lusitaniagás (Natural gas LDC) at Galpenergia Group (Portugal’s National Oil & Gas Company • Member of the Management Team of GalpEmpresas and Galpgás • Executive Board Member for Natural Gas Distribution and Marketing (Portugal and Spain) Education: • Degree in Electrical Engineering by the Faculdade Engenharia da Universidade do Porto • Master in Business Administration by IEP/ESADE (Oporto and Barcelona) • Executive Development Program at École des HEC (Université de Lausanne) • Strategic Leadership Development Program at INSEAD (Fontainebleau) • Advanced Management Program of IESE (Barcelona) EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 159 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 157 JOÃO LOPES RAIMUNDO Born: 1960 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors and of the Audit and Control Committee of EDP Renováveis SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • CEO and Board Member of Millennium BCP Capital SA • Chairman of the Board of BCP Holdings (USA), Inc., General Manager of Banco Comercial Portugês • Member of the Board of OMIP – Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal), SGPS SA • Member of the Investment Committees of the Fundo Revitalizar Norte, FCR (managed by Explorer Investments, SCR SA), Fundo Revitalizar Centro, FCR (Managed by Oxy Capital, SCR, SA) and Fundo Revitalizar Sul, FCR (Managed by Capital Criativo, SCR SA) Main positions in the last five years: • Member of the Board of Directors of CIMPOR Cimentos de Portugal, SGPS SA • Managing Director of Millennium BCP’s Investment Banking Division Other previous positions: • Senior auditor of BDO—Binder Dijker Otte Co. • Director of Banco Manufactures Hanover (Portugal) SA • Member of the Boards of TOTTAFactor SA (Grupo Banco Totta e Açores) and Valores Ibéricos, SGPS SA In 1993, held positions with Nacional Factoring, da CISF Imóveis and CISF Equipamentos • Director of CISF Banco de Investimento • Member of the Board of Directors of Leasing Atlântico, Comercial Leasing, Factoring Atlântico, Nacional Leasing and Nacional Factoring • Member of the Board of Directors of BCP Leasing, BCP Factoring and Leasefactor SGPS • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banque BCP (Luxemburg) • Chairman of the Executive Committee of Banque BCP (France) • Member of the Board of Banque Privée BCP (Switzerland) • General Manager of BCP’s Private Banking Division • Member of the Board of Directors of Banco Millennium BCP de Investimento SA • General Manager of Banco Comercial Português SA • Vice-Chairman of the General Assembly Board of Millennium Angola • Vice-Chairman and CEO of Millennium BCP Bank NA (USA) Education: • BSc in Business Administration from Universidade Católica Portuguesa • Master in Business Administration from INSEAD JOÃO MANUEL DE MELLO FRANCO Born: 1946 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee, Member of the Audit and Control Committee and Member of the Related-Party Transactions Committee of EDP Renováveis SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Portugal Telecom SGPS, SA. • Member of the Evaluation Committee of Portugal Telecom SGPS SA • Member of the Board of Villas Boas ACP – Corretores de Seguros, Lda Main positions in the last five years: • Chairman of the Audit Committee of Sporting Clube de Portugal SAD Other previous positions: • Member of the Board of Directors of Tecnologia das Comunicações, Lda • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Telefones de Lisboa e Porto SA • Chairman of Associação Portuguesa para o Desenvolvimento das Comunicações • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Companhia Portuguesa Rádio Marconi • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Companhia Santomense de Telecomunicações e da Guiné Telecom • Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of Lisnave (Estaleiros Navais) SA • CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Soponata • Director and Member of the Audit Committee of International Shipowners Reinsurance Co SA • Vice-Chairman of José de Mello Imobiliária SGPS SA • Chairman of the Audit Committee, Member of the Corporate Governance Committee, Member of the Evaluation Committee and Member of the Remuneration Committee of Portugal Telecom SGPS SA Education: • BSc in Mechanical Engineering from Instituto Superior Técnico de Lisboa • Certificate in strategic management and company boards • Holder of a grant of Junta de Energia Nuclear JORGE SANTOS Born: 1951 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Audit and Control Committee of EDP Renováveis SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • President of the General Assembly of IDEFE • Director at “Fundação Económicas” • Coordinator of the Master Program in Economics of ISEG Main positions in the last five years: • President of the Economics Department of Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão of the Universidade de Lisboa (ISEG) Other previous positions: • Coordinator of the committee for evaluation of the EC Support Framework II • Member of the committee for the elaboration of the ex-ante evaluation of the EC Support Framework III. From 1998 to 2000 • Chairman of the research unit “Unidade de Estudos sobre a Complexidade na Economia (UECE)” • Chairman of the scientific council of Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão (ISEG) of the Universidade de Lisboa • Coordinator of the committee for the elaboration of the Strategic Programme of Economic and Social Development for the Peninsula of Setúbal Education: • Degree in Economics from Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão • Master degree(MSc) in Economics from the University of Bristol • Ph.D. in economics from the University of Kent • Doctorate Degree in Economics from the Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão of Universidade de Lisboa 160 158 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE JOSÉ ARAÚJO E SILVA Born: 1951 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Consultant • Professor at Católica Oporto Business School Main positions in the last five years: • Member of the Executive Committee of Rádio e Televisão de Portugal (RTP) • Member of the Executive Board of Caixa Geral Depósitos SA • Chairman of Caixa Seguros e Saúde • Non-Executive Board Member of Banco Caixa Totta de Angola • Non-Executive Board Member of AdP – Águas de Portugal SGPS • Non-Executive Board Member of Artlant, SA Other previous positions: • Executive Board Member of Corticeira Amorim SGPS • CFO and Controler, Sonae Industria • CFO Sonae Investimentos SGPS • Executive Board Member, Tafisa, Sonae Industria Spain • Executive Committee, Sonae Participações Financeiras; CEO MDS – In Company Risk management & Insurance Broker services • Vice-Chairman Sonae Industria • International Department Banco Espírito Santo • Professor at FEUP and Católica University Education: • Faculdade Economia, University Porto (FEP) • Post-Graduation University Paris IX, Dauphine and International Banker’s Course, Midland Bank, London MANUEL MENÉNDEZ MENÉNDEZ Born: 1960 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA • Chairman of the Board of Directors Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico SA • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Naturgás Energía Grupo SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • CEO of Liberbank SA Main positions in the last five years: • Chairman and CEO of Liberbank SA • Chairman of Banco de Castilla-La Mancha • Chairman of Cajastur • Chairman of Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico SA • Chairman of Naturgás Energía Grupo SA • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renewables Europe SL • Representative of Peña Rueda, SL in the Board of Directors of Enagas SA • Member of the Board of Confederación Española de Cajas de Ahorro (CECA) • Member of the Board of UNESA Other previous positions: • University Professor in the Department of Business Administration and Accounting at the University of Oviedo Education: • BSc in Economics and Business Administration from the University of Oviedo • PhD in Economic Sciences from the University of Oviedo RAFAEL CALDEIRA VALVERDE Born: 1953 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board and Member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee of EDP Renováveis SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Executive Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Espírito Santo de Investimento Main positions in the last five years: • Executive Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Espírito Santo de Investimento • Vice-Chairman and Member of the Executive Committee of Banco Espírito Santo de Investimento, SA • Member of the Board of Directors of BES Investimento do Brasil SA Banco de Investimento • Member of the Board of Directors of ESSI S.G.P.S. SA • Member of the Board of Directors of ESSI Comunicações SGPS SA • Member of the Board of Directors of ESSI Investimentos SGPS SA • Member of the Board of Directors of Espírito Santo Investment Holdings Limited • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA • Member of the Supervisory Board of Academia de Música de Sta. Cecília • Vice-Chairman of Federação Portuguesa de Rugby • Member of the Supervisory Board TRANS-POR Other previous positions: • Lecturer of Economics at the Universidade de Economia de Coimbra (1976-78) • Manager at Instituto do Investimento Estrangeiro Education: • BSc in Economics from the Instituto de Economia da Faculdade Técnica de Lisboa EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 161 EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL THAT MAKES REPORT A DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 159 GILLES AUGUST Born: 1957 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Lawyer and founder of August & Debouzy Law Firm • Lecturer at École Supérieure des Sciences Economiques et Commerciales, at Collège de Polytechnique and at CNAM (Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers) Main positions in the last five years: • Lawyer and founder of August & Debouzy Law Firm Other previous positions: • Lawyer at Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley & Casey Law Office in Washington DC • Associate and later became Partner at Baudel, Salés, Vincent & Georges Law Firm in Paris • Partner at Salés Vincent Georges Knight of thé Légion d'Honneur and Officer in thé Ordre National du Mérite Education: • Master in Laws from Georgetown University Law Center in Washington DC (1986) • Post-graduate degree in Corporate Law from University of Paris II Phantéon, DEA (1984) • Master in Private Law from the same University (1981) • Graduated from the École Supérieure des Sciences Economiques et Commerciales (ESSEC) JOÃO MARQUES DA CRUZ Born: 1958 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group companies: • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA • Executive Director of EDP Energias de Portugal SA • Permanent Representative of EDP Energias de Portugal SA Sucursal en España, and Representative of EDP Finance BV • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Companhia de Eletricidade de Macau CEM SA, EDP Ásia Investimentos e Consultoria Lda, EDP Ásia Soluções Energéticas Lda, EDP Internacional S.A. Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Chairman of the Board of Directors of CEM – Macao Electrical Company Main positions in the last five years: • Member of the Board of EDP Internacional SA • Chairman of the Board of Directors of CEM – Macao Electrical Company • Member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal SA Other previous positions: • General Director at TAP Group (Transportes Aéreos de Portugal) • Member of the Board of TAPGER • Member of the Board of several companies within the CP – Portuguese Railways, namely EMEF. • CEO of AirLuxor between 2002 and 2005. • Chairman and CEO of ICEP (later AICEP), Portuguese State Owned Agency for International Trade and Promotion Education: • Degree in Management at the Lisbon’s ISE (Technical University of Lisbon) Instituto Superior de Economia da Universidade Técnica de Lisboa. • MBA in Management at the Technical University of Lisbon Universidade Técnica de Lisboa • Post-Graduation in Marketing and Management of Airlines at Bath University / International Air Travel Association – United Kingdom ACÁCIO PILOTO Born: 1957 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: (none) Main positions in the last five years: • Member of the Board of Directors and Member of the Audit Committee of INAPA IPG SA • Millennium BCP General Manager responsible for the Asset Management business • CEO of Millennium Gestão de Activos SGFIM • Chairman of Millennium SICAV • Chairman of BII International Other previous positions: • International Division of Banco Pinto e Sotto Mayor • International and Treasury Division of Banco Comercial Português • Head of International Corporate Banking • Head of Treasury and Capital Markets Division at CISFBanco de Investimento (BCP investment bank) • Seconded to the Groups Subsidiary in charge of Asset Management, AF Investimentos, joining its Executive Committee and acting as Chairman of the following group companies: AF Investimentos, Fundos Mobiliários; AF Investimentos, Fundos Imobiliários; BPA Gestão de Patrimónios; BCP Investimentos International; AF Investimentos International and Prime International and member of the Executive Committee • Executive Board Member of BCP Banco de Investimento, in charge of Investment Banking • Head of Treasury and Capital Markets of BCP – Banco de Investimento Education: • Law degree by the Law School of Lisbon University • During 1984 and 1985 he was a scholar from the Hanns Seidel Foundation, Munich were he obtained a PostGraduation in Economic Law by Ludwig Maximilian University • PostGraduation in European Community Competition Law by Max Planck Institut • Trainee at the International Division of Bayerische Hypoteken und Wechsel Bank • Professional education courses, mostly in banking and financial management, namely the International Banking School (Dublin, 1989), the Asset and Liability Management Seminar (Merrill Lynch International) and the INSEAD Executive Program (Fontainebleau) 162 160 EDPR EDPR ENERGY · 2014 · 2014 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ANTÓNIO NOGUEIRA LEITE Born: 1962 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board of Directors and Member of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee of EDP Renováveis SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board at HipogesIberia--Advisory, SA • Director of MP Microprocessador, SA • Member of the Advisory Committee at Incus Capital Advisors • Vice-President of “Fórum para a Competitividade” Main positions in the last five years: Group Caixa Geral de Depósitos (Portugal’s largest banking group): • Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee of Caixa Geral de Depósitos SA • Chairman of the Board Caixa Banco de Investimento SA, Caixa Capital SCR SGPS SA, Caixa Leasing e Factoring SA, Partang SGPS SA Group José de Mello (one of Portugal’s leading private groups): • Director of José de Mello Investimentos and General Manager of José de Mello SGPS SA • Director of Companhia União Fabril CUF SGPS SA, Quimigal SA (2002-2006), CUF Químicos Industriais SA, ADP SA – CUF – Adubos, SEC SA, Brisa SA, Efacec Capital SGPS SA, Comitur SGPS SA, Comitur Imobiliária SA, José de Mello Saúde SGPS SA • Chairman of the Board of OPEX SA (2003 -2011) • Member of the Advisory Council of IGCP, Portugal’s National Debt Agency, (2002-2011) Other previous positions: • Director of Soporcel SA (1997-1999) • Director of Papercel SGPS SA (1998-1999) • Director of MC Corretagem SA (1998-1999) • Chairman of the Board, Lisbon Stock Exchange (1998-9) • Secretary of State for Treasury and Finance and Alternate Governor (IMF, EBRD, EIB, WB) • Member of the Economic and Financial Committee of the European Union Education: • Degree, Universidade Católica Portuguesa, 1983 • Masters of Science in Economics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign • Ph.D. in Economics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign JOSÉ FERREIRA MACHADO Born: 1957 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • Member of the Board and Chairman of the Related-Party Transactions Committee of EDP Renováveis SA Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: • Dean of Nova School of Business and Economics (Nova SBE), Universidade Nova de Lisboa Main positions in the last five years: • Professor of Economics, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor and Teaching Assistant at Nova SBE • Visiting Assisting Professor at University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign • Consultant at GANEC • Op-ed columnist at O Sol Other previous positions: • Associate Dean at Nova SBE • Consultant for the Research Department at Banco de Portugal • Member of the Advisory Board of Instituto de Gestão de Crédito Público Education: • Degree in Economics by Universidade Técnica de Lisboa • Agregacão (Habilitation) in Statistics and Econometrics by Universidade Nova de Lisboa • PhD in Economics by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS EMILIO GARCÍA-CONDE NORIEGA Born: 1955 Current positions in EDPR or EDP group of companies: • General Secretary and General Counsel of EDP Renováveis SA • Member and/or Secretary of several Board of Directors of EDPR’s subsidiaries in Europe Current positions in companies outside EDPR and EDP group of companies: (none) Main positions in the last five years: • General Secretary and General Counsel of EDP Renováveis SA • Member and/or Secretary of several Board of Directors of EDPR’s subsidiaries in Europe Other previous positions: • Legal Counsel of Soto de Ribera Power Plant (consortium comprising Electra de Viesgo, Iberdrola and Hidrocantábrico) • General Counsel of Soto de Ribera Power Plant • Chief of administration and human resources of the consortium • Legal Counsel of Hidrocantábrico • General Counsel of Hidrocantábrico and member of the management committee Education: • Law Degree from the University of Oviedo 06. Annual Accounts INCOME STATEMENT 163 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 164 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 165 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 166 STATEMENT OF CASH-FLOWS 167 NOTES TO THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS 168 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE ON SCIRF 243 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE ON 244 FINANCIAL INFORMATION AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE ANNUAL 245 ACCOUNTS AUDITOR’S REPORT ON SCIRF 247 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS OPPORTUNITIES Making a difference to our stakeholders’ lives, offering them innovative solutions, combining rigorous ethical conduct with enthusiasm and initiative. EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 163 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 AND 2013 Thousands of Euros Notes 2014 2013 (*) Revenues 6 1,153,126 1,191,246 Income from institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 7 123,582 125,101 1,276,708 1,316,347 Other income 8 45,667 41,361 Supplies and services 9 -256,645 -255,172 Personnel costs and employee benefits 10 -66,093 -66,466 Other expenses 11 -96,441 -115,563 -373,512 -395,840 903,196 920,507 Provisions -20 -1,290 Amortisation and impairment 12 -480,767 -446,201 422,409 473,016 Financial income 13 101,527 108,381 Financial expenses 13 -351,406 -370,090 Share of net profit in joint ventures and associates 18 21,756 14,726 Profit before tax 194,286 226,033 Income tax expense 14 -16,399 -56,907 Net profit for the year 177,887 169,126 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP Renováveis 26 126,007 135,116 Non-controlling interests 28 51,880 34,010 Net profit for the year 177,887 169,126 Earnings per share basic and diluted Euros 26 0.14 0.15 (*) Restated for the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The following Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Annual Accounts 164 164 164 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 AND 2013 (*) 2014 2013 Equity NonEquity Nonholders of controlling holders of controlling Thousands of Euros the parent Interests the parent Interests Net profit for the year 126,007 51,880 135,116 34,010 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial gains/(losses) 14 Tax effect of actuarial gains/(losses) -4 10 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) -639 -409 -1,204 -770 Tax effect of fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -11,173 -5,404 17,341 3,372 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 539 921 -4,586 -947 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxes -15,463 8,080 Exchange differences arising on consolidation 28,706 26,913 -14,211 -14,507 1,970 22,021 5,420 -12,852 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 1,970 22,021 5,430 -12,852 Total comprehensive income for the year 127,977 73,901 140,546 21,158 42 923 31 808 1 (*) Restated for the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The following Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Annual Accounts EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 165 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014, 2013 AND 2012 (*) (*) Thousands of Euros Notes 2014 2013 2012 Assets Property, plant and equipment 15 11,012,976 10,095,459 10,241,035 Intangible assets 16 117,704 87,933 22,837 Goodwill 17 1,287,716 1,213,500 1,259,704 Investments in joint ventures and associates 18 369,791 338,646 349,176 Available for sale financial assets 6,336 7,434 9,407 Deferred tax assets 19 46,488 109,213 88,420 Trade receivables 21 4,879 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 22 36,320 53,160 55,153 Other debtors and other assets 23 396,980 320,435 263,398 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 29 65,597 72,206 34,988 Total Non-Current Assets 13,344,787 12,297,986 12,324,118 Inventories 20 21,320 15,425 16,145 Trade receivables 21 141,145 202,264 175,848 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 22 41,564 44,598 102,117 Other debtors and other assets 23 294,646 133,098 327,796 Current tax assets 24 89,093 103,392 55,079 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 76 389 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 29 15,141 6,054 7,416 Cash and cash equivalents 25 368,623 255,462 221,978 Total Current Assets 971,532 760,369 906,768 Total Assets 14,316,319 13,058,355 13,230,886 Equity Share capital 26 4,361,541 4,361,541 4,361,541 Share premium 552,035 552,035 552,035 Reserves 27 -64,256 -69,605 -74,385 Other reserves and Retained earnings 27 806,319 692,179 458,202 Consolidated net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 126,007 135,116 126,266 Total Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 5,781,646 5,671,266 5,423,659 Non-controlling interests 28 549,113 418,057 324,993 Total Equity 6,330,759 6,089,323 5,748,652 Liabilities Medium / Long term financial debt 29 3,716,434 3,520,859 3,628,765 Provisions 30 98,911 64,536 59,898 Deferred tax liabilities 19 270,392 367,184 361,291 Institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 31 1,801,963 1,508,495 1,679,753 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 32 464,367 418,140 376,503 Other liabilities and other payables 33 431,435 238,912 254,178 Total Non-Current Liabilities 6,783,502 6,118,126 6,360,388 Short term financial debt 29 185,489 145,018 209,505 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 32 687,904 474,208 702,319 Other liabilities and other payables 33 271,961 134,538 157,752 Current tax liabilities 34 56,704 97,142 52,270 Total Current Liabilities 1,202,058 850,906 1,121,846 Total Liabilities 7,985,560 6,969,032 7,482,234 Total Equity and Liabilities 14,316,319 13,058,355 13,230,886 (*) Restated for the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 NotesThe to the Consolidated following Annual Notes form Accounts an integral forof part the years these ended 31 December Consolidated 2014 and 2013 Annual Accounts 166 166 166 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEARS ENDED AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 AND 2013 Equity attributable to equity Reserves holders NonTotal Share Share and retained Exchange Hedging Fair value of EDP -controlling Thousands of Euros Equity Capital Premium earnings Differences reserve reserve Renováveis Interests Balance as at 31 December 2012 5,748,827 4,361,541 552,035 584,468 -32,646 -46,185 4,446 5,423,659 325,168 Comprehensive income: Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) net of taxes -1,974 -1,204 -1,204 -770 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes 15,180 12,755 12,755 2,425 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxes 8,080 3,355 4,725 8,080 Actuarial gains/(losses) net of taxes 10 10 10 Exchange differences arising on consolidation -28,718 -14,211 -14,211 -14,507 Net profit for the year 169,126 135,116 135,116 34,010 Total comprehensive income for the year 161,704 135,126 -10,856 17,480 -1,204 140,546 21,157 Dividends paid -34,892 -34,892 -34,892 Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests -16,719 -16,719 Sale without loss of control of EDPR Portugal 226,048 148,334 148,334 77,714 Sale without loss of control of Wheat Field (EDPR NA) 34,977 -1,043 -231 -1,274 36,251 Acquisitions without changes of control -15,987 -4,755 -409 -5,164 -10,823 Other changes resulting from acquisitions / sales and equity increases -14,514 -14,514 Other -121 57 57 -178 (*) Balance as at 31 December 2013 6,089,323 4,361,541 552,035 827,295 -43,733 -29,114 3,242 5,671,266 418,057 Comprehensive income: Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) net of taxes -1,048 -639 -639 -409 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes -15,117 -10,634 -10,634 -4,483 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxes -15,463 -10,975 -4,488 -15,463 Exchange differences arising on consolidation 55,619 28,706 28,706 26,913 Net profit for the year 177,887 126,007 126,007 51,880 Total comprehensive income for the year 201,878 126,007 17,731 -15,122 -639 127,977 73,901 Dividends paid -34,892 -34,892 -34,892 Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests -34,382 -34,382 Sale without loss of control of EDPR France 6,773 8,738 1,070 9,808 59,163 Sale without loss of control of EDPR France subsidiaries 27,645 3,199 2,100 5,299 22,346 Sale without loss of control of South Dundas (EDPR NA) 15,494 2,255 209 2,464 13,030 Other changes resulting from acquisitions / sales and equity increases -3,317 -282 -282 -3,035 Other 39 6 6 33 Balance as at 31 December 2014 6,330,759 4,361,541 552,035 932,326 -25,793 -41,066 2,603 5,781,646 549,113 (*) Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes NotesThe to the Consolidated following Annual Notes form Accounts an integral forof part the years these ended 31 December Consolidated 2014 and 2013 Annual Accounts EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 167 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 AND 2013 (*) Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 Operating activities Cash receipts from customers 1,180,865 1,198,463 Payments to suppliers -301,046 -306,255 Payments to personnel -66,245 -66,751 Other receipts / (payments) relating to operating activities -39,602 -76,686 Net cash from operations 773,972 748,771 Income tax received / (paid) -66,880 -71,618 Net cash flows from operating activities 707,092 677,153 Investing activities Cash receipts relating to: Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1,464 2,193 Interest and similar income 26,283 3,477 Dividends 17,389 18,246 Loans to related parties 118,891 138,954 Other receipts from investing activities 23,147 2,122 187,174 164,992 Cash payments relating to: Acquisition of assets / subsidiaries -19,790 -46,728 Changes in cash resulting from perimeter variations 35 -17,551 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -536,618 -809,705 Loans to related parties -241,654 -174,443 Other payments in investing activities -661 -1,669 -798,688 -1,050,096 Net cash flows from investing activities -611,514 -885,104 Financing activities (**) Sale of assets / subsidiaries without loss of control 79,432 292,143 Receipts/ (payments) relating to loans 50,207 15,429 Interest and similar costs -190,976 -48,101 Governmental grants received 90,539 Dividends paid -67,884 -51,610 Receipts / (payments) from wind activity institutional partnerships USA 147,860 -35,579 Other cash flows from financing activities -15,442 -38,151 Net cash flows from financing activities 3,197 224,670 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 98,775 16,719 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 14,386 -7,094 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 255,462 245,837 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (***) 368,623 255,462 (*) Restated for the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 (**) Includes: -29,676 thousands of Euros of tax payment related to the sale in 2013 of 49% share interest in EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A , 64,340 thousands of Euros related of de sale by EDPR Europe of 49% of interests in EDP Renewables France, 28,256 thousands of Euros related to the sale by EDPR France of 49% of its interests in several French companies (see note 5) and 6 thousands of Euros related to the sale by EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. of 7% of its interests in two French companies (see note 5). (***) See Note 25 of the consolidated financial statements for a detailed breakdown of Cash and cash equivalents. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The following Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Annual Accounts 168 168 168 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 AND 2013 01. THE BUSINESS OPERATIONS OF THE EDP RENOVÁVEIS GROUP ............................................................................................. 169 02. ACCOUNTING POLICIES.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 174 03. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES .............. 183 04. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES ...................................................................................................................................................... 184 05. CONSOLIDATION PERIMETER ......................................................................................................................................................................................... 186 06. REVENUES .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 189 07. INCOME FROM INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS IN U.S. WIND FARMS ............................................................................. 189 08. OTHER INCOME ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 189 09. SUPPLIES AND SERVICES .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 190 10. PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ........................................................................................................................................ 190 11. OTHER EXPENSES .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 191 12. AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT ............................................................................................................................................................................. 191 13. FINANCIAL INCOME AND FINANCIAL EXPENSES ...................................................................................................................................... 192 14. INCOME TAX EXPENSE ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... 192 15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT ...................................................................................................................................................................... 193 16. INTANGIBLE ASSETS ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 195 17. GOODWILL ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 197 18. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES ..................................................................................................................... 199 19. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ....................................................................................................................................................... 202 20. INVENTORIES .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 203 21. TRADE RECEIVABLES ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 204 22. DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES ......................................................................................... 204 23. OTHER DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS .............................................................................................................................................................. 204 24. CURRENT TAX ASSETS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 205 25. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS ............................................................................................................................................................................... 205 26. SHARE CAPITAL ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 205 27. RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS ............................................................................................................................................................... 206 28. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS ................................................................................................................................................................................. 207 29. FINANCIAL DEBT......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 208 30. PROVISIONS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................210 31. INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS IN U.S. WIND FARMS .........................................................................................................................210 32. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................ 211 33. OTHER LIABILITIES AND OTHER PAYABLES .................................................................................................................................................... 212 34. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES ................................................................................................................................................................................................. 213 35. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS .............................................................................................................................................................. 213 36. COMMITMENTS ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 215 37. RELATED PARTIES ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 217 38. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ........................................................................................................................ 219 39. ADOPTION OF STANDARDS IFRS 10 AND IFRS 11 ..................................................................................................................................... 222 40. RELEVANT AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS ............................................................................................................................................................226 41. RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS USED ..................................................................................226 42. ENVIRONMENT ISSUES .........................................................................................................................................................................................................229 43. OPERATING SEGMENTS REPORT................................................................................................................................................................................229 44. AUDIT AND NON AUDIT FEES ....................................................................................................................................................................................... 230 ANNEX 1 ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 231 ANNEX 2 ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 239 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 169 01. THE BUSINESS OPERATIONS OF THE EDP RENOVÁVEIS GROUP EDP Renováveis, Sociedad Anónima (hereinafter referred to as “EDP Renováveis”) was incorporated on 4 December 2007. Its main corporate objective is to engage in activities related to the electricity sector, namely the planning, construction, operation and maintenance of electricity generating power stations, using renewable energy sources, mainly wind. The registered offices of the company are located in Oviedo, Spain. On 18 March 2008 EDP Renováveis was converted into a company incorporated by shares (Sociedad Anónima). As at 31 December 2014 and 2013 the share capital is held 62.02% by EDP S.A. Sucursal en España ( EDP Branch ), 15.51% by Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. and 22.47% of the share capital is free-float in the NYSE Euronext Lisbon. As at 31 December 2014, EDP Renováveis holds a 100% stake in the share capital of the following companies: EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. (EDPR EU), EDP Renewables North America, L.L.C. (EDPR NA), EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd. (EDPR Canada), South África Wind & Solar Power, S.L.U. and EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros, S.L. Also holds a 55% stake in the share capital of EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. (EDPR BR). The Company belongs to the EDP Group, of which the parent company is EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., with registered offices at Praça Marquês de Pombal, 12 4, Lisbon. In December 2011, China Three Gorges Corporation (CTG) sign an agreement to acquire 780,633,782 ordinary shares in EDP from Parpública Participações Públicas SGPS, S.A., representing 21.35% of the share capital and voting rights of EDP Energias de Portugal S.A., a majority shareholder of the Company. This operation was concluded in May 2012. The terms of the agreements through which CTG became a shareholder of the EDP Group stipulate that CTG would make minority investments totalling 2,000 million of Euros in operating and ready-to-build renewable energy generation projects (including co-funding capex). Within the agreement mentioned above, in June 2013, EDPR completed the sale of 49% equity shareholding in EDPR Portugal to CTG through CITIC CWEI Renewables S.C.A. EDPR EU operates through its subsidiaries located in Portugal, Spain, France, Belgium, Poland, Romania, Italy and United Kingdom. EDPR EU's main subsidiaries are: EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. (wind farms in Portugal), EDP Renovables España, S.L. (renewable resources electricity generation in Spain), EDP Renewables France (wind farms in France), EDP Renewables Belgium (wind farms in Belgium), EDP Renewables Polska, SP.ZO.O (wind farms in Poland), EDP Renewables Romania, S.R.L. (wind farms in Romania), EDP Renewables Italy, SRL (wind farms in Italy), EDPR UK Limited (offshore development projects) and EDPR RP PV, S.L.R. (photovoltaic solar farms in Romania). EDPR NA's main activities consist in the development, management and operation of wind farms in the United States of America and providing management services for EDPR Canada. EDPR Canada's main activities consist in the development, management and operation of wind farms in Canada. The purpose of EDP Renováveis Brasil is to aggregate all the investments in the renewable energy market of Brazil. EDP Renováveis Group, through its subsidiaries has an installed capacity, as follows: Installed capacity MW 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 United States of America 3,805 3,476 Spain 2,194 2,194 Portugal 624 619 Romania 521 521 Poland 391 370 France 340 322 Brazil 84 84 Belgium 71 71 Italy 90 70 Canada 30 30 8,150 7,757 Additionally, the EDP Renováveis Group through its equity consolidated companies has an installed capacity, as follows: Installed capacity MW 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 United States of America 179 179 Spain 174 174 Portugal 533 455 886 808 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 170 170 170 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR THE ACTIVITIES IN SPAIN On December 2012, by means of Law15/2012 of 27 December, the Spanish Government approved 7% acrossthe-board tax on electricity generation, as well as new taxes on nuclear and large-scale hydropower, plus a new carbon levy. The tax will be applied from 2013 onwards. On 4 February 2013, the Spanish Government published in the Official State Gazette the Royal Decree-Law 2/2013 that includes a set of regulatory modifications applicable to the Spanish electricity sector and affecting the wind energy assets. According to these parameters, wind farms built in 2003 or earlier are not eligible to receive any incentive while newest farms will receive a flat premium per installed MW until the end of their regulatory life. The flat premium will be subject of tri-annual modifications due to updates in the forecast of the parameters affecting the profitability of the installations. Overall, the wind sector will receive 1,191 million of Euros in 2014 which compares to the forecast of 2,000 million of Euros that would have been received under the old regulation. These cut of approximately 800 million of Euros in wind sector represents a 45% of the total savings for the whole renewable sector that were estimated in 1,750 million of Euros in the budget published within the tariff and charges provided in Ministerial Order. The main regulatory modifications that Royal Decree-Law presents towards the Royal Decree-Law 661/2007 with impact in EDP Renováveis S.A. (EDPR) effective from 1 January 2013 onwards, are as follows: • Every energy production facilities operating under the special regime are to be remunerated according to current feed-in tariff schemes for the remaining useful life of the asset; • Energy production facilities operating under the special regime currently remunerated according to the market option were able to choose, until 15 February 2013 and for the remaining useful life of the asset, a remuneration based on the electricity wholesale market price with no renewable energy premium, and neither cap nor floor prices; • The index used to annually update all the regulated activities in the electricity sector is the annual inflation excluding energy products and food prices, and any impact of tax changes. The Spanish government disclosed the Energy Market Reform, which aims to end with the Spanish tariff deficit. The government claims that the reform may eliminate 4.5 billion of Euros/year of the structural deficit by: (i) 2.7 billion of Euros reduction in regulated costs of utilities and renewable energy source companies, and (ii) 0.9 billion of Euros contribution from the Spanish Treasury which will pay through the Budget 50% of the extra costs of generation in the non-mainland territories. The complete regulatory package will consist of: (i) a Royal Decree-Law (RD-L 9/2013, published in the Diário Oficial da União on 13 July), (ii) eight Decrees and Orders and (iii) the submission in the Parliament of the Project of Law (“Anteproyecto de Ley”). According to this RD-L 9/2013, renewable energy source plants will be subject to a new legal and economic framework: previous RD 661 framework will disappear and renewable energy source plants will receive the market price plus a payment per installed MW, so that the return on investment will be equivalent to the Spanish Government 10-year bonds yield plus a spread of 300 bps. This Royal Decree-Law also suppresses the renewables remuneration for reactive power (2€/MWh). On 26 December 2013, the Spanish government published a new regulation that will govern the electricity sector (Law 24/2013) replacing the existing from 1997 (Law 54/1997). The government defines the new law’s objective is to guarantee the supply of electricity and adapt to the consumer need at the lowest possible cost. It refers to the need to finish with the sector’s structural deficit that that has been accumulated during the last decade as the motivation to undertake the reform. Regarding the renewable sector, the development of new installations will be conditioned to market needs, and their retribution will be based on market price with complementary revenues in order to ensure a reasonable return rate. Details on the renewable remuneration will be disclosed in the next months upon approval of the Royal Decree-Law for renewables, namely for wind farms and cogeneration assets. The Spanish Government published in 20 June 2014, the Order IET/1045/2014, which includes the parameters to remunerate the renewable energy assets, under the new remuneration framework that was approved by the Decree-Law 413/2014 of June 2014. The final legislation had no significant changes to the previous draft versions, which include the extension of wind farms scheme into operation in 2004, the increase of the remuneration per MW installed by 5%, and minor changes in methodology for the determination of the deviations from market prices. The remuneration is now structured in order for a standard asset to receive a pre-tax return defined as the yield of the Spanish 10-year bonds plus 300 bps. The return is based on the assets' regulatory life (20 years for wind energy assets). In the case of wind farms onshore, it has been confirmed that the wind farms in operation at 2003 and before will not receive any further incentive, while, while the incentive for the rest of the wind farms was calculated according to the new regulation in order to reach of 7.398% for a standard wind farm. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 171 EDP Renováveis expects that this regulatory change will have a total annual negative impact of approximately 30 million of Euros before tax (under an average windy year), when compared with the previous framework defined by Royal Decree-Law 2/2013. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR THE ACTIVITIES IN PORTUGAL The Portuguese legal provisions applicable to the generation of electrical power based on renewable resources are currently established by Decree-Law 189/88 dated 27 May, as amended by Decree-Law 168/99 dated 18 May, Decree-Law 312/2001 dated 10 December , and Decree-Law 339-C/2001 dated 29 December. Also relevant is Decree-Law 33-A/2005, dated 16 February (“DL 33-A/2005”), which establishes the current amounts used in the remuneration formula applicable to energy produced by means of renewable resources and the deadlines for the application of such remuneration formula. The Portuguese Government published on 28 February 2013, the Decree Law 35/2013, that maintains the legal stability of the current contracts (Decree-Law 33-A/2005) and protects the value of the investments made by the wind energy producers in the Portuguese economy. The wind farm producers can voluntarily invest to obtain further remuneration stability, through a new tariff scheme to be applied upon the actual 15 years established by law. The total investment will be used to reduce the overall costs of the Portuguese electricity system. In order to maximise the number of wind developers that voluntarily adheres to the extension of the remuneration framework, the Government proposed four alternative tariff schemes to be elected by each of the wind developers, that include the following conditions: i) alternative cap and floor selling prices; ii) alternative durations to the new scheme beyond the initial 15 years of the current contracts; and consequently iii) alternative levels of investment (on a per MW basis) to adhere a new scheme. EDPR has chosen a 7 year extension of the tariff defined as the average market price of previous twelve months, with a floor of 74€/MWh and a cap of 98€/MWh values updated with inflation from 2021 onwards, in exchange for a payment of 5.800€/MW from 2013 to 2020. This decree also includes the possibility for wind farms under the new regime (i.e. ENEOP) to adhere to a similar scheme, still in negotiation. The Environment and Energy Ministry published, on 24 July, the Decree Law 94/2014 that allows the increase of installed capacity of wind farms up to 20%. The additional production generated from the capacity increase will have a fixed remuneration of 60 Euros/MWh, whilst the remaining production is remunerated at the previous tariff. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR THE ACTIVITIES IN FRANCE The electricity industry in France is governed primarily by Act 2000-108 (amended by Acts 2004-803 and 20061537) (“Act 2000’), passed on 10 February 2000, which governs the modernization and development of public energy services and is the general legislative framework for the operation of wind facilities in France. Act 2000 provides that, operator of wind facilities may enter into long-term agreements for the purchase and sale of energy with Electricité de France (EDF). The tariffs are set by Order of July 10, 2006 which was repealed in August 2008 due to formal defect in its approval, and then republished without any amendment in December 2008. The tariffs are the following: i) during the first ten years of the EDF Agreement, EDF pays a fixed annual tariff, which is €82 per MWh for applications made during 2006 (tariff is amended annually based, in part, on an inflation-related index); ii) During years 11 to 15 of the EDF Agreement, the tariff is based on the annual average percentage of energy produced during the wind facility' s first ten years. These tariffs are also amended annually, based, in part, on an inflation-related index; iii) Beginning in the year 16, there is no specific support structure and the wind energy generators will sell their electricity at market price. On March 2012, the legality of the 2008 feed-in tariff ministerial order for wind farm projects was questioned before the French Council of State (Conseil dÉtat) on the basis that the required notification to the European Commission on State Aid was missed. On 15 May, the French Council of State decided to raise the issue for a preliminary ruling before the EU Court of Justice (is expected 12 to 18 months to solve). In the event that the tariff is finally cancelled, the French government has urged the Council of State the postponement of this eventual ruling until 2013 onwards, thus, no retroactive effects are expected. After years of litigation, the French Council of State decided to cancel the French Wind Tariff on May 2014. The EU Court of Justice argued that it constituted illegal State Aid as France failed to notify the European Commission of the subsidy back in 2008. Shortly after, the French Government approved and released a new tariff decree ( Arrêté du 17 juin 2014 ) that had previously received clearance from the European Union. This new decree contains the same parameters than the former decree and has come into force with retroactive effects. Therefore, it will not endanger or modify any power purchase agreement signed under the 2008 Order. On 18 June, French energy minister unveiled a new law for a new energy model, which represents the culmination of a nation energy transition debate started in 2012. This new law sets targets to increase renewables production (32% for 2030 split between power (40%), heat (38%) and transport (15%)). New targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are also introduced (40% by 2030 compared to 1990). According to the law, nuclear dependence will also to be reduced, lowering its share to 50%. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR THE ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA The United States federal government and various state governments have implemented policies designed to promote the growth of renewable energy, including wind power. The primary federal renewable energy incentive program is the Production Tax Credit (PTC), which was established by the U.S. Congress as part of 1992 EPACT. Additionally, many states have passed legislation, principally in the form of renewable portfolio standards Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 172 172 172 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE (“RPS”), which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy supply from renewable sources, similar to the Renewable Energy Directive in the EU. American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 includes a number of energy related tax and policy provisions to benefit the development of wind energy generation, namely (i) a three year extension of the PTC until 2012 and (ii) an option to elect a 30% Investment Tax Credit ( ITC ) that could replace the PTC through the duration of the extension. This ITC allows the companies to receive 30% of the cash invested in projects placed in service or with the beginning of construction in 2009 and 2010. In December 2010, the Tax Relief, Unemployment, Insurance and Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 was approved and includes an one year extension of the ITC, which allow the companies to receive 30% of the cash invested in projects with beginning of construction until December 2011 as long as placed in service until December 2012. On 16 December 2014, the U.S. Congress approved the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 that included an extension of the PTC for wind, including the possibility of a 30% Investment Tax Credit instead of the PTC. Congress set a new expiration date of 31 December 2014 and kept the qualification criteria (projects can qualify as long as they are under construction by year-end 2014). REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR THE ACTIVITIES IN POLAND The legislation applicable to renewable energy in Poland is primarily contained in an Energy Act passed on 10 April 1997, which has been amended by the Act of 24 July 2002 and the Energy Act of 2 April 2004, which came into effect in January 2005 (together, the ‘‘Energy Act’’). Pursuant to the Energy Act, power generation from renewable sources is supported. The following are forms of such support introduced in Poland: (i) A system of obligatory purchase of certificates of origin by the generation companies and trading companies selling electricity to the end user interconnected to a grid in Poland. These power companies are obliged to: a) obtain a certificate or origin and submit it to the ERA President for cancellation, or b) pay a substitute fee calculated in accordance with the Energy Act. ii) If the power company does not purchase certificates or origin or does not pay a substitute fee, the ERA President will penalize such company by the financial penalty calculated in accordance with the Energy Act. On 13 November 2013, the Polish Government disclosed a new renewable act draft introducing a tendering scheme for renewable capacity. Then, the Ministry of Economy published a second version of the law on renewables at 2 January 2014. The law is not expected to be applicable before 1 January 2016 as it will come into force on the first day of the month commencing after the lapse of 12 months following the issuance of a positive decision of the European Commission on the compliance of the state aid regulations. According to this draft, operating plants will be entitled to choose between remaining under the Green Certificate (GC) scheme and participating in tenders. This version has already been referred in the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR THE ACTIVITIES IN BELGIUM The regulatory framework for electricity in Belgium is conditioned by the division of powers between the federal and the three regional entities: Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels-Capital. The federal regulatory field of competence includes electricity transmission (of transmission levels above 70 kV), generation, tariffs, planning and nuclear energy. The relevant federal legislation is the Electricity Act of 29 April 1999 (as modified) (the ‘‘Electricity Act’’). The regional regulatory entities are responsible for distribution, renewable energy and cogeneration (with the exception of offshore power plants) and energy efficiency. The relevant regional legislation, respectively, is: (a) for Flanders, the Electricity Decree of 17 July 2000; (b) for Wallonia, the Regional Electricity Market Decree of 12 April 2001; and (c) for Brussels-Capital, the Order of 19 July 2001 on the Organization of the Electricity Market. The Belgian regulatory system promotes the generation of electricity from renewable sources (and cogeneration) by a system of green certificates (each a ‘‘GC’’), as described below. The Belgian federal government is responsible for offshore power plants and for imposing obligations on the transmission system operators. The various GC systems are very similar across the three regions and are similar to the GC system for federallyregulated offshore power plants. There are currently differences in terms of quotas, fines and thresholds for granting GCs. On 21 March 2012, Walloon government approved a decree which fixes the quotas of GC until 2020. The new quotas are: (i) 19.4% in 2013; (ii) 23.1% in 2014; (iii) 26.7% in 2015; (iv) 30.4% in 2016. For the period from 1 January 2017 until 31 December 2019, the yearly quotas will at the latest be fixed in 2014 on the basis of an evaluation carried out beforehand by the energy regulator of Wallonia (CWaPE). A new tax for wind generators has been approved in Wallonia last July. According to this regulation, all generators earning green certificates shall pay 0,54€/MWh. The energy regulator of Wallonia (CWaPE) will be the beneficiary of this tax, aimed at supporting the costs originated by green certificates management. REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS FOR THE ACTIVITIES IN ROMANIA The promotion of electricity generated from renewable energy sources in Romania was set with the Electricity Law 318/2003. In 2005 a Green Certificate mechanism was introduced with mandatory quotas for suppliers, in order to comply with their EU renewable requirements. The regulatory authority establishes a fixed quota of electricity produced from RES which suppliers are obliges to buy, and, annually reviews applications form green generators in order to be awarded green certificates. Law 220/2008 of November, introduced some changes in the green certificates system. In particular, it allows wind generators to receive 2GC/MWh until 2015. From 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 173 onwards generators receive 1 green certificate for each MWh. The price of electricity is determined in the electricity market and the price of green certificates is determined on a separate market. The trading value of green certificates has a floor of 27€ and a cap of 55€, both indexed to Romanian inflation. Law 220/2008 also guarantees the access to the National Grid for the electricity produced from renewable sources. Law 220/2008 on renewable energy was amended by the Emergency Order 88/2011. A key aspect of this amendment was the overcompensation analysis which must be carried out on a yearly basis. ANRE shall monitor the producers benefiting from the support system and prepare annual reports on this regard. If overcompensation is found, ANRE will propose a reduction of the applicability period of the support scheme or the number of GCs initially granted to the technology. This reduction would be applied only to new plants. Law 123/2012 of 19 July 2012 on Electricity and Natural Gas eliminates the provision of bilateral contracts not publicly negotiated as a mean to sale electricity. Thus, trading of electricity must be carried out on a centralized market. On 4 September 2012, ANRE published the Order on Balancing Market. The new regulation has an impact for wind generation. On the one side, it states that for the energy reduced, the producer does not have the right to claim compensations for the loss of unproduced green certificates. This loss cannot be recovered. Also, new rules could result on larger balancing costs as the deficit price that wind generators have to face when the production is lower than the forecast may increase. The Romanian Parliament passed on 17 December 2013, the law for the approval of the Government Emergency Ordinance 57/2013 (the Ordinance). The law brings several amendments to the Ordinance and implicitly to the Renewables Law (i.e. Law 220/2008). The amendments are: The postponement of Green Certificates of operating plants. The postponement will only apply to renewable energy operators accredited by ANRE before 2013. Wind power producers will receive 2 GCs/MWh until 2017 (inclusive) of which 1 GC will be postponed from trading between 1 July 2013 and 31 March 2017. Solar producers will see 2 GCs (out of 6 GCs) postponed from trading from 1 July 2013 and 31 March 2017. The GCs postponed will be gradually recovered until 31 December 2020 (starting on 1 April 2017 for solar PV and 1 January 2018 for wind); Wind facilities accredited after this date will receive 1.5 GC/MWh until 2017 and 0.75 GC/MWh from 2018 onwards. All these GC will be immediately tradable; Solar facilities will only receive 3 GC from 1 January 2014 onwards. On 24 March 2014, the President of Romania ratified EGO 57/2013 with the following amendments: (i) Reduction of the green certificates validity from 16 months to 12 months; and (ii) the obligation for National Agency for Energy Regulation (ANRE) to communicate in each year the GC quota for the next year. On 28 March 2014, the Romanian Official Gazette published a Government Decision containing the new green certificate quota for 2014 at a level of 11.1%. Additionally ANRE released on 27 June 2014, the 2015 mandatory quota for acquisition of green certificates at 11.9%, that as approved by the Government on 12 December 2014. In the Order 78/2014, of 14 August 2014, ANRE regulations on bilateral contracts market for electricity by approving a new regulation which no longer allows the use of flexible contracts and imposes strict compliance with the framework agreements to be prepared by OPCOM (Romania gas and electricity market operator). This order will entered into force on 1 January 2015. REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS FOR THE ACTIVITIES IN ITALY On 6 July 2012, the Government approved the new renewable regulation by means of the Decree on Renewables (DM FER) based on feed-in-tariff support scheme. The key aspects of the new regulation provided by the DM FER are the following: (i) Wind farms over 5 MW will be remunerated under a feed-in tariff scheme defined by tenders; (ii) capacity to be tendered is set in different technologies’ capacity paths (only set until 2015); (iii) the reference tariff for 2013 is 127 €/MWh for onshore wind. Tender participants will bid offering discounts on a reference tariff (in %); (iv) The reference tariff will decrease 2% per year and will be granted for the whole average useful life of the renewable plant -20 years for onshore wind. The new system substitutes the previous one based on GCs. Under the previous system producers obtain their revenues from the sale of the electricity in the electricity market and from the sale of GCs. Wind farms built until December 2012 (with some exceptions) will continue to operate under the previous system until 2015 when the GC system will be transformed into a feed-in-premium. Spalma Incentivi Decree, published in November 2014, specifies that wind farms currently under the GCs scheme can voluntarily adhere to an extension of the incentivation period of 7 years in exchange of a permanent reduction of the premium/GCs received, the coefficient of reduction will be calculated individually for each wind farm depending on their remaining regulatory life. As the option is voluntary, wind farms which that refuse to accept this change would remain under current GCs scheme. Wind farms have to decide whether or not to adhere to the extension before 17 February 2015. REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS FOR THE ACTIVITIES IN BRAZIL The Electrical Sector in Brazil is regulated by Federal Law nr 8,987 of 13 February 1995, which generally rules the concession and permission regime of public services; Law nr 9,074 of 7 July 1995, which rules the grant and extension of public services concession or permission contracts; Federal Law nr 10,438 of 26 April 2002, which governs the increase in Emergency Electric Power Supply and creates the 3,300 MW Program of Incentives for Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 174 174 174 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Alternative Electricity Sources (PROINFA); Federal Law nr 10,762 of 11 November 2003 and Law nr 10,848 of 15 March 2004, concerning commercial rules for the trade of Electric Power; and, subsequent amendments to the legislation. The Decree nr 5,025 of 30 March 2004, regulates the Federal Law nr 10,438 and states the Alternative Energy Sources economical and legal framework. PROINFA participants have granted a PPA with ELETROBRÁS, and are subject to the regulator (ANEEL) authority. However, the first stage of PROINFA has ended and the second stage is highly uncertain. After PROINFA program, renewable producers obtain their remuneration by participating in auctions where price is the only criteria. Winners of the auctions obtain a PPA contract at the price bid. Public Electricity Auctions are technically lead by the state “Energy Planning and Research Company” (EPE), who registers, analyses and allows potential participants. 02. ACCOUNTING POLICIES a) Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated annual accounts have been prepared on the basis of the accounting records of EDP Renováveis, S.A. and consolidated entities. The consolidated annual accounts for 2014 and 2013 have been prepared to present fairly the consolidated equity and consolidated financial position of EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the consolidated results of operations, consolidated cash flows and changes in consolidated equity for the years then ended. In accordance with Regulation (EC) no. 1606/2002 of 19 July 2002, from the European Council and Parliament, the Group's consolidated annual accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by the European Union (EU). IFRS comprise accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and its predecessor bodies. The Board of Directors approved these consolidated annual accounts on 24 February 2015. The annual accounts are presented in thousands of Euros, rounded to the nearest thousand. The annual accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the application of fair value basis for derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading and available-forsale, except those for which a reliable measure of fair value is not available. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with the IFRS-EU requires the Board of Directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and of the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and related assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors considered reasonable in accordance with the circumstances. They form the basis for making judgments regarding the values of the assets and liabilities whose valuation is not apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The areas involving the highest degree of judgment or complexity, or for which the assumptions and estimates are considered significant, are disclosed in note 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgments in applying accounting policies. Accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group companies and in all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. Nevertheless, the first time adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 with effective date of 1 January 2014, implied the Group to apply this standard for comparative purposes for the annual period immediately preceding, which is 1 January 2013. b) Basis of consolidation Controlled entities Investments in subsidiaries where the Group has control are fully consolidated from the date the Group assumes control over their financial and operating activities until the moment that control ceases to exist. An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee, independently of the percentage of voting rights held. Joint arrangements The Group classifies an arrangement as a joint arrangement when the jointly control is contractually established. An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee, independently of the percentage of voting rights held. Joint control exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties that collectively control the arrangement. After determining the existence of joint control, the Group classifies joint arrangements into two types joint operations and joint ventures. A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement (i.e. joint operators) have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement, so the assets and liabilities (and related revenues and expenses) in relation to its interest in the arrangement are recognised and measured in accordance with relevant IFRSs applicable. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 175 A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement (i.e. joint venturers) have rights to the net assets of the arrangement, so this investment shall be accounted for using the equity method. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's attributable share of total reserves and profits or losses of joint ventures, accounted for under the equity method. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in a jointly controlled entity, the Group's carrying amount is reduced to zero and recognition of further losses is discontinued, except to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to cover such losses on behalf of that entity. Entities over which the Group has significant influence Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method from the date the Group acquires significant influence to the date it ceases. Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over its financial and operating policies. The existence of significant influence by the Group is usually evidenced by one or more of the following: Representation on the Executive Board of Directors or equivalent governing body of the investee; Participation in policy-making processes, including participation in decisions about dividends and other distributions; Existence of material transactions between the Group and the investee; Interchange of managerial personnel; Provision of essential technical information. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's attributable share of total reserves and profits or losses of associates, accounted for under the equity method. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Group's carrying amount is reduced to zero and recognition of further losses is discontinued, except to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to cover such losses on behalf of the associate. Business combination From 1 January 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2008) in accounting for business combinations. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable. Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: • The fair value of the consideration transferred; plus • The recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus • If the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less • The net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss. Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Some business combinations in the period have been determined provisionally as the Group is currently in the process of measuring the fair value of the net assets acquired. The identifiable net assets have therefore initially been recognised at their provisional value. Adjustments during the measurement period have been recorded as if they had been known at the date of the combination and comparative information for the prior year has been restated where applicable. Adjustments to provisional values only include information relating to events and circumstances existing at the acquisition date and which, had they been known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date. After that period, adjustments to initial measurement are only made to correct an error. Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 176 176 176 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree. When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss. Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition. Accounting for acquisitions of non-controlling interests From 1 January 2010, acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions. The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. Previously, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction. Investments in foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to Euro at exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations, are translated to Euro at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income in the translation reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. When the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, foreign exchange gains and losses arising from such a monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised in other comprehensive income, and presented in the translation reserve in equity. Balances and transactions eliminated on consolidation Inter-company balances and transactions, including any unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Group's interest in those entities. Common control transactions The accounting for transactions among entities under common control is excluded from IFRS 3. Consequently, in the absence of specific guidance, within IFRSs, the EDP Renováveis Group has developed an accounting policy for such transactions, as considered appropriate. According to the Group's policy, business combinations among entities under common control are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the EDP consolidated book values of the acquired company (subgroup). The difference between the carrying amount of the net assets received and the consideration paid, is recognised in equity. Put options related to non-controlling interests EDP Renováveis Group records written put options at the date of acquisition of a business combination or at a subsequent date as an advance acquisition of these interests, recording a financial liability for the present value of the best estimate of the amount payable, irrespective of the estimated probability that the options will be exercised. The difference between this amount and the amount corresponding to the percentage of the interests held in the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Until 31 December 2009, in years subsequent to initial recognition, the changes in the liability due to the effect of the financial discount are recognised as a financial expense in the consolidated income statement, and the remaining changes are recognised as an adjustment to the cost of the business combination. Where applicable, dividends paid to minority shareholders up to the date the options are exercised are also recorded as adjustments to the cost of the business combination. In the event that the options are not exercised, the transaction would be recorded as a sale of interests to minority shareholders. As from January 2010, the Group applies IAS 27 (2008) to new put options related to non-controlling interests and there subsequent changes in the carrying amount of the put liability are recognised in profit or loss. c) Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between amortised cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the period, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the period, and the amortised cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for differences arising Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 177 on the retranslation of available-for-sale equity instruments, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. d) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are recognised on the trade date at fair value. Subsequently, the fair value of derivative financial instruments is re-measured on a regular basis, being the gains or losses on re-measurement recognised directly in the income statement, except for derivatives designated as hedging instruments. The recognition of the resulting gains or losses on re-measurement of the derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the risk being hedged and of the hedge model used. The fair value of derivatives correspond to their quoted market prices as provided by an exchange, or is determined by through the use of net present value techniques, including discounted cash flows models and option pricing models, as appropriate. Hedge accounting The Group uses financial instruments to hedge interest and foreign exchange risks resulting from its operational and financing activities. The derivate financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recorded as for trading. The derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments are recorded at fair value, being the gains and losses recognised in accordance with the hedge accounting model adopted by the Group. Hedge accounting is used when: (i) At the inception of the hedge, the hedge relationship is identified and documented; (ii) The hedge is expected to be highly effective; (iii) The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured; (iv) The hedge is revalued on an on-going basis and is considered to be highly effective over the reporting period; and (v) The forecast transactions hedged are highly probable and represent a risk to changes in cash flows that could affect the income statement. Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as described below. Cash flow hedge The effective portion of the changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that are designated as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge model is recognised in equity. The gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship are recognised in the income statement in the moment they occur. The cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are also reclassified to the income statement over the periods in which the hedged item will affect the income statement. When the forecast transaction hedge results in the recognition of a non-financial asset, the gains or losses recorded in equity are included in the acquisition cost of the asset. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity at that time stays recognised in equity until the hedged transaction also affects the income statement. When the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses recognized in equity are recorded in the income statement. Net investment hedge The net investment hedge is applied on a consolidated basis to investments in subsidiaries in foreign currencies. The exchange differences recorded against exchange differences arising on consolidation are offset by the exchange differences arising from the foreign currency borrowings used for the acquisition of those subsidiaries. If the hedging instrument is a derivative, the gains or losses arising from fair value changes are also recorded against exchange differences arising on consolidation. The ineffective portion of the hedging relation is recognised in the income statement. e) Other financial assets The Group classifies its other financial assets at acquisition date in the following categories: Loans and receivable Loans and receivable are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently are measured at amortised cost less impairment losses. Impairment losses are recorded based on the valuation of estimated losses from non-collection of loans and receivable at the balance sheet date. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, and can be reversed if the estimated losses decrease in a later period. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 178 178 178 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category includes: (i) financial assets held for trading, which are those acquired for the purpose of being traded in the short term, and (ii) financial assets that are designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception. Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale and that are not classified in any of the other categories. The Group’s investments in equity securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. Initial recognition, measurement and derecognition Purchases and sales of: (i) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and (ii) available-for-sale investments, are recognised on trade date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets. Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs except for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, in which case these transaction costs are directly recognised in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when: (i) the contractual rights to receive their cash flows have expired, (ii) the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership or (iii) although retaining some, but not substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership, the Group has transferred the control over the assets. Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value and gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Available-for-sale financial assets are also subsequently carried at fair value. However, gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the financial assets are derecognised or impaired. When this occurs, the cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity are immediately recognised in the income statement. Foreign exchange differences arising from equity investments classified as available-for-sale are also recognised in equity. Interest calculated using the effective interest rate method and dividends, are recognised in the income statement. The fair values on quoted investments in active markets are based on current bid prices. For unlisted securities the Group determines the fair value through: (i) valuation techniques, including the use of recent arm’s length transactions or discounted cash flow analysis and (ii) valuation assumptions based on market information. Financial instruments whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are carried at cost. Reclassifications between categories The Group does not reclassify, after initial recognition, a financial instrument into or out of the fair value through profit or loss category. Impairment At each balance sheet date, an assessment is performed as to whether there is objective evidence of impairment, including any impairment resulting in an adverse effect on estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets. If there is objective evidence of impairment, the recoverable amount of the financial asset is determined, and the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after their initial recognition, such as: (i) in the case of listed securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the listed price of the security, and (ii) in the case of unlisted securities, when that event (or events) has an impact on the estimated amount of the future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets, that can be reliably estimated. Evaluating the existence of objective evidence of impairment involves judgement, in which case the Group considers, among other factors, price volatility and current economic situation. Thus, when listed securities are concerned, it is considered as continuous a devaluation in the listed price of the security for a period over 24 months and as significant a devaluation of the security's value above 40%. If there is objective evidence of impairment on available-for-sale investments, the cumulative potential loss recognised in fair values reserves, corresponding to the difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value at the balance sheet date, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred to the income statement. f) Financial liabilities An instrument is classified as a financial liability when it contains a contractual obligation to transfer cash or another financial asset, independently from its legal form. These financial liabilities are recognised (i) initially at fair value less transaction costs and (ii) subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 179 The Group derecognises the whole or part of a financial liability when the obligations included in the contract have been satisfied or the Group is legally released of the fundamental obligation related to this liability either through a legal process or by the creditor. g) Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of assets are capitalised as part of the cost of the assets. A qualifying asset is an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale. To the extent that funds are borrowed generally, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation are determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditures on these assets. The capitalisation rate corresponds to the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the enterprise that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset. The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during a period does not exceed the amount of borrowing costs incurred during the period. The capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when expenditures for the asset are being incurred, borrowing costs have been incurred and activities necessary to prepare all or part of the assets for their intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying assets for their intended use or sale are completed. Capitalisation of borrowing costs shall be suspended during extended periods in which active development is interrupted. h) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located. Cost also may include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment. Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment. The cost of acquisition includes interest on external financing and personnel costs and other internal expenses directly or indirectly related to work in progress accrued solely during the period of construction. The cost of production is capitalised by charging costs attributable to the asset as own work capitalised under financial expenses and personnel costs and employee benefit expense in the consolidated income statement. When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. Subsequent costs are recognised as separate assets only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group. All repair and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. The Group assesses assets impairment, whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the impairment being recognised in the income statement. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on the other assets is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Number of years Buildings and other constructions 8 to 40 Plant and machinery: Wind farm generation 25 Other plant and machinery 4 to 25 Transport equipment 3 to 5 Office equipment and tools 2 to 10 Other tangible fixed assets 3 to 10 i) Intangible assets The other intangible assets of the Group are booked at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The Group does not own intangible assets with indefinite lives. The Group assesses for impairment, whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the impairment being recognised in the income statement. Acquisition and development of software Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortised on the basis of their expected useful lives. Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable specific software applications by the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. These costs include employee costs directly associated with the development of the referred software and are amortised using the straight-line method during their expected useful lives. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 180 180 180 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Maintenance costs of software are charged to the income statement when incurred. Industrial property and other rights The amortisation of industrial property and other rights is calculated using the straight-line method for an expected useful live expected of less than 6 years. Green Certificates As a consequence of the regulatory changes in Romania there's a new category of Green Certificates (GCs) which although granted are restricted for sale until 2017 (solar) and 2018 (wind). These deferred GCs are recognised as intangible assets when generated at fair market value. These GCs will be offset as they will be collected. Power purchase agreements Acquired Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) are booked as intangible assets and amortised using the straightline method according with the duration of the contract. j) Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Group's non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset's recoverable amount is then estimated. For goodwill the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date. The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a post-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the cash-generating unit). The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash-generating units which are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis. An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in circumstances that caused the impairment. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. k) Leases The Group classifies its lease agreements as finance leases or operating leases taking into consideration the substance of the transaction rather than its legal form. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers to the lessee substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Operating leases Lease payments are recognised as an expense and charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate. l) Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of the acquisition cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories includes purchases, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated selling costs. The cost of inventories is assigned by using the weighted average method. m) Classification of assets and liabilities as current and non-current The Group classifies assets and liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position as current and noncurrent. Current assets and liabilities are determined as follows: Assets are classified as current when they are expected to be realised or are intended for sale or consumption in the Group’s normal operating cycle, they are held primarily for the purpose of trading, they are expected to be realised within twelve months of the balance sheet date or are cash or a cash equivalent, unless the assets may not be exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months from the balance sheet date. Liabilities are classified as current when they are expected to be settled in the Group’s normal operating cycle, they are held primarily for the purpose of trading, they are due to be settled within twelve months of the balance Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 181 sheet date or the Group does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period. Financial liabilities are classified as current when they are due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period, even if the original term was for a period longer than twelve months, and an agreement to refinance, or to reschedule payments, on a long-term basis is completed after the reporting period and before the consolidated financial statements are authorised for issue. n) Provisions Provisions are recognised when: (i) the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, (ii) it is probable that settlement will be required in the future and (iii) a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made. Dismantling and decommissioning provisions The Group recognises dismantling and decommissioning provisions for property, plant and equipment when a legal or contractual obligation is settled to dismantling and decommissioning those assets at the end of their useful life. Consequently, the Group has booked provisions for property, plant and equipment related with wind turbines, for the expected cost of restoring sites and land to its original condition. The provisions correspond to the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the obligation and are recognised as part of the initial cost or an adjustment to the cost of the respective asset, being depreciated on a straight-line basis over the asset useful life. The assumptions used are: EDPR EU EDPR NA Average cost per MW (Euros) 14,000 19,768 Salvage value per MW (Euros) 41,000 28,828 Discount rate Euro [1.90% 2.50%] PLN [3.00% 4.00%] USD [3.85% 5.00%] CAD [3.35% 4.25%] RON [4.50% 5.65%] Inflation rate Euro zone [1.75% 1.85%] Poland 0.90% USA 2.50% Canada 2.25% Capitalisation (number of years) 25 25 Decommissioning and dismantling provisions are remeasured on an annual basis based on the best estimate of the settlement amount. The unwinding of the discount at each balance sheet date is charged to the income statement. o) Recognition of costs and revenue Costs and revenues are recorded in the year to which they refer regardless of when paid or received, in accordance with the accrual concept. Differences between amounts received and paid and the corresponding revenue and expenditure are recorded under other assets and other liabilities. Revenue comprises the amounts invoiced on the sale of products or of services rendered, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts, after elimination of intra-group sales. Revenue from energy sales is recognised in the period that energy is generated and transferred to customers. Deferred Green Certificates (GCs) are recognised as revenue at fair market value. p) Financial results Financial results include interest payable on borrowings, interest receivable on funds invested, dividend income, unwinding of the discount of provisions and written put options to non-controlling interests, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses on financial instruments and the accrual of tax equity estimated interest over outstanding liability. Interest income is recognised in the income statement based on the effective interest rate method. Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entity's right to receive payments is established. q) Income tax Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 182 182 182 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. In addition, deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously. A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. r) Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding the average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as treasury stock. s) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include balances with maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition, including cash and deposits in banks. This caption also includes other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships that are funds required to be held in escrow sufficient to pay the remaining construction related costs of projects in institutional equity partnerships in U.S.A., in the next twelve months. t) Government grants Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income under non-current liabilities when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are recognised. u) Environmental issues The Group takes measures to prevent, reduce or repair the damage caused to the environment by its activities. Expenses derived from environmental activities are recognised as other operating expenses in the period in which they are incurred. v) Institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms The Group has entered in several partnerships with institutional investors in the United States, through limited liability company operating agreements that apportion the cash flows generated by the wind farms between the investors and the Company and allocates the tax benefits, which include Production Tax Credits (PTCs), Investment Tax Credits (ITC) and accelerated depreciation, largely to the investor. The institutional investors purchase their minority partnership interests for an upfront cash payment with an agreed targeted internal rate of return over the period that the tax credits are generated. This anticipated return is computed based on the total anticipated benefit that the institutional investors will receive and includes the value of PTC’s / ITC's, allocated taxable income or loss and cash distributions received. The control and management of these wind farms are a responsibility of EDPR Group and they are fully consolidated in these financial statements. The upfront cash payment received is recognised under ‘Liabilities arising from institutional partnerships’ and subsequently measured at amortised cost. This liability is reduced by the value of tax benefits provided and cash distributions made to the institutional investors during the contracted period. The value of the tax benefits delivered, primarily accelerated depreciation and ITC are recognized as Income from institutional partnerships on a pro-rata basis over the 25 year useful life of the underlying projects (see note 7). The value of the PTC's delivered are recorded as generated. After the Flip Date, the institutional investor retains a small non-controlling interest for the duration of its membership in the structure. The non-controlling interest is entitled to cash distribution and income allocation percentages varying from 2.5% to 6.0%, with the exception of Vento VI in which the institutional investor is allocated 17.0% of income. EDPR NA also has an option to purchase the institutional investor’s residual interest at fair market value on the Flip Date for PTC flip structures and generally, six months after the later of the 5-year anniversary of final turbine commissioning date or the Flip Date, or ten years after the final funding date if the Flip Date has not yet occurred. The liability for residual interest is accreted on a straight line basis from the funding date through the Flip Date to reflect the institutional investors’ minority interest position in the EDPR Group at the Flip Date. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 183 The liability with institutional investors is increased by an interest accrual that is based on the outstanding liability balance and the targeted internal rate of return agreed. 03. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The IFRS set forth a range of accounting treatments and require the Board of Directors to apply judgment and make estimates in deciding which treatment is most appropriate. The main accounting estimates and judgements used in applying the accounting policies are discussed in this note in order to improve the understanding of how their application affects the Group’s reported results and disclosures. A broader description of the accounting policies employed by the Group is disclosed in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Although estimates are calculated by the Board of Directors based on the best information available at 31 December 2014 and 2013, future events may require changes to these estimates in subsequent years. Any effect on the financial statements of adjustments to be made in subsequent years would be recognised prospectively. Considering that in many cases there are alternatives to the accounting treatment adopted by EDP Renováveis, the Group’s reported results could differ if a different treatment was chosen. EDP Renováveis believes that the choices made are appropriate and that the financial statements are presented fairly, in all material respects, the Group’s financial position and results. The alternative outcomes discussed below are presented solely to assist the reader in understanding the financial statements and are not intended to suggest that other alternatives or estimates would be more appropriate. Fair value of derivatives Fair values are based on listed market prices, if available, otherwise fair value is determined either by dealer prices (both for that transaction or for similar instruments traded) or by pricing models, based on net present value of estimated future cash flows which take into account market conditions for the underlying instruments, time value, yield curves and volatility factors. These pricing models may require assumptions or judgments in estimating fair values. Consequently, the use of a different model or of different assumptions or judgments in applying a particular model may have produced different financial results for a particular period. Review of the useful life of assets related to production. The Group regularly reviews the useful life of its electrical generation installations in order to bring it into line with the technical and economic measurements of the installations, taking into consideration their technological capacity and prevailing regulatory restrictions. Impairment of non-financial assets Impairment test are performed whenever there is an indication that the recoverable amount of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets is less than the corresponding net book value of assets. On an annual basis, the Group reviews the assumptions used to assess the existence of impairment in goodwill resulting from acquisitions of shares in subsidiaries. The assumptions used are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic indicators and business assumptions used by management. The net interest in associates is reviewed when circumstances indicate the existence of impairment. Considering that estimated recoverable amounts related to property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill are based on the best information available, changes in the estimates and judgments could change the impairment test results which could affects the Group’s reported results. Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant interpretations and estimates are required in determining the global amount for income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Different interpretations and estimates would result in a different level of income taxes, current and deferred, recognised in the period. Tax Authorities are entitled to review EDP Renováveis, and its subsidiaries’ determination of its annual taxable earnings, for a determined period that may be extended in case there are tax losses carried forward. Therefore, it is possible that some additional taxes may be assessed, mainly as a result of differences in interpretation of the tax law. However, the EDP Renováveis and its subsidiaries, do not anticipate any significant changes to the income tax booked in the financial statements. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 184 184 184 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Dismantling and decommissioning provisions The Board of Directors considers that Group has contractual obligations with the dismantling and decommissioning of property, plant and equipment related to wind electricity generation. For these responsibilities the Group has recorded provisions for the expected cost of restoring sites and land to its original condition. The provisions correspond to the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the obligation. The use of different assumptions in estimates and judgments referred may have produced different results from those that have been considered. Green Certificates As a consequence of the regulatory changes in Romania related to Green Certificates (GCs), the Group has the following assumptions: (i) For estimating the price of GCs, the model is based on current regulation including the latest developments published in the last months and estimations on renewable capacity to be added in the following years; (ii) Our GC model determines whether there will be excess or deficit of GCs to evaluate the price to apply; In order to determine whether there will be excess or deficit of GCs, we compare demand with supply of GCs. Demand of GCs is calculated by multiplying gross electricity consumption and quotas of renewable electricity. Electricity demand growth is based in latest external estimates, including those from Romanian regulator ANRE. EDPR has made sensitivity analyses to the quotas and has assumed a conservative scenario that considers the latest regulatory changes. Regarding supply of GCs, starting from year-end 2014 renewables installed capacity, EDPR assumes capacity additions in line with latest market view on renewables development in the country. Entities included in the consolidation perimeter In order to determine which entities must be included in the consolidation perimeter, the Group evaluates whether it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. This evaluation requires judgement, assumptions and estimates in order to conclude whether the Group is in fact exposed to variable returns and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Other assumptions and estimates could lead to a different consolidation perimeter of the Group, with direct impact in the consolidated financial statements. 04. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES The businesses of EDP Renováveis Group are exposed to a variety of financial risks, including the effects of changes in market prices, foreign exchange and interest rates. The main financial risks lie essentially in its debt portfolio, arising from interest-rate and the exchange-rate exposures. The unpredictability of the financial markets is analysed on an on-going basis in accordance with the EDPR’s risk management policy. Financial instruments are used to minimize potential adverse effects resulting from the interest rates and foreign exchange rates risks on EDP Renováveis financial performance. The Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis is responsible for the definition of general risk-management principles and the establishment of exposure limits. The management of financial risks of EDP Renováveis Group is outsourced to the Finance Department of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., in accordance with the policies approved by the Board of Directors. The outsourcing service includes identification and evaluation of hedging mechanisms appropriate to each exposure. All transactions undertaken using derivative financial instruments require the prior approval of the Board of Directors, which defines the parameters of each transaction and approves the formal documents describing their objectives. Exchange-rate risk management EDP Group’s Financial Department is responsible for managing the foreign exchange exposure of the Group, seeking to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the net assets and net profits of the Group, using foreign exchange derivatives, foreign exchange debt and/or other hedging structures with symmetrical exposure characteristics to those of the hedged item. The effectiveness of these hedges is reassessed and monitored throughout their lives. EDPR operates internationally and is exposed to the exchange-rate risk resulting from investments in foreign subsidiaries. With the objective of minimizing the impact of exchange rates fluctuations, EDP Renováveis general policy is to fund each project in the currency of the operating cash flows generated by the project. Currently, the main currency exposure is the U.S. Dollar, resulting from the shareholding in EDPR NA. With the increasing capacity in other geographies, EDPR is also becoming exposed to other currencies (Brazilian Real, Zloty, New Romanian Leu and Canadian Dollar). To hedge the risk originated with net investment in EDPR NA, EDP Renováveis entered into a CIRS in USD/EUR with EDP Branch and also uses financial debt expressed in USD. Following the same strategy adopted to hedge Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 185 these investments in USA, EDP Renováveis has also entered into CIRS in BRL/EUR and in PLN/EUR to hedge the investments in Brazil and Poland (see note 35). Sensitivity analysis Foreign exchange rate As a consequence a depreciation/appreciation of 10% in the foreign currency exchange rate, with reference to 31 December 2014 and 2013, would originate an increase/(decrease) in EDP Renováveis Group income statement and equity before taxes, as follows: 31 Dec 2014 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros +10% -10% +10% -10% USD / EUR 5,825 -7,119 5,825 -7,119 31 Dec 2013 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros +10% -10% +10% -10% USD / EUR 3,778 -4,617 3,778 -4,617 This analysis assumes that all other variables, namely interest rates, remain unchanged. Interest rate risk management The Group’s operating cash flows are substantially independent from the fluctuation in interest-rate markets. The purpose of the interest-rate risk management policies is to reduce the exposure of debt cash flows to market fluctuations. As such, whenever considered necessary and in accordance to the Group's policy, the Group contracts derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks. In the floating-rate financing context, the Group contracts interest-rate derivative financial instruments to hedge cash flows associated with future interest payments, which have the effect of converting floating rate loans into fixed rate loans. All these hedges are undertaken on liabilities in the Group’s debt portfolio and are mainly perfect hedges with a high correlation between changes in fair value of the hedging instrument and changes in fair value of the interest-rate risk or upcoming cash flows. The EDP Renováveis Group has a portfolio of interest-rate derivatives with maturities up to 12 years. The Financial Department of EDP Group undertakes sensitivity analyses of the fair value of financial instruments to interest-rate fluctuations or upcoming cash flows. About 92% of EDP Renováveis Group financial debt bear interest at fixed rates, considering operations of hedge accounting with financial instruments. Sensitivity analysis Interest rates The management of interest rate risk associated to activities developed by the Group is outsourced to the Financial Department of EDP Group, contracting derivative financial instruments to mitigate this risk. Based on the debt portfolio of the EDPR EU Group and the related derivative financial instruments used to hedge associated interest rate risk, as well as on the shareholder loans received by EDP Renováveis, a change of 50 basis points in the interest rates with reference to 31 December 2014 and 2013 would increase/(decrease) in EDP Renováveis Group income statement and equity before taxes, as follows: 31 Dec 2014 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros + 50 bps 50 bps + 50 bps 50 bps Cash flow hedge derivatives 12,343 -12,844 Unhedged debt (variable interest rates) -1,094 1,094 -1,094 1,094 12,343 -12,844 31 Dec 2013 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros + 50 bps 50 bps + 50 bps 50 bps Cash flow hedge derivatives 19,389 -20,973 Unhedged debt (variable interest rates) -687 687 -687 687 19,389 -20,973 This analysis assumes that all other variables, namely foreign exchange rates, remain unchanged. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 186 186 186 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Counter-party credit-rate risk management in financial transactions The EDP Renováveis Group policy in terms of the counterparty risk on financial transactions with companies outside EDP Group is managed by an analysis of the technical capacity, competitiveness, credit rating and exposure to each counter-party. Counterparties in derivatives and financial transactions are restricted to highquality credit institutions or to the EDP Group. The EDP Renováveis Group documents financial operations according to international standards. Most derivative financial instruments contracted with credit institutions are engaged under ISDA Master Agreements. In the specific case of the EDPR EU Group, credit risk is not significant due to the limited average collection period for customer balances and the quality of its debtors. The Group’s main customers are operators and distributors in the energy market of their respective countries (OMIE and MEFF in the case of the Spanish market). In the specific case of EDPR NA Group, credit risk is not significant due to the limited average collection period for customer balances and the quality of its debtors. The Group’s main customers are regulated utility companies and regional market agents in the U.S. EDP Renováveis believes that the amount that best represents the Group's exposure to credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of Trade receivables and Other debtors, net of the impairment losses recognised. The Group believes that the credit quality of these receivables is adequate and that no significant impaired credits exist that have not been recognised as such and provided for. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the possibility that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group strategy to manage liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have significant liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group's reputation. The liquidity policy followed ensures compliance with payment obligations acquired, through maintaining sufficient credit facilities and having access to the EDP Group facilities. The EDP Renováveis Group undertakes management of liquidity risk through the engagement and maintenance of credit lines and financing facilities with its main shareholder, as well as directly in the market with national and international financial institutions, assuring the necessary funds to perform its activities. Market price risk As at 31 December 2014, market price risk affecting the EDP Renováveis Group is not significant. In the case of EDPR NA, the great majority of the plants are under power purchase agreements, with fixed or escalating prices. In the case of EDPR EU, the electricity is sold in Spain through regulated tariffs. In the remaining countries, prices are mainly determined through regulated tariffs except for Romania and Poland, where most plants are under power purchase agreements with fixed prices or floors. For the small share of energy generated with market exposure, this risk is managed through electricity sales swaps. EDPR EU and EDPR NA have electricity sales swaps that qualify for hedge accounting (cash flow hedge) that are related to electricity sales for the years 2014 to 2018 (see note 35). The purpose of EDP Renováveis Group is to hedge a volume of energy generated to reduce its exposure to the energy price volatility. Capital management The Group’s goal in managing equity, in accordance with the policies established by its main shareholder, is to safeguard the Group’s capacity to continue operating as a going concern, grow steadily to meet established growth targets and maintain an optimum equity structure to reduce equity cost. In conformity with other sector groups, the Group controls its financing structure based on the leverage ratio. This ratio is calculated as net financial borrowings divided by total equity and net borrowings. Net financial borrowings are determined as the sum of financial debt, institutional equity liabilities corrected for non-current deferred revenues, less cash and cash equivalents. 05. CONSOLIDATION PERIMETER During the year ended in 31 December 2014, the changes in the consolidation perimeter of the EDP Renováveis Group were: Companies acquired: ● EDP Renewables Polska, S.P. ZO.O acquired 100% of the share capital of Radziejów Wind Farm Sp. ZO.O.; ● EDP Renewables Italia, S.R.L. acquired 100% of the share capital of Wincap, S.R.L. ● EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. acquired 99.9667% of the share capital of Eólica de Coahuila, S. de R.L. de C.V, through its subsidiary Tarcan B.V. After the acquisition, the Company entered into an agreement for the future sale of a significant share capital and, therefore and considering the substance of the transaction and accounting impacts related to the purchase transaction, EDPR Group considered this investment as a joint venture with a shareholding equivalent to 51% of the share capital. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 187 Disposal of non-controlling interests and companies liquidated: ● EDPR-France S.A.S. sold 49% of its interests, by 28,256 thousands of Euros (deducted of 153 thousands of Euros of transaction fees), in the following companies: Parc Eolien du Clos Bataille, S.A.S.; C.E. Canet-Pont de Salars, S.A.S.; C.E. Gueltas Noyal-Pontivy, S.A.S.; C.E. Patay, S.A.S.; C.E. Saint Barnabe, S.A.S.; Eolienne de Saugueuse, S.A.R.L.; C.E. Segur, S.A.S.; Parc Eolien de Varimpre, S.A.S.; Parc Eolien des Vatines, S.A.S. This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests without loss of control and therefore the positive difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 5,299 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy. ● EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. sold 7% of its interests, by 6 thousands of Euros, of the following companies: Les Eoliennes en Mer de Dieppe Le Tréport, S.A.S.; Les Eoliennes en Mer de Vendée, S.A.S. ● EDPR Renovables España, S.L. liquidated Sotromal, S.A. and Rasacal Cogeneración, S.A; ● EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd sold 49% of the share capital of SBWF GP Inc. and 49% the share capital of South Dundas Wind Farm LP through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Canada LP Holdings, Ltd. by 16,506 thousands of Euros (24,200 thousands of Canadian Dollar). This transaction was treated as a disposal of noncontrolling interests not resulting in a loss of control and therefore the positive difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 2,464 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy. ● A 49% share interest in EDP Renewables France, S.A.S. was sold by 64,340 thousands of Euros (deducted of 256 thousands of Euros of transaction fees), with a subsequent loss of share interest in Parc Eolien du Clos Bataille, S.A.S., C.E. Canet-Pont de Salars, S.A.S., C.E. Gueltas Noyal-Pontivy, S.A.S., SOCPE Le Mee, S.A.R.L., Mardelle, S.A.R.L., C.E. Patay, S.A.S., SOCPE Petite Piece, S.A.R.L., Plouvien Breiz, S.A.S., Quinze Mines, S.A.R.L., Parc Eolien de Roman, S.A.R.L., C.E. Saint Barnabe, S.A.S., Eolienne de Saugueuse, S.A.R.L., SOCPE Sauvageons, C.E. Segur, S.A.S., Parc Eolien de Tarzy, S.A.R.L., Truc l'Homme , S.A.R.L., Vallée du Molain, S.A.R.L., Parc Eolien de Varimpre, S.A.S. and Parc Eolien des Vatines, S.A.S. This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests not resulting in a loss of control and therefore the positive difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 9,808 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy. Companies merged: ● The following companies were merged into EDP Renewables Canada LP, Holdings Ltd.: 8067241 BC, Ltd.; 0867242 BC, Ltd.; South Branch Wind Farm, Inc. Companies incorporated: ● EDPR Wind Ventures XII *; ● EDPR Solar Ventures I; ● Parc Eolien de Boqueho Pouagat, S.A.S.; ● Parc Eolien de Francourville, S.A.S. (Company was incorporated under the name of Parc Eolien de Preuseville, S.A.S. and was then renamed to Parc Eolien de Francourville, S.A.S.); ● 2014 Vento XII, L.L.C.; ● 2014 Sol I, L.L.C.; ● Parc Eolien d'Escardes, S.A.S.; ● Green Country Wind Farm, L.L.C. *; ● Central Eólica Aventura, S.A.; Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 188 188 188 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE ● EDPR RO Trading S.R.L. * EDP Renováveis Group holds, through its subsidiary EDPR NA and EDPR Canada, a set of subsidiaries in the United States and Canada legally incorporated without share capital and that as at 31 December 2014 do not have any assets, liabilities, or operating activity. Other changes: ● Increase of the financial interest in S.C. Ialomita Power, S.R.L. from 85% to 100% through a share capital increase fully subscribed by EDP Renewables Europe, S.L.; ● Due to the date of effectiveness of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the EDPR Group changed the method of consolidation from Full Consolidated to the Equity Method in Ceprastur A.I.E.; ● Due to the date of effectiveness of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, the EDPR Group changed the method of consolidation from Proportional Method to the Equity Method in the following companies: Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A.; Desarrollos Energéticos Canários S.A.; Evolución 2000, S.L.; Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C.; Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C.; Tébar Eólica, S.A. During the year ended in 31 December 2013, the changes in the consolidation perimeter of the EDP Renováveis Group were: Companies acquired: ● EDP Renewables, SGPS, S.A. acquired 100% of the share capital of Gravitangle Fotovoltaica Unipessoal, Lda. (see note 17); ● South África Wind & Solar Power, S.L. (which was incorporated in March 2013) acquired 42.5% of the share capital of Modderfontein Wind Energy Project, Ltd., 100% of the share capital of Dejann Trading and Investments Proprietary Ltd., 100% of the share capital of EDP Renewables South Africa, Proprietary Ltd. and 100% of the share capital of Jouren Trading and Investments Pty Ltd. (see note 17); ● EDP Renewables North America L.L.C. acquired 100% of the share capital of Lone Valley Solar Park I L.L.C. (exEDPR Agincourt L.L.C.), 100% of the share capital of Lone Valley Solar Park II L.L.C. (exEDPR Marathon L.L.C.) and 100% of the share capital of Rising Tree Wind Farm III (see note 17); ● EDP Renewables Polska, S.P. ZO.O acquired 65.07% of the share capital of Molen Wind II S.P. ZO.O. (see note 17). Disposal of non-controlling interests and companies liquidated: ● A 49% share interest in EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. was sold by 257,954 thousands of Euros, as part of a transaction totalling 368,483 thousands of Euros deducted of loans totalling 110,529 thousands of Euros, with a subsequent loss of share interest in Eólica da Alagoa, S.A., Eólica de Montenegrelo, S.A., Eólica da Serra das Alturas, S.A. and Malhadizes, S.A. This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests not resulting in a loss of control and therefore the positive difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 148.334 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy. ● A 49% share interest in Wheat Field Holding, L.L.C. (which was incorporated in September 2013) was sold by 34,977 thousands of Euros (corresponding to a sale price of 48,400 thousands of U.S. Dollar deducted of capital contributions, transaction fees and tax effect), with a subsequent loss of share interest in Wheat Field Wind Power Project, L.L.C.; This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests not resulting in a loss of control and therefore the negative difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling -1,274 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy. ● EDPR Renovables España, S.L. liquidated Parc Eolic Molinars S.L. Companies incorporated: ● South África Wind & Solar Power, S.L.; ● Sustaining Power Solutions, L.L.C.; ● Green Power Offsets, L.L.C.; ● Bourbriac II, S.A.S.; Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 189 ● EDPR France Holding, S.A.S.; ● Parc Eolien de Montagne Fayel, S.A.S.; ● Arbuckle Mountain; ● Rising Tree Wind Farm II *; ● Wheat Field Holding, L.L.C.; ● Les Eoliennes en Mer de Dieppe Le Tréport, S.A.S.; ● Les Eoliennes en Mer de Vendée, S.A.S.; * EDP Renováveis Group holds, through its subsidiary EDPR NA and EDPR Canada, a set of subsidiaries in the United States and Canada legally incorporated without share capital and that as at 31 December 2013 do not have any assets, liabilities, or operating activity. Other changes: ● EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. increased its shareholding to 100% in the share capital of Greenwind, S.A.; ● EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. increased its shareholding to 100% in the share capital of Relax Wind Park I, S.P. ZO.O through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Polska, S.P. ZO.O. 06. REVENUES Revenues are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Revenues by business and geography Electricity in Europe 740,515 813,133 Electricity in United States of America 376,221 347,774 Electricity, other 30,948 24,250 1,147,684 1,185,157 Other revenues 306 2,225 1,147,990 1,187,382 Services rendered 5,785 5,466 Changes in inventories and cost of raw material and consumables used Cost of consumables used -1,249 20 Changes in inventories 600 -1,622 -649 -1,602 Total Revenues 1,153,126 1,191,246 07. INCOME FROM INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS IN U.S. WIND FARMS Income from institutional partnership in U.S. Wind Farms in the amount of 123,582 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 125,101 thousands of Euros), includes revenue recognition related to production tax credits (PTC), investments tax credits (ITC) and other tax benefits, mostly from accelerated tax depreciation related to projects Vento I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and XII (see note 31). 08. OTHER INCOME Other income is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Estimation of the revised selling price of EDPR PT 17,491 Gains related with business combinations 3,477 Amortisation of deferred income related to power purchase agreements 8,938 8,362 Contract and insurance compensations 5,204 21,368 Other income 14,034 8,154 45,667 41,361 As referred in note 1 and according with the contract terms, the future adjustment in the selling price of EDPR PT has been revised in the amount of 17,491 thousands of Euros. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 190 190 190 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE During 2013, EDP Renewables Polska carried out the purchase price allocation of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities of Molen Wind II, S.P. ZO.O., which originated an operating income of 3,477 thousands of Euros, booked under the caption Gain related with business combinations (see note 17). The power purchase agreements between EDPR NA and its customers were valued based on market assumptions, at the acquisition date of the business combination, using discounted cash flow models. At that date, these agreements were valued at approximately 190,400 thousands of USD and booked as a non-current liability (see note 32). This liability is amortised over the period of the agreements against Other income. As at 31 December 2014, the amortisation for the period amounts to 8,938 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 8,362 thousands of Euros). As at 31 December 2013, Contract and insurance compensations include 13,779 thousands of Euros related with the indemnity received following an amendment of the power purchase agreement between Mesquite Wind, L.L.C. (subsidiary of Vento I, L.L.C) and its client. 09. SUPPLIES AND SERVICES This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Rents and leases 40,130 41,696 Maintenance and repairs 148,578 142,967 Specialised works: IT Services, legal and advisory fees 15,872 17,282 Shared services 7,437 7,784 Other services 11,119 11,661 Other supplies and services 33,509 33,782 256,645 255,172 10. PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Personnel costs and employee benefits is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Personnel costs Board remuneration 674 539 Remunerations 54,714 53,235 Social charges on remunerations 9,836 8,902 Employee's variable remuneration 11,837 9,512 Other costs 1,018 1,347 Own work capitalised -19,546 -13,913 58,533 59,622 Employee benefits Costs with pension plans 2,805 2,572 Costs with medical care plans and other benefits 3,506 2,967 Other 1,249 1,305 7,560 6,844 66,093 66,466 As at 31 December 2014, Costs with pension plans relates to defined contribution plans (2,803 thousands of Euros) and defined benefit plans (2 thousands of Euros). The average breakdown by management positions and professional category of the permanent staff as of 31 December 2014 and 2013 is as follows: 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Board members 17 17 17 17 Senior management / Senior officers 69 69 Middle management 547 532 Highly-skilled and skilled employees 222 213 Other employees 62 61 900 875 917 892 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 191 11. OTHER EXPENSES Other expenses are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Taxes 64,707 67,005 Losses on fixed assets 4,547 12,591 Other costs and losses 27,187 35,967 96,441 115,563 The caption Taxes, on 31 December 2014, includes the amount of 24 million of Euros (31 December 2013: 31.8 thousands of Euros) related to taxes for energy generators in Spain, affecting all the wind farms in operation, amounting to 7% of revenues for each wind farm. 12. AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and other constructions 687 1,398 Plant and machinery 458,783 438,604 Other 11,555 10,953 Impairment loss 15,578 12,196 486,603 463,151 Intangible assets Industrial property, other rights and other intangibles 1,461 1,522 Impairment loss 11,434 12,895 1,522 Impairment of goodwill 278 499,776 464,673 Amortisation of deferred income (Government grants) -19,009 -18,472 480,767 446,201 In 2014, EDPR Group booked an impairment loss in Property, plant and equipment of 15,571 thousands of Euros and 11,434 thousands of Euros in Intangible assets as a result of the recoverability assessment of wind farms and deferred green certificates in Romania (see note 15 and 16). In 2013, EDPR Group booked an impairment loss of 12,196 thousands of Euros referring to 8,479 and 3,717 thousands of Euros in EDPR EU and in EDPR NA, respectively. The impairment loss booked in EDPR EU results from regulatory changes issued in Spain (see note 1), and in EDPR NA results from the write-off of work in progress recognised during the second quarter of 2013 (see note 15). Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 192 192 192 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 13. FINANCIAL INCOME AND FINANCIAL EXPENSES Financial income and financial expenses are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Financial income Interest income 25,312 20,704 Derivative financial instruments: Interest 1,247 1,459 Fair value 66,958 68,167 Foreign exchange gains 7,944 17,388 Other financial income 66 663 101,527 108,381 Financial expenses Interest expense 206,531 197,143 Derivative financial instruments: Interest 26,576 29,973 Fair value 29,515 70,400 Foreign exchange losses 46,939 15,203 Own work capitalised -26,814 -15,579 Unwinding 60,818 64,885 Other financial expenses 7,841 8,065 351,406 370,090 Financial income / (expenses) -249,879 -261,709 Derivative financial instruments includes interest liquidations on the derivative financial instrument established between EDP Renováveis and EDP Branch (see notes 35 and 37). In accordance with the accounting policy described on note 2 g), the borrowing costs (interest) capitalised in tangible fixed assets in progress as at 31 December 2014 amounted to 26,814 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 15,579 thousands of Euros) (see note 15), and are included under Own work capitalised (financial interest). The interest rates used for this capitalisation vary in accordance with the related loans, between 1.12% and 13.24% (31 December 2013: 1.69% and 11.27%). Interest expense refers to interest on loans bearing interest at contracted and market rates. Unwinding expenses refers essentially to the financial update of provisions for dismantling and decommissioning of wind farms of 3,752 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 3,475 thousands of Euros) (see note 30) and the implied return in institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms of 56,551 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 60,840 thousands of Euros) (see note 31). 14. INCOME TAX EXPENSE As per the currently applicable tax legislation, tax periods are open to review and reassessment during a limited number of years by the various Tax Administrations. Statutes of limitation differ from country to country: US, Belgium, France and the Netherlands (3 years); Portugal and Spain (4 years); Brazil, Romania, Poland, Italy (5 years); and UK (no limit). Tax losses generated in each year, are also subject to Tax Administrations’ review and adjustment. Losses may be used to offset yearly taxable income and if not fully utilized, may be carried forward to be set off against company’s taxable profits for: 5 years in Poland; 7 years in Romania; 9 years in the Netherlands; 12 years in Portugal and indefinitely in Spain, France, Italy, Belgium and Brazil (although limited to 30% of the company’s yearly taxable income in this latter case). Whenever possible and allowed by the tax legislation of the country in which the Group entities are incorporated, companies opt for the formation of a tax consolidation regime, thus being taxed on a consolidated basis instead of on an individual basis. EDP Renováveis S.A. and its subsidiaries file individual tax declarations in accordance with applicable tax legislation. Nevertheless, the company and the majority of its Spanish subsidiaries pay corporate income tax following the specific principles of the Tax Consolidation Regime, contained in articles 64 and 82 of Law 27/2014 of 27 November 2014, which amended the Corporate Income Tax Code. The companies of EDPR Group in Spain are included in the Tax consolidation perimeter of EDP, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch). This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Current tax -49,997 -88,929 Deferred tax 33,598 32,022 -16,399 -56,907 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 193 The effective income tax rate as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Profit before tax 194,286 226,033 Income tax expense -16,399 -56,907 Effective Income Tax Rate 8.44% 25.18% The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Group during the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Profit before taxes 194,286 226,033 Nominal income tax rate 30.00% 30.00% Expected income taxes -58,286 -67,810 Income taxes for the year -16,399 -56,907 Difference 41,887 10,903 Accounting revaluations, amortizations, depreciations and provisions 1,926 7,219 Tax losses and tax credits -2,004 -3,938 Financial investments in associates 5,939 5,467 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions -10,340 -3,933 Tax benefits 6,949 4,124 Other 39,417 1,964 41,887 10,903 On 31 December 2014, Other includes the amount of 30.1 million of Euros, related to the impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities, following the corporate income tax reduction from 30% to 28% in 2015 and to 25% from 2016 onwards, introduced by the Spanish Corporate Income Tax Reform (published in the Spanish official gazette on 28 November 2014). On 31 December 2013, Accounting revaluations, amortizations, depreciations and provisions include the fiscal revaluation of EDPR assets in Spain in accordance with Law 16/2012 of 27 December, which does not have accounting impact but led to an increase of the assets’ tax basis in 50.3 million of Euros. Therefore, the Group recognised deferred tax assets of 14.2 million of Euros benefiting from a tax credit for the period ended 31 December 2013, net of an upfront fee ( gravamen único ) that amounted to 2.4 million of Euros, corresponding to 5% of the revaluation revenue. 15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Cost Land and natural resources 32,977 32,546 Buildings and other constructions 17,257 16,095 Plant and machinery: Renewables generation 12,753,798 11,395,493 Other plant and machinery 6,712 6,692 Other 88,046 73,568 Assets under construction 1,259,732 1,058,677 14,158,522 12,583,071 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Depreciation charge -471,025 -450,955 Accumulated depreciation in previous years -2,605,773 -1,984,817 Impairment losses -15,578 -12,196 Impairment losses in previous years -53,170 -39,644 -3,145,546 -2,487,612 Carrying amount 11,012,976 10,095,459 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 194 194 194 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE The movement in Property, plant and equipment during 2014, is analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Disposals/ Exchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Additions Write-offs Transfers Differences / Other 31 Dec Cost Land and natural resources 32,546 436 -1,210 1,205 32,977 Buildings and other constructions 16,095 111 1,051 17,257 Plant and machinery 11,402,185 33,257 -2,803 561,673 727,006 39,192 12,760,510 Other 73,568 2,704 -73 7,602 4,666 -421 88,046 Assets under construction 1,058,677 712,378 -2,687 -569,275 58,832 1,807 1,259,732 12,583,071 748,886 -6,773 792,760 40,578 14,158,522 Impairment Changes in Balance at Charge for Losses/ Disposals/ Exchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan the period Reverses Write-offs Differences / Other 31 Dec Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Buildings and other constructions 8,333 687 735 9,755 Plant and machinery 2,435,384 458,783 15,571 -675 158,492 9,370 3,076,925 Other 43,895 11,555 7 -50 3,416 43 58,866 2,487,612 471,025 15,578 -725 162,643 9,413 3,145,546 Plant and machinery includes the cost of the wind farms and solar plants under operation. Transfer from assets under construction into operation, refer mainly to wind and solar farms of EDP Renováveis that become operational in Poland, Italy, France, United States of America and Canada. Impairment losses / Reverses are related to wind farms in Romania (see note 12). The caption Changes in perimeter/Other includes the effect of the acquisition of Wincap, S.R.L by EDP Renewables Italia, S.R.L. (see note 5). The movement in Property, plant and equipment during 2013, is analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Disposals/ Exchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Additions Write-offs Transfers Differences / Other 31 Dec Cost Land and natural resources 24,601 8,209 -677 2,070 -539 -1,118 32,546 Buildings and other constructions 16,700 28 -633 16,095 Plant and machinery 11,579,323 6,811 -1,435 523,805 -269,862 -436,457 11,402,185 Other 76,537 2,352 -5,521 10,070 -1,466 -8,404 73,568 Assets under construction 1,080,675 566,039 -8,181 -535,945 -30,164 -13,747 1,058,677 12,777,836 583,439 -15,814 -302,664 -459,726 12,583,071 Impairment Changes in Balance at Charge for Losses / Disposals/ Exchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan the period Reverses Write-offs Differences / Other 31 Dec Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Buildings and other constructions 7,187 1,398 -252 8,333 Plant and machinery 2,196,605 438,604 12,196 -291 -49,470 -162,260 2,435,384 Other 37,137 10,953 -43 -934 -3,218 43,895 2,240,929 450,955 12,196 -334 -50,656 -165,478 2,487,612 Transfers from assets under construction into operation in 2013, refer mainly to wind farms of EDP Renováveis that become operational. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 195 Impairment losses / Reverses are related to wind generation assets in Spain and in United States of America (see note 12). The caption Changes in perimeter/Other includes mainly the effect of the acquisition of Lone Valley Solar Park I L.L.C. (ex-EDPR Agincourt L.L.C.) and Lone Valley Solar Park II L.L.C. (ex-EDPR Marathon L.L.C.) by EDP Renewables NA, and the liquidation Parc Eolic Molinars S.L. by EDPR Renovables España, S.L (see note 5). Additionally, also includes the impact of the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 (see note 39), related with the opening balance. Assets under construction as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 EDPR EU Group 639,286 675,513 EDPR NA Group 559,853 302,239 Other 60,593 80,925 1,259,732 1,058,677 Assets under construction as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 are essentially related to wind farms and solar plants under construction and development in EDPR EU and EDPR NA. Financial interests capitalised amount to 26,814 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: 15,579 thousands of Euros) (see note 13). Personnel costs capitalised amount to 19,546 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: 13,913 thousands of Euros) (see note 10). The EDP Renováveis Group has lease and purchase obligations disclosed in Note 36 Commitments. 16. INTANGIBLE ASSETS This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Cost Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 145,482 105,514 Intangible assets under development 8,622 4,862 154,104 110,376 Accumulated depreciation Depreciation charge -1,461 -1,522 Accumulated depreciation in previous years -23,505 -20,921 Impairment losses -11,434 -36,400 -22,443 Carrying amount 117,704 87,933 Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets include 91,359 thousands of Euros and 14,035 thousands of Euros related to wind generation licenses of EDPR NA Group (31 December 2013: 76,065 thousands of Euros) and EDPR Portugal (31 December 2013: 14,035 thousands of Euros), respectively, and 37,426 thousands of Euros related with deferred green certificates in Romania (31 December 2013: 12,791 thousands of Euros) (see note 2 i)). Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 196 196 196 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE The movement in Intangible assets during 2014, is analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Disposals/ Exchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Additions Write-offs Transfers Differences / Other 31 Dec Cost Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 105,514 29,481 10,484 3 145,482 Intangible assets under development 4,862 3,754 6 8,622 110,376 33,235 10,490 3 154,104 Changes in Balance at Charge Disposals/ Exchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan for the year Impairment Write-offs Differences / Other 31 Dec Accumulated amortisation Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 22,443 1,461 11,434 1,062 36,400 22,443 1,461 11,434 1,062 36,400 Additions include the recognition of deferred green certificates rights in Romania in the amount of 24,885 thousands of Euros. Impairment losses are related to deferred green certificates in Romania (see note 12). The movement in Intangible assets during 2013, is analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Disposals/ Exchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Additions Write-offs Transfers Differences / Other 31 Dec Cost Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 47,221 63,967 -3,422 -2,252 105,514 Intangible assets under development 4 4,481 -76 -188 641 4,862 47,225 68,448 -76 -3,610 -1,611 110,376 Changes in Balance at Charge Disposals/ Exchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan for the year Impairment Write-offs Differences / Other 31 Dec Accumulated amortisation Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 22,310 1,522 -348 -1,041 22,443 22,310 1,522 -348 -1,041 22,443 Additions include the power purchase agreements of Rising Tree (see note 2 i) and 17) in the amount of 47,297 thousands of Euros and the recognition of the deferred portion of green certificates rights in Romania in the amount of 12,941 thousands of Euros. The caption Changes in perimeter / Other includes the impact of the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 (see note 39), related with the opening balance. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 197 17. GOODWILL For the Group, the breakdown of Goodwill resulting from the difference between the cost of the investments and the corresponding share of the fair value of the net assets acquired, is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Goodwill booked in EDPR EU Group: 635,111 637,031 EDPR Spain Group 492,385 492,213 EDPR France Group 61,460 64,047 EDPR Portugal Group 42,915 42,915 Other 38,351 37,856 Goodwill booked in EDPR NA Group 651,264 574,867 Other 1,341 1,602 1,287,716 1,213,500 The movements in Goodwill, by subgroup, during 2014 are analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at ImpairExchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Increases Decreases ment Differences / Other 31 Dec EDPR EU Group: EDPR Spain Group 492,213 172 492,385 EDPR France Group 64,047 -2,587 61,460 EDPR Portugal Group 42,915 42,915 Other 37,856 651 -156 38,351 EDPR NA Group 574,867 76,397 651,264 Other 1,602 -278 17 1,341 1,213,500 823 -2,587 -278 76,258 1,287,716 The movements in Goodwill, by subgroup, during 2013 are analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at ImpairExchange perimeter Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Increases Decreases ment Differences / Other 31 Dec EDPR EU Group: EDPR Spain Group 534,610 -172 -42,225 492,213 EDPR France Group 65,752 -1,705 64,047 EDPR Portugal Group 42,588 327 42,915 Other 57,284 348 -19,173 -603 37,856 EDPR NA Group 600,302 -25,435 574,867 Other 1,394 477 -269 1,602 1,301,930 1,152 -21,050 -26,307 -42,225 1,213,500 EDPR EU Group The decrease in goodwill movement in EDPR EU Group in the year 2014 is related with the cancellation of the success fee associated to a project in EDPR France. The goodwill movement in EDPR EU Group in 2013 includes essentially a decrease in the amount of 19,173 thousands of Euros related to the contingent prices revision of some purchase agreements signed before 1 January 2010, date of the adoption of the revised IFRS 3 (as described in accounting policy 2 b)). The adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 in 2014 implied the comparative adoption of these IFRS's, for comparative purposes, as at 1 January 2013. For EDPR Group, this adoption has generated a negative variation of 42,225 thousands of Euros related to the change in the consolidation method of Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. and Evolución 2000, S.L. Since these companies started to be consolidated by equity, their goodwill was reclassified to the caption Investments in joint ventures and associates. Other information for business combinations included in 2014 During 2014 the EDPR Group has paid an amount of 8,541 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 46,728 thousands of Euros) for business combinations and success fees related to acquisition of the companies of EDPR NA Group (5,327 thousands of Euros), EDPR Poland Group (1,600 thousands of Euros), EDPR Italia Group (735 thousands of Euros), EDPR UK Group (603 thousands of Euros) and Other (276 thousands of Euros). Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 198 198 198 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Other business combinations During 2014, EDPR Group acquire 100% of the following companies: Wincap, S.R.L. and Radziejów Wind Farm Sp. ZO.O. (see note 5), with the following aggregated impacts: Assets and Thousands of Euros Liabilities at fair value Property, plant and equipment 1,387 Other assets (including licenses) 422 Total assets 1,809 Deferred tax liabilities Current liabilities Total liabilities 375 Net assets 1,434 Non-controlling interests Net assets acquired 1,434 Consideration transferred 2,085 Goodwill 651 Other information for purchase price allocation and business combinations included in 2013 EDPR EU Other During 2013 the EDP Renewables Polska, S.P. ZO.O acquired 65,07% of the share capital of the company Molen Wind II, S.P. ZO.O. (see note 5) and has carried out the purchase price allocation that originates the recognition of an operating income of 3,477 thousands of Euros (nota 8). Assets and Book Liabilities Thousands of Euros value PPA at fair value Property, plant and equipment 1,691 10,739 12,430 Other assets (including licenses) 10,112 10,112 Total assets 11,803 10,739 22,542 Deferred tax liabilities 2,040 2,040 Current liabilities 1,868 1,868 Total liabilities 1,868 2,040 3,908 Net assets 9,935 8,699 18,634 Non-controlling interests -3,470 -3,039 -6,509 Net assets acquired 6,465 5,660 12,125 Consideration transferred 8,648 8,648 Badwill -3,477 Goodwill impairment tests EDPR Group The goodwill of the EDPR Group is tested for impairment each year with basis of September. In the case of operational wind farms, it is performed by determining the recoverable value through the value in use. Goodwill is allocated to each country where EDPR Group performs its activity, so the EDPR Group aggregate all the CGUs cash flows in each country in order to calculate the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated. To perform this analysis, a Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method was used. This method is based on the principle that the estimated value of an entity or business is defined by its capacity to generate financial resources in the future, assuming these can be removed from the business and distributed among the company’s shareholders, without compromising the maintenance of the activity. Therefore, for the businesses developed by EDPR's CGUs, the valuation was based on free cash flows generated by the business, discounted at appropriate discount rates. The future cash flows projection period used is the useful life of the assets (25 years) which is consistent with the current depreciation method. The cash flows also incorporate the long-term off-take contract in place and longterm estimates of power prices, whenever the asset holds merchant exposure. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 199 The main assumptions used for the impairment tests are as follows: Power produced: net capacity factors used for each CGU utilize the wind studies carried out, which takes into account the long-term predictability of wind output and that wind generation is supported in nearly all countries by regulatory mechanisms that allow for production and priority dispatching whenever weather conditions permit; Electricity remuneration: regulated or contracted remuneration has been applied where available, as for the CGUs that benefit from regulated remuneration or that have signed contracts to sell their output during all or part of their useful life; where this is not available, prices were derived using price curves projected by the company based on its experience, internal models and using external data references; New capacity: tests were based on the best information available on the wind farms expected to be built in coming years, adjusted by probability of success and by the growth prospects of the company based on the Business Plan Targets, its historical growth and market size projections. The tests considered the contracted and expected prices to buy turbines from various suppliers; Operating costs: established contracts for land leases and maintenance agreements were used; other operating costs were projected consistent with the company’s experience and internal models; Terminal value: considered as a 15% of the initial investment in each wind farm, considering inflation; Discount rate: the discount rates used are post-tax, reflect EDPR Group’s best estimate of the risks specific to each CGU and range as follows: 2014 2013 Europe 4.0% 6.4% 4.8% 7.6% United States 5.1% 7.1% 6.0% 7.3% Brazil 8.6% 10.3% 8.6% 9.9% Impairment tests done have taken into account the regulation changes in each country, as disclosed in note 1. EDPR has performed a series of sensitivity analyses of the results of impairment tests to reasonable changes in some of the key variables, such as: EDPR NA, decrease in the Net Capacity Factors; EDPR NA, 5% and 10% reduction of Merchant Prices. Furthermore, EDPR Group has done an additional sensitivity analysis increasing 100 basis points the discount rate used in case base for EDPR EU and EDPR Brasil CGU's. These sensitivity analyses performed for each assumption independently would not suppose any impairment for the goodwill allocated to each country. 18. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Investments in associates Interests in joint ventures 294,146 273,986 Interests in associates 75,645 64,660 Carrying amount 369,791 338,646 For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements presentation, goodwill arising from the acquisition of joint ventures and associated companies is presented in this caption. The movement in Investments in joint ventures and associates, is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 Balance as at 1 January 338,646 47,473 Acquisitions / Increases 6,178 40 Share of profits of joint ventures and associates 21,756 14,726 Dividends received -18,132 -17,951 Exchange differences 25,838 -3,743 Hedging reserve in joint ventures and associates -4,488 4,724 Others -7 293,377 Balance as at 31 December 369,791 338,646 In 2013, Others includes the impact of the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 (see note 39), related with the opening balance. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 200 200 200 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE The following table resumes the companies' financial information of joint ventures included in the Group consolidated accounts, as of December 2014: Flat Rock Flat Rock Compañía WindWindEólica Thousands of Euros power power II Aragonesa Other Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 289,039 115,477 134,860 78,209 Current Assets 4,392 869 16,560 11,983 Cash and cash equivalents 2,525 534 12,677 8,982 Total Equity 290,048 115,012 108,144 19,273 Long term Financial debt 40,070 Non-Current Liabilities 30,066 3,156 Short term Financial debt Current Liabilities 227 119 13,210 16,133 Revenues 31,488 8,392 14,167 10,106 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -18,206 -6,165 -5,257 -6,078 Other financial expenses -147 -57 -174 -1,479 Income tax expense 2,531 815 Net profit for the year 2,403 -1,345 4,282 -793 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDPR Group Net assets 145,024 57,506 66,657 24,967 Goodwill 39,558 Dividends paid 11,689 2,813 2,500 737 The following table resumes the companies' financial information of joint ventures included in the Group consolidated accounts, as of December 2013: Flat Rock Flat Rock Compañía WindWindEólica Thousands of Euros power power II Aragonesa Other Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 267,622 107,611 127,966 66,959 Current Assets 6,488 1,467 12,727 11,574 Cash and cash equivalents 3,039 930 7,011 8,282 Total Equity 271,332 107,966 108,862 21,196 Long term Financial debt 46,396 Non-Current Liabilities 2,637 1,015 21,971 Short term Financial debt Current Liabilities 141 97 9,860 8,847 Revenues 24,579 5,847 30,652 20,407 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -16,004 -6,177 -4,811 -5,564 Other financial expenses -140 -54 -1,018 -1,947 Income tax expense -3,434 -2,354 Net profit for the year -2,418 -3,750 12,703 5,487 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDPR Group Net assets 135,666 53,983 68,428 15,909 Goodwill 39,558 Dividends paid 5,900 1,094 4,972 4,524 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 201 The following table resumes the companies' financial information of associates included in the Group consolidated accounts, as of December 2014: Seaenergy Pq. Eólico Renewables Sierra del Thousands of Euros Inch Cape ENEOP Madero Other Companies' financial information of associates Non-Current Assets 46,688 1,296,820 55,915 96,497 Current Assets 2,662 365,479 9,145 12,748 Equity -3,228 98,056 21,909 47,822 Non-Current Liabilities 46,169 1,399,319 2,644 46,031 Current Liabilities 6,408 164,923 40,508 15,505 Revenues 212,687 8,990 11,211 Net profit for the year -1,201 36,167 -390 -4,467 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDPR Group Net assets 14,190 35,261 9,202 16,992 Goodwill 15,772 8,205 Dividends paid 393 The following table resumes the companies' financial information of associates included in the Group consolidated accounts, as of December 2013: Seaenergy Pq. Eólico Renewables Sierra del Thousands of Euros Inch Cape ENEOP Madero Other Companies' financial information of associates Non-Current Assets 19,778 1,184,916 58,190 86,370 Current Assets 1,033 282,449 5,435 8,578 Equity -1,854 74,739 21,519 42,734 Non-Current Liabilities 19,211 1,248,590 3,439 20,748 Current Liabilities 3,453 144,037 38,668 30,644 Revenues 193,736 14,020 14,127 Net profit for the year -731 37,220 4,749 1,157 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDPR Group Net assets 13,827 26,876 9,038 14,919 Goodwill 14,735 8,205 Dividends paid 1,578 During 2014, the significant companies' financial information of joint ventures and associates presents the following fair value reconciliation of net assets proportionally attributed to EDP Group: % Fair Value Net Thousands of Euros Equity EM Adjustm.s Goodwill Others Assets Flat Rock Windpower 290,048 50.00% 145,024 Flat Rock Windpower II LLC 115,012 50.00% 57,506 Compañía Eólica Aragonesa 108,144 50.00% 12,585 66,657 SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited -3,228 49.00% 15,772 14,190 ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, SA 98,056 35.96% 35,261 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero 21 909 42.00% 9,202 During 2013, the significant companies' financial information of joint ventures and associates presents the following fair value reconciliation of net assets proportionally attributed to EDP Group: % Fair Value Net Thousands of Euros Equity EM Adjustm.s Goodwill Others Assets Flat Rock Windpower 271,332 50.00% 135,666 Flat Rock Windpower II LLC 107,966 50.00% 53,983 Compañía Eólica Aragonesa 108,862 50.00% 13,997 68,428 SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited -1,854 49.00% 14,735 13,827 ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, SA 74,739 35.96% 26,876 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero 21 519 42.00% 9 038 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 202 202 202 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Operating guarantees granted by joint ventures included in the Group consolidated accounts under the equity method, as at 31 December 2014 and 2013, are disclosed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Guarantees of operational nature Compañía Eólica Aragonesa 1,440 1,440 Others 307 307 1,747 1,747 The commitments relating to short and medium-long term financial debt, finance lease commitments, other long term commitments and other liabilities relating to purchases and future lease payments under operating leases for joint ventures included in the Group consolidated accounts under the equity method are disclosed, as at 31 December 2014 and 2013, are as follows: 2014 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Short and long term financial debt (including falling due interest) 23,814 3,356 7,043 7,341 6,074 Operating lease commitments 22,178 1,344 2,727 2,779 15,327 Purchase obligations 9,019 4,612 3,841 567 55,011 9,312 13,611 10,687 21,401 2013 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Short and long term financial debt (including falling due interest) 27,374 3,354 6,912 7,297 9,811 Operating lease commitments 10,786 539 1,111 1,155 7,981 Purchase obligations 9,709 4,792 4,220 697 47,869 8,685 12,243 9,149 17,792 19. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The EDP Renováveis Group records the tax effect arising from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities determined on an accounting basis and on a tax basis, which are analysed as follows: Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2014 2013 Tax losses brought forward 848,119 684,286 Provisions 24,382 21,399 5,956 4,265 Derivative financial instruments 12,488 11,472 3,300 625 Property, plant and equipment 50,935 47,409 430,175 332,213 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities from business combinations 357,768 406,199 Income from institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 389,475 299,403 Non-deductible financial expenses 27,621 21,113 Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities -917,062 -676,449 -917,062 -676,449 Other 5 -17 780 928 46,488 109,213 270,392 367,184 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 203 Deferred tax assets and liabilities is mainly related to Europe and United States of America, as follows: Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2014 2013 Europe: Tax losses brought forward 25,724 17,579 Provisions 16,854 15,422 5,956 4,265 Derivative financial instruments 12,399 9,465 1,810 500 Property, plant and equipment 47,631 44,471 52,542 18,796 Non-deductible financial expenses 27,621 21,113 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities from business combinations 231,219 308,390 Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities -84,371 -84,371 Other 4 -16 780 830 45,862 108,034 207,936 332,781 United States of America: Tax losses brought forward 820,673 665,054 Provisions 7,310 5,761 Derivative financial instruments 2,007 1,490 Property, plant and equipment 3,304 2,937 376,403 313,029 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities from business combinations 122,009 93,090 Income from institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 389,475 299,403 Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities -831,287 -675,759 -831,287 -675,759 58,090 29,763 The movements in net deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are analysed as follows: Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2014 2013 Balance as at 1 January 109,213 89,378 -367,184 -380,592 Charges to the profit and loss account 13,360 39,181 20,238 -7,160 Charges against reserves 3,312 -5,464 -2,867 -320 Exchange differences and other variations -79,397 -13,882 79,421 20,888 Balance as at 31 December 46,488 109,213 -270,392 -367,184 The Group tax losses carried forward are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Expiration date: 2014 259 2015 103 107 2016 1,435 1,523 2017 4,787 3,597 2018 26,610 33,923 2019 20,538 3,122 2020 to 2034 2,141,294 1,752,812 Without expiration date 279,280 229,144 2,474,047 2,024,487 20. INVENTORIES This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Advances on account of purchases 4,367 2,952 Finished and intermediate products 3,793 2,248 Raw and subsidiary materials and consumables 13,160 10,225 21,320 15,425 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 204 204 204 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 21. TRADE RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Trade receivables Non-current Europe: Spain 4,879 4,879 Trade receivables Current Europe: Spain 37,814 68,578 Romania 9,170 40,464 Poland 21,085 19,237 Rest of Europe 27,510 33,022 95,579 161,301 United States of America 43,428 39,590 Other 3,480 2,715 142,487 203,606 Impairment losses -1,342 -1,342 141,145 202,264 146,024 202,264 Trade receivables NonCurrent, is related to the establishment of the pool boundaries adjustment in EDPR EU in Spain, as a result of the publication of Royal Decree-Law 413/2014 and Order IET/1045/2014 (see note 1). 22. DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES Debtors and other assets from commercial activities are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities Non-current Deferred costs 11,380 41,771 Sundry debtors and other operations 24,940 11,389 36,320 53,160 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities Current Prepaid turbine maintenance 6,839 7,125 Services rendered 6,495 11,596 Advances to suppliers 2,903 1,709 Sundry debtors and other operations 25,327 24,168 41,564 44,598 77,884 97,758 23. OTHER DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS Other debtors and other assets are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Other debtors and other assets Non-current Loans to related parties 359,133 300,054 Derivative financial instruments 16,365 14,148 Sundry debtors and other operations 21,482 6,233 396,980 320,435 Other debtors and other assets Current Loans to related parties 246,587 95,327 Derivative financial instruments 32,514 11,154 Sundry debtors and other operations 15,545 26,617 294,646 133,098 691,626 453,533 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 205 Loans to related parties Non-current mainly includes 358,120 thousands of Euros of loans to ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal, S.A. Group (31 December 2013: 286,520 thousands of Euros). The maturity date of this loan is December 2017. Loans to related parties Current mainly includes 35,343 thousands of Euros of loans to ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal, S.A. Group (31 December 2013: 18,456 thousands of Euros), 21,541 thousands of Euros of loans to SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited (31 December 2013: 9,428 thousands of Euros), 168,935 thousands of Euros of loans to EDP Servicios Financieros España, S.A. (31 December 2013: 63,775 thousands of Euros) and 12,929 thousands of Euros loans to Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero, S.A. 24. CURRENT TAX ASSETS Current tax assets is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Income tax 12,336 18,744 Value added tax (VAT) 71,512 78,734 Other taxes 5,245 5,914 89,093 103,392 25. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Cash Bank deposits Current deposits 246,652 205,920 Term deposits 16 10,540 Specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships 78,855 62 325,523 216,522 Other short term investments 43,100 38,940 368,623 255,462 Specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships are funds required to be held in escrow sufficient to pay the remaining construction related costs of projects in institutional equity partnerships (see note 31). The governing agreements of these partnerships and specific escrow agreements define the appropriate expenditure of these funds. The caption Other short term investments includes very short term investments promptly convertible into cash. 26. SHARE CAPITAL At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the share capital of the Company is represented by 872,308,162 shares of Euros 5 par value each, all fully paid. The shares are in book-entry bearer form, the company is entitled to request the listing of its shares and all the shareholders are registered in the relevant book-entry records. These shares have the same voting and profit-sharing rights and are freely transferable. EDP Renováveis, S.A. shareholder's structure as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is analysed as follows: % Voting % Capital No. of Shares rights EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 541,027,156 62.02% 62.02% Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. 135,256,700 15.51% 15.51% Other (*) 196,024,306 22.47% 22.47% 872,308,162 100.00% 100.00% (*) Shares quoted on the Lisbon stock exchange In 2007 and 2008, the Company carried out various share capital increases, which were subscribed through nonmonetary contributions comprising 100% of the shares in EDPR NA and EDPR EU. The contributions are applicable to the special tax treatment for mergers, spin-offs, transfers of assets and conversion of securities foreseen in Chapter VIII of Section VII of Royal Decree 4 dated 5 March 2004 which approved the revised Spanish tax law. The disclosures required by prevailing legislation were included in the annual accounts for 2007 and 2008. Earnings per share attributable to the shareholders of EDPR are analysed as follows: Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 206 206 206 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent (in thousands of Euros) 126,007 135,116 Profit from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the parent (in thousands of Euros) 126,007 135,116 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 872,308,162 872,308,162 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares outstanding 872,308,162 872,308,162 Earnings per share (basic) attributable to equity holders of the parent (in Euros) 0.14 0.15 Earnings per share (diluted) attributable to equity holders of the parent (in Euros) 0.14 0.15 Earnings per share (basic) from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the parent (in Euros) 0.14 0.15 Earnings per share (diluted) from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the parent (in Euros) 0.14 0.15 The EDPR Group calculates its basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent using the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. The company does not hold any treasury stock as at 31 December 2014 and 2013. The average number of shares was determined as follows: 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Ordinary shares issued at the beginning of the period 872,308,162 872,308,162 Effect of shares issued during the period Average number of realised shares 872,308,162 872,308,162 Average number of shares during the period 872,308,162 872,308,162 Diluted average number of shares during the period 872,308,162 872,308,162 27. RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Reserves Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -41,066 -29,114 Fair value reserve (available-for-sale financial assets) 2,603 3,242 Exchange differences arising on consolidation -25,793 -43,733 -64,256 -69,605 Other reserves and retained earnings Retained earnings and other reserves 710,278 601,838 Additional paid in capital 60,666 60,666 Legal reserve 35,375 29,675 806,319 692,179 742,063 622,574 Additional paid in capital The accounting for transactions among entities under common control is excluded from IFRS 3. Consequently, in the absence of specific guidance, within IFRSs, the Group EDPR has adopted an accounting policy for such transactions, judged appropriate. According to the Group's policy, business combinations among entities under common control are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the book values of the acquired company (subgroup) in the EDPR consolidated financial statements. The difference between the carrying amount of the net assets received and the consideration paid is recognised in equity. Legal reserve The legal reserve has been appropriated in accordance with Article 274 of the Spanish Companies Act whereby companies are obliged to transfer 10% of the profits for the year to a legal reserve until such reserve reaches an amount equal to 20% of the share capital. This reserve is not distributable to shareholders and may only be used to offset losses, if no other reserves are available, or to increase the share capital. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 207 Profit distribution (parent company) The EDP Renováveis, S.A. proposal for 2014 profits distribution to be presented in the Annual General Meeting is as follows: Euros Profit for the period 212,703,502.15 Distribution: Legal reserve 21,270,350.22 Dividends 34,892,326.48 Retained earnings 156,540,825.46 212,703,502.15 The EDP Renováveis, S.A. proposal for 2013 profits distribution to be presented in the Annual General Meeting is as follows: Euros Profit for the period 56,998,823.86 Distribution: Legal reserve 5,699,882.39 Dividends 34,892,326.48 Retained earnings 16,406,614.99 56,998,823.86 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) The Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments. Fair value reserve (available-for-sale financial assets) This reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets as at the balance sheet date. Thousands of Euros Balance as at 1 January 2013 4,446 Parque Eólico Montes de las Navas, S.L. -1,204 Balance as at 31 December 2013 3,242 Parque Eólico Montes de las Navas, S.L. -639 Balance as at 31 December 2014 2,603 Exchange differences arising on consolidation This caption reflects the amount arising on the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries and associated companies from their functional currency into Euros. The exchange rates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Exchange rates Exchange rates as at 31 December as at 31 December 2013 2013 Closing Average Closing Average Currency Rate Rate Rate Rate US Dollar USD 1.214 1.329 1.379 1.328 Zloty PLN 4.273 4.184 4.154 4.197 Brazilian Real BRL 3.221 3.122 3.258 2.868 New Leu RON 4.483 4.444 4.471 4.419 Pound Sterling GBP 0.779 0.806 0.834 0.849 Canadian Dollar CAD 1.406 1.466 1.467 1.368 28. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Non-controlling interests in income statement 51,880 34,010 Non-controlling interests in share capital and reserves 497,233 384,047 549,113 418,057 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 208 208 208 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Non-controlling interests, by subgroup, are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 EDPR NA Group 232,358 198,348 EDPR EU Group 283,543 192,241 EDPR BR Group 33,212 27,468 549,113 418,057 The movement in non-controlling interests of EDP Renováveis Group is mainly related to: (i) profits of the year attributable to non-controlling interests of 51,880 thousands of Euros; (ii) Sale without loss of control of EDPR France attributable to non-controlling interests of 59,163 thousands of Euros (see note 5); (iii) Sale without loss of control of EDPR France subsidiaries attributable to non-controlling interests of 22,346 thousands of Euros (see note 5); (iv) Sale without loss of control of South Dundas Wind Farm attributable to non-controlling interests of 13,030 thousands of Euros (see note 5); (v) equity decreases in EDPR NA group attributable to non-controlling interests of 28,712 thousands of Euros; (vi) share capital increases from non-controlling interests in EDPR EU group of 25,677 thousands of Euros; (vii) dividends attributable to non-controlling interests in EDPR EU group of 34,382 thousands of Euros; (viii) and exchange differences arising on consolidation attributable to noncontrolling interests of 26,913 thousands of Euros. 29. FINANCIAL DEBT This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Financial debt Non-current Bank loans: EDPR EU Group 664,948 642,927 EDPR BR Group 47,142 53,833 EDPR NA Group 30,633 Non-convertible bonds: EDPR BR Group 29,102 Loans receive from EDP group entities: EDP Renováveis, S.A. 368,506 324,417 EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros, S.L. 2,595,344 2,458,436 Other loans: EDPR EU Group 9,861 11,363 Interest payable 781 Total Debt and borrowings Non-current 3,716,434 3,520,859 Collateral Deposits Non-current (*) Collateral Deposit Project Finance and others -65,597 -72,206 Total Collateral Deposits Non-current -65,597 -72,206 Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Financial debt – Current Bank loans: EDPR EU Group 133,561 80,881 EDPR BR Group 7,307 7,160 EDPR NA Group 3,155 Non-convertible bonds: EDPR BR Group 29,497 Commercial Paper: EDPR BR Group 6,139 Loans receive from EDP group entities: EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros, S.L. 34,262 Other loans: EDPR EU Group 1,763 9,716 EDPR NA Group 1,208 Interest payable 10,206 5,652 Total Debt and borrowings Current 185,489 145,018 Collateral Deposits Current (*) Collateral Deposit Project Finance and others -15,141 -6,054 Total Collateral Deposits Current -15,141 -6,054 3,821,185 3,587,617 (*) Collateral Deposits informative note Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 209 Collateral Deposits refer mainly to amounts held in bank accounts to comply with obligations under project finance agreements entered into by certain EDP Renewable subsidiaries. Financial debt Non-current for EDP Renováveis, mainly refers to a set of loans granted by EDP Finance BV (2.963.850 thousands of Euros). These loans have an average maturity of 4 and half years and bear interest at fixed market rates. The Group has project finance financings that include the usual guarantees on this type of financings, namely the pledge or a promise of pledge of bank accounts and assets of the related projects. As at 31 December 2014, these financings amount to 870,074 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 779,451 thousands of Euros), which are included in the total debt of the Group. The breakdown of Financial debt by maturity, is as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Bank loans Up to 1 year 148,545 92,883 1 to 5 years 306,853 310,595 Over 5 years 435,869 386,165 891,267 789,643 Non-convertible loans Up to 1 year 34,318 1 to 5 years 29,883 34,318 29,883 Loans receive from EDP group companies Up to 1 year 863 35,072 1 to 5 years 2,830,726 2,199,205 Over 5 years 133,124 583,648 2,964,713 2,817,925 Commercial Paper Up to 1 year 6,139 6,139 Other loans Up to 1 year 1,763 10,924 1 to 5 years 9,862 11,363 11,625 22,287 3,901,923 3,665,877 The fair value of EDP Renováveis Group's debt is analysed as follows: 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Carrying Market Carrying Market Thousands of Euros Value Value Value Value Financial debt Non-current 3,716,434 3,958,635 3,520,859 3,489,948 Financial debt Current 185,489 185,489 145,018 145,018 3,901,923 4,144,124 3,665,877 3,634,966 The market value of the medium/long-term (non-current) debt and borrowings that bear a fixed interest rate is calculated based on the discounted cash flows at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The market value of debt and borrowing that bear a floating interest rate is considered not to differ from its book value as these loans bear interest at a rate indexed to Euribor. The book value of the short-term (current) debt and borrowings is considered to be the market value. As at 31 December 2014, the scheduled repayments of Group's debt are as follows: Subsequent Thousands of Euros Total 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years Debt and borrowings Non-current 3,716,434 323,293 82,218 2,183,772 558,158 568,993 Debt and borrowings Current 185,489 185,489 3,901,923 185,489 323,293 82,218 2,183,772 558,158 568,993 The breakdown of guarantees is presented in note 36 to the financial statements accounts. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 210 210 210 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE The breakdown of Financial debt, by currency, is as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Loans denominated in EUR 2,026,075 2,106,792 Loans denominated in USD 1,513,243 1,333,401 Loans denominated in other currencies 362,605 225,684 3,901,923 3,665,877 30. PROVISIONS Provisions are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Dismantling and decommission provisions 96,676 62,461 Provision for other liabilities and charges 2,026 1,877 Employee benefits 209 198 98,911 64,536 Dismantling and decommission provisions refer to the costs to be incurred with dismantling wind farms and restoring sites and land to their original condition, in accordance with the accounting policy described in note 2 o). The above amount respects mainly to 49,413 thousands of Euros for wind farms in the United States of America (31 December 2013: 36,134 thousands of Euros) and 46,403 thousands of Euros for wind farms in Europe (31 December 2013: 25,535 thousands of Euros). EDP Renováveis believes that the provisions booked on the consolidated statement of financial position adequately cover the foreseeable obligations described in this note. Therefore, it is not expected that they will give rise to liabilities in addition to those recorded. As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the EDP Renováveis Group does not have any significant tax-related contingent liabilities or contingent assets related to unresolved disputes with the tax authorities. The movements in Provisions for dismantling and decommission provisions are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 62,461 63,336 Capitalised amount for the year 24,878 1,362 Unwinding 3,752 3,475 Other and exchange differences 5,585 -5,712 Balance at the end of the year 96,676 62,461 Capitalised amount for the year and other includes the impact of the update of dismantling provisions assumptions. The movements in Provision for other liabilities and charges are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 1,877 267 Charge for the year 21 1,290 Other and exchange differences 128 320 Balance at the end of the year 2,026 1,877 31. INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS IN U.S. WIND FARMS This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Deferred income related to benefits provided 735,260 672,154 Liabilities arising from institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 1,066,703 836,341 1,801,963 1,508,495 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 211 The movements in Institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,508,495 1,679,753 Proceeds received from institutional investors 219,256 Cash paid for deferred transaction costs -1,780 Cash paid to institutional investors -69,616 -35,579 Income (see note 7) -123,582 -125,101 Unwinding (see note 13) 56,551 60,840 Exchange differences 212,639 -68,930 Others -2,488 Balance at the end of the period 1,801,963 1,508,495 The Group has entered in several partnerships with institutional investors in the United States, through limited liability companies operating agreements that apportions the cash flows generated by the wind farms between the investors and the Company and allocates the tax benefits, which include Production Tax Credits (PTC), Investment Tax Credits (ITC) and accelerated depreciation, largely to the investor. During 2014 EDPR Group, through its subsidiary EDPR NA, has secured 193 millions of USD (approximately 145 million of Euros) of institutional equity financing from BAL Investment & Advisory, Inc. (Bank of America) in exchange for an interest in the Vento XI portfolio, 66 millions of USD (approximately 50 million of Euros) of institutional equity financing from Bankers Commercial Corporation (Union Bank) in exchange for an interest in the Vento XII portfolio and 32 millions of USD (approximately 24 million of Euros) of institutional equity financing from Firststar Development, LLC (US Bank). 32. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES Trade and other payables from commercial activities are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Trade and other payables from commercial activities Non-current Government grants / subsidies for investments in fixed assets 430,426 379,975 Electricity sale contracts EDPR NA 30,827 35,750 Other creditors and sundry operations 3,114 2,415 464,367 418,140 Trade and other payables from commercial activities Current Suppliers 68,343 68,304 Property and equipment suppliers 569,070 330,225 Advance payments EDPR Spain 377 25,885 Other creditors and sundry operations 50,114 49,794 687,904 474,208 1,152,271 892,348 Government grants for investments in fixed assets are essentially related to grants received by EDPR NA subgroup under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act promoted by the United States of America Government. At the moment of the EDPR North America acquisition, the contracts signed between this subsidiary and its customers, determined under the terms of the Purchase Price Allocation, were valued through discounted cash flow models and market assumptions at 190,400 thousands of USD, being booked as a non-current liability under Electricity sale contracts EDPR NA, which is depreciated over the useful life of the contracts under Other income (see note 8). Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 212 212 212 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 33. OTHER LIABILITIES AND OTHER PAYABLES Other liabilities and other payables are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Other liabilities and other payables Noncurrent Success fees payable for the acquisition of subsidiaries 10,707 14,172 Loans from non-controlling interests 227,819 125,693 Derivative financial instruments 192,194 97,797 Other creditors and sundry operations 715 1,250 431,435 238,912 Other liabilities and other payables Current Success fees payable for the acquisition of subsidiaries 1,479 Derivative financial instruments 220,602 37,105 Loans from non-controlling interests 29,128 49,454 Other creditors and sundry operations 20,752 47,979 271,961 134,538 703,396 373,450 Success fees payable for the acquisition of subsidiaries non-current includes mainly the amounts related to the contingent prices of several European and Brazilian projects. Derivative financial instruments non-current and current includes 129,982 and 212,249 thousands of Euros respectively (31 December 2013: 62,874 and 19,898 thousands of Euros respectively) related to a hedge instrument of USD and EUR with EDP Branch, which was formalised in order to hedge the foreign exchange risk of the net investment held in EDPR NA, expressed in USD (see note 35). The caption Loans from non-controlling interests Current and Non-Current is related to EDPR Portugal loan formerly due to EDPR EU in the second quarter of 2013 in the amount of 110,529 thousands of Euros that following the sale process of 49% of its shareholding in EDPR Portugal to CTG, shareholder of EDP Group, were also acquired by CTG. The maturity date of this loan is December 2022, bearing interest at a fixed rate of 5.5% and the interests are paid half-yearly. At 31 December 2014, this loan amounts to 90,610 thousands of Euros. Additionally, the caption Loans from non-controlling interests Non-Current also includes the amount 93,553 thousands of Euros of loans to pay to Vortex, due the sale of 49% of several interests of EDPR France, the fixed rate used for this loans vary between 3.10% and 7.12%. Other creditors and sundry operations current include 6,292 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 30,915 thousands of Euros) related with the estimated corporate income tax due to EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España. According to Spanish law 15/2010 of 5 July the Group disclose the details of payments made from Spanish companies to suppliers during the year 2014 (distinguishing those who have exceeded the legal limits of postponement), the average payments period, the outstanding balances that at 31 December 2014 and 2013 with an overdue greater than the legal period, are the following: Payments and outstanding payments at year end 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 (*) Thousands of Euros Value % Value % Within the legal deadline 67,229 62.26% 70,691 59.83% Rest 40,746 37.74% 47,469 40.17% Total payments for the year 107,975 100.00% 118,160 100.00% Average payment period (days) 36.55 92.48 Outstanding balances with an overdue greater than the legal period 9,668 5,844 At 31 December 2014, the outstanding balances with an overdue greater than the legal period includes 5,492 thousands of Euros regarding group companies (31 December 2013: 2,672 thousands of Euros). This law stipulates a maximum legal payment period of 60 days in 2014 and 2013. The Company has applied this criterion when preparing the information required by the Spanish Accounting and Auditing Institute (ICAC) resolution of 29 December 2010 on disclosures in notes to financial statements of late payments to suppliers in commercial transactions. (*) Restated for the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 213 34. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES This caption is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Income tax 11,833 52,694 Withholding tax 19,178 16,879 Value added tax (VAT) 13,370 15,795 Other taxes 12,323 11,774 56,704 97,142 35. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As of 31 December 2014, the fair value and maturity of derivatives is analysed as follows: Fair Value Notional From 1 More Until to 5 than Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities 1 year years 5 years Total Net investment hedge Cross currency rate swaps 13,894 -342,231 1,252,469 722,733 1,975,202 13,894 -342,231 1,252,469 722,733 1,975,202 Cash flow hedge Power price swaps 16,706 -8,683 199,744 129,680 329,424 Interest rate swaps 8 -55,410 83,567 167,005 245,262 495,834 16,714 -64,093 283,311 296,685 245,262 825,258 Trading Power price swaps 5,404 -6,371 45,457 26,517 71,974 Interest rate swaps -101 470 1,411 1,881 Cross currency rate swaps 2,943 69,750 69,750 Currency forwards 9,924 365,957 365,957 18,271 -6,472 411,884 97,678 509,562 48,879 -412,796 1,947,664 1,117,096 245,262 3,310,022 As of 31 December 2013, the fair value and maturity of derivatives is analysed as follows: Fair Value Notional More Until 1 1 to than Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities year 5 years 5 years Total Net investment hedge Cross currency rate swaps 12,438 -82,772 438,827 1,509,759 1,948,586 Currency forwards 2,360 33,305 33,305 14,798 -82,772 472,132 1,509,759 1,981,891 Cash flow hedge Power price swaps 4,164 -5,378 55,769 61,578 117,347 Interest rate swaps -32,405 46,586 206,773 269,229 522,588 Currency forwards 169 2,749 2,749 4,333 -37,783 105,104 268,351 269,229 642,684 Trading Power price swaps 5,046 -7,863 30,965 46,818 77,783 Interest rate swaps -110 470 1,881 2,351 Cross currency rate swaps 486 -86 69,750 69,750 Currency forwards 639 -6,288 539,199 539,199 6,171 -14,347 570,634 118,449 689,083 25,302 -134,902 1,147,870 1,896,559 269,229 3,313,658 The fair value of derivative financial instruments is recorded under Other debtors and other assets (note 23) or Other liabilities and other payables (note 33), if the fair value is positive or negative, respectively. The net investment derivatives are related to the Group CIRS in USD and EUR with EDP Branch as referred in the notes 37 and 38. The net investment derivatives also include Currency forwards in CAD and CIRS in PLN and BRL with EDP with the purpose of hedging EDP Renováveis Group's operations in Canada, Poland and Brazil. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 214 214 214 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Interest rate swaps are related to the project finances and have been formalised to convert variable to fixed interest rates. Cash flow hedge power price swaps are related to the hedging of the sales price. EDPR NA has entered into a power price swap to hedge the variability in the spot market prices received for a portion of the production of Maple Ridge I project. Additionally, both EDPR NA and EDPR EU have entered in short term hedges to hedge the short term volatility of certain un-contracted generation of its wind farms. In certain U.S. power markets, EDPR NA is exposed to congestion and line loss risks which typically have a negative impact on the price received for power generated in these markets. To economically hedge these risk exposures, EDPR NA entered into Financial Transmission Rights (“FTR”) and a three year fixed for floating Locational Marginal Price (LMP) swap. The trading derivative financial instruments are derivatives contracted for economic hedging that are not eligible for hedge accounting. These include a USD/EUR forward contract with EDP Servicios Financieros used to mitigate the exchange rate risk arising from the net assets in USD, as a complement of the net investment hedge. Fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on quotes indicated by external entities. These entities use discount cash flows techniques usually accepted and data from public markets. As such, according to IFRS13 requirements, the fair value of the derivative financial instruments is classified as of Level 2 (note 38). The changes in the fair value of hedging instruments and risks being hedged are as follows: 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Thousands of Hedging Hedged Changes in fair value Changes in fair value Euros Instrument item Instrument Risk Instrument Risk Subsidiary Net Investment Cross currency accounts in hedge rate swaps USD, PLN, BRL -258,003 257,877 96,316 -95,793 Net Investment Currency Subsidiary hedge forward accounts in CAD -2,360 2,158 2,360 -2,360 Cash-flow Interest rate hedge swap Interest rate -22,997 20,189 Cash-flow Power price hedge swaps Power price 9,237 -3,487 Cash-flow Currency hedge forward Exchange rate -169 169 -274,292 260,035 115,547 -98,153 During 2014 and 2013 the following market inputs were considered for the fair value calculation: Instrument Market input Cross currency interest Fair value indexed to the following interest rates: Euribor 3M, Euribor 6M, daily rate swaps Brazilian CDI, Wibor 3M; and exchange rates: EUR/BRL, EUR/PLN e EUR/USD. Fair value indexed to the following interest rates: Euribor 3M, Euribor 6M, Wibor Interest rate swaps 3M, Wibor 6M and CAD Libor 3M. Foreign exchange Fair value indexed to the following exchange rates: USD/EUR, EUR/RON, EUR/PLN, forwards CAD/DKK, CAD/USD and EUR/CAD. Power price swaps Fair value indexed to the price of electricity. The movements in cash flow hedge reserve have been as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year -40,804 -64,400 Fair value changes -20,527 24,430 Transfers to results -1,396 3,072 Non-controlling interests included in fair value changes 5,404 -3,372 Effect of the acquisition of 3% of Relax Wind Park I, S.P. ZO.O and 30% of Greenwind, S.A. -534 Effect of the sale without loss of control of EDPR France and its subsidiaries 4,755 Balance at the end of the year -52,568 -40,804 EDPR has adopted cash-flow hedge accounting in order to hedge exchange rate risk in the future sell of green certificates granted to Cernavoda, Pestera and VS wind farms in Romania. The sell price is indexed to EUR/RON exchange rate for which EDPR elected as hedging instrument the project finance loans contracted in EUR for those projects. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 215 The gains and losses on the financial instruments portfolio booked in the income statement are as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Net investment hedge ineffectiveness -328 523 Cash-flow hedge Transfer to results from hedging of financial liabilities -10 2,711 Transfer to results from hedging of commodity prices 1,406 -5,783 Non eligible for hedge accounting derivatives 37,781 -5,467 38,849 -8,016 The amount from transfers to results from hedging of commodity prices is registered in Revenues while the remaining gains and losses are registered in Financial income and Financial expense, respectively (see note 13). The effective interest rates for derivative financial instruments associated with financing operations during 2014, were as follows: EDP Renováveis Group Currency Pays Receives Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps EUR [ 1.36% 4.45% ] [ 0.17% 0.30% ] Interest rate swaps PLN [ 3.30% 5.41% ] [ 2.05% 2.06% ] Interest rate swaps CAD [ 2.59% ] [ 1.30% ] Currency and interest rate contracts CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/USD [ 0.61% 4.26% ] [ 0.28% 3.98% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/BRL [ 9.02% 9.37% ] [ 0.08% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/PLN [ 1.08% 2.07% ] [ 0.08% 0.09% ] The effective interest rates for derivative financial instruments associated with financing operations during 2013, were as follows: EDP Renováveis Group Currency Pays Receives Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps EUR [ 1.36% 4.95% ] [ 0.33% 0.39% ] Interest rate swaps PLN [ 3.30% 5.41% ] [ 2.70% 0.33% ] Currency and interest rate contracts CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/USD [ 1.35% 4.25% ] [ 1.19% 4.19% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/BRL [ 7.62% 7.91% ] [ 0.22% 0.29% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/PLN [ 1.73% 2.55% ] [ 0.25% 0.29% ] 36. COMMITMENTS As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the financial commitments not included in the statement of financial position in respect of financial, operational and real guarantees provided, are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Guarantees of financial nature EDPR NA Group 3,706 3,263 3,706 3,263 Guarantees of operational nature EDP Renováveis, S.A. 594,909 314,979 EDPR NA Group 830,645 499,612 EDPR EU Group 11,459 44,646 EDPR BR Group 16,932 8,609 1,453,945 867,846 Total 1,457,651 871,109 Real guarantees 37,837 16,166 As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, EDPR has operational guarantees regarding its commercial activity, in the amount of 142,867 thousands of Euros and 303,182 thousands of Euros respectively, already reflected in liabilities. The guarantees related to the companies that changed the consolidation method to equity under IFRS 10 and 11 (referred in note 5), are presented in note 18. Regarding the information disclosed above: Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 216 216 216 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE i) The Group has project finance financings that include the usual guarantees on this type of financings, namely the pledge or a promise of pledge of bank accounts and assets of the related projects. As at 31 December 2014, these financings amount to 870,074 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 779,451 thousands of Euros), which are included in the total debt of the Group; ii) EDPR NA is providing its tax equity investors with standard corporate guarantees typical of these agreements to indemnify them against costs they may incur as a result of fraud, wilful misconduct or a breach of EDPR NA of any operational obligation under the tax equity agreements. As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, EDPR's obligations under the tax equity agreements, in the amount of 948,216 thousands of Euros and 803,006 thousands of Euros, respectively are reflected in the statement of financial position under the caption Institutional Partnerships in U.S. Wind Farms. The EDPR Group financial debt, lease and purchase obligations by maturity date are as follows: 31 Dec 2014 Debt capital by period Up to 1 to 3 to More than Thousands of Euros Total 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Financial debt (including interests) 4,749,935 309,766 771,038 2,974,243 694,888 Operating lease rents not yet due 777,445 31,339 62,203 63,797 620,106 Purchase obligations 1,960,896 942,896 858,067 49,446 110,487 Other long term commitments 1,292 939 352 7,489,568 1,284,940 1,691,660 3,087,486 1,425,481 31 Dec 2013 Debt capital by period Up to 1 to 3 to More than Thousands of Euros Total 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Financial debt (including interests) 4,587,375 315,552 722,496 2,409,071 1,090,256 Operating lease rents not yet due 742,467 30,484 58,504 57,672 595,807 Purchase obligations 726,037 468,889 91,462 46,626 119,060 6,055,879 814,925 922,462 2,513,369 1,805,123 Purchase obligations include debts related with long-term agreements of property, plant and equipment and operational and maintenance contracts product and services supply related to the Group operational activity. When prices are defined under forward contracts, these are used in estimating the amounts of the contractual commitments. The Operating lease rents not yet due are essentially related with the land where the wind farms are built. Usually the leasing period cover the useful life of the wind farms. The commitments related to the companies that changed the consolidation method to equity under IFRS 10 and 11 (referred in note 5), are presented in note 18. As at 31 December 2014 the Group has the following contingent liabilities/rights related with call and put options on investments: EDP Renováveis, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, holds a call option over Cajastur for all the shares held by Cajastur on company ‘Quinze Mines’ (51% of share capital). Cajastur holds an equivalent put option on these shares over EDPR EU. The price of exercising these options will be determined under an independent investment bank valuation process. This options can be exercised between 17 July 2014 and 17 July 2016, inclusively; EDP Renováveis, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, exercised the call option over Cajastur for 51% of interest held by Cajastur in the companies Sauvageons, Le Mee and Petite Pièce in December 2014; EDP Renováveis, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, holds a call option over the remaining shareholders of Re Plus (WPG, Galilea and Gant Partners) for 10% of its share capital. The price of exercising these options is 7,500 thousands of Euros. The options can be exercised (i) if a change occur in the shareholding structure of the remaining shareholders of Re Plus and (ii) always before the last project starts in operation; EDP Renováveis, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, holds a put option of 15% of the share capital of Rowy, over the other shareholders. The exercise price is 80% of equity value with a cap of 5,000 thousands of Euros. The exercise period is the earlier of (i) two years following the beginning of construction date or (ii) 31 December 2019; EDP Renováveis holds, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, a call option of the remaining 40% of the share capital of J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O., whose exercise price corresponds to 90% of the market value of this participation. This option can be exercised between 3 and 5 years after the start of construction works of the first park; EDP Renováveis holds, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, a call option of the remaining 35% of the share capital of Molen Wind II, S.P. ZO.O., whose exercise price corresponds to 90% of the market value of this participation. This option can be exercised until 2 years after the maturity of financial debt for the park construction. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 217 37. RELATED PARTIES The number of shares held by company officers as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 are as follows: 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 No. of shares No. of shares Executive Board of Directors António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 4,200 4,200 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 5,000 5,000 Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira 12,370 12,370 Acácio Jaime Liberado Mota Piloto 300 300 António do Pranto Nogueira Leite 400 400 Gabriel Alonso Imaz 26,503 26,503 João José Belard da Fonseca Lopes Raimundo 840 840 João Manuel de Mello Franco 380 380 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 1,200 1,200 João Paulo Nogueira Sousa Costeira 3,000 3,000 Jorge Manuel Azevedo Henriques dos Santos 200 200 José António Ferreira Machado 630 630 José Fernando Maia de Araújo e Silva 80 80 55,103 55,103 According to Article nr 229 of Ley de Sociedades de Capital (Spanish Companies Law), the members of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis have not communicated, or the parent company has knowledge, of any conflict of interests or incompatibility that could affect the performance of their duties. Remuneration of company officers In accordance with the Company's by-laws, the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors is proposed by the Nominations and Remunerations Committee to the Board of Directors on the basis of the overall amount of remuneration authorized by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Board of Directors approves the distribution and exact amount paid to each Director on the basis of this proposal. The remuneration paid to the members of the Executive Board of Directors in 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 CEO Board members 674 539 674 539 EDPR signed an Executive Management Services Agreement with EDP, under which EDP bears the cost for the services render by its Executive and Non-Executive Directors, which are João Manso Neto, Nuno Alves, António Mexia and João Marques da Cruz. This corporate governance practice of remuneration is in line with the model adopted by the EDP Group, in which the executive Directors of EDP do not receive any remuneration directly from the group companies on whose governing bodies they serve, but rather through EDP. Under this contract, EDPR is due to pay an amount to EDP, for the services rendered by the Executive Managers and the Non-executive Managers. The amount due under said Agreement for the management services rendered by EDP in 2014 is 1,107 thousands of Euros (994 thousands of Euros in 2013), of which 1,017 thousands of Euros refers to the management services rendered by the Executive Members and 90 thousands of Euros to the management services rendered by the non-executive Members. The retirement savings plan for the members of the Executive Committee not including the Chief Executive Officer range between 3% to 6% of their annual salary. Due to the termination of the expatriation conditions of the members of the Executive Committee that are also Officers (Rui Teixeira, CFO; João Paulo Costeira, COO EU, BR & South Africa; and Gabriel Alonso COO NA & Mexico), new employment contracts were signed with other group companies, as follows: Rui Teixeira with EDP Energias de Portugal S.A. Sucursal en España; João Paulo Costeira with EDP Energias de Portugal S.A. Sucursal en España and Gabriel Alonso with EDP Renewables North America LLC. The total remuneration of this three Officers in 2014, was 1,688 thousands of Euros (1,026 thousands of Euros in 2013), corresponding to the fixed remuneration, 2014 annual variable remuneration and 2011-2013 multi-annual variable remuneration. The Company has no pension or life insurance obligations with its former or current Board members in 2014 or 2013. Relevant balances and transactions with subsidiaries and associates of China Three Gorges Group With the sale of 49% of EDPR Portugal equity shareholding to CTG through CITIC CWEI Renewables S.C.A, the EDPR Group has loans of CTG in the amount of 90.6 million of Euros (9.3 million of Euros as current and 81.3 million of Euros as non-current). Balances and transactions with EDP Group companies Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 218 218 218 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE As at 31 December 2014, assets and liabilities with related parties, are analysed as follows: Assets Loans and Others Total interests Thousands of Euros to receive EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 22,730 22,730 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 1 21,793 21,794 Joint Ventures and Associated companies 436,034 4,522 440,556 Other EDP Group companies 168,934 19,675 188,609 604,969 68,720 673,689 Liabilities Loans and Others Total interests Thousands of Euros to pay EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 210 2,750 2,960 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 355,888 355,888 Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 20 3,374 3,394 Joint Ventures and Associated companies 52 52 Other EDP Group companies 2,963,860 7,695 2,971,555 2,964,090 369,759 3,333,849 As at 31 December 2013, assets and liabilities with related parties, are analysed as follows: Assets Loans and Others Total interests Thousands of Euros to receive EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 20,456 20,456 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 9,771 9,771 Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 1 48,285 48,286 Joint Ventures and Associated companies 331,587 1,674 333,261 Other EDP Group companies 63,777 13,772 77,549 395,365 93,958 489,323 Liabilities Loans and Others Total interests Thousands of Euros to pay EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 10,040 10,040 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 119,528 119,528 Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 24 1,898 1,922 Joint Ventures and Associated companies 48 48 Other EDP Group companies 2,817,125 9,118 2,826,243 2,817,149 140,632 2,957,781 Liabilities includes essentially loans obtained by EDP Renováveis from EDP Finance BV in the amount of 2,722,850 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 2,782,853 thousands of Euros). With the purpose of hedging the foreign exchange risk of EDP Renováveis and EDP Branch, the EDP Group establishing a Cross-Currency Interest Rate Swap (CIRS) in USD and EUR between EDP Branch and EDP Renováveis. At each reporting date, this CIRS is revalued to its market value, which corresponds to a spot foreign exchange revaluation, resulting in a perfect hedge (revaluation of the investment in EPDR NA and of the USD external financing). As at 31 December 2014, the amount payable by EDP Renováveis to EDP Branch related to this CIRS amounts to 342,231 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 82,772 thousands of Euros) (see notes 33 and 35). Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 219 Transactions with related parties for the year ended 31 December 2014 are analysed as follows: Operating Financial Operating Financial Thousands of Euros income income expenses expenses EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 688 13,433 -1,845 -16,123 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) -10,645 -8,081 Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 315,703 -4,091 -1,216 Joint Ventures and Associated companies 2,653 21,786 -659 Other EDP Group companies 162,504 41,748 -5,591 -166,727 481,548 76,967 -22,831 -192,147 Operating income includes mainly the electricity sales to suppliers of last resource in Portugal due to regulatory legislation and electricity sales to HC Group that act as a commercial agent of subsidiaries of EDPR Group in Spain. Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico (HC Energia) is the parent company of an industrial group that operates in the electricity and gas sectors in Spain. In the electricity sector, HC Energia generates, distributes and supplies electricity. Financial income and Financial expenses with EDP, S.A. are mainly related to derivative financial instruments, namely to a disqualification from cash flow hedge accounting of EDPR EU power swaps due to new regulation and to changes in market fair value. Transactions with related parties for the year ended 31 December 2013 are analysed as follows: Operating Financial Operating Financial Thousands of Euros income income expenses expenses EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 45,179 -1,955 -45,548 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 333 -8,236 -9,371 Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 454,859 -4,187 -1,075 Joint Ventures and Associated companies 4,338 16,759 -281 Other EDP Group companies 158,265 19,263 -6,241 -179,216 617,462 81,534 -20,900 -235,210 As part of its operational activities, the EDP Renováveis Group must present guarantees in favour of certain suppliers and in connection with renewable energy contracts. Usually, these guarantees are granted by EDP, S.A., through EDP Branch. As at 31 December 2014, EDP, S.A. and Hidrocantábrico granted financial (7,840 thousands of Euros, 31 December 2013: 45,235 thousands of Euros) and operational (282,883 thousands of Euros, 31 December 2013: 243,580 thousands of Euros) guarantees to suppliers in favour of EDPR EU and EDPR NA. The operational guarantees are issued following the commitments assumed by EDPR EU and EDPR NA in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, supply agreements, turbines and energy contracts (power purchase agreements) (see note 36). In the normal course of its activity, EDP Renováveis performs business transactions and operations with its related parties based on normal market conditions. 38. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Fair value of financial instruments is based, whenever available, on quoted market prices. Otherwise, fair value is determined through internal models, which are based on generally accepted cash flow discounting techniques and option valuation models or through quotations supplied by third parties. Non-standard instruments may require alternative techniques, which consider their characteristics and the generally accepted market practices applicable to such instruments. These models are developed considering the market variables that affect the underlying instrument, namely yield curves, exchange rates and volatility factors. Market data is obtained from generally accepted suppliers of financial data (Bloomberg and Reuters). Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 220 220 220 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the following table presents the interest rate curves of the major currencies to which the Group is exposed. These interest rates were used as the base for the fair value calculations made through internal models referred above: 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Currencies Currencies EUR USD BRL EUR USD BRL 3 months 0.08% 0.26% 12.19% 0.29% 0.25% 10.50% 6 months 0.17% 0.36% 12.43% 0.39% 0.35% 10.79% 9 months 0.25% 0.50% 12.61% 0.49% 0.55% 10.94% 1 year 0.33% 0.63% 12.62% 0.56% 0.58% 11.06% 2 years 0.18% 0.90% 12.39% 0.52% 0.48% 11.93% 3 years 0.22% 1.30% 12.24% 0.73% 0.86% 12.49% 5 years 0.36% 1.78% 12.13% 1.25% 1.75% 12.91% 7 years 0.53% 2.05% 11.97% 1.68% 2.43% 13.07% 10 years 0.81% 2.28% 11.94% 2.15% 3.03% 13.20% Non-listed equity instruments, for which a reliable and consistent fair value estimate is not available either by internal models or external providers, are recognized at their historical cost. Available-for-sale financial instruments and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Listed financial instruments are recognized at fair value based on market prices. The financial instruments for which reliable fair value estimates are not available, are recorded in the statement of financial position at their cost. Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and suppliers These financial instruments include mainly short term financial assets and liabilities. Given their short term nature at the reporting date, their book values are not significantly different from their fair values. Financial debt The fair value of the financial debt is estimated through internal models, which are based on generally accepted cash flow discounting techniques. At the reporting date, the carrying amount of floating rate loans is approximately their fair value. In case of fixed rate loans, mainly the intercompany loans granted by EDP Group, their fair value is obtained through internal models based on generally accepted discounting techniques. Derivative financial instruments All derivatives are accounted at their fair value. For those which are quoted in organized markets, the respective market price is used. For over-the-counter derivatives, fair value is estimated through the use of internal models based on cash flow discounting techniques and option valuation models generally accepted by the market, or by dealer price quotations. CIRS with EDP Branch (note 35) With the purpose of hedging the foreign exchange risk resulting from the net investment in EDPR NA, the Group entered into a CIRS in USD and EUR with EDP Branch. This financial derivative is presented in the statement of financial position at its fair value, which is estimated by discounting the projected USD and EUR cash flows. The discount rates and forward interest rates were based on the interest rate curves referred to above and the USD/EUR exchange rate is disclosed on note 27. See also notes 13 and 23. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 221 The fair values of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 are analysed as follows: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Carrying Fair DiffeCarrying Fair DiffeThousands of Euros amount value rence amount value rence Financial assets Available-for-sale investments 6,336 6,336 7,434 7,434 Trade receivables 146,024 146,024 202,264 202,264 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 77,884 77,884 97,758 97,758 Other debtors and other assets 642,747 642,747 428,231 428,231 Derivative financial instruments 48,879 48,879 25,302 25,302 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 76 76 Cash and cash equivalents 368,623 368,623 255,462 255,462 1,290,493 1,290,493 1,016,527 1,016,527 Financial liabilities Financial debt 3,901,923 4,144,124 242,201 3,665,877 3,634,966 -30,911 Suppliers 637,413 637,413 398,529 398,529 Institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 1,801,963 1,801,963 1,508,495 1,508,495 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 84,432 84,432 113,844 113,844 Other liabilities and other payables 290,600 290,600 238,548 238,548 Derivative financial instruments 412,796 412,796 134,902 134,902 7,129,127 7,371,328 242,201 6,060,195 6,029,284 -30,911 The fair value levels used to valuate EDP Renováveis Group financial assets and liabilities are defined as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active market for identical assets and liabilities; Level 2 Inputs other that quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices); Level 3 Inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Thousands of Euros Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Available-for-sale investments 6,336 7,434 Derivative financial instruments 48,879 25,302 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 76 48,879 6,336 25,378 7,434 Financial liabilities Liabilities arising from options with non-controlling interests 12,760 16,987 Derivative financial instruments 412,796 134,902 412,796 12,760 134,902 16,987 The remaining assets and liabilities are valuated within Level 1 or correspond to assets and liabilities which fair value is the same as its carrying amount. In 2014, does not have transfers between levels. The movement in 2014 and 2013 of the financial assets and liabilities within Level 3 are analysed was as follows: Available Trade for sale investments and other payables 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2014 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 7,434 9,407 16,987 7,785 Gains / (Losses) in other comprehensive income -1,048 -1,973 Purchases 12,650 Fair value changes/Payments 24 74 Disposals -50 -4,251 -3,522 Balance at the end of the year 6,336 7,434 12,760 16,987 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 222 222 222 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE The Trade and other payables within level 3 are related with Liabilities arising from options with non-controlling interests. The movements in 2014 and 2013 of the derivative financial instruments are presented in note 35. 39. ADOPTION OF STANDARDS IFRS 10 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IFRS 11 JOINT ARRANGEMENTS As referred in the note 2 b), the Group adopted the standards IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements with an effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, and restated the comparative periods from 1 January 2013. The impacts of the adoption of these standards are presented as follows: Consolidated Income Statement IFRS 10 Dec 2013 Dec 2013 and 11 restated Thousands of Euros impacts Revenues 1,230,963 -39,717 1,191,246 Income from institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 125,101 125,101 1,356,064 -39,717 1,316,347 Other income 41,726 -365 41,361 Supplies and services -262,795 7,623 -255,172 Personnel costs and employee benefits -66,554 88 -66,466 Other expenses -121,314 5,751 -115,563 -408,937 13,097 -395,840 947,127 -26,620 920,507 Provisions -1,290 -1,290 Amortisation and impairment -472,686 26,485 -446,201 473,151 -135 473,016 Financial income 108,411 -30 108,381 Financial expenses -371,629 1,539 -370,090 Share of net profit in joint ventures and associates 15,909 -1,183 14,726 Profit before tax 225,842 191 226,033 Income tax expense -56,718 -189 -56,907 Net profit for the year 169,124 2 169,126 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP Renováveis 135,116 135,116 Non-controlling interests 34,008 2 34,010 Net profit for the year 169,124 2 169,126 Earnings per share basic and diluted Euros 0.15 0 0.15 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 223 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income IFRS 10 and 11 Dec 2013 Dec 2013 restated impacts Equity Non Equity Non Equity Non Holders of controlling holders of controlling holders of controlling the parent Interests the parent Interests the parent Interests Thousands of Euros Net profit for the year 135,116 34,008 2 135,116 34,010 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial gains / (losses) 14 14 Tax effect of actuarial gains/(losses) -4 -4 10 10 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) -1,204 -770 -1,204 -770 Tax effect of Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 18,177 3,372 -836 17,341 3,372 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -4,837 -947 251 -4,586 -947 Share of other comprehensive income of associates, net of taxes 3,873 4,207 8,080 Fair value reserve (available for sale investments) Exchange differences arising on consolidation -10,589 -14,507 -3,622 -14,211 -14,507 5,420 -12,852 5,420 -12,852 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 5,430 -12,852 5,430 -12,852 Total comprehensive income for the year 140,546 21,156 2 140,546 21,158 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 224 224 224 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Consolidated Statement of Financial Position IFRS 10 and Dec 2013 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros 11 impacts restated Assets Property, plant and equipment 10,358,725 -263,266 10,095,459 Intangible assets 89,796 -1,863 87,933 Goodwill 1,255,725 -42,225 1,213,500 Investments in joint ventures and associates 64,660 273,986 338,646 Available for sale financial assets 7,434 7,434 Deferred tax assets 111,055 -1,842 109,213 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 53,160 53,160 Other debtors and other assets 320,440 -5 320,435 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 74,172 -1,966 72,206 Total Non-Current Assets 12,335,167 -37,181 12,297,986 Inventories 15,489 -64 15,425 Trade receivables 207,189 -4,925 202,264 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 45,768 -1,170 44,598 Other debtors and other assets 133,094 4 133,098 Current tax assets 103,652 -260 103,392 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 76 76 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 6,054 6,054 Cash and cash equivalents 265,229 -9,767 255,462 Total Current Assets 776,551 -16,182 760,369 Total Assets 13,111,718 -53,363 13,058,355 Equity Share capital 4,361,541 4,361,541 Share premium 552,035 552,035 Reserves -69,605 -69,605 Other reserves and Retained earnings 692,179 692,179 Consolidated net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 135,116 135,116 Total Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 5,671,266 5,671,266 Non-controlling Interests 418,230 -173 418,057 Total Equity 6,089,496 -173 6,089,323 Liabilities Medium / Long term financial debt 3,543,805 -22,946 3,520,859 Provisions 68,539 -4,003 64,536 Deferred tax liabilities 383,329 -16,145 367,184 Institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 1,508,495 1,508,495 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 418,140 418,140 Other liabilities and other payables 239,770 -858 238,912 Total Non-Current Liabilities 6,162,078 -43,952 6,118,126 Short term financial debt 148,131 -3,113 145,018 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 478,853 -4,645 474,208 Other liabilities and other payables 134,511 27 134,538 Current tax liabilities 98,649 -1,507 97,142 Total Current Liabilities 860,144 -9,238 850,906 Total Liabilities 7,022,222 -53,190 6,969,032 Total Equity and Liabilities 13,111,718 -53,363 13,058,355 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 225 Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash Flows IFRS 10 and Dec 2013 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros 11 impacts restated Operating activities Cash receipts from customers 1,239,154 -40,691 1,198,463 Payments to suppliers -314,289 8,034 -306,255 Payments to personnel -66,842 91 -66,751 Other receipts / (payments) relating to operating activities -81,256 4,570 -76,686 Net cash from operations 776,767 -27,996 748,771 Income tax received / (paid) -76,655 5,037 -71,618 Net cash from operating activities 700,112 -22,959 677,153 Investing activities Cash receipts relating to: Property, plant and equipment 2,193 2,193 Interest and similar income 3,468 9 3,477 Dividends 1,985 16,261 18,246 Loans to related parties 138,954 138,954 Other receipts from investing activities 2,170 -48 2,122 148,770 16,222 164,992 Cash payments relating to: Acquisition of assets / subsidiaries -46,728 -46,728 Changes in cash resulting from perimeter variations -17,551 -17,551 Property, plant and equipment -809,705 -809,705 Loans to related parties -174,443 -174,443 Other payments in investing activities -1,669 -1,669 -1,032,545 -17,551 -1,050,096 Net cash from investing activities -883,775 -1,329 -885,104 Financing activities Sale of assets / subsidiaries without loss of control 292,143 292,143 Receipts / (payments) relating to loans 1,187 14,242 15,429 Interest and similar costs -49,381 1,280 -48,101 Governmental grants received 90,539 90,539 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -51,610 -51,610 Receipts/(payments) from wind activity institutional partnerships USA -35,579 -35,579 Other cash flows from financing activities -37,293 -858 -38,151 Net cash from financing activities 210,006 14,664 224,670 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 26,343 -9,624 16,719 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held -6,951 -143 -7,094 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 245,837 245,837 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 265,229 -9,767 255,462 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 226 226 226 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 40. RELEVANT AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS EDPR executes a new asset rotation transaction in the US During the third quarter of 2014, EDP Renováveis S.A. (EDPR) has reached an agreement with Fiera Axium Infrastructure U.S. L.P. (Fiera Axium) to sell a minority cash equity interest in a U.S. wind portfolio with a total production capacity of 1,101 MW. Fiera Axium’s interest in the portfolio will represent 394.5 MW and is the second asset rotation transaction announced by EDPR with Fiera Axium, further strengthening the existing partnership. The portfolio is comprised of 9 operating wind farms. All of the wind farms have long-term offtake agreements in place. Based on i) the transaction price and ii) the expected tax equity liabilities of the projects, the total enterprise value on the 1,101 MW portfolio amounts to U.S. 1.7 billion of U.S. Dollar translating to 1.54 million of U.S. Dollar/MW. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals. The offer contemplates an initial funding to occur upon obtaining regulatory approvals and a final funding to occur upon achievement of commercial operations of the assets under construction. Acquisition by EDPR of 45% of the share capital of EDP Renováveis Brasil In November 2014, EDP Renováveis, S.A. and EDP Energias do Brasil (EDP Brasil) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding envisaging the acquisition by EDPR of 45% of the share capital of EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. controlled by EDP Brasil. Following this transaction EDPR will control 100% of the share capital of EDPR Brasil. EDPR Brasil operates 84 MW of wind energy and has in execution 237 MW of wind energy projects with longterm power purchase agreements (PPAs) awarded in the 2011 and 2013 energy auctions. EDPR announces the sale of minority stakes in wind farms in Brazil to CTG In December 2014, EDP Renováveis, S.A. through its subsidiary EDPR Brasil entered into an agreement with CWEI (Brasil) Participações Ltda, a subsidiary of CTG to sell an equity shareholding of 49% in both operational and under development wind farms in Brasil. The transaction scope covers 84 MW in operation, as mentioned above, with an average age of 4 years, as well as 237 MW under development, remunerated according to longterm awarded contracts to sell the electricity produced for 20 years. EDP Renováveis executes project finance for 120 MW in Brazil On 26 January 2015, EDP Renováveis, S.A. (EDPR) has executed project finance structure agreements with the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES) for the Baixa do Feijão project, which comprises four wind farms with a total capacity of 120 MW. The Baixa do Feijão project is currently under construction and is located in the State of Rio Grande do Norte, one of the windiest locations of Brazil. The long-term contracted debt facilities amount to 306 million of Brazilian Reais and its financial closing is subject to customary conditions. The execution of this agreement reflects EDPR financing strategy to contract long-term debt in local currency at competitive prices in order to mitigate the refinancing risk and to reduce the foreign exchange risk by having a natural hedge between revenues and costs. In December 2011, at the Brazilian energy A-5 auction, these four projects were awarded with 20-year Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) starting in January 2016. 41. RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS USED The new standards and interpretations that have been issued and are already effective and that the Group has applied on its consolidated financial statements with significant impact are the following: ● IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in May 2011, IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. This standard introduces a new approach in determining which investments should be consolidated, replacing IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation SPE. This standard establishes a single model to be applied in assessing the existence of control over subsidiaries, where an investor has control over a subsidiary when it is exposed, or has the right, to variable returns arising from its involvement in the subsidiary and has the ability to influence these returns because of the power over it. Additionally, was introduced the concept of de facto control . The Group presents the impact from the adoption of this standard on note 39. ● IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in May 2011, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 227 This standard superseded IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and introduces several changes for accounting jointly controlled investments, the main aspect is the elimination of the option to consolidate joint ventures by the proportional method, being the equity method mandatory. The structure of a joint agreement ceases to be the main factor in determining the accounting model to adopt. The classification of a joint agreement requires the identification and evaluation of the structure, legal form of the contractual agreement and other facts and circumstances. The Group presents the impact from the adoption of this standard on note 39. ● IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in May 2011, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. The information disclosed has to help users of the financial statements evaluate the nature and risks associated with its interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on the financial statements. The main issues considered are as follows: for the interests in subsidiaries, it should be disclosed: (i) the composition of the group; (ii) non-controlling interests; (iii) significant restrictions on the parent's ability to access or use the assets and settle the liabilities of its subsidiaries; (iv) the nature of, and changes in, the risks associated with interests in consolidated structured entities; and (v) changes in its ownership interest that did or did not result in a loss of control during the reporting period; for the interests in joint arrangements and associates, it should be disclosed: (i) the nature, extent and financial effects of its interests in joint arrangements and associates, including information about contractual relationships with other parties; and (ii) the nature of, and the changes in, the associated risks with its interests in joint ventures and associates; for the interests in unconsolidated structured entities, it should be disclosed: (i) the nature and the extent of its interests in unconsolidated structured entities; and (ii) the evaluation of the nature and changes in the risks associated with the interests in unconsolidated structured entities. The disclosures resulted from the adoption of this standard were made in the notes 5 and 18. The new standards and interpretations that have been issued and are already effective and that the Group has applied on its consolidated financial statements with no significant impact are the following: ● IAS 28 (Amended) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; ● IAS 32 (Amended) Financial Instruments: Presentation -Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities; ● IAS 36 (Amended) Impairment of Assets: Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets; ● IAS 39 (Amended) Financial Instruments: Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting; ● Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27. Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the Group ● IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in November 2009, IFRS 9 Financial instruments part I: Classification and measurement, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, being allowed its early adoption. This standard, changed in July 2014, has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This standard is included in the IASB's comprehensive project to replace IAS 39 and relates to issues of classification and measurement of financial assets. The main issues considered are as follows: the financial assets can be classified in two categories: at amortised cost or at fair value. This decision will be made upon the initial recognition of the financial assets. Its classification depends on how the entity presents these financial assets and the contractual cash flows associated to each financial asset in the business; debt instruments can only be measured at amortised cost when the contractual cash-flows represent only principal and interest payments, which means that it contains only basic loan features, and for which an entity holds the asset to collect the contractual cash flows. All the other debt instruments are recognised at fair value; equity instruments issued by third parties are recognised at fair value with subsequent changes recognised in the profit and loss. However an entity could irrevocably select equity instruments at initial recognition for which fair value changes and the realised gain or loss are recognised in fair value reserves. Gains and losses recognised in fair value reserves cannot be recycled to profit and loss. This is a discretionary decision, and does not imply that all the equity instruments should be treated on this basis. The dividends received are recognised as income for the year; the exemption that allows unquoted equity investments and related derivatives to be measured at cost, under IAS 39, is not allowed under IFRS 9; Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 228 228 228 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE changes in fair value attributable to own credit risk of financial liabilities classified as fair value through profit or loss, shall be recognised in Other comprehensive income. The remaining fair value changes related to these financial liabilities shall be recognised through profit or loss. The amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income shall not be reclassified/transferred to profit and loss. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. ● IFRS 11 (Amended) Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in December 2014, IFRS 11 (Amended) Accounting for acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, being allowed its early adoption. This amendment has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This amendment introduces guidance on accounting that should be made in the acquisition of participation in joint operations that qualifies as a business, by applying the principles of IFRS 3 Business Combinations. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this amendments. ● IFRS 15 Revenue from the Contracts with Customers The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in May 2014, IFRS 14 Revenue from the Contracts with Customers, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, being allowed its early adoption. This standard has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This new standard applies only to contracts for the delivery of products or services, and requires an entity to recognize revenue when the contractual obligation to deliver assets or services is satisfied and the amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity is entitled, as provided in the 5 steps methodology . The 5 steps methodology consists in the following steps: (i) identify the contract with a customer; (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to performance obligations; and (v) recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. ● IAS 1 (Amended) Initiative Disclosures The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in December 2014, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, being allowed its early adoption. This amendment has not yet been adopted by the European Union. The following narrow scope amendments have been made to IAS1: Materiality and aggregation: clarifies that an entity should not obscure useful information by aggregating our disaggregating information; and that materiality considerations apply to the primary statements, notes and any specific disclosure requirements in IFRSs, i.e. disclosures specifically required by IFRSs need to be provided only if the information is material; Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income: clarifies that the list of line items specified by IAS 1 for these statements can be disaggregated as relevant. Additional guidance has been on the presentation of subtotals in these statements; Presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income ( OCI ): clarifies that an entity's share of OCI of equity-accounted a in associates and joint ventures should be presented in aggregate as single line items based on whether or not it will subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss; Notes: clarifies that entities have the flexibility when designing the structure of the notes and provides guidance on how to determine a systematic order of the notes. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this amendment. The standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the Group with no significant impact are the following: ● IFRS 10 (Amended) and IAS 28 (Amended) Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture: no significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of these amendments; ● IFRS 10 (Amended), IFRS 12 (Amended) and IAS 28 (Amended) Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception: no significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of these amendments; ● IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts: no significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of this standard; ● IAS 16 (Amended) and IAS 38 (Amended) Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation: no significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of these amendments; ● IFRIC 21 Levies: no significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of this interpretation; Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 229 ● Annual Improvement Project (2010-2012): no significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of this amendment; ● Annual Improvement Project (2011-2013): no significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of this amendment; ● Annual Improvement Project (2012-2014): no significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of this amendment. 42. ENVIRONMENT ISSUES Expenses of environmental nature are the expenses that were identified and incurred to avoid, reduce or repair damages of an environmental nature that result from the Group's normal activity. These expenses are booked in the income statement of the year, except if they qualify to be recognised as an asset, according to IAS 16. During the year, the environmental expenses recognised in the income statement in the amount of 2,849 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 2,813 thousands of Euros) refer to costs with the environmental management plan. As referred in accounting policy 2o), the Group has established provisions for dismantling and decommissioning of property, plant and equipment when a legal or contractual obligation exists to dismantle and decommission those assets at the end of their useful lives. Consequently, the Group has booked provisions for property, plant and equipment related to electricity wind generation for the responsibilities of restoring sites and land to its original condition, in the amount of 96,676 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: 62,461 thousands of Euros) (see note 30). 43. OPERATING SEGMENTS REPORT The Group generates energy from renewable resources and has three reportable segments which are the Group’s business platforms, Europe, North America and Brazil. The strategic business units have operations in different geographic zones and are managed separately because their characteristics are quite different. For each of the strategic business units, the Group’s CEO reviews internal management reports on at least a quarterly basis. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as described in note 3. Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is included in Annex 2. Performance is based on segment operating profit measures, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Management. Segment operating profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. A business segment is an identifiable component of the Group, aimed at providing a single product or service, or a group of related products or services, and it is subject to risks and returns that can be distinguished from those of other business segments. The Group generates energy from renewable sources in several locations and its activity is managed based on the following business segments: ● Europe: refers to EDPR EU Group companies operating in Spain, Portugal, Belgium, France, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania and United Kingdom; ● North America: refers to EDPR NA and EDPR Canada Group companies that operate in United States of America and Canada, respectively; ● Brazil: refers to EDPR Brasil Group companies that operate in this country. Segment definition The amounts reported in each business segment result from the aggregation of the subsidiaries and business units defined in each segment perimeter, including the intra-segment eliminations, without any inter-segment allocation adjustment. The financial information disclosed by each business segment is determined based on the amounts booked directly in the subsidiaries that compose the segment, including the intra-segment eliminations, without any inter-segment allocation adjustment. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 230 230 230 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 44. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES KPMG has audited the consolidated annual accounts of EDP Renováveis Group for 2014 and 2013. This company and the other related entities and persons in accordance with Royal-Decree 1/2011 of 1 July, have invoiced for the year ended in 31 December 2014 and 2013, fees and expenses for professional services, according to the following detail: 31 December 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brasil U.S.A. Other Total Audit and statutory audit of accounts 141 588 138 760 632 2,259 Other audit services 229 17 246 141 817 138 760 649 2,505 Tax consultancy services 53 135 188 Other services 11 3 14 11 53 135 3 202 Total 152 870 138 895 652 2,707 31 December 2013 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brasil U.S.A. Other Total Audit and statutory audit of accounts 194 667 118 798 543 2,320 Other audit services 180 68 104 34 386 374 735 118 902 577 2,706 Tax consultancy services 90 90 Other services 42 12 54 132 12 144 Total 374 867 118 914 577 2,850 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 231 ANNEX 1 The Subsidiary Companies consolidated under the full consolidated method, as at 31 December 2014 and 2013, are as follows: 2014 2013 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights Group's parent holding company and Related Activities: EDP Renováveis, S.A. (Group's parent holding company) Oviedo KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros, S.L. Oviedo KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Europe Geography / Platform: Spain: EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. (Europe Parent Company) Oviedo KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Acampo Arias, S.L. Zaragoza KPMG 98.19% 98.19% 98.19% 98.19% Aplicaciones Industriales de Energías Limpias, S.L. Zaragoza n.a. 61.50% 61.50% 61.50% 61.50% Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de la Terra Alta, S.A. Barcelona n.a. 48.70% 60.63% 48.70% 60.63% Bon Vent de Corbera, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Bon Vent de L'Ebre, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Bon Vent de Vilalba, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Compañía Eólica Campo de Borja, S.A. Zaragoza KPMG 75.83% 75.83% 75.83% 75.83% Desarrollo Eólico Almarchal, S.A.U. Cádiz KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico Buenavista, S.A.U. Cádiz KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico de Corme, S.A. La Coruña KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico de Lugo, S.A.U. Lugo KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico de Tarifa, S.A.U. Cádiz KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico Dumbria, S.A.U. La Coruña KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico Rabosera, S.A. Huesca KPMG 95.08% 95.08% 95.08% 95.08% Desarrollo Eólico Santa Quiteria, S.L. Huesca KPMG 83.96% 100.00% 83.96% 100.00% Desarrollos Catalanes Del Viento, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% Desarrollos Eólicos de Galicia, S.A. La Coruña KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollos Eólicos de Teruel, S.L. Zaragoza n.a. 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% EDP Renovables España, S.L. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renováveis Cantábria, S.L. Madrid n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDPR España Promoción y Operación, S.L.U. (former Eneroliva, S.A.) Sevilla n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Energías Eólicas La Manchuela, S.L.U. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Alfoz, S.L. Madrid KPMG 83.73% 83.73% 83.73% 83.73% Eólica Arlanzón, S.A. Madrid KPMG 77.50% 77.50% 77.50% 77.50% Eólica Campollano, S.A. Madrid KPMG 75.00% 75.00% 75.00% 75.00% Eólica Curiscao Pumar, S.A. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica de Radona, S.L. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Don Quijote, S.L. Albacete KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Dulcinea, S.L. Albacete KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Fontesilva, S.L. La Coruña KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Garcimuñoz, S.L. Madrid n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Guadalteba, S.L. Sevilla KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica La Brújula, S.A. (former Sierra de la Peña, S.A.) Madrid KPMG 84.90% 84.90% 84.90% 84.90% Eólica La Janda, S.L. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica La Navica, S.L. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Muxía, S.L. La Coruña n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Sierra de Avila, S.L. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Iberia Aprovechamientos Eólicos, S.A.U. Zaragoza KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Industrias Medioambientales Río Carrión, S.A. Madrid n.a. 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% Investigación y Desarrollo de Energías Renovables, S.L. León KPMG 59.59% 59.59% 59.59% 59.59% Molino de Caragüeyes, S.L. Zaragoza KPMG 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% NEO Energia Aragón, S.L. Madrid n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eòlic Coll de la Garganta, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eòlic de Coll de Moro, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 60.00% 100.00% 60.00% 100.00% Parc Eòlic de Torre Madrina, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 60.00% 100.00% 60.00% 100.00% Parc Eòlic de Vilalba dels Arcs, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 60.00% 100.00% 60.00% 100.00% Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 232 232 232 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 2013 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights Parc Eòlic Serra Voltorera, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parque Eólico Altos del Voltoya, S.A. Madrid KPMG 61.00% 61.00% 61.00% 61.00% Parque Eólico Belchite, S.L. Zaragoza KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parque Eólico La Sotonera, S.L. Zaragoza KPMG 64.84% 64.84% 64.84% 64.84% Parque Eólico Los Cantales, S.L.U. Zaragoza KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parques de Generación Eólica, S.L. Burgos KPMG 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% Parques Eólicos del Cantábrico, S.A. Oviedo KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Renovables Castilla La Mancha, S.A. Albacete KPMG 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% South África Wind & Solar Power, S.L. Oviedo n/a 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tratamientos Medioambientales del Norte, S.A. Madrid n.a. 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% Portugal: EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. Porto KPMG 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% EDP Renewables, SGPS, S.A. Porto KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDPR PT Promoção e Operação, S.A. Porto KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Arcos de Eólica da Alagoa, S.A. Valdevez KPMG 30.60% 60.00% 30.60% 60.00% Eólica da Serra das Alturas, S.A. Boticas KPMG 25.55% 50.10% 25.55% 50.10% Vila Pouca Eólica de Montenegrelo, Lda de Aguiar KPMG 25.55% 50.10% 25.55% 50.10% Gravitangle Fotovoltaica Unipessoal, Lda Porto KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Malhadizes Energia Eólica, S.A. Porto KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 51.00% 100.00% France: EDP Renewables France, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 51.00% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDPR France Holding, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Bourbriac II, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Canet-Pont de Salars, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 25.99% 50.96% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Gueltas Noyal-Pontivy, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 26.01% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. NEO Truc l'Homme, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Patay, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 26.01% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Saint Barnabe, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 26.01% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Segur, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 26.01% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eolienne de Callengeville, S.A.S. Elbeuf EXCO 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eolienne de Saugueuse, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf KPMG 26.01% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eolienne D'Etalondes, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Le Mee, S.A. R.L. Toulouse KPMG 75.99% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Mardelle, S.A.R.L. Toulouse KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Monts du Forez Energie, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Éolien de Boqueho-Pouagat, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% Parc Éolien de Dammarie, S.A.R.L. (former Parc Eolien D'Ardennes) Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Éolien de Francourville, S.A.S Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien de La Hetroye, S.A.S. Elbeuf KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien de Mancheville, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien de Montagne Fayel, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Éolien de Preuseville, S.A.R.L. (former Parc Eolien des Bocages, S.A.R.L.) Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien de Roman, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Éolien de Tarzy, S.A.R.L. (former Eolienne des Bocages, S.A.R.L.) Elbeuf n.a. 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien de Varimpre, S.A.S. Elbeuf KPMG 26.01% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien des Longs Champs, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien des Vatines, S.A.S. Elbeuf KPMG 26.01% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien d'Escardes, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien du Clos Bataille, S.A.S. Elbeuf KPMG 26.01% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% Petite Piece, S.A.R.L. Toulouse KPMG 75.99% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Plouvien Breiz, S.A.S. Carhaix KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Quinze Mines, S.A.R.L. Toulouse KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Sauvageons, S.A.R.L. Toulouse KPMG 75.99% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Vallée du Moulin, S.A.R.L. Toulouse KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Poland: EDP Renewables Polska, SP. ZO.O Warsaw KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Elektrownia Wiatrowa Kresy I, SP. ZO.O Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Farma Wiatrowa Starozreby, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O. Warsaw KPMG 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 233 2014 2013 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights Karpacka Mala Energetyka, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Korsze Wind Farm SP. ZO.O. Warsaw KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Masovia Wind Farm I, SP. ZO.O Warsaw KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% MFW Gryf SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% MFW Neptun SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% MFW Pomorze SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Molen Wind II, S.P. ZO.O. Warsaw KPMG 65.07% 65.07% 65.07% 65.07% Radziejów Wind Farm, SP. ZO.O Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Relax Wind Park I, SP. ZO.O Warsaw KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Relax Wind Park II, SP. ZO.O Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Relax Wind Park III, SP. ZO.O Warsaw KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Relax Wind Park IV, SP. ZO.O Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Romania: EDP Renewables Romania, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% Cernavoda Power, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% Cujmir Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDPR-RO-PV, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDPR RO Trading, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Foton Delta, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Foton Epsilon, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pestera Wind Farm, S.A. Bucharest KPMG 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% VS Wind Farm, S.A. Bucharest KPMG 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% Potelu Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% S.C. Ialomita Power, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 85.00% 85.00% Sibioara Wind Farm, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% Studina Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Vanju Mare Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain: EDPR UK Limited Cardiff KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% MacColl Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff n.a. 66.64% 100.00% 66.64% 100.00% Moray Offshore Renewables Limited Cardiff KPMG 66.64% 66.64% 66.64% 66.64% Stevenson Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff n.a. 66.64% 100.00% 66.64% 100.00% Telford Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff n.a. 66.64% 100.00% 66.64% 100.00% Italy: EDP Renewables Italia, S.R.L. Milano KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Castellaneta Wind, S.R.L. Milano n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Laterza Wind, S.R.L. Milano n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Monts de la Madeleine Energie, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pietragalla Eolico, S.R.L. Milano KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Re Plus S.R.L. Milano n.a. 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% Repano Wind S.R.L. Milano n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Villa Castelli Wind, S.R.L. Milano KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% WinCap, S.R.L. Milano KPMG 100.00% 100.00% Belgium: EDP Renewables Belgium Brussels KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Louvain-laGreenwind, S.A. Neuve KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Holland: Tarcan, BV Amsterdam KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% North America Geography / Platform: USA: EDP Renewables North America, L.L.C. (USA Parent Company) Texas, USA KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 17th Star Wind Farm, L.L.C. Ohio n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2007 Vento I, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2007 Vento II, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 51.00% 100.00% 2008 Vento III, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2009 Vento IV, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2009 Vento V, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2009 Vento VI, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2010 Vento VII, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2010 Vento VIII, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2011 Vento IX, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2011 Vento X, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 234 234 234 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 2013 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights 2012 Vento XI, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2014 Vento XII, LLC Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 2014 Sol I, LLC Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% Alabama Ledge Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Antelope Ridge Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Arbuckle Mountain, L.L.C. Oklahoma n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Arkwright Summit Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Arlington Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Aroostook Wind Energy, L.L.C. Maine n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Ashford Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Athena-Weston Wind Power Project II, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Athena-Weston Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% AZ Solar, L.L.C. Arizona n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% BC2 Maple Ridge Holdings, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% BC2 Maple Ridge Wind, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Black Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Black Prairie Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Black Prairie Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Wind Power VII, L.L.C. Oklahoma n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower II, L.L.C. Oklahoma KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower III, L.L.C. Oklahoma n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower IV, L.L.C. Oklahoma n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower V, L.L.C. Oklahoma KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower VI, L.L.C. Oklahoma KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Broadlands Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Broadlands Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Broadlands Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Buffalo Bluff Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Chateaugay River Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Clinton County Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cloud County Wind Farm, L.L.C. Kansas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cloud West Wind Project, L.L.C. Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Coos Curry Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cropsey Ridge Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Crossing Trails Wind, Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Dairy Hills Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Diamond Power Partners, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% East Klickitat Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eastern Nebraska Wind Farm, L.L.C. Nebraska n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDPR Wind Ventures X, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDPR Wind Ventures XI, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDPR Wind Ventures XII, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% EDPR Solar Ventures I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Five-Spot, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Ford Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Franklin Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Green Country Wind Farm LLC Oklahoma n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Green Power Offsets, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Gulf Coast Windpower Management Company, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Headwaters Wind Farm, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Hidalgo Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% High Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Minnesota KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 51.00% 100.00% High Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Chocolate Bayou I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Midwest IX, L.L.C. Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest I, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest IV, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest VII, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 235 2014 2013 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights Horizon Wind Energy Northwest X, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest XI, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Panhandle I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest I, L.L.C. New Mexico n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest II, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest III, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest IV, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Valley I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind MREC Iowa Partners, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures IB, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 51.00% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures IC, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures II, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures III, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures IX, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures VI, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures VII, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures VIII, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind, Freeport Windpower I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wyoming Transmission, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Jericho Rise Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Juniper Wind Power Partners, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lone Valley Solar Park I, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lone Valley Solar Park II, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lost Lakes Wind Farm, L.L.C. Iowa KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Machias Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Madison Windpower, L.L.C. New York KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Marble River, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Martinsdale Wind Farm, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Indiana KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Wind Farm, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Windfarm III, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Mesquite Wind, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% New Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% North Slope Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Number Nine Wind Farm, L.L.C. Maine n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Old Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 51.00% 100.00% OPQ Property, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pacific Southwest Wind Farm, L.L.C. Arizona n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Paulding Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Ohio KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Paulding Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Ohio n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Paulding Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Ohio n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Paulding Wind Farm, L.L.C. Ohio n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Peterson Power Partners, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pioneer Prairie Interconnection, L.L.C. Iowa n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pioneer Prairie Wind Farm I, L.L.C. Iowa KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pioneer Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Iowa n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Post Oak Wind, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 51.00% 100.00% Quilt Block Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wisconsin n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rail Splitter, L.L.C. Illinois KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rio Blanco Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rising Tree Wind Farm II, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rising Tree Wind Farm III, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rising Tree Wind Farm, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rush County Wind Farm, L.L.C Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Saddleback Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Sagebrush Power Partners, L.L.C. Washington KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Sardinia Windpower, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Signal Hill Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 236 236 236 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 2013 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights Simpson Ridge Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Stinson Mills Wind Farm, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Stone Wind Power, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Sustaining Power Solutions, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Telocaset Wind Power Partners, L.L.C. Oregon KPMG 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% The Nook Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tug Hill Windpower, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tumbleweed Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Turtle Creek Wind Farm, L.L.C. Iowa n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Verde Wind Power, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Waverly Wind Farm, L.L.C. Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Western Trail Wind Project I, L.L.C. Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Wheatfield Holding, L.L.C. Oregon KPMG 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% Wheatfield Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Whiskey Ridge Power Partners, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Whistling Wind WI Energy Center, L.L.C. Wisconsin n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Whitestone Wind Purchasing, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Wilson Creek Power Partners, L.L.C. Nevada n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Wind Turbine Prometheus, L.P. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% WTP Management Company, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Canada: EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renewables Canada GP, Ltd. Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renewables Canada LP, Ltd. Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SBWFI GP, Inc. Ontario n.a. 51.00% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% South Dundas Wind Farm LP Ontario n.a. 51.00% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% South America Geography / Platform: Brazil: EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. São Paulo KPMG 55.00% 55.00% 55.00% 55.00% Central Eólica Aventura, S. A. São Paulo n.a. 55.00% 100.00% Central Eólica Jau, S. A. (former Central Eólica Aventura, S. A.) São Paulo KPMG 55.00% 100.00% 55.00% 100.00% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão I, S.A. São Paulo KPMG 55.00% 100.00% 55.00% 100.00% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão II, S.A. São Paulo KPMG 55.00% 100.00% 55.00% 100.00% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão III, S.A. São Paulo KPMG 55.00% 100.00% 55.00% 100.00% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão IV, S.A. São Paulo KPMG 55.00% 100.00% 55.00% 100.00% Santa Central Nacional de Energia Eólica, S.A. Catarina KPMG 55.00% 100.00% 55.00% 100.00% Elebrás Projectos, Ltda Rio Grande do Sul KPMG 55.00% 100.00% 55.00% 100.00% South Africa Geography / Platform: South Africa: EDP Renewables South Africa, Proprietary, Ltd Cape Town Mazars 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Dejann Trading and Investments, Proprietary, Ltd Cape Town Mazars 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Jouren Trading and Investments, Proprietary, Ltd Cape Town Mazars 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 237 The main financial indicators of the jointly controlled companies included in the consolidation under the proportionate consolidation method as at 31 December 2014, are as follows: % of % voting Company Share Capital Head Office Auditor of capital rights Ceprastur, A.I.E. € 360,607 Oviedo n.a. 56.76% 56.76% Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. € 6,701,165 Zaragosa Deloitte 50.00% 50.00% Desarrollos Energéticos Canarios S.A. € 37,564 Las Palmas n.a. 49.90% 49.90% Ciudad de Eólica de Coahuila, S. de R.L. de C.V. $114,443 Mexico n.a. 99.97% 99.97% HispaEvolución 2000, S.L. € 117,994 Albacete control 49.15% 49.15% Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. $528,626,287 New York E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. $207,447,187 New York E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Tebar Eólica, S.A. € 4,720,400 Cuenca Abante 50.00% 50.00% The main financial indicators of the jointly controlled companies included in the consolidation under the proportionate consolidation method as at 31 December 2013, are as follows: % of % voting Company Share Capital Head Office Auditor of capital rights Ceprastur, A.I.E. € 360,607 Oviedo n.a. 56.76% 56.76% Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. € 6,701,165 Zaragosa Deloitte 50.00% 50.00% Desarrollos Energéticos Canarios S.A. € 15,025 Las Palmas n.a. 49.90% 49.90% HispaEvolución 2000, S.L. € 117,994 Albacete control 49.15% 49.15% Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. $522,818,885 New York E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. $207,447,187 New York E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Tebar Eólica, S.A. € 4,720,400 Cuenca Abante 50.00% 50.00% The Associated Companies included in the consolidation under the equity method as at 31 December 2014, are as follows: % of % voting Company Share Capital Head Office Auditor of capital rights Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de L'Ebre, S.A. € 3,869,020 Barcelona n.a. 18.97% 38.96% Biomasas del Pirineo, S.A. € 454,896 Huesca PWC 30.00% 30.00% Blue Canyon Wind Power I, L.L.C. $44,594,480 Oklahoma n.a. 25.00% 25.00% Cultivos Energéticos de Castilla, S.A. € 300,000 Burgos n.a. 30.00% 30.00% Desarollos Eolicos de Canárias, S.A. € 3,191,580 Gran Canaria KPMG 44.75% 44.75% ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, S.A. € 25,247,525 Lisboa Mazars 35.96% 35.96% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Dieppe Le Tréport, Bois SAS € 4,367,538 Guillaume E&Y 43.00% 43.00% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Vendée, SAS € 4,804,914 Nantes E&Y 43.00% 43.00% Modderfontein Wind Energy Project, Ltd. 1,000 ZAR Cape Town n.a. 42.50% 42.50% Parque Eólico Belmonte, S.A. € 120,400 Asturias KPMG 29.90% 29.90% Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero, S.A. € 7,194,021 Soria E&Y 42.00% 42.00% SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited £1 Edinburgh Deloitte 49.00% 49.00% Solar Siglo XXI, S.A. € 80,000 Ciudad Real n.a. 25.00% 25.00% Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 238 238 238 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE The Associated Companies included in the consolidation under the equity method as at 31 December 2013, are as follows: % of % voting Company Share Capital Head Office Auditor of capital rights Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de L'Ebre, S.A. € 3,869,020 Barcelona n.a. 18.97% 38.96% Biomasas del Pirineo, S.A. € 454,896 Huesca PWC 30.00% 30.00% Blue Canyon Wind Power I, L.L.C. $47,835,419 Oklahoma n.a. 25.00% 25.00% Cultivos Energéticos de Castilla, S.A. € 300,000 Burgos n.a. 30.00% 30.00% Desarollos Eolicos de Canárias, S.A. € 3,191,580 Gran Canaria KPMG 44.75% 44.75% ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, S.A. € 25,247,525 Lisboa Mazars 35.96% 35.96% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Dieppe Le Tréport, Bois SAS € 40,000 Guillaume E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Vendée, SAS € 40,000 Nantes E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Modderfontein Wind Energy Project, Ltd. 1,000 ZAR Cape Town n.a. 42.50% 42.50% Parque Eólico Belmonte, S.A. € 120,400 Asturias KPMG 29.90% 29.90% Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero, S.A. € 7,194,021 Soria n.a. 42.00% 42.00% SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited £1 Edinburgh Deloitte 49.00% 49.00% Solar Siglo XXI, S.A. € 80,000 Ciudad Real KPMG 25.00% 25.00% The summarised financial information for subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests as at 31 December 2014, are as follows: EDP Desarrollos EDP Parque Renováveis Cernavoda Catalanes Renewables Eólico Altos Portugal, Power, Del Viento France, de Voltoya, Thousands of Euros S.A. S.R.L. S.L. S.A.S. S.A. Non-Current Assets Current Assets 41,258 4,167 1,958 11,409 2,251 Non-Current Liabilities 398,672 8,670 33,874 115,554 Current Liabilities 5,379 161 1,140 83 Revenues -0 -3 Net profit for the year 14,782 -8,072 1,236 -52,661 16,259 Dividends paid to Non-controlling interests 29,999 Wheatfield South EDP Wind Power Wheatfield Dundas Renováveis 2007 Vento Project, Holding Wind Farm Thousands of Euros Brasil, S.A. II, L.L.C. L.L.C. L.L.C. LP Non-Current Assets Current Assets 650 9,433 1,334 3,582 Non-Current Liabilities 23,683 379 Current Liabilities 148 111 Revenues Net profit for the year -5,403 -3,500 24,227 -249 Dividends paid to Non-controlling interests Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 239 ANNEX 2 GROUP ACTIVITY BY OPERATING SEGMENT OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION FOR THE YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 North Segments Thousands of Euros Europe America Brazil Total Revenues 746,932 382,031 25,136 1,154,099 Income from institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 123,582 123,582 746,932 505,613 25,136 1,277,681 Other operating income 26,553 17,024 14 43,591 Supplies and services -141,382 -108,760 -6,118 -256,260 Personnel costs and Employee benefits expenses -22,379 -27,821 -1,334 -51,534 Other operating expenses -65,247 -26,774 -2,412 -94,433 -202,455 -146,331 -9,850 -358,636 Gross operating profit 544,477 359,282 15,286 919,045 Provisions -21 -21 Amortisation and impairment -269,196 -202,440 -5,907 -477,543 Operating profit 275,260 156,842 9,379 441,481 Share of profit of associates 33,310 241 33,551 Assets 6,108,684 6,255,041 162,478 12,526,203 Liabilities 259,919 922,548 4,980 1,187,447 Operating Investment 141,717 543,016 25,462 710,195 Note: The Segment ‘Europe’ includes: i) revenues in the amount of 347,928 thousands of Euros from Spanish companies, of which 31,567 thousands of Euros generated outside of Spain; ii) assets from Spanish companies in the amount of 1,976,737 thousands of Euros. Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 240 240 240 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Reconciliation between the Segment Information and the Financial Statements Thousands of Euros Revenues of the Reported Segments 1,154,099 Revenues of Other Segments 13,172 Elimination of intra-segment transactions (14,145) Revenues of the EDPR Group 1,153,126 Gross operating profit of the Reported Segments 919,045 Gross operating profit of Other Segments (15,561) Elimination of intra-segment transactions (288) Gross operating profit of the EDPR Group 903,196 Operating profit of the Reported Segments 441,481 Operating profit of Other Segments (16,941) Elimination of intra-segment transactions (2,131) Operating profit of the EDPR Group 422,409 Assets of the Reported Segments 12,526,203 Not Allocated Assets 1,730,579 Financial Assets 825,488 Tax assets 135,581 Debtors and other assets 769,510 Assets of Other Segments 2,861 Elimination of intra-segment transactions 56,676 Assets of the EDPR Group 14,316,319 Liabilities of the Reported Segments 1,187,447 Not Allocated Liabilities 6,800,670 Financial Liabilities 3,901,924 Institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 1,801,963 Tax liabilities 327,096 Payables and other liabilities 769,687 Liabilities of Other Segments 15,860 Elimination of intra-segment transactions (18,417) Liabilities of the EDPR Group 7,985,560 Operating Investment of the Reported Segments 710,195 Operating Investment of Other Segments 100 Operating Investment of the EDPR Group 710,295 Elimination Total of the of intraTotal of Reported Other segment the EDPR Segments Segments transactions Group Other operating income 43,591 2,290 (214) 45,667 Supplies and services (256,260) (14,420) 14,035 (256,645) Personnel costs and Employee benefits expenses (51,534) (14,560) 1 (66,093) Other operating expenses (94,433) (2,043) 35 (96,441) Provisions (21) 1 (20) Amortisation and impairment (477,543) (1,380) (1,844) (480,767) Share of profit of associates 33,551 (264) (11,531) 21,756 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 241 GROUP ACTIVITY BY OPERATING SEGMENT (*) OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION FOR THE YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 North Segments Thousands of Euros Europe America Brazil Total Revenues 819,907 347,788 24,290 1,191,985 Income from institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 125,101 125,101 819,907 472,889 24,290 1,317,086 Other operating income 11,655 30,030 41,685 Supplies and services -138,086 -108,007 -7,829 -253,922 Personnel costs and Employee benefits expenses -25,537 -28,769 -1,142 -55,448 Other operating expenses -77,690 -36,642 -869 -115,201 -229,658 -143,388 -9,840 -382,886 Gross operating profit 590,249 329,501 14,450 934,200 Provisions -97 -1,167 -25 -1,289 Amortisation and impairment -234,700 -199,435 -6,417 -440,552 Operating profit 355,452 128,899 8,008 492,359 Share of profit of associates 30,302 -3,084 27,218 Assets 6,217,056 5,201,576 142,438 11,561,070 Liabilities 346,110 513,267 2,025 861,402 Operating Investment 387,259 121,867 24,902 534,028 Note: The Segment ‘Europe’ includes: i) revenues in the amount of 442,711 thousands of Euros from Spanish companies, of which 20,599 thousands of Euros generated outside of Spain; ii) assets from Spanish companies in the amount of 2,509,495 thousands of Euros. (*) Restated for the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 242 242 242 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE (*) Reconciliation between the Segment Information and the Financial Statements Thousands of Euros Revenues of the Reported Segments 1,191,985 Revenues of Other Segments 12,418 Elimination of intra-segment transactions (13,157) Revenues of the EDPR Group 1,191,246 Gross operating profit of the Reported Segments 934,200 Gross operating profit of Other Segments (13,694) Elimination of intra-segment transactions 1 Gross operating profit of the EDPR Group 920,507 Operating profit of the Reported Segments 492,359 Operating profit of Other Segments (14,906) Elimination of intra-segment transactions (4,437) Operating profit of the EDPR Group 473,016 Assets of the Reported Segments 11,561,070 Not Allocated Assets 1,443,773 Financial Assets 679,878 Tax assets 212,605 Debtors and other assets 551,290 Assets of Other Segments 5,709 Elimination of intra-segment transactions 47,803 Assets of the EDPR Group 13,058,355 Liabilities of the Reported Segments 861,402 Not Allocated Liabilities 6,110,463 Financial Liabilities 3,665,877 Institutional partnerships in U.S. wind farms 1,508,495 Tax liabilities 464,326 Payables and other liabilities 471,765 Liabilities of Other Segments 10,662 Elimination of intra-segment transactions (13,495) Liabilities of the EDPR Group 6,969,032 Operating Investment of the Reported Segments 534,028 Operating Investment of Other Segments 2,437 Operating Investment of the EDPR Group 536,465 Elimination Total of the of intraTotal of Reported Other segment the EDPR Segments Segments transactions Group Other operating income 41,685 81 (405) 41,361 Supplies and services (253,922) (14,737) 13,487 (255,172) Personnel costs and Employee benefits expenses (55,448) (11,017) (1) (66,466) Other operating expenses (115,201) (439) 77 (115,563) Provisions (1,289) (1) (1,290) Amortisation and impairment (440,552) (1,212) (4,437) (446,201) Share of profit of associates 27,218 (12,492) 14,726 (*) Restated for the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 243 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE ON SCIRF Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 244 244 244 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE ON FINANCIAL INFORMATION Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 245 AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 246 246 246 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 247 AUDITOR’S REPORT ON SCIRF Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 248 248 248 EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 254 250 254 EDPR EDPR EDP ·· 2014 ANNUAL 2014 ANNUAL RENOVÁVEIS, ENERGY REPORT AND SUBSIDIARIES · 2014 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS S.A.REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS Access roads Cash-Flow EPS Access roads allow access to a wind Amount of cash generated and Earnings per share. The portion of a energy project site and individual used by a company in a given company's profit allocated to each wind turbine location during the period. Cash flow can be used as an outstanding share of common development, construction, and the indication of a company’s financial stock. operational phases of a wind strength. energy project. Access roads are constructed for long-term use and built to accommodate heavy equipment and maintenance Equity Consolidation vehicles throughout the life of the Curtailment Accounting process of treating project. The forced shut-down of some or equity investments, in associate all of the wind turbine generators companies. Equity account is within a wind farm to mitigate usually applied where the entity issues associated with turbine holds 20-50% of voting stock. loading export to the grid, or Asset Rotation certain planning conditions. Strategy aimed at crystallising the Curtailment is controlled by the value of a project by selling a regional transmission operator. minority stake in an asset and Feed in Tariffs reinvesting the proceeds in another Remuneration framework that asset, targeting greater growth. guarantees that a company will receive a set price from their utility, Dividend Pay-out Ratio applied to all of the electricity they Measures the percentage of a generate and provide to the grid. company’s net income that is given Availability to shareholders in the form The percentage of time a wind dividends. (Total Annual Dividends turbine is technically available to per Share / Earnings per Share). capture the wind resource and Financial Investment convert it to electricity. An asset in which to put money into with the expectation of obtaining gains or an appreciation in to a Dividend Policy larger sum of money. Set of guidelines a company uses Blades to decide how much of its earnings The large “arms” of wind turbines it will pay out to shareholders. that extend from the hub of a generator. Most turbines have Forex either two or three blades. Wind The market in which currencies are blowing over the blades causes the traded. blades to “lift” and rotate. EBITDA An accounting measure calculated using a company’s net earnings, before interest expenses, taxes, depreciation and amortization are Greenhouse gases Capex subtracted, as a proxy for a Gases that trap the heat of the sun Capital Expenditure. Funds used by company’s current operating in the Earth's atmosphere, a company to acquire or upgrade profitability. producing the greenhouse effect; physical assets such as property, the two major greenhouse gases industrial buildings or equipment are water vapour and carbon (ex: construction of wind farms). dioxide; lesser greenhouse gases include methane, ozone, ENEOP (Eólicas de Portugal) chlorofluorocarbons, and nitrogen A consortium created to win a wind oxides. energy tender in 2005-2006. The Carbon dioxide (CO2) bid was designed to promote A heavy colourless gas that does renewable energy as part of an not support combustion, dissolves industrial policy whereby all the in water to form carbonic acid, is steps form turbines design to Gross Profit formed especially in animal operation would be located in An accounting measure calculated respiration and in the decay or Portugal. ENEOP won the first and using a company’s revenue minus combustion of animal and biggest exploitation license at its cost of goods sold. Gross profit vegetable matter, is absorbed from 1,335 MW, of which EDPR holds a is a company’s residual profit for the air by plants in photosynthesis, 40% economic interest (533 MW). selling a product or service and and is used in the carbonation of deducting the cost associated with beverages. its production and sale. EDPR · 2014 ANNUAL REPORT EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES EDPR · 2014 ENERGY ANNUAL · 2014 ANNUAL THAT MAKES AACCOUNTS REPORT DIFFERENCE ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 25 251 255 GW MWh Renewable Energy Unit of electric power equal to one Equal to 1,000 kilowatts of Energy that is derived from billion watts, one thousand electricity used continuously for one resources that are regenerative or megawatts (MW). Watts are the hour that cannot be depleted including yardstick for measuring power. wind energy, solar, biomass, geothermal, and moving water. Net Capacity Factor (NCF) Also known as alternative energy. The ratio of a plant’s actual output over a period of time, to its Hedging potential output if it were possible Risk management strategy used in for it to operate at full nameplate limiting or offsetting probability of capacity continuously over the Renewable Energy Credits (REC) loss from fluctuations in the prices same period of time. Also known as A REC represents the property of commodities, currencies, or Load Factor. rights to the environmental, social, securities. and other non-power qualities of renewable electricity generation. A REC can be sold separately from the electricity associated with a Net Debt renewable energy generation Installed Capacity A metric that shows a company’s source. Capacity installed and ready to overall debt situation calculated produce energy. using company’s total debt less cash on hand. Watt (W) The rate of energy transfer LEAN equivalent to one ampere under an A production philosophy that Net Investment electrical pressure of one volt. One considers the expenditure of Equals (Capex + Financial watt equals 1/746 horsepower, or resources in any aspect other than investments – Financial one joule per second. It is the the direct creation of value for the divestments). product of voltage and current end customer to be wasteful, and (amperage). thus a target for elimination. Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) Wind energy Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE) A legal contract between an Power generated by converting the Levelized cost of electricity electricity generator (provider) and mechanical energy of the wind into provides a common way to a power purchaser (host).The electrical energy through the use of compare the cost of energy across power purchaser buys energy, and a wind generator. technologies. LCOE takes into sometimes also capacity and/or account the installed system price ancillary services, from the and associated costs such as electricity generator. financing, land, insurance, transmission, operation and Wind farm maintenance, and depreciation. The Wind farm is used in reference to LCOE is a true apples-to-apples the land, wind turbine generators, comparison of electricity costs and Production Tax Credit (PTC) electrical equipment, and is the most common measure used The result of the Energy Policy Act transmission lines for the purpose by electric utilities or purchasers of of 1992, a commercial tax credit of generating wind energy and power to evaluate the financial that applies to wholesale electrical alternative energy. viability and attractiveness of a generators of wind energy facilities wind energy project. based upon the amount of energy generated in a year. Publication EDP Renováveis, S.A. Plaza de la Gesta, 2 33007 Oviedo, Spain Printing Ocyan Print run 50 Units Legal deposit 291932/09 April 2015 Additional information For further information about EDP Renováveis visit www.edpr.com where an electronic version of the 2014 Annual Report is also available. Printed on paper made with ECF ­– Elementary Chlorine Free – cellulose with ISO 9001, Environmental Management ISO 14001 and forestry FSC certification. Paper from forests subjected to a sustained scientific reforestation process.
