Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Brewing a Better World Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Our Sustainability Report 2014 GM Foreword HEINEKEN Hrvatska is a part of the HEINEKEN Company. It Branka Slaveska Managing Director of HEINEKEN Hrvatska holds a strong number two position on the Croatian beer market. Sustainability is one of our core business priorities, and Brewing a Better World is our strategic focus. 329 Our mission: Contents Our rich tradition and 01 GM Foreword We want to produce beer for the next 160 respect for the highest standards of quality The big picture years, so we put a lot of effort to make our Employees create innovative beer 02 Brewing a Better World business and all our operations sustainable. 7 03 Our 2020 commitments brands that deliver unique 04 From barley to bar experiences and 06 What we said and what we’ve done contribute to the enjoyment of life. By Our focus areas Brands respecting safety rules 08 Protecting water resources In 2014 we celebrated the 160th Youth as well as internally among our to technical improvements and and being responsible 10 Reducing CO2 emissions anniversary of producing high quality employees with the initiative Enjoy investments, in 2014 we decreased towards our consumers, 12 Sourcing sustainably beer in our brewery in Karlovac. We Responsibly Day. Each one of us the specific water consumption by 9%, customers, employees and 14 Advocating responsible consumption are proud of our rich brewing tradition influences this issue by what we do, the specific thermal energy the local community, we 16 Promoting health and safety and at the same time, we are focused what we say and who we say it to. consumption by 8% and the total ensure the sustainability 18 Growing with communities on the future. We want to produce Let’s choose to make that influence a specific energy consumption by 5%. of our business. beer for the next 160 years, so we put positive one. The specific direct and indirect CO2 Our ways of working a lot of effort to make our business emission was slightly higher: 1% in 18 Values and behaviours Our vision: and all our operations sustainable. We are part of a global company but comparison with 2013 while the We want to lead the Other information we take care of our local community specific electric consumption market focusing on value 20 HEINEKEN’s global benchmarks and One of the biggest risks for our as well. In 2014 we have taken an increased by 6%. and sustainability through achievements business is harmful and excessive important step forward in sourcing exceptional brand consumption of alcohol. While most sustainably: we launched a project to Looking forward to the future in which experiences, beer people enjoy our products responsibly, ensure that we use Croatian barley for we will contribute to brew a better category vision and a minority do not. However, no one our Karlovačko. We want to support world! engaged and safe wins from excessive drinking. There is Croatian agriculture because we employees. nothing to be gained: not for our believe in its potential and its business, not for individuals, not for capability to produce high quality raw Our values: society. materials. This is just a start of a wider Branka Slaveska Winning Spirit plan for the company’s future Managing Director of HEINEKEN Passion for Quality Beer can be a part of a healthy and business – to further increase the Hrvatska Teamwork balanced lifestyle if consumed amount of locally sourced materials in Responsibility moderately, and we want to see our our beer production. Customer Satisfaction brands consumed in a positive way. Respect We actively promote responsible Furthermore, we constantly try to Integrity consumption externally throughout decrease the negative impact of our Enjoyment of Life For the global Sustainability Report 2014, projects I’m 18+ and For Responsible operations on the environment. Due including detailed performance data and moving images visit: www.theheinekencompany.com/sustainability HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 01 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Brewing a Better World HEINEKEN’s 2020 commitments Brewing a Better World is HEINEKEN’s longEach focus area is underpinned by clear term approach to sustainability and one of our commitments that state HEINEKEN’s key operational priorities for the business. ambitions for 2020, with three-year milestones to be achieved by 2015. Over the last few years HEINEKEN seemingly small but philosophically some point in the future. has taken some important steps to important step and changed the Furthermore, HEINEKEN added two make sustainability a business name of it’s sustainability approach new focus areas Promoting health Protecting water resources imperative rather than something from ‘Brewing a Better Future’ to and safety and Growing with • Reduce specific water consumption in the breweries by 30%1 to 3.5 hl/hl that lies outside normal business ‘Brewing a Better World’. The communities to it’s four existing • Aim for significant water compensation/balancing by our production units operations. Today, it is one of company feels that this better commitment areas: Protecting water in water-scarce and distressed areas. HEINEKEN’s six key business reflects that the work HEINEKEN is resources, Reducing CO2 emissions, Reducing CO2 emissions priorities. doing has a global impact today and Sourcing sustainably and Advocating • In production by 40%1 In 2014, the company took another, not just for some of the world at responsible consumption. • Of our fridges by 50%2 • Of distribution by 20%3 in Europe and the Americas. Sourcing sustainably • Aim for at least 50% of our main raw materials from sustainable sources • Deliver 60% of agricultural raw materials in Africa via local sourcing within Our strategy the continent • Ongoing compliance with our Supplier Code procedure. Advocating responsible consumption • Make responsible consumption aspirational through Heineken® Protecting Reducing CO2 • Every market in scope has and reports publicly on a measurable partnership water emissions aimed at addressing alcohol abuse resources • Deliver global industry commitments. Advocating Promoting health and safety (2015 targets) Sourcing • In production: reduce accident frequency by 10% Our focus responsible sustainably • Outside production: 90% of markets at 75% of sites reporting at least one near miss per quarter consumption • Sales: 2,000 sales manages trained in road safety • Company-wide: e-learning completed by 90% of markets with 90% employees trained. Promoting Growing with Growing with communities health communities • Suporting communities in which we operate to foster ‘inclusive growth’ and safety • Bottom-up philosophy with local targets where applicable. • Passion for quality Our values • Brands that people love 1 Baseline 2008 • Enjoyment of life 2 Baseline 2010 • Respect for people and planet 3 Baseline 2011 02 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 03 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information From barley to bar From From barley barley to bar to bar HEINEKEN’s approach to sustainability covers the entire value chain. AgricultureMalting Agriculture Malting Brewing BrewingPackaging Packaging Distribution Distribution C Custo From barley to bar Agriculture Malting From Brewing barley Packaging to bar Distribution Customer Consumer networks. HEINEKEN devises innovative solutions such as electric-powered delivery trucks in the Netherlands, and the company is Agriculture Malting Brewing Packaging Distribution Customer Consumer increasing the share of lightweight Focus areas Agriculture Brewing trailers in its contracted fleet. On the global level, HEINEKEN HEINEKEN continues to expand the began auditing its supplier use of power from on-site generated From barley to bar Water sustainability practices with SGS, an biogas and the use of renewables external audit company. It continued through projects such as Solar to work with the Sustainable Electricity in Tadcaster, UK. In Agriculture Initiative (SAI) and the addition, the company continued to CO2 Agriculture Malting Brewing Cool Farm Alliance. HEINEKEN Packaging Distribution reduce its specific energy and water Customers Customer Consu Hrvatska started a local project of consumption in brewing. Most of our beers and ciders are using Croatian barley for Karlovačko enjoyed cold and are cooled by beer production. With Slavonija slad, fridges or draught equipment at the Sourcing Poljoprivredno prehrambeni point of sale. HEINEKEN continues to From barley to bar kompleks (PPK) and the Osijek Agricultural Institute as project strengthen the green standards for our cooling equipment, which not partners, the company is committed only reduces energy consumption From barley to bar Responsible consumption Agriculture Malting BrewingPackaging to purchasing and encouraging the use of barley that comes from HEINEKEN material Packaging continues to innovate,Distribution but also costs. In 2014, our Customer customers globally saved a total of C From barley to bar Croatian fields. and encourages innovation from our suppliers. The company launched EUR19.91 million in electricity charges, equal to the annual Agriculture Malting Brewing Packaging Distribution Customer THE SUB®, an energy-efficient home Consumer electricity consumption of 46,000 Promoting health and safety draught beer system complete with households in the Netherlands. Agriculture Malting Brewing Packaging Distribution Customer TORP®, a fully recyclable 2-litre PET Consumer keg. Malting Growing with communities HEINEKEN malts barley in its own malteries and also buys malt from third parties. The company focuses Consumers on energy and water reduction HEINEKEN continues to advocate Ways of working programmes and continues to responsible consumption through Distribution engage suppliers in discussions campaigns such as ‘Dance More, Wherever HEINEKEN can, the Values and behaviours related to these topics. In 2014, Drink Slow’ and we expand our company optimises its distribution by energy consumption per ton of partnerships with NGOs, • Passion for quality • Enjoyment of life changing the form of transport, produced malt on global level was governments and other parties to • Brands that people love • Respect for people and planet training drivers, using more efficient more than 10% lower compared with address alcohol-related harm. engines, improved design of vehicles 2008. For water consumption, the and re-assessment of distribution improvement was even larger: 26%. 04 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 05 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information What we said and what we’ve done Local progress Local progress Focus area Our global commitment for 2015 What we’ve done globally in 2014 What we’ve done in Croatia in 2014 Focus area Our global commitment for 2015 What we’ve done globally in 2014 What we’ve done in Croatia in 2014 indicator indicator Reduce our specific water We achieved our 2015 target a Water consumption decreased Aim for sustainable sourcing In 2014 we sourced sustainably: HEINEKEN Hrvatska sourced consumption in the breweries year early and decreased water to 4.2 hl/hl. This is a decrease of of raw materials for crop 92% of agricultural raw barley: 15% to 3.9 hl/hl1 consumption to 3.9 hl/hl 9% compared to last year year 2015: 20% (barley), materials locally. Specifically, hops: 62% 40% (hops), 60% (bittersweet 88% of malt and 100% of corn bittersweet apples for cider: 28% apples for cider)1 girt for our beer was purchased 100% of our production units2 Sixteen (70 %) of our production Not applicable for Croatia in Croatia. in water-scarce and distressed units have drafted a Source Water areas will have a Source Protection Plan 50%2 of agricultural raw We increased our local sourcing Not applicable for Croatia WaterProtection Plan materials used in Africa to from approximately 46% in 2013 By the end of 2015, each of the 23 be locally sourced3 within to more than 48% in 2014 ‘Priority One’ sites should have a the continent protection plan in place Four-step Supplier Code The four-step Supplier Code In total, 100% of registered Reduce CO2 emissions in We passed our 2015 target a year The specific direct and indirect Procedure operational within Procedure operational in 25 suppliers in HEINEKEN production by 27%3 (resulting early and achieved a 30% CO2 emissions increased from all Operating Companies Operating Companies. Rollout Hrvatska’s vendor master in 7.6 CO2-eq/hl) reduction compared with 2008, 9.0 kg CO2-eq/hl to 9.1 kg planned for all remaining database had signed the Code resulting in 7.2 kg CO2-eq/hl in CO2-eq/hl. This is an increase of Operational Companies in 2015. (448) 2014 1% compared to last year We commit to invest a The ‘Dance More, Drink Slow’ Not applicable for Croatia Reduce the CO2 emissions We passed our 2015 target a year HEINEKEN Hrvatska purchased minimum of 10% of our campaign activated in 44 markets. of our fridges by 42%4 early. 99.8% of the 152,000 510 refrigerators in 2014 and media spend for Heineken® in Investment supporting our fridges that HEINEKEN purchased all newly purchased supporting the dedicated dedicated responsible in 2014 were ‘green’. The average refrigerators were green responsible consumption consumption campaign exceeded reduction of CO2 emissions campaign in at least 50% 10% of the total media spend in our improved from 40% to 45% in of its market volume5 main markets, representing more 2014, compared with the baseline than 50% of the Heineken® global year 2010 volume Reduce the CO2 emissions Our overall emissions increased by The CO2 emissions from Every market in scope6 has a 50 markets are now in scope, an HEINEKEN Hrvatska continued from distribution by 10%5 in 3.6%. This was caused by distribution decreased in 2014 partnership to address increase from 40 in 2013. Of its partnership to address Europe and the Americas significant changes to the by 3.6% in comparison with alcohol-related harm. All these, 48 have at least one minors’ alcohol abuse (project: distribution activities in two major 2013 (from 2.43 kg CO2/hl partnerships meet partnership For Responsible Youth). markets – Brazil and Mexico. traded in 2013 to 2.34 kg CO2/ HEINEKEN’s seven-point Excluding these two, our emissions hl traded) vs. target of 3,4% vs partnership criteria in distribution actually fell by 5.9% FY 2013. This represents a 7% decrease compared with the Global industry An implementation plan was Not applicable for Croatia baseline year 2011. commitments: precise goals developed for the Global for 2015 to be decided in commitments in 2013. In 2014, the 1 Baseline 2008. 2 Twenty-three production units. 3 Baseline 2008. 4 Baseline 2010. 5 Baseline 2010/2011, conjunction with industry via signatory companies produced a scope is WE, CEE and Americas, 24 of our largest operations: Belgium, Bulgaria, France, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, UK, ICAP and GAPG organisations Commitments Progress Report Austria, Belarus, Croatia, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Brazil, Mexico, USA outlining our actions to date in implementing these 1 Based on volume. 2 Based upon tonnage. 3 By local sourcing, we refer to sourcing within the region of Africa & Middle East. 4 Investments dedicated to responsible Achieved On track More to do Not on track consumption messaging with regards to Heineken® brand communication. This includes the ‘Dance More Drink Slow’ and ‘Sunrise’ campaign, UEFA® Champions League-specific responsible consumption boarding and other specific activations at festivals and events. 5 Market scope, covering in total at least 50% of Heineken® global volume. We focus our efforts on the larger markets where we can make the biggest impact; out of scope are those markets where we are unable to run our responsible consumption campaign due to local (legal and religious) restrictions on alcohol advertising. 6 Out of scope are Islamic markets and small export markets where we don’t have staff or a presence. 06 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 07 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Protecting water resources Protecting water resources Water is vital for life and critical for the well-being of the communities and ecosystems in which HEINEKEN operates. We use water in our finished product and throughout our Supply Chain. Besides activities related to reducing water consumption, we put a lot of effort into water resources protection. Our waste water treatment plant works at full capacity. All measurements of waste water quality conducted in 2014 showed that our waste water is completely in line with the parameters defined in the environmental licence provided to Our priorities: Actions and results: Specific water consumption company by Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection. We ensure hl/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water that effluent from our production 4.2 hl/hl • Sustainable usage and protection of water to Reducing water units is properly treated before safeguard this precious consumption discharge into the communal resource In 2014, the specific water sewage system. consumption of HEINEKEN Hrvatska 2014 4.2 • Reducing specific water consumption decreased from 4.6 hl/hl to 4.2 hl/hl. 2013 4.6 Water balancing This decrease of 9% compared to 2012 4.8 Demand for water on a global level last year is a result of technological 2011 4.7 has doubled in the past 50 years and investments and improvements. We 2010 5.0 it is expected to increase a further conducted a project for the 40% by 2030. Balancing the needs improvement of water usage in the of the community with our needs is brewing and packaging process. We at the heart of HEINEKEN’s also started to recuperate hot water approach to water usage. in the brewhouse and re-used it for +40% washing in the filling department. 19% reduction in 19% This also contributed to the savings of thermal energy consumption. water Demand for water has doubled consumption Although HEINEKEN Hrvatska has during the past 50 years and is compared to 2010 been making reductions in water expected to increase a further 40% by 2030 consumption in its production and HEINEKEN Hrvatska is reduction in Supply Chain in the past two years, it committed to reducing water consumption is still higher than the HEINEKEN the amount of water used compared to 2010 company average of 3.9 hl/hl, so we in production will continue to work on further improvements and decreasing water consumption. 08 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 09 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Reducing CO2 emissions by 6% to 8.6 kWh per hectolitre of Cooling that HEINEKEN Hrvatska has a lower produced beer. It should be noted Cooling is essential to our consumers’ specific non-recycled industrial waste that the total electricity consumption enjoyment of our beer. To reduce the production than the HEINEKEN N.V. actually decreased slightly in 2014, total carbon footprint, HEINEKEN average of 0.5 kg/hl. but given the relatively larger globally continued to install ‘green’ decrease in beverage production, fridges. For a fridge to be classified as Specific non-recycled industrial more electricity was consumed per ‘green’, it has to have four ‘green’ waste production volume produced. Also, all parts of characteristics3. In total, 99.8% of the kg/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water the waste water treatment plant, as more than 152,000 fridges that 2014 0.16 well as the CO2 recovery plant, HEINEKEN bought in 2014 had one 2013 0.21 worked in full capacity so this or more ‘green’ characteristics and 2012 0.50 contributed to the increased 66% were compliant with all four. The 2011 0.50 electricity consumption as well. average energy saving improved 2010 0.48 from 40% to 45% in 2014, compared CO2 emissions in with the baseline year 2010. production HEINEKEN Hrvatska also contributed 3 These four are: 1. use of hydrocarbon refrigerant, 2. Taking into consideration HEINEKEN’s to these savings. In 2014 we LED illumination, 3. an energy management system, and 4. energy-efficient fans. global goals, HEINEKEN Hrvatska purchased 510 fridges and all of continued with efforts in reducing its them were green fridges. Our priorities: Actions and results: Specific thermal energy CO2 emissions in 2014. Our focus is to continue the positive trend recorded Waste consumption MJ/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water in the past several years. HEINEKEN Hrvatska also made • Decrease CO2 emissions to prevent climate change and Energy savings in 2014 82.0 significant progress with non-recycled rising temperatures and sea production 2013 89.2 In 2014 we remained within the industrial waste. It decreased from levels The specific total energy results achieved in 2013. There was a 0.21 kg/hl in 2013 to 0.16 kg/hl in 2012 93.5 consumption of HEINEKEN Hrvatska minor increase in the total (direct 2014, which is 23% less compared to • Reduction of CO2 across the 2011 98.3 value chain decreased from 118.5 MJ/hl to 113.1 and indirect) CO2 emissions, reaching the year before. This was mostly 2010 109.7 MJ/hl. This is a decrease of 5% 9.1 kg CO2e/hl and the main reason is achieved through improved waste • Set ambitious targets for CO2 compared to the year before. This the increased specific electricity separation in the packaging emission within brewing, was mainly achieved due to specific consumption. department. It is worth pointing out cooling and distribution thermal energy savings: the Total specific energy consumption consumption decreased from 89.2 MJ/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water MJ/hl in 2013 to 82 MJ/hl in 2014. 2014 113.1 Case Study: This significant decrease of 8% is 2013 118.5 In 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska This award requires a multi-year mostly related to the impact of the 2012 122.6 received an internal recognition on development and improvement of all increased efficiency of the filling 2011 127.3 the improvement in the Total business processes and results in process as one segment was moved 2010 140.4 Productive Management program. beer production: especially in terms from the old filling line to the new After eight years of of product quality, workers safety one that is more effective (using less implementation, we met the strict and overall efficiency. One of the criteria for Bronze Award most important criteria for obtaining energy than the old one). Also the Specific greenhouse gas emissions certification and became the 38th this certificate is the involvement of insulation on machines and pipes in kg CO2-eq/hl beer + soft drink + cider HEINEKEN’s brewery (of some 200 the workers in this process. It also the plant was improved and the + water represents continuous and in total) that has reached this project of hot water recuperation 2014 9.1 stage of development. consistent efforts to eliminate of all also contributed to thermal energy 2013 9.0 types of losses (such as quality, savings. 2012 9.2 energy, beer and productivity losses). 2011 9.4 When talking about specific 2010 11.5 electricity consumption, it increased 10 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 11 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Sourcing sustainably our beer. Having a sufficient amount 2015. With this project, we wanted to in the vicinity of our brewery is not just a positive transport-related impact on ensure the sustainable domestic production of the key ingredient in A total of 100% the environment, but also eliminates order to influence the development import duties. In 2014 HEINEKEN and support of the local economy. Hrvatska sourced 92% of agricultural Furthermore, we wanted to have raw materials locally. Specifically, 88% of malt and 100% of corn grit for our direct supervision of quality and participate in control, but also to suppliers signed our beer was purchased in Croatia. improve the supply process. Croatian barley for Supplier Code governance production of Karlovačko beer Our suppliers are very valuable in helping us achieve our sourcing Supplier Code In July 2014, HEINEKEN Hrvatska has commitments. We are working launched an initiative of Croatian together to ensure that we barley for the production of implement the right practices Karlovačko beer in cooperation with throughout our value chain, and we Slavonija slad and Poljoprivredno ask them to respect and abide by the prehrambeni kompleks (PPK), our values expressed in our Supplier Code 92% Our priorities: Actions and results: long-time partners, as well as with the Osijek Agricultural Institute. With this such as key elements of integrity, the environment and human rights. In project, we have committed to use total 100% (448 suppliers) of the • Support local agriculture through projects and Sustainable sourcing of of all raw materials barley that is of Croatian origins, from registered suppliers in HEINEKEN agricultural materials 88% partnerships in order to ensure Croatian fields. After signing the letter Hrvatska’s vendor master database Croatian raw materials for Responsible agriculture and sourcing of intent for cooperation between have signed the Code. Karlovačko production sustainability is one of the key issues project partners, the first Karlovačko • On-going compliance with our facing the beer industry on a global beer with Croatian barley was of malt Supplier Code Procedure level. The question is: how to increase launched on the market in February productivity in a more sustainable way to meet the rising demand for food? We want to operate in a way 100% of corn grit that improves the quality of life for local individuals and communities, helps the environment and ensures a consistent supply of our raw locally sourced in materials, contributing at the same time to local economy growth and food security. Local sourcing By managing local sourcing, we want 2014 to give full support to domestic agriculture and contribute to the sustainability of home cultivation of raw materials. We believe the Croatian producers can provide high quality raw materials like barley, which we use for the production of 12 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 13 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Advocating responsible consumption For Responsible Youth number asked for advice via the consumption and the Cool@Work During 2014, HEINEKEN Hrvatska microsite. The main challenge for corporate policy, while special guests continued its project ‘For Responsible similar future projects will be to (psychologists Sanja Jagarić Nola and Youth’ that was launched in address this passivity, which is Sonja Jarebica) spoke about the December 2013, addressing the culturally influenced. In general, effects and risks of excessive alcohol underage drinking problem, in however, stakeholders indicated that consumption and alcoholism. At the cooperation with the TESA initiatives of this kind to tackle alcohol same time, in Karlovac, a workshop for psychological centre and the portal consumption among minors are employees who are parents of žena.hr. A specialized microsite on the welcomed. teenagers was organized to teach portal žena.hr was created and it them how to talk with their children served as a place to publish I am 18+ about alcohol. informative articles on relationships Originally launched on Beer Days and communication with teenagers, 2013, the I am 18+ initiative was Ultra Europe for online counselling with conducted on Beer Days again in 2014 For the second year in a row, Heineken psychologists, for exchange of at Karlovačko Korner, a traditional has been the official beer of the biggest experiences through live chat and as football platform. Bracelets with the international music event in Croatia – a platform for conducting research inscription ‘I’m 18+’ were given to Ultra Europe. This popular electronic among parents. The company also adults after they showed their ID. The music festival was visited by more than organized a panel discussion on this bracelet helped waiters easily identify 150,000 music fans from over 125 Our priorities: Actions and results: Enjoy Responsibly Day in numbers issue. Participants included project partners’ representatives, and minors and avoid the sale of beer to that group. countries. We took this opportunity to send a responsibility message: as Armin 5 relevant experts in the domain of Van Buuren performed, we used ‘The • Promoting and encouraging responsible consumption Making responsible health. The ambassador of the Enjoy Responsibly Day Experiment’, a video that demonstrates internally and externally consumption aspirational project was Daniela Trbović, a ‘Enjoy Responsibly Day’ was marked in the positive influence that a DJ and his Beer is a natural product enjoyed by workshops popular TV presenter who is also a Croatia on 4th of September with music can have on young adults to • Maintaining the existing and hundreds of millions of people mother of a teenager. Over the course lectures on responsible consumption in change their behaviour, dance more building new partnerships 5 aimed at addressing around the world. When consumed of the year, the microsite attracted four regional offices Osijek, Split, and consequently drink slow. The video alcohol-related harm in moderation, it can be part of a 92,613 users and had 177,557 page Zagreb and Rijeka, and at the was used for a viral campaign on healthy balanced lifestyle. views. User feedback showed that headquarters in Karlovac. Employees Facebook and digital media. This video • Taking action at the industry Responsible alcohol consumption is a different cities visitors appreciated and read the had the opportunity to hear about the is a part of the global responsibility level by collaborating with strategic determinant of the informative content, but only a small importance of responsible campaign Dance More, Drink Slow. 75% other Croatian breweries HEINEKEN company and its most challenging commitment, which is, Case Study: at the same time, the most According to the Croatian Ministry of Science, important for the sustainability of of employees participated Education and Sports, 93 percent of children up to the industry. Within this project, 18 years of age have consumed alcohol at least HEINEKEN’s commitment to once, while one quarter of boys and more than 20 responsible alcohol consumption was percent of girls have consumed a few drinks in a row extended to a zero tolerance attitude more than once a month. towards underage drinking. HEINEKEN Hrvatska’s project ‘For Responsible Youth’ As a response to the problem of was supported by the popular TV host Daniela Trbović. irresponsible alcohol consumption ‘As a mother of teenager, I am aware that children are exposed from an early age to many influences that are and its consumption among minors, not always positive. The prohibitions are not effective, HEINEKEN Hrvatska conducted but if we want to protect them from temptation and several projects in 2014. peer pressure, we should empower them and encourage them to be responsible and careful’, said Daniela during panel discussion organized within the project. 14 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 15 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Promoting health and safety The increase in the number of dad is safe) and directed by the Accident frequency  accidents and the fact that human famous Croatian narrator and author Cases/100 FTE for all sites behaviour was one of the main Mladen Kušec. To spread the 2014 1.2 causes of the accidents, prompted messages, 30 employees from various 2013 0.3 the company to strengthen the sectors of the company who have an 2012 1.1 supervision of safety by defining the impact on people and a high most important safety behaviours awareness of the importance of safe for each department. This was behaviour were pronounced safety followed by an internal champions. The campaign also Accident severity  Lost calendar days/100 FTE for all communication campaign. included online education on safe sites 2014 1.2 driving and workshops on safety in all 2013 2014 0.3 47 In production, the average accident departments of the organization, as 2012 2013 0.7 45 frequency increased from 0.28 in well as campaign-related sweepstakes 2011 4.1 2012 81 2013 to 1.19 in 2014. The accident and coverage on all the company 2010 2.4 severity has also increased from 45 communication platforms. Evaluated in 2013 to 47 in 2014. through a survey among employees and by the involvement of employees ‘What would your loved in a variety of programmes, the 2014 47 ones do without you?’ campaign has received excellent 2013 45 safety campaign ratings. Our priorities: Actions and results: 2012 72 Safety campaign in numbers The internal safety campaign, named 2011 64 10 ‘What would your loved ones do 2010 66 • Decrease the number of injuries and fatal accidents at Improving safety without you?’ and followed by the work to zero We follow clear and strict rules on slogan ‘Work and come back home protective clothing and equipment workshops held safe’, was conducted during • Raise the awareness of inside our production plants, as well November and December. It featured employees about the 280 importance of respecting the as in logistic areas. Every visitor at the posters, leaflets, letters and internal rules of conduct and engage brewery’s entrance receives a safety platforms and a five-minute movie all parts of the organization induction and a leaflet with safety starring children of employees, rules. Also, a short film on safe hours of trainings on safety entitled ‘Moj tata ima sigurnost’ (My • Build knowledge and positively behaviour for visitors is screened at 30 influence employee behaviour related to workplace safety the entrance of the brewery. Case Study: Although safety is a priority in As the responsibility to ourselves SIGURNOST NA RADU HEINEKEN Hrvatska, the number of safety champions engaged Proizvodnja piva sometimes isn’t enough motivation accidents at work in 2014 increased 750 for observing certain rules of Tvoja sigurnost jedan je od naših najvažnijih prioriteta. from one to four compared to 2013. conduct properly, the Zbog toga inzistiramo na pridržavanju najviših standarda zaštite na radu. Two accidents occurred in the Sales communication focused on the Kako tvoje zdravlje ne bi bilo ugroženo te kako bi se izbjegle ozljede na radnom mjestu, nekoliko je pravila ponašanja koja se svakodnevno moraju primjenjivati responsibility of employees towards u Odjelu proizvodnje piva. department – those were traffic flyers printed their families. The emotional aspect 1. Prilikom kretanja izvan označenih pješačkih puteva accidents (our employees did not nosim reflektirajući prsluk. of the creative concept titled ‘What 15 2. Držim se za rukohvat prilikom hodanja po stepenicama. cause those accidents). Another two would your loved ones do without 3. Nosim zaštitnu masku za dišne organe prilikom rada s kieselguhrom. accidents occurred in the Packaging you?’ was further intensified by the 4. Nosim zaštitnu masku za dišne organe prilikom istovara slada iz vreća. department. The largest contributing slogan ‘Work and come home safe’. 5. Nosim čepiće za uši prilikom boravka u području factor to accidents was lack of povećane buke. posters placed in the brewery and all workers safety risk awareness and sales areas Što bi tvoji bez tebe? 6. Nosim pregaču, rukavice i vizir kada radim s koncentriranim kemikalijama. Vodi brigu o svojoj SIGURNOSTI i sigurnosti kolega na radnom mjestu. 7. Prilikom ulaska u područja povišene razine CO2 uvijek personal behaviour. Tvoja sigurnost jedan je od naših najvažnijih prioriteta. Zbog toga inzistiramo na pridržavanju najviših standarda zaštite na radu. Nemoj ugrožavati svoje zdravlje i izbjegni ozljede – poštuj pravila sigurnog ponašanja! koristim prijenosni detektor CO2. 16 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 17 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Growing with communities Direct contributions Help for flooded areas in flooded areas. In September, severe As a company, we invest in our local Croatia floods hit the Karlovac area, where community through financial In spring 2014, population of our brewery is situated. The donations and local sponsorships. Slavonia was hit by severe floods and company helped employees whose We’ve been conducting our yearly huge material damages estimated houses were damaged in the flood Donation Tender since 2009. The at hundreds of million kuna and the but also, the company donated idea is to make the community more displacement of about 11,000 100,000 HRK to the Nema predaje enjoyable for its citizens. In total, 11 people. Thus, HEINEKEN Hrvatska (No surrender) fund. This donation projects have been selected as the started raising financial support by was realized in February 2015. best in 2014. Since 2009, when our donating one kuna for each litre of first Donation Tender was launched, Sokol beer sold. The action lasted we supported 148 local projects in from July 7 to September 9 at Boso total. and NTL stores, during which a total of 43,111.50 HRK were raised and We traditionally support some donated to the Croatian Red Cross as important local events such as help for citizens of flooded areas in John’s Bonfire, River Cinema with Slavonia. Besides that, employees of Karlovačko, International voluntary the company engaged by donating camps. The total financial support food, hygienic products and other Our priorities: Actions and results: How we contributed to the local of local community through different initiatives (donations etc.) in-kind donations that were needed at that moment. The company also community in 2014 in 2014 was 520,000 HRK. sent fresh water for people from • Invest in our local community through financial donations Investing in our and sponsorships of local communities cash events • Establishing partnerships From the farmers we work with to the people living around our brewery, we 520,000 HRK aligned with our sustainability want to ensure that our success as a agenda, such as alcohol business helps the community and misuse or local water society in which we operate to prosper. challenges Our support is based on investing in our local community through financial Contribution to flooded areas donations, sponsorship of local cash projects and providing help to threatened areas. In 2014, HEINEKEN 143,111.50 HRK Hrvatska contributed the equivalent of around 673,000 HRK, including cash and in-kind donations, to the local community through different In-kind 10,000 initiatives. Besides that, one of our biggest contributions we make to the community is through the positive impact of our business itself: creating HRK jobs, providing business to suppliers and paying taxes. Thus, HEINEKEN Hrvatska provided jobs for 329 employees. 18 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 19 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Values and behaviour Our values Recycle and toast! As a part of the annual event Karlovac Beer Days (Dani piva Karlovac), HEINEKEN Hrvatska organized an environmental action of collecting and Internal Recognition sorting waste under the slogan Program ‘Recycle and toast!’. The action was At HEINEKEN Hrvatska, we continued implemented by the Green Patrol, who Code of Business Conduct the program of rewarding the best were informing visitors about HEINEKEN is committed to conducting employees. The management team, importance of protecting the business with fairness, integrity and led by our CEO, had the difficult task of environment and rewarding them for Winning Spirit Passion for Quality Teamwork respect for the law and our values. This choosing 5 winners among 10 excellent sorting waste. For instance, those who commitment is laid down in the finalists who all live and work in recycled 10 empty plastic glasses, got HEINEKEN Code of Business Conduct accordance with our values and can be a free Karlovačko beer. implemented in 34 languages across considered role models. After the our business, including Croatian. nomination and evaluation process followed by discussion, the jury selected Brewing a Better World means that five colleagues from different sectors/ HEINEKEN nurtures its values: the departments as winners. company is driven by a passion for quality and produces brands people love while enjoying their lives. Respect for people and planet are at the top of the list of HEINEKEN priorities. Responsibility Customer Satisfaction Respect Integrity Enjoyment of Life 20 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 21 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information HEINEKEN’s global benchmarks and achievements Let us know your thoughts Which aspects of Brewing a Better World are working well? Where do you think we could do better? • As input for evaluating We’d love to hear from you, because HEINEKEN’s progress in your feedback will allow us to learn Brewing a Better World, the and improve. company tracks its performance every year. Ljudmila Bratko Gašpić Here’s the overview of its Corporate Relations Manager benchmarks and achievements. Email: ljudmila.bratko@heineken.com pr@karlovacko.hr Post: Heineken Hrvatska d.o.o. Dubovac 22 47000 Karlovac Dow Jones Sustainability Investors Carbon VBDO Responsible Supply Croatia Index Disclosure Project Chain Benchmark HEINEKEN’s score of 77 was almost HEINEKEN achieved highest ever We ranked third overall in the list of in line with our 2013 peak, and the score of 99 out of 100 (from 96 in 40 multinationals analysed by the company made it once again into 2013 and 88 in 2012). For the first Dutch Association of Investors for the Sustainability Yearbook. time, we have been included as a Sustainable Development (VBDO), HEINEKEN remains best-in-class in member of ‘The A List: The CDP equalling our 2013 position. For the the areas of water-related risk and Climate Performance leadership first time, winners by industry sector responsibility for alcohol products, Index 2014’. We have also been were also selected. HEINEKEN was and became best-in-class in awarded a position on the CDP judged the leading food and corporate citizenship and sourcing Europe 300 and Benelux Climate beverage company, receiving a raw materials. Packaging and Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). Responsible Supply Chain human capital development are Management Award. areas for improvement. Transparency Benchmark For the third consecutive year, Other benchmarks HEINEKEN was mentioned as a Additionally, we continued to take ‘frontrunner’ in the Dutch part in the CDP Water Disclosure and Transparency Benchmark and we intensified our focus on benchmarks moved to 7th place, from 10th in like CDP Supply Chain, Bloomberg, 2013. This annual assessment by the Vigeo, Walmart’s sustainability FTSE4Good Dutch Transparency Benchmark index, and Sustainalytics. For the 11th consecutive year, evaluates the level of transparency HEINEKEN maintained the inclusion by the top 500 Dutch companies in in the Index. For the Environmental, relation to sustainability reporting. Social and Governance (ESG) rating, HEINEKEN achieved an absolute score of 4.2 out of 5, and a relative supersector score of 98 out of 100. 22 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2014 23 About this Summary Sustainability Report This printed report summarises HEINEKEN’s and HEINEKEN Hrvatska’s progress on Brewing a Better World in 2014. Please visit HEINEKEN’s global Sustainability Report 2014 at: www.sustainabilityreport.HEINEKEN.com www.heineken.hr www.uzivajukarlovackomodgovorno.com HEINEKEN.com Heineken Hrvatska d.o.o. Production Roger Dohmen, HEINEKEN Paper Dubovac 22 Heineken Hrvatska d.o.o. Hrvatska’s archive (Zvonimir Barišin, Agripina 300 gsm cover Corporate Relations Department Oliver Budimir, Saša Ćetković, Davor Agripina 135 gsm inside pages 47 000 Karlovac Kibel) Croatia Text Our Sustainability Report is printed tel +385 47 607 340 Heineken Hrvatska d.o.o. Graphic design and on a paper which is produced with fax +385 47 451 301 Corporate Relations Department electronic publishing 100% recycled post consumer fibre HEINEKEN global Sustainability Addison Group and is produced in a chlorine free Report 2014 www.addison-group.net process PCF (Process Chlorine Free). AB studio dizajn Barjaković Photography Monne Tuinhof, Lars van den Brink, Printing Bob van der Vlist, Paul Tolenaar, ZT ZAGRAF
