Corporate RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 COMPANY PROFILE TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 4 Corporate Company profile RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 Company profile 4 Spheres of activites 7 Fighting schistosomiasis 8 Rural Pharmacy 9 Diabetes prevention 10 Improving health care in rural India HEALTH Merck is a leading company for innovative, top-quality consisting of four divisions: Merck Serono, Consumer high-tech products in the healthcare, life science and Health, Performance Materials, and Merck Millipore. The 12 Energy efficient displays performance materials sectors. The company has six following profile likewise reflects this structure. businesses Merck Serono, Consumer 13 Health, Smart windows Allergopharma, Biosimilars, Merck Millipore, 14 and and Recycling In waste line with our strategic direction effective January 1, reduction Performance Materials and generated sales of 2015, Merck has now been organized into three business 15 Reducing our customers’ impacts € 11.3 billion in 2014. Around 39,000 employees work to sectors: Healthcare, Performance Materials and Life improve the quality of life for patients, to foster the Science, which comprise the Group’s six businesses. This ENVIRONMENT success of customers, and to help meet global challenges. structure will be used in the Merck Group's reports as of Merck is the oldest pharmaceutical and chemical January 1, 2015. company in the world – since 1668, the company has stood for innovation, business success and responsible Merck Serono discovers, develops, manufactures, and entrepreneurship. In 2014, Merck was represented by a markets innovative pharmaceutical and biological total of 218 companies across 66 countries, Getting 17 with 69 children excited about classical music prescription drugs to treat cancer, multiple sclerosis (MS), production sites located across 21 countries. 18 Promoting literature infertility, andand growth building bridgesdisorders, as well as certain 19 cardiovascular Fostering young scientists and metabolic diseases. Headquartered in Structure of the Merck Group Darmstadt, Germany, Merck Serono offers leading brands in specialty medicine indications, such as Erbitux® for Merck is a global player. Our product portfolio ranges patients with cancer and Rebif® for patients with multiple fromCULTURE innovative pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceutical sclerosis. products, to specialty chemicals, high-tech materials, and life science tools. Until December 31, 2014 the period Consumer Health manufactures and markets over-thecovered by this report Merck used a reporting structure counter pharmaceuticals, focusing on a number of wellThis PDF was generated from the content of an online version, which provides known strategic global and regional brands such as additional, interactive features ➝ http://reports.merckgroup.com/2014/cr-report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Strategy and management Products 21 Letter from Karl-Ludwig Kley 41 Product safety 77 Responsible marketing 23 Values and external initiatives 46 Product-related crime 78 Interactions in the health care 24 Human rights 50 Sustainable products industry 24 Responsible care 58 Access to health 79 Transport and storage safety 25 CR strategy and organization 68 Bioethics and biotechnology 27 Materiality analysis 70 Clinical trials 32 Guidelines and management 73 Animal testing systems 33 Compliance 36 Stakeholder dialogue Suppliers Employees Environment 83 Management 89 Management 106 Management 85 Supply chain 91 Good leadership 108 Plant and process safety 92 Diversity and inclusion 109 Climate protection 95 Recruiting and retaining talent 113 Waste management 100 Employee engagement 114 Resources 102 Occupational health and safety 115 Water 116 Biodiversity Society Facts and figures 119 Management 125 Report profile 119 Schistosomiasis 127 Indicators 121 Counterfeit pharmaceuticals 154 Goals 122 Deutsche Philharmonie Merck 165 Recognition and rankings 122 Projects across the globe 166 GRI Index 185 Global Compact CoP 188 Assurance Report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 COMPANY PROFILE 4 Company profile Merck is a leading company for innovative, top-quality consisting of four divisions: Merck Serono, Consumer high-tech products in the healthcare, life science and Health, Performance Materials, and Merck Millipore. The performance materials sectors. The company has six following profile likewise reflects this structure. businesses Merck Serono, Consumer Health, Allergopharma, Biosimilars, Merck Millipore, and In line with our strategic direction effective January 1, Performance Materials and generated sales of 2015, Merck has now been organized into three business € 11.3 billion in 2014. Around 39,000 employees work to sectors: Healthcare, Performance Materials and Life improve the quality of life for patients, to foster the Science, which comprise the Group’s six businesses. This success of customers, and to help meet global challenges. structure will be used in the Merck Group's reports as of Merck is the oldest pharmaceutical and chemical January 1, 2015. company in the world – since 1668, the company has stood for innovation, business success and responsible Merck Serono discovers, develops, manufactures, and entrepreneurship. In 2014, Merck was represented by a markets innovative pharmaceutical and biological total of 218 companies across 66 countries, with 69 prescription drugs to treat cancer, multiple sclerosis (MS), production sites located across 21 countries. infertility, and growth disorders, as well as certain cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Headquartered in Structure of the Merck Group Darmstadt, Germany, Merck Serono offers leading brands in specialty medicine indications, such as Erbitux® for Merck is a global player. Our product portfolio ranges patients with cancer and Rebif® for patients with multiple from innovative pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceutical sclerosis. products, to specialty chemicals, high-tech materials, and life science tools. Until December 31, 2014 the period Consumer Health manufactures and markets over-thecovered by this report Merck used a reporting structure counter pharmaceuticals, focusing on a number of wellknown strategic global and regional brands such as CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 5 COMPANY PROFILE Neurobion®, Bion®3, Seven Seas®, Nasivin®, Femibion®, Merck Millipore has a broad product and technology and Dolo-Neurobion®, as well as Floratil®, Sangobion®, portfolio, offering innovative solutions for scientists and Vigantoletten®, Apaisyl®, and Kytta®. engineers in the life science industry. The life sciences comprise the fields of science that involve the scientific Performance Materials comprises Merck’s entire specialty study of living organisms. Merck Millipore’s products and chemicals business. The portfolio includes high-tech services are used in the research, development and performance chemicals for applications in fields such as manufacture of biotechnological and pharmaceutical consumer electronics, lighting, coatings, printing drug therapies, as well as in research and application technology, paints, plastics, and cosmetics. Our laboratories. Products and services from Merck Millipore Performance Materials business was significantly also extend to adjacent markets, such as the food and strengthened by the May 2014 acquisition of AZ beverage industry. Electronic Materials (AZ), a leading supplier of high-tech materials for the electronics industry. Sales by division – 2014 (€ million/% of sales) Corporate governance Group strategy Merck is operated in the legal form of a Merck focuses on innovative and top-quality high-tech Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien (KGaA, corporation products in the healthcare, life science and performance with general partners) and is headquartered in Darmstadt, materials sectors. Our goal is sustainable, profitable Germany. The general partner E. Merck KG holds around growth, which we intend to achieve by growing 70% of the total capital of Merck KGaA (equity interest); organically and cultivating our existing competencies, as the shareholders hold the remainder, which is divided into well as by making targeted acquisitions that complement shares (share capital). Merck shares have been included in and expand existing strengths. Building on leading the DAX® 30, the blue chip index of the Deutsche Börse, products in all its businesses, Merck aims to generate since 2007. In September 2008, Merck was added to the income that is largely independent of the prevailing FTSE4Good Index, a sustainability index that evaluates the economic cycles. Moreover, we are striving to further social, ecological and ethical conduct of companies. expand our strong market position in emerging markets in the medium to long term. In 2014, the Emerging Markets region accounted for 38% of Group sales. More information about our Group strategy can be found in our Annual Report 2014. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Health 6 HEALTH Through our cross-business Access to Health approach, we aim to help improve sustainable access to high-quality health solutions for underserved populations and communities in lowand middle-income countries. 7 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Health Fighting schistosomiasis  THE CHALLENGE An estimated 249 million people worldwide suffer from the worm disease 249 million schistosomiasis, with more than 90% of those affected living in sub-Saharan Africa. This chronic parasitic condition is one of the most devastating neglected tropical people affected diseases in terms of public health burden and economic impact.  HOW WE'RE HELPING Since 2007, Merck has been partnering with the World Health Organization (WHO) in 54 million the fight against schistosomiasis in Africa. We have been donating praziquantel tablets to WHO with the common aim of eliminating the disease in Africa. To date, Merck has children treated donated more than 200 million tablets to WHO, and more than 54 million patients have been treated, primarily including children. Merck has pledged to increase the number of tablets donated to up to 250 million per year starting in 2016. This donation, worth around USD 23 million per annum, will enable 100 million children to be treated annually. At the end of 2014, Merck called for various NTD constituencies to form the Global Schistosomiasis Alliance in order to help eliminate this disease worldwide. Praziquantel is the only active ingredient with which all forms of schistosomiasis can be treated. In addition to this, praziquantel is also well-tolerated, which is why WHO has included it on its list of essential drugs. Merck developed praziquantel in the 1970s as part of a joint research collaboration. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Health 8 Rural Pharmacy  THE CHALLENGE According to the World Health Organization (WHO), one-third of the world’s 1/3 of the population does not have regular access to health care. The majority of those affected live in rural areas of sub-Saharan Africa. world’s population  HOW WE'RE HELPING lacks access to medicines As part of its commitment to improving access to health care for these underserved A 40-foot populations, Merck has developed the Rural Pharmacy. This is a 40-foot shipping container that can be transported to rural communities by truck and set up on site container with a minimum of effort. makes pharmacies mobile The first of these rural pharmacies has been opened in Ghana and consists of a dispensary, a multipurpose room for vaccinations or medical counseling, and a medicine storeroom with a refrigerator. Solar cells on the roof ensure the constant power supply necessary to continuously refrigerate the medicines. It is also equipped with an atmospheric water generator to produce potable water from the humidity in the air. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 9 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Health Diabetes prevention  THE CHALLENGE According to estimates, around 382 million people suffer from diabetes across the 382 million globe, with lowand middle-income countries accounting for a particularly large percentage of patients. In Africa, for instance, approximately 20 million people have people affected diabetes, around one-third of whom remain unaware of their condition. On top of that, very few patients have adequate access to insulin, syringes, or the medical equipment needed to monitor their blood pressure. They often have a life expectancy of less than a year after being diagnosed.  HOW WE'RE HELPING Merck is committed to improving the quality of diabetes treatment as well as raising 25,000 patients awareness of this disease, especially in lowand middle-income countries. To help achieve this, we established the Capacity Advancement Program (CAP) across Africa, screened India and Indonesia, doing so in collaboration with ministries of health and academic institutions. Since launching this program in 2012, we have conducted more than 250 events to boost the profile of diabetes. On top of that, we have provided free diabetes screening and medical check-ups to more than 25,000 people in Kenya, Ghana, Uganda, and India. Additionally, more than 100,000 patient leaflets about diabetes have been distributed at training camps and supermarket chains in Kenya and Uganda. In 2014, around 2,000 pharmacy and medical students in Africa took part in a clinical diabetes management training program that is accredited in Europe. Through the Capacity Advancement Program, we are aiming to reach 15,000 pharmacy undergraduates and medical students in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America by 2018. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Health 10 Improving health care in rural India  THE CHALLENGE Around 70% of the one billion inhabitants of India reside in rural areas and have no 500 villages access to effective, affordable health care. Medical facilities are concentrated in India's megacities, which account for 80% of India's healthcare professionals as well as 70% reached of the country's hospital beds.  HOW WE'RE HELPING Through the Suswastha Project, a socially responsible business model, Merck is seeking 500,000 patients to improve health care for rural populations of India. At community-level weekly meetings, healthcare professionals educate patients about everyday health issues such have participated as coughs and childhood ailments, teaching them ways to prevent these conditions. In addition to this, the program also provides patients with free check-ups and offers continuing education to help local physicians advance their medical capacities. Furthermore, Merck is partnering with the non-governmental organization FHI 360 as well as the Clinton Foundation, supporting amongst others their fight against diarrheal diseases. Since the program's start in January 2013, more than 500 rural villages in India have benefited from the project, which has now reached half a million patients in total. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 11 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Environment ENVIRONMENT A number of our innovative chemical and life science products contribute to environmental protection. We strive to continuously enhance the sustainability footprint of our products while helping our customers achieve their own sustainability goals. SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Environment 12 Energy efficient displays  THE CHALLENGE The danger of serious climate damage has increased in recent years, and many natural Displays consume resources are growing scarcer. As a result, people are becoming increasingly environmentally conscious, and more and more consumers are taking a product's 20% less energy power rating into account when deciding what to buy. thanks to liquid crystals for PS-VA technology  HOW WE'RE HELPING Merck develops and markets products that help our customers save energy. Our liquid UB-FFS crystals for PS-VA technology (polymer-stabilized vertical alignment) provide television screens with high contrast while also consuming little energy. They also technology increase light transmittance, which helps to significantly reduce the amount of provides displays with 15% backlighting needed the largest power consumer in a display. In comparison to VA more light transmittance technology, screens with Merck's PS-VA materials consume up to 20% less energy. Furthermore, liquid crystals for PS-VA technology considerably improve image quality. In general, the faster the switching time, the better the image. The polymer-stabilized vertical alignment orients the liquid crystal molecules in a particular direction. The crystals can then tilt faster when they switch directions. The new UB-FFS technology (ultra-brightness fringe field switching) provides displays with up to 15% more light transmittance than its forerunner, FFS. In combination with other technological developments, UB-FFS lowers end device power consumption by as much as 30%. Furthermore, this new technology also provides superior image resolution and reduces battery size, thereby opening up new design possibilities for product designers. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 13 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Environment Smart windows  THE CHALLENGE Climate change and its consequences are already impacting life on Earth today. In the 40% of total West, 40% of total energy consumption is attributable to buildings, a large portion of which goes to lighting (20%) and air conditioning (15%). With resources becoming energy ever scarcer and energy prices rising ever higher, companies and private individuals are consumption seeking to boost the energy efficiency of both new as well as existing buildings. is attributable to buildings  HOW WE'RE HELPING Under the licrivisionTM brand, Merck is developing liquid crystal mixtures for new Liquid crystals applications. For instance, we are working with architects, glass makers and facade manufacturers to create the windows of tomorrow. Our ambitious goal is to use smart make windows windows to make buildings more energy-efficient, thus conserving resources and smarter cutting costs. To this end, we have developed Merck Liquid Crystal Window Technology. How does this work? At the push of a button, these windows can be darkened within seconds tinted in whatever color desired. Smart windows thus help regulate the temperature indoors while also setting interior design accents. This technology is made possible thanks to the special properties of our liquid crystals (LCs), which in this case are combined with customized dyes. When a low voltage is applied to the windows, the LCs allow electromagnetic waves, i.e. light, to either pass through, thus making the window transparent, or to be absorbed and blocked, thus darkening the window. In this way, smart windows help regulate the temperature indoors while also setting interior design accents and lowering HVAC costs. In the Netherlands, we are currently operating a pilot plant for the manufacture of such smart windows, some of which are to be installed in the new Innovation Center under construction in Darmstadt, Germany. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Environment 14 Recycling and waste reduction  THE CHALLENGE Biopharmaceutical production requires many single-use products such as filter 54,000 kg of cartridges and tubing. However, a lack of disposal options along with the material properties of the product itself and stringent regulatory requirements often make it plastic recycled difficult to recycle these items.  HOW WE'RE HELPING Through environmentally sound recycling programs, including disposal of used 189 metric tons products and packaging, Merck Millipore is working together with its customers to of product waste diverted help reduce the environmental impacts of its products and services. In 2012, Merck Millipore partnered with a waste disposal company and five customers in the United States to jointly pilot a recycling program for biopharmaceutical singleuse products. During the ten-month pilot phase, we recycled more than 54,000 kilograms of plastic, which was reprocessed and repurposed into items such as paint buckets and plastic pallets. Non-recyclable components were sent to a cement kiln and used as an alternative fuel source. In 2013, we expanded this program to include two additional customers. Overall, we diverted 189 metric tons of product waste in 2013 and 2014, 91 metric tons of which was plastic that was recycled. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 15 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Environment Reducing our customers’ impacts  THE CHALLENGE Just like us, our customers are also striving to conserve resources and protect the 91% reduction environment, which means they expect products from Merck that help them minimize in autoclave-associated their own environmental impacts. carbon emissions  HOW WE'RE HELPING Merck Millipore has developed the Design for Sustainability (DfS) program, which aims 47% less raw to reduce the environmental impacts of our products across their entire life cycle, from manufacture to end of life. We furthermore work to maximize product material needed performance and ease of use for our customers. Beginning with the concept definition phase, we identify potential environmental impacts, along with opportunities to make improvements. For instance, Merck Millipore employed DfS principles in the design of its new EZ-Fit™ Manifold, which is used for microbiological water testing in the food and beverage industry. In comparison to the previous model, the EZ-Fit™ Manifold is easier to clean, which significantly reduces our customers’ environmental impacts. This device uses 47% less raw material and its packaging consists of 100% recyclable corrugated board. In addition, the filtration heads can be easily removed and autoclaved on their own, unlike the previous model, which had to be completely sterilized. This feature results in an estimated 91% reduction in autoclave-associated carbon emissions. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Culture 16 CULTURE Culture inspires people and opens up their minds to new possibilities. As a high-tech, research-based company, we therefore promote cultural projects worldwide and are engaged in educational projects – especially since education is key to making culture accessible. 17 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Culture Getting children excited about classical music  THE CHALLENGE For children and adolescents, playing music together teaches them teamwork and Cushion concerts builds their self-confidence. Yet many of them first come into contact with classical music only later in life – or never at all. for 800 children  HOW WE'RE HELPING Our musical ambassador, the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck, seeks to get children and 50 children adolescents excited about classical music and to nurture young talent. With this in played music with mind, the Philharmonie thus held its first ever orchestra workshop in 2010. At this professional musicians music camp, young musicians practice together with the Philharmonie members, gaining initial experience in a professional orchestra. The event concludes with a joint concert. In both 2013 and 2014, around 50 children and adolescents participated in our annual orchestra workshop. In addition to this, the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck has also given four cushion concerts over the past two years, thereby reaching around 800 children. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Culture 18 Promoting literature and building bridges  THE CHALLENGE In certain parts of society, we as a research-based, high-tech company often 4 literary prizes encounter a growing sense of skepticism toward innovation and science, particularly in industrialized countries. worldwide  HOW WE'RE HELPING Literature can inspire creativity, raise critical questions, and lead to innovation. 77 authors Literature can also address scientific issues, thus furthering a deeper understanding of science and research. Merck therefore grants and promotes four literary prizes recognized since worldwide. 1964 For 12 years, Merck has been sponsoring the Premio Letterario Merck in Italy, which recognizes authors who build bridges between literature and science, thereby making them accessible to a wide audience. Building bridges between cultures is the focus of two literary awards that we grant in partnership with the Goethe Institut: the Kakehashi Prize in Japan and the Merck Tagore Award in India. Since 1964, we have also been sponsoring the renowned Johann Heinrich Merck Award for Literary Critique and Essay, which is presented by the German Academy for Language and Poetry. Through this prize, we are helping build bridges between literature and literary criticism. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 19 SPHERES OF ACTIVITIES | Culture Fostering young scientists  THE CHALLENGE Germany is experiencing a shortage of skilled, trained personnel especially in the 3,500 students areas of mathematics, IT, science, and technology. This is partially due to the fact that conducted experiments in too few children and adolescents are taking an interest in science. the Merck Junior Lab  HOW WE'RE HELPING With the aim of promoting young scientists, for more than 30 years Merck has been a For more than partner in Jugend forscht , the largest and most successful young scientist competition in Germany. Merck has been hosting this competition in the German 30 years, Federal State of Hesse since 1996. In addition to Jugend forscht , for many years we Merck has been a partner in have also been supporting more than 60 schools in the region surrounding Darmstadt “Jugend forscht” and Gernsheim in order to spark students' interest in science. For instance, our company not only provides materials for science classes we also hold continuing education courses for teachers and offer classes field trips to Merck. We are furthermore partnering with select schools to give teachers extensive support for science classes. On top of this, since 2008 Merck has also been running the Junior Laboratory in collaboration with the Technical University of Darmstadt. In more than 200 square meters of space, elementary and high school pupils of all ages can work on their own experiments and discover the world of chemistry, receiving guidance from university staff as well as university chemistry students. In 2014, around 3,500 pupils took advantage of the lab. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 20 Strategy and management Since the very beginning, corporate responsibility has been an integral part of our corporate culture. This is reflected in both our mission statement as well our Values. Our corporate responsibility strategy allows us to address the key issues impacting our business and stakeholders, which we identify by conducting regular materiality analyses using feedback from internal and external stakeholders. Our requirements for the responsible conduct of all employees are specified in numerous guidelines, and we use management systems to help steer key action areas. 21 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Letter from Karl-Ludwig Kley Letter from Karl-Ludwig Kley Ladies and Gentlemen, Friends of Merck, The world is changing rapidly, presenting mankind with ever new challenges, among them climate change, an aging population, broad access to health, and the digitization of society. Solutions must be found for all these issues. It has long been clear that no one single player can solve all the challenges of our times. The issues are too complex to be handled by any one group on their own, whether that be policy makers, industry, civil society, or international organizations. The only answer is for us to join forces. We at Merck view ourselves as a partner in shaping a better future. We take responsibility. Through our technologies and products, we are making a significant contribution to solving many global issues. As a company, we strive for sustainable success, not merely to maximize short-term profit. And we know that success can only be sustainable if it is achieved responsibly. Responsible governance is thus the compass that guides our day-to-day actions and constitutes an integral part of our Group strategy. Since 2005, we have been supporting the United Nations Global Compact and its principles, which cover human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. In 2014, we underscored our dedication to sustainable supply chains in the chemical industry by joining the Together for Sustainability initiative. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Letter from Karl-Ludwig Kley 22 In order to make our corporate responsibility activities more effective, we defined three strategic spheres of activity in 2014, those being environment, health and culture. 1. We are dedicated to improving access to health and are committed to providing underserved populations with access to effective, affordable health solutions, health prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. For instance, we have taken up the fight against the tropical disease schistosomiasis. Thanks to the praziquantel tablets we donate to the World Health Organization, 54 million children have already been treated thus far. We'll be increasing our contribution to up to 250 million tablets per year and will continue the donation until schistosomiasis has been eliminated in Africa. In the 2014 Access to Medicine Index, we once more increased our standing, moving up to sixth place. This shows that we are on the right path, one that we will continue to follow. 2. In everything we do, we strive to minimize our negative impacts on the environment. Many of the products in our portfolio actively contribute to environmental protection and help our customers use less water, power and raw materials. For instance, we are continually developing new formulations of liquid crystals that require less display backlighting, which significantly reduces the power consumed by electronic devices. 3. Being an innovative, high-tech company, we know that science and culture inspire one another, that they both form part of a healthy society. We promote cultural projects and education around the world in order to foster a passion for music, literature and science. Take for example the Premio Letterario Merck, a literary award that we present once a year in Italy to writers who in particular have built bridges between science and literature. We also sponsor the Johann Heinrich Merck Award for Literary Critique and Essay, which is presented by the German Academy for Language and Poetry to authors who build bridges between literature and empathetic understanding. Building bridges between cultures is the focus of two literary awards that we grant in partnership with the Goethe Institut: the Kakehashi Prize in Japan and the Merck Tagore Award in India. We will only be able to overcome the challenges of the next several decades if we meaning policy makers, industry and society join forces. This is the reason we're contributing the experience and expertise we have at solving global issues. Merck has been taking responsibility for nearly 350 years and will continue to do so – now and in the future. Sincerely Yours, Karl-Ludwig Kley Chairman of the Merck Executive Board CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 23 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Values and external initiatives Values and external initiatives health, plant safety, and security that go beyond mere legal obligations. Merck was among the first Merck's corporate culture is characterized by responsible companies to sign the revised version of the conduct – whether with respect to our products, our Responsible Care® Global Charter in 2014. employees, the environment, or society. Responsibility has • Merck signed the Code of Responsible Conduct for been an integral part of our approach for nearly 350 years Business in 2010. This code is the result of an initiative and is one of our six Values. of German companies that aims for member companies to firmly establish measurable standards These Values courage, achievement, responsibility, with respect to fair competition, social partnership, respect, integrity, and transparency form the foundation merit, and sustainability. that underlies our actions. They guide us in our daily work, defining how we interact with our customers and • In 2014, Merck joined the Together for Sustainability business partners. We view open, honest communication network, which is dedicated to improving the supply internally and externally as an essential trust-building chain with respect to environmental, compliance and element. As a global company, we strive to create added social standards. value for consumers, our market partners and the • In addition to this network, we are also a member community while also helping them lead better lives. of the Chemie3 initiative, a collaboration between the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the Our Group Mission Statement, our Values and the external German Employers’ Federation of the Chemical initiatives we support give rise to requirements for Industry (BAVC) and the German Mining, Chemical responsible corporate governance that are integrated with and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE). The partners both our Corporate Responsibility strategy as well as our of this unique alliance aim to make sustainability a Group-wide regulations. These guidelines include the core part of the chemical industry's guiding principles Merck Human Rights Charter and our Code of Conduct, and to jointly drive the sector's position within the as well as other specific corporate principles, policies and German economy as a key contributor to sustainable standards. This framework guides our employees in development. The Guidelines on sustainability in the applying these requirements in the course of their dayGerman chemical industry provide a framework to-day work, thus helping them live the company's consisting of 12 spheres of activity to promote commitment to corporate responsibility. sustainable company development, protect people and the environment, and ensure good, fair working We support the following initiatives on responsible conditions. corporate governance: • Merck has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2005 and is committed to complying with the compact’s principles regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. Our annual progress report illustrates how we are incorporating these ten principles into our business processes. • In 2006, Merck signed the Responsible Care® Global Charter adopted by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Within the scope of this voluntary initiative as well as its offshoot, the German Responsible Care® Program guidelines, we have committed ourselves to defining standards for product responsibility, environmental protection, CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Values and external initiatives 24 Human rights We have informed our employees about the Merck Human Rights Charter, but have not yet provided training Merck is committed to upholding human rights within its on this charter. sphere of influence and welcomes the Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights adopted by the UN The UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Human Rights Council in 2011. This set of principles Rights also require companies to perform human rights creates a global framework for countries to fulfill their impact assessments (HRIA) to promptly identify any duty to protect human rights, as well as for businesses to human rights problem areas. At the end of 2014, Merck respect them, illustrating how to do so. conducted an HRIA in an emerging country. While we wish to further expand our strong market position in Countries are obliged to establish a regulatory framework emerging economies, we are aware that these countries for the protection of human rights. For global companies, pose a higher risk of human rights violations. Through it is important that this be implemented across all the HRIA, we aim to gain a better understanding of how countries in order to create uniform competitive our business operations and business relationships impact conditions for all companies. human rights, to ascertain whether the requirements of our Human Rights Charter are being fulfilled, and predict The duty of companies is to uphold and respect human the risk of human rights violations. We furthermore wish rights; they absolutely must not violate any human rights to identify ways to prevent human rights violations. in the course of their activities. Furthermore, companies must also act with the necessary due diligence, which After completing the HRIA and evaluating the results, we includes identifying and managing risks. will check whether the findings from the assessment can be applied to other subsidiaries. In 2012, we conducted an extensive human rights risk assessment, which aimed to identify the human rights Merck is a member of the German Global Compact risks that arise from our activities as an international Network within the Business & Human Rights Peer company. Based on the results of this assessment, Merck Learning Group, which aims to promote best practice adopted a Group-wide Human Rights Charter at the end sharing with regard to business and human rights. of 2013, which underscores our commitment to respecting and protecting human rights. This charter Responsible Care® brings together and complements existing human rights regulations and guidelines, such as our Code of Conduct, The Responsible Care® Global Charter was adopted by the our Environment, Health and Safety Policy , and our International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) in Charter on Access to Health in Developing Countries . 2006 and is the basis for the guidelines of the German The Human Rights Charter defines our company's Responsible Care® Program. These two initiatives both aim expectations while increasing awareness of human rights to continually improve the chemical industry's track within the company. It also allows us to more accurately record in terms of product safety, environmental assess Group-specific risks and to align our business protection, health, plant safety, and security. Responsible operations with our Values. Care® aims to achieve a level of voluntary cooperation with government bodies and other stakeholders that goes In the course of drafting our Human Rights Charter, we far beyond complying with statutory regulations. In 2014, asked external stakeholders for their opinion on our Merck was among the first companies to sign the revised approach to human rights and then considered the version of the Responsible Care® Global Charter, which is situation from this external perspective. Among these currently being rolled out at an international level. stakeholders were business and human rights experts from various countries, trade unions, associations, and Merck’s Responsible Care® activities are founded on specialists in individual topics addressed in the charter. internal guidelines such as our “Corporate EHS Policy” and the Merck Group EHS, Security and Quality Manual”. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 25 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | CR strategy and organization In implementing the Responsible Care® Global Charter, products for the health care, life science and performance we are currently focusing in particular on product safety, materials sectors, as well as through responsible environmental protection and occupational safety. governance. Our product safety activities cover a range of measures. Today's global megatrends present us with both risks as These include the implementation of regulatory well as opportunities. Average life expectancy continues requirements such as REACH in the EU, AREC in South to increase worldwide while birth rates continue to fall, Korea, TSCA in the U.S., and the worldwide GHS. We also a situation that is reflected in our portfolio of health engage in voluntary initiatives such as our Global Product solutions such as fertility treatments and cancer research. Strategy and pursue sustainable product development. An estimated 1.3 billion people have no access to effective One example of this engagement is Merck Millipore's and affordable health care. Through our Group-wide Design for Sustainability program, which integrates Access to Health strategy, Merck takes a comprehensive sustainability across the product development process. approach toward addressing access barriers in lowand middle-income countries. As a market and technology When it comes to environmental protection, we are leader in the global liquid crystals business, Merck is currently focusing on climate change mitigation. We aim driving the development of state-of-the-art displays, to cut our greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, thereby benefiting from the digitization megatrend. In relative to the 2006 baseline. Other key focus areas addition, we are also developing products for energyinclude water, wastewater and waste reduction. Process saving lighting and photovoltaics that can help mitigate safety traditionally has high priority at Merck as well. climate change and resource scarcity. Integrated occupational safety encompasses the We are furthermore constantly working to minimize ethical, prevention of workplace accidents, workplace-related financial and legal risks. In our interactions with vendors and illnesses and workplace-related health hazards. Our goal other business partners worldwide, we are dedicated to is to reduce the lost time injury rate to 2.5 by 2015. complying with statutory and ethical standards and have implemented the necessary structures and systems to do so. Our subsidiaries are regularly audited to verify their Our environmental management processes aim to minimize compliance with statutory and Group-wide requirements, our environmental impacts, in particular at our production sites. as well as to identify areas of improvement. On top of this, we offer fair and attractive working conditions for our approximately 39,000 employees. CR strategy and organization Our Group strategy is targeted to success, but equally respects Humanity is confronted with major global social issues the interests of employees, customers, investors, and society. such as climate change, aging populations, resource It serves as the basis for our Corporate Responsibility (CR) scarcity, and insufficient access to health in lowand strategy, which we reviewed and revised in 2014. Our entire middle-income countries. range of CR activities can be summed up under the term responsible governance , a concept that informs Merck's dayWe are aware that, as a global player, our business to-day actions. At the end of 2014 we also examined our Group operations impact our environment as well as the people strategy and selected three strategic spheres of activity in which around us. But we believe that we can help address global we particularly wish to engage. Our aim is to hone Merck's challenges through our innovative, high-caliber high-tech competitive edge while helping to sustainably secure our future. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | CR strategy and organization 26 Corporate Responsibility at Merck Health Culture Through our Access to Health approach, which spans Culture inspires people and opens up their minds to new all our businesses, we aim to help improve sustainable possibilities. As a high-tech, research-based company, we access to high-quality health solutions for therefore promote cultural initiatives worldwide and are underserved populations and communities in lowengaged in educational projects especially since and middle-income countries. education is key to making culture accessible. Stefan Oschmann, Vice Chairman of the Executive Board, Cultural promotion is a core element of our engagement in has thus dedicated his two-year presidency of the society. After all, culture nurtures characteristics that are International Federation of Pharmaceutical essential to our business activities as a high-tech company: Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) to accelerating creativity, enthusiasm for new discoveries, and the courage to access to high-quality health solutions for people in lowtranscend boundaries. Our cultural engagement focuses on to middle-income countries. music, literature and education. Environment Responsible governance is the foundation of our operating business. We work to minimize ethical, financial and legal risks, A number of our innovative chemical and life science thereby ensuring Merck's acceptance within society. We take products contribute to environmental protection. We responsibility for our products, the environment, and people, strive to continuously enhance the sustainability footprint especially for our employees and the communities in which we of our products while helping our customers achieve their operate. own sustainability goals. Our products serve people's current and future needs. To us, Read more in the chapter Sustainable products on p. 50 safety and ethics matter just as much as business success. In the manufacture of our products, we seek to impact the environment as little as possible. Safety, environmental CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 27 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Materiality analysis protection and quality management are absolutely essential to process involved identifying the important issues, prioritizing this aim. We bolster our company’s ability to act by recruiting, them, and validating them with our Corporate Responsibility developing and motivating talented employees. We strive to (CR) Committee. help society function better and aim to set the example for In the first step, we identified more than 70 current CR topics ethical conduct. for the pharmaceutical and chemical industries. For this, we used various information sources, including our experience Our CR strategy is defined by the Executive Board, which also from previous materiality analyses and CR reports, the health decides on CR objectives and CR reporting. care sector standards of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), analyses of capital market The Group-wide CR Committee steers the implementation of requirements, and the dialogues with various stakeholders. our corporate responsibility strategy and consists of representatives from the businesses as well as from relevant We discussed the options internally and narrowed it down to Group functions such as EQ, HR, Compliance, and Procurement. 46 issues, which became the focus of an online international In 2013, Karl-Ludwig Kley, Executive Board Chairman, became survey conducted on some of our stakeholders. We asked Chairman of the CR Committee. Since January 2015, the Group participants to rank how relevant the 46 topics are to Merck, function Public Affairs and Corporate Responsibility has been as well as to rate Merck's performance with regard to them. reporting to Executive Board Vice Chairman Stefan Oschmann. Around 120 people from across 30 countries took part in the Since this time, Oschmann has also headed the CR Committee. survey; two-thirds were internal stakeholders and one-third were external stakeholders. Among them were rating agencies, The CR Committee reviews the CR strategy to ensure that it suppliers, scientists, researchers, and employees involved in covers the topics relevant to Merck and that it addresses corporate responsibility, as well as representatives from the potential areas where action is needed. We strive to identify political arena, non-governmental organizations, and challenges promptly in order to minimize risks, but also to seize federations. In assessing the results, we gave equal the business opportunities that arise from societal change. consideration to the responses of all stakeholders. During the preparation of our CR reports, we engage our stakeholders and conduct materiality analyses to ensure that In particular, participants rated product responsibility as being all the relevant topics are addressed. The committee’s tasks especially important, and they overwhelmingly rated Merck's also include defining as well as regularly reviewing goals and performance in this area as good to very good. Combined with measures that reflect our CR strategy. The committee ensures other analysis results, the stakeholders' responses showed us that initiatives of the businesses, Group functions, and what they think of Merck's CR performance, as well as which subsidiaries are in line with our Group-wide CR strategy. aspects they consider relevant to Merck. The stakeholders' Measures adopted by the committee are incorporated into our responses were also utilized in our 2014 Materiality Analysis. operations by line managers as well as by interdisciplinary project teams. During a materiality workshop, representatives from the CR Committee validated the top-ranked issues, discussed the The CR Committee meets three times per year. In 2013 and strengths and weaknesses of the management system Merck 2014, the meetings primarily focused on CR strategy, access to uses to steer topics, and identified areas that Merck needs to health and human rights, as well as environmental and social address. This resulted in 27 issues that are material to Merck, standards along the supply chain, and the Design for which are also the focus of this CR Report. These coincide Sustainability Program. for the most part with topics that we identified in previous materiality analyses. This report describes our management Materiality analysis approach to these 27 issues of particular importance to our stakeholders and company, and provides details on measures, In order to identify the material non-financial topics relevant to achievements, challenges, and goals for some of them. our stakeholders as well as to our long-term business success, we once more conducted a materiality analysis as defined in The results of the materiality analysis are presented in the 2014 the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This materiality matrix. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Materiality analysis 28 Materiality matrix CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 29 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Materiality analysis Because our stakeholders expect transparent reporting on The following table shows where topics identified as material more than just these 27 topics, our report includes other are relevant along the value chain: upstream in our supply topics as well, which will be re-assessed in future materiality chain, in the course of our activities, or downstream, i.e. analyses. customers and patients. The table furthermore indicates to which of Merck's businesses and external stakeholders the topic applies. The topics are linked to the respective chapters in this report. Relevance along the value chain Internal activities by business sector Material topics Upstream Downstream Material for the following activities Performance activities stakeholders Healthcare Life Science Materials Group-wide topics Compliance on p. 33 Capital market community, customers, suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Product responsibility Medicines to combat Capital market community, customers, rare and neglected suppliers / service providers, NGOs / diseases on p. 61 civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Counterfeit Capital market community, customers, medicines on p. 121 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Bioethics on p. 68 Capital market community, customers, suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Disposal and Capital market community, customers, recycling of suppliers / service providers, NGOs / chemicals, singlecivil society, policy makers, business use products and associations, scientists and researchers other products on p. 113 Interaction with Capital market community, customers, players in the health suppliers / service providers, NGOs / industry on p. 78 civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Labeling of Capital market community, customers, chemicals on p. 43 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Materiality analysis 30 Table continued Relevance along the value chain Internal activities by business sector Material topics Upstream Downstream Material for the following activities Performance activities stakeholders Healthcare Life Science Materials Clinical trials Capital market community, customers, on p. 70 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Pricing on p. 63 Capital market community, customers, suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Product innovations Capital market community, customers, and sustainable suppliers / service providers, NGOs / product design civil society, policy makers, business on p. 50 associations, scientists and researchers Product quality Capital market community, customers, on p. 41 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Product safety Capital market community, customers, on p. 41 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Transport and Capital market community, customers, storage safety suppliers / service providers, NGOs / on p. 79 civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Drug safety on p. 41 Capital market community, customers, suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Access to health Capital market community, customers, on p. 58 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Employees Employee Customers, suppliers / service engagement providers, NGOs / civil society, policy on p. 100 makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Occupational health Capital market community, customers, & safety on p. 102 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 31 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Materiality analysis Table continued Relevance along the value chain Internal activities by business sector Material topics Upstream Downstream Material for the following activities Performance activities stakeholders Healthcare Life Science Materials Good leadership Capital market community, customers, on p. 91 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Recruiting and Customers, suppliers / service retaining talent providers, NGOs / civil society, policy on p. 95 makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Diversity and equal Capital market community, customers, opportunity on p. 92 suppliers / service providers, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Advanced training Capital market community, customers, and continuing suppliers / service providers, NGOs / education on p. 95 civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Environment Waste prevention Capital market community, customers, and recycling suppliers / service providers, NGOs / on p. 113 civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Energy efficiency Capital market community, customers, on p. 109 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Process and plant Capital market community, customers, safety on p. 108 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Greenhouse gas Capital market community, customers, emissions on p. 109 suppliers / service providers, NGOs / civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Supply chain Social standards in Capital market community, customers, the supply chain suppliers / service providers, NGOs / on p. 85 civil society, policy makers, business associations, scientists and researchers Environmental Capital market community, customers, standards in the suppliers / service providers, NGOs / supply chain civil society, policy makers, business on p. 85 associations, scientists and researchers CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Guidelines and management systems 32 Guidelines and management laboratory animals throughout the company; and our Corporate Security Policy , which stipulates procedures systems to protect Merck's intellectual and material assets. We have specified our requirements for the responsible conduct of all employees in numerous guidelines in order In addition, we also have numerous business-specific to ensure that they all know the relevant rules and apply policies, such as Merck Serono's Interactions with them in the workplace. Patients and Patient Organizations , as well as our Safety Policy for chemical products. Through this safety policy, Our Group-wide guideline system contains all company we have established global processes for defining, driving policies and explains which ones apply to which parts of and implementing product safety and have created the the company. They range from the charters and principles necessary management structures to do so. in effect for the entire company, to specific standards and procedures that apply to either our sectors and businesses Our standards take the provisions from charters, or our individual sites. principles and policies and translate them into concrete terms for employees in charge of operational processes. Such documents include the Merck Code of Conduct, the Merck Human Rights Charter and the Merck Charter on The guidelines are kept up-to-date by the relevant Access to Health in Developing Countries . departments and are available on the intranet. Managers are responsible for implementing them in their respective Examples of internal policies include: the Group-wide areas of responsibility. We educate and train our Corporate EHS Policy , which establishes the framework employees on the guidelines that pertain to them. In this for principles, strategies and organizational structures for way, we ensure that they are familiar with both the environment, health and safety at Merck; our Animal overarching rules from the charters and principles, as well Welfare Policy , which describes the treatment of as the concrete specifications that affect their individual range of activities. Group-wide guideline system CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 33 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Compliance The guideline system is an integral part of our We expect our business partners worldwide to adhere management systems, which are used to define and steer to our guidelines and principles as well. While Supplier goals, actions and responsibilities in key action areas. Our Management ensures that suppliers conduct their management systems are based on standards such as business according to the rules and regulations, Global the internationally recognized ISO 9001 for quality Business Partner Risk Management handles the management, GxP guidelines for good working practices relationships with distribution-related associates such as in the pharmaceutical industry, and ISO 14001 for distributors and wholesalers. environmental management. Our ISO 14001 environmental management system and ISO 9001 quality Group Compliance oversaw the integration of AZ management systems are certified at regular intervals by Electronic Materials (AZ), which was acquired in 2014, and an independent auditing firm. Merck holds group trained AZ employees on compliance as well as on our certificates for its quality and environmental compliance guidelines. Since January 2015, AZ employees management systems. have been fully integrated into Merck's compliance measures. Compliance Merck's Compliance organization Responsible entrepreneurship means first and foremost Through our compliance organization, we ensure legally compliant conduct. All of Merck's activities have adherence to statutory regulations as well as to Merck's to comply with statutory rules and regulations worldwide. own internal rules and regulations. The Compliance Group Violations might not only entail legal prosecution, but function, which features a Group Compliance Officer and could also seriously harm Merck’s corporate reputation, other specialists, is responsible for maintaining and meaning its standing as a business partner or employer. enhancing the compliance program. At our subsidiaries, Therefore, compliance with statutory rules and local and regional compliance officers are responsible for regulations has top priority for Merck. Compliance for implementing the compliance measures. Besides our company also means acting in accordance with the expanding the global Compliance organization, we have ethical principles defined in the Merck Values. We strive also appointed a Compliance Officer for Merck Millipore to do “good” business, which means operating profitably and one for our Healthcare business sector. This will while still meeting high ethical standards. augment the compliance expertise available when entering new business fields and ensure that our Globally mandatory guidelines businesses comply with statutes and regulations. The The Merck Code of Conduct is a compulsory set of rules approximately 60 Compliance Officers worldwide fall for the company’s entire workforce. Our employees have under the Group Compliance Officer. Group Compliance been provided with a copy of the Code of Conduct, and provides them with guidance as well as training new employees are handed a copy with their letter of documents, along with other support. They report offer. regularly to the Group Compliance Officer, who in turn reports to the Executive Board at least once a year, The Code of Conduct explains the principles for dealings updating the Board on compliance activities, compliance with business associates, general partners, co-workers, risks and serious compliance violations. The Executive and employees, as well as the communities in which we Board updates Merck's supervisory bodies at least once a operate. Thus, it supports all employees in acting ethically year on the key compliance issues. – not only in their interactions with one another, but also outside the company. The Merck Human Rights Selecting business partners Charter supplements the Code of Conduct with global Merck applies a risk-oriented approach to the selection human rights principles, such as the core labor standards of sales-related business partners such as distributors, of the International Labour Organization (ILO). In July agents, and wholesalers. In essence, the greater we 2014, we furthermore adopted a new anti-corruption estimate the risk to be with regard to a certain country, guideline for the Merck Group. region, type of service, etc., the closer and more carefully CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Compliance 34 we examine the company before doing business with Compliance audits them. For risk assessments, we use tools such as the The Internal Auditing Group function regularly reviews Corruption Perception Index (CPI) maintained by compliance-relevant matters at our facilities. Their audits Transparency International, as well as background focus on the existence and quality of compliance information from various databases. We also take into guidelines, processes and structures. In addition, Internal account whether the business partner in question has a Auditing also checks our sites for violations of our Code compliance program. of Conduct and reviews workplace aspects of the Human Rights Charter. The topic of corruption is also part of Our Global Business Partner Risk Management Guideline our standard audit program. Altogether, 30 audits were governs the selection process for business partners as conducted in 2013 to check for corruption, with 36 in well as the system-based documentation of relevant 2014. information and the evaluation thereof. Through this comprehensive process, we are both minimizing our risk On top of this, 27 sites across 22 countries were audited as well as taking into account the modified requirements on workplace aspects of the Human Rights Charter in resulting from new anti-corruption legislation such as the 2013, and 32 sites across 28 countries were audited in UK Bribery Act. 2014. The audits found no violations. This Group-wide mandatory guideline stipulates eight Compliance training principles that must be taken into account when selecting We place a high priority on regular compliance training, new business partners and that also apply to existing which is provided as classroom and online courses. business relationships. For instance, the policy stipulates Employees of all levels, as well as independent contractors that Merck shall only do business with partners who and supervised workers such as temps, are trained on comply with all applicable laws, who do not engage in topics related to the Code of Conduct such as corruption, bribery, who adhere to environmental, health and safety competition law and conflicts of interest. guidelines, and who refuse to tolerate discrimination. Furthermore, we require them to demonstrate a In 2013 and 2014, we used our e-learning system to commitment to internationally recognized human rights train 29,360 people on our Code of Conduct, educating and labor standards, as well as to the compliance them on the consequences of compliance violations. This standards defined in our Code of Conduct. training also taught ways to avoid compliance violations. Business partners must accept and adhere to these In 2013 and 2014, a total of 40,188 people took 117,509 principles if they wish to enter into a business relationship online courses on a variety of compliance topics. A large with Merck. We also conduct such audits on existing portion of these classes focused on corruption. In 2013 business partners, usually when it's time to renew a and 2014, we trained 31,687 people on how to prevent contract. corruption. If the audits come up with red flags, we may reject Several courses on special topics are offered specifically potential business partners or terminate the relationship. for employees above a certain Global Grade, such as the However, our business associates are frequently willing course on competition law that was rolled out in 2014. In to modify their structures and processes to meet our addition to online courses, numerous classroom courses stringent compliance requirements. Since implementing on compliance are held worldwide in order to provide the process in 2013, more than 1,000 business partners employees with effective training on local issues in have already undergone this audit. particular. We review and revise training plans regularly, adapting them to new developments. For instance, in 2014 we developed online courses to accompany the CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 35 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Compliance implementation of our new anti-corruption guidelines. and eleven in 2014. The majority of these violations Since 2013, we have been training employees, especially resulted from the misconduct of individual employees and those in distribution, on our expanded business partner represented minor, isolated incidents that led to selection process as well as our Global Business Partner commensurate disciplinary action. During the 2013-2014 Risk Management Guideline . Due to the significance and period, six cases total entailed managerial employees who complexity of the subject, this training is generally offered were involved in improper business practices, or had as a classroom course. knowledge thereof. These cases mostly dealt with improper distribution and marketing methods to boost SpeakUp Line sales, as well as inappropriate interactions with medical All employees are called upon to report compliance professionals. In all cases, disciplinary action was taken violations to their supervisor, Legal, HR, or other relevant against the managers responsible for the infractions. departments. Employees can also report violations via the SpeakUp Line central reporting system, doing so in their Outlook respective national language. Available as a telephone The importance of compliance in business processes will hotline or a web-based application, they can report the continue to grow, especially in the pharmaceutical incident free of charge and anonymously from anywhere industry. For Europe, the transparency initiative of the in the world. In addition to our employees, business European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and partners who have undergone the Business Partner Risk Associations (EFPIA) stipulates that, effective 2016, Management Process can also report misconduct via the companies will have to publish all donations made to SpeakUp Line. physicians that are not connected to research. Our Compliance organization has worked with the relevant The reports received are reviewed by the Group businesses to implement measures that satisfy this Compliance Officer and submitted to the Compliance disclosure obligation. This includes the creation of an Committee, who will then coordinate the necessary internal guideline that stipulates the approval process and investigation into the matter. This committee consists of documentation requirements for donations made to senior representatives from Internal Auditing, physicians. Compliance, Group Security, Data Security, and Human Resources. They monitor the handling of reported cases and initiate appropriate corrective measures as needed. Disciplinary actions are also taken, when necessary, against employees who have violated a compliance rule. These actions may range from a simple warning up to dismissal of the employee, depending on the severity of the violation. On top of the SpeakUp Line, we have also set up a central advice hotline within the Group Compliance Office. Our employees can call this number to get advice on ethical and compliant conduct. The number of compliance-relevant reports as well as the number of actual compliance violations have remained for the most part unchanged over the last several years. Via the SpeakUp Line and other channels, we received a total of 22 compliance-related reports in 2013 that resulted in an investigation, with 26 such reports in 2014. We confirmed nine cases of compliance violations in 2013 CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Stakeholder dialogue 36 Stakeholder dialogue engagement takes many forms, such as stakeholder surveys, issue-specific dialogues, informational forums, Our business operations intersect the interests of many round table discussions, industry coalitions, and advocacy people, which makes continuous engagement with our work. This exchange enables us to demonstrate how we stakeholders absolutely essential. We particularly engage live the Merck Values, as well as to illustrate the corporate with those people and groups who are impacted by our responsibility (CR) strategy we pursue. It also provides decisions and activities or who help determine them. us an opportunity to express our appreciation for our Our stakeholders include employees, customers, business stakeholders. We strive to sustain and build trust and – partners, the Merck family, investors, regulatory agencies, wherever possible – harmonize divergent interests. Our associations, neighbors in the vicinity of our sites, and top priority is to ensure Merck's acceptance within society. non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Our stakeholder Our stakeholders CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 37 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder surveys company’s responsibility for its products, as well as the balance between ecology, economy and social We regularly survey our employees, customers, business responsibility. partners, and other relevant stakeholder groups about the CR issues they consider to be important to Merck now and Furthermore in the 2013-2014 period, we also hosted in the future, asking them to assess our performance on Access Dialogues to engage industry representatives, these priority issues. We also wish to know the questions international organizations, and other stakeholders on the our stakeholders have regarding corporate responsibility topic of access to health. These dialogues focused on at Merck so that we can address them in our CR Report. access to health innovations, the protection of intellectual Most recently, we conducted such a survey on our property, and challenges posed by the supply chain in stakeholders in 2014 in conjunction with the materiality developing countries. Within the Merck Capacity analysis for our 2014 CR Report, involving around 120 Advancement Program, more than 200 dialogue events stakeholders from across 30 countries. have been held since 2012, which seeks to raise the profile of diabetes in Africa and Asia through education and support for the health systems there. Issue-specific dialogues In October 2014, more than 100 health experts from In the course of our business activities, we deal with a Africa attended the Merck Africa Luminary in Darmstadt. wide range of issues and interface with various This conference focused on advancing medical capacities communities. In the process, our departments usually in the fields of diabetes, oncology and infertility, as well interact directly with stakeholders. Depending on the as optimizing supply chain integrity, pharmacovigilance, subject and whether the issue is of local, national or and the fight against counterfeit medicines. During 2013 international relevance, this may take the form of and 2014, we also participated in various conferences workshops and seminars, or even roundtables held at on schistosomiasis and malaria, part of our commitment major conventions. Beyond this, Merck is also involved to fight neglected tropical diseases. Among these were in industry networks and participates in professional the Harvard Symposium on Malaria and Tuberculosis in conferences. November 2014 as well as the eleventh Malaria Meeting in November 2013 in Aachen (Germany), which gave rise For instance, in September 2014, Merck partnered with to a new partnership with Saint George’s University in the the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the United Kingdom. German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE) and the German Employers’ Federation of the Merck Millipore discusses sustainable business strategies Chemical Industry (BAVC) to host a conference in within the Sustainability Stakeholder Advisory Group Darmstadt (Germany) entitled “Deutschland braucht (SSAG). In 2014, Merck Millipore conducted a global Chemie. Nachhaltigkeit – Voraussetzung für Wachstum customer service and usage survey; it held a stakeholder und Wohlstand?” (Germany needs chemistry. meeting with suppliers, distributors, customers, nonSustainability a prerequisite for growth and prosperity?). governmental organizations, and scientists in order to get Attended by more than 700 people, this sustainability their feedback on the Merck’s sustainability strategy, as conference was held as part of the DA stimmt die well as on the sustainability criteria that govern Millipore Chemie event series, a collaboration between Merck and products. We took this feedback and used it to define the Technical University of Darmstadt that is taking place new criteria for our Design for Sustainability Program, from September 2014 to June 2015. In July 2014, Merck integrating these criteria with our product development organized an expert workshop with representatives from process. The new criteria included product recyclability the worlds of politics, business and society to prepare for and the availability of a recycling program. the conference, which focused on the chemical sector's contribution to sustainable development. In addition to this, participants also discussed the definition of a CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Stakeholder dialogue 38 Discussion and information forums • The European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA ) At our major sites, we have set up discussion and • The International Federation of Pharmaceutical information forums for local residents. Through the public Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA ) planning forum held annually at our headquarters in Darmstadt since 1994, we aim to provide residents with Examples of positions held by members of our Executive the opportunity to obtain information and discuss our Board include: development at the site. During the 2013-2014 period, we provided information particularly on our Fit for 2018 Karl-Ludwig Kley, Chairman of the Executive transformation and growth program, as well as new Board: developments resulting from our ONE Global • Federation of German Industry (BDI), Vice President Headquarters initiative in Darmstadt. We also discussed landfill remediation, groundwater issues, the Merck • German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI), Vice daycare center, and visitor parking area remodeling, along President with energy, communication and crisis management. Stefan Oschmann, Vice Chairman of the Executive Board: In expanding our biotech production facilities in Corsiersur-Vevey, Switzerland, we initiated a dialogue with NGOs • International Federation of Pharmaceutical and local authorities to ensure the greatest possible Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA), President transparency during the entire project life cycle, from • European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries planning to completion. For the project, Merck committed and Associations (EFPIA), Vice President to applying high environmental and safety standards that • Paul Ehrlich-Stiftung, Member of the Board of exceed statutory requirements. Even after completing Trustees construction, we will continue to hold this annual meeting, which enables us to engage stakeholders in Belén Garijo, Member of the Executive Board, regular discussions as well as to verify that the stipulated CEO Healthcare: measures are being properly implemented. In 2014, the meeting focused on the status of landscaping activities • PhRMA (Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers and updates to the mobility plan, as well as our water of America), Member of the Board balance and water release performance. Kai Beckmann, Member of the Executive Board: • Federal Employers' Association for the German Industry interest groups and advocacy work Chemical Industry e.V. (BAVC), Member of the Board We actively participate in the political process and • Employers' Association for the Chemical and Related advocate our views by engaging policy makers in a direct Industries in the State of Hesse e.V. (HessenChemie), dialogue as well as by engaging in advocacy work. Member of the Board • Darmstadt Rhein Main Neckar Chamber of Industry Below are several examples of major national and and Commerce (IHK), Member of the Board international industry associations in which we are members and hold positions: • Fraunhofer Institute for Computer Graphics Research (IGD), Member of the Advisory Board • The German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI) Bernd Reckmann, Member of the Executive • The European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC ) Board, CEO Chemicals: • The German Association of Research-based • German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), Pharmaceutical Manufacturers e.V. (vfa) Chairman of the Hessian Chapter CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 39 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT | Stakeholder dialogue • Technology and Environment Committee of the German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI), Chairman • German Association of Biotechnology Industries (DIB), Member of the Board • Board of Trustees of the Chemical Industry Fund (FCI) within the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), Member of the Board Within the Chemie3 and Responsible Care® initiatives, Merck is also working in particular to develop and implement sustainability standards in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries. On top of this, Merck is active in numerous socially engaged organizations, such as the Goethe Institute, the Remembrance, Responsibility and Future Foundation, and the World Environment Center (WEC). We also participate in initiatives and projects whose other participants share our standards of entrepreneurial conduct. For instance, we support the “Code of Responsible Conduct for Business”. Merck does not make financial contributions to holders of or candidates for political office, political parties or related organizations. This is stipulated in our Code of Conduct. In the United States, EMD Political Action Committees (PACs) have been set up as a conduit for our employees to make donations in support of political candidates and organizations. These are not donations from the company, but rather from individual employees. The contributions donated are reported to the U.S. Federal Election Commission and are fully disclosed. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS 40 Products Our success and our future are founded on innovative products that benefit people and help them live a better life. Merck products are highly trusted worldwide – whether our innovative medicines of chemical or biological origin, our over-the-counter products, our liquid crystals for LC displays, Merck pigments for the coatings, plastics and printing industries, products for the cosmetics industry, or biopharmaceuticals and lab solutions for the life science industry. Responsibility for our products will always be at the core of our corporate responsibility. Here, we are driven by our ethical standards as well as our high expectations for safety and environmental compatibility. 41 PRODUCTS | Product safety Product safety such as clinical trials, adverse reaction reports and scientific literature in order to ensure up-to-date safety Our products must be safe and should not pose a danger information for patients and their healthcare providers to patients, customers or the environment. We therefore during the entire life cycle of our drugs, from examine product safety across the entire life cycle, development to the end of marketing authorization. continuously taking steps to make improvements. Patients and customers receive extensive informational Pharmacovigilance information is compiled from doctors material with our products so that they understand them and patients in all countries in which our medicinal as fully as possible and can use them safely. products are marketed. Medical specialists and pharmacovigilance teams ensure that information on Read more about the safety of our drugs on p. 41 adverse effects is correctly compiled, tracked, and communicated. The data for all of our drugs is medically Read more about the safety of our chemical products evaluated by the Global Drug Safety functions, who on p. 43 adapts the benefit-risk evaluations as necessary. In line with regulatory requirements, changes to the benefit-risk Safety of our drugs evaluation and potential safety risks are reported to the responsible authorities, as well as to doctors and patients. Patient safety is our number one priority. Proactive safety strategies thus drive our decision-making and we strive to Global Drug Safety at Merck’s headquarters and the drug mitigate risks for all our medicinal products. safety units within Merck's subsidiaries continuously review changes in the pharmacovigilance regulations Before an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) is used in worldwide – for products in both the development as well humans, we conduct extensive pre-clinical trials that test as the marketing phase. New regulations are continuously for aspects such as efficacy and toxicity. After this, the integrated into Merck's group-wide processes, thus API is tested in humans within the scope of clinical trials allowing us to ensure that regulatory requirements and that investigate the API's efficacy and adverse effects. The statutory regulations are adhered to. Since the European trial results are then used to assess the drug's benefit-risk Medicines Agency (EMA) released its “Guidelines on good ratio, weighing the benefits of the treatment against its pharmacovigilance practices” (GVP) in 2012, Merck has risks. We create benefit-risk profiles for all our medicinal reviewed any new or updated GVP Modules and products to ensure that a positive benefit-risk balance is implemented them in our internal pharmacovigilance in place for all medicinal products marketed by Merck. processes. In 2014, the European Medicines Agency In 2014, we updated our benefit-risk analysis practice by published the new GVP Module on risk mitigation, as well implementing an improved systematic process. as the revised GVP Modules on Individual Case Report Management and on Periodic Safety Update Report Information from clinical trials provides an important Management. We have integrated the new and revised basis for a drug to be approved by the regulatory requirements from these GVP Modules into our processes. authorities. After receiving marketing approval, we continue to conduct benefit-risk evaluations on the drug Health authorities regularly conduct pharmacovigilance since the number of patients using it increases inspections to review our adherence to regulatory exponentially – to thousands or millions worldwide. We requirements as well as to our own internal drug safety thus gain a deeper understanding of the safety profile of standards. The German Federal Institute for Drugs and our drugs. Medical Devices (BfArM) and the Paul Ehrlich Institute (the Federal Institute for Vaccines and Biomedicines) At Merck Serono, the Global Drug Safety unit is Germany's two pharmaceutical regulatory agencies responsible for continuously monitoring the safety conducted a pharmacovigilance inspection on Merck profiles of our drugs (pharmacovigilance). Global Drug Serono Global Drug Safety in February 2015. Conducted Safety processes safety information from various sources on behalf of the European Medicines Agency, this CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Product safety 42 inspection did not yield any critical observations. We are Group level as well as locally within the subsidiaries. analyzing the non-critical observations that were Compliance with these requirements is regularly reviewed identified and implementing both corrective as well as during the audits of the quality system. preventive measures. In addition to this, Merck has implemented a worldwide audit program based on the All employees that work in drug development are GVP audit module that includes our global activities, as regularly trained on their drug development expertise and well as affiliates, vendors, and license partners engaged in topics related to compliance with ICH, GCP, the respective our pharmacovigilance activities. standard operating procedures, etc. Employee training is provided via a validated learning management system. The Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) bears Depending on their role, a certain training module may be responsibility for drug and medical safety at Merck Serono mandatory or optional for the employee. Line managers – across the entire life cycle of our drugs, from are responsible for checking whether employees have development to the end of marketing authorization. The received all training required by their role. Chairman of the MSEB is the Chief Medical Officer (CMO), who also makes the final call on decisions. The board Good manufacturing practice convenes once a month, or on an ad hoc basis as required. In addition to the chairperson, the MSEB consists of In producing pharmaceuticals, quality assurance is a key experienced physicians, scientists and legal aspect because deviations can impact patient health and representatives from Merck Serono. Its tasks include safety. In order to ensure that pharmaceuticals meet the assessing benefit-risk evaluations, reviewing risk standards set for identity, purity, potency and safety, they management, and dealing with safety-related must be manufactured according to current Good communication. Furthermore, it reviews proposals for Manufacturing Practice (cGMP). Consequently, as a first-in-man (FIM) clinical studies as well as for updates manufacturer we must have appropriately trained to the safety warnings on package inserts and labeling. employees as well as suitable facilities, processes and During the life cycle of a medicinal product or medical procedures. Compliance with cGMP guidelines is device, medical, ethical or safety issues that need mandatory and monitored by the health authorities. guidance or a decision from the CMO can be escalated to the MSEB. Product approval and distribution In collaboration with other companies as well as Merck continuously works to guarantee product organizations from the public sector (e.g. health availability for its customers. Our requirements for the authorities, academia), Merck is involved in PROTECT quality and effectiveness of the distribution process are (Pharmacoepidemiological research on outcomes of uniform worldwide. We perform rigorous and frequent therapeutics by a European consortium), a global research checks on our distribution network; these aim to ensure project of the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) that our partners are adhering to our quality and safety launched in 2009. This project aims to further develop requirements as well as ensure their full compliance with and optimize instruments and methods for the benefitglobal Good Distribution Practices (GDPs). risk evaluation of drugs. The project team established a framework for benefit-risk profiles, which is described in a benefit-risk guide. Product labeling Our Quality Training Management standard applies to all The package insert informs patients how to correctly use a employees whose work is related to the quality and safety product. The package inserts furthermore inform patients of a drug or clinical trial. This standard describes how about the risks and adverse effects associated with taking to conduct training workshops and seminars at both the the drug. The inserts are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure that they are up to date with the latest information, particularly in terms of safety-relevant CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 43 PRODUCTS | Product safety information. If the benefit-risk ratio of a product has With our group-wide Product Safety Chemicals policy, changed, the MSEB endorses risk mitigation measures. If we have established global processes for steering and the risk mitigation measures mean changing the label, this implementing product safety, as well as the change is then submitted to the labeling decision board. corresponding management structures. This policy covers The labeling decision board endorses new labels or label all relevant national and international regulations for the updates in the reference product information (Company chemical industry, including: the Globally Harmonized Core Data Sheet). The core safety information contained System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) in these reference documents is then implemented in and its implementation in regional and national national labeling documents. legislation (such as the CLP Regulation in the EU and HazCom 2012 in the United States), the EU chemicals In accordance with external requirements, we provide all Regulation REACH, the U.S. Toxic Substances Control Act our drugs with information on safe use and, if applicable, (TSCA), and the German Federal Law on protection from on content particularly with regard to substances that hazardous substances (ChemG). This policy also might produce an environmental or social impact as well incorporates statutory standards that relate to the as disposal. transport of, for instance, hazardous chemicals, biocides, cosmetics, chemicals used in food, and animal feed. It is Safety of our chemical products regularly updated to reflect new regulatory requirements. Many chemical products of the Merck product portfolio To continuously monitor changing regulatory are classified as hazardous and their proper use is a requirements around the globe, as well as initiate and prerequisite for the safety of humans and the steer necessary implementation projects (such as GHS and environment. Therefore, we provide our customers with REACH), we have put in place the Group Product Safety extensive, up-to-date information on safely using our Committee (GPSC). It reports directly to the Executive products. Board Member Bernd Reckmann, who is responsible for chemicals product safety. Besides managing regulatory Numerous regulatory requirements exist to ensure that affairs, members of the GPSC represent Merck’s individual chemical products not pose any danger to humans or the businesses, each having specific responsibilities for environment. When it comes to the import or production, matters such as legal questions, production and quality marketing, handling, recycling and disposal of our management, and marketing. The GPSC also supervises chemical products, it is crucial that we comply with these SAP EHSM (our product safety database and expert regulations. In order to satisfy both national and system), as well as internal and external communication international safety product requirements, Merck has set processes. up corporate, business-specific and local guidelines and signed broader industry self-commitments like the To ensure independent detection of critical compliance Responsible Care® Global Charter. gaps, in 2013 and 2014 Merck set up a corporate governance function that reports directly to the head of Corporate Regulatory Affairs, a unit within Merck’s Corporate Regulatory Affairs. The operational units within Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) Group Corporate Regulatory Affairs are then responsible for function, and local regulatory affairs units are appropriate mitigation measures after discussion with all accountable for compliance with relevant product safety stakeholders relevant for us. One example is the U.S. GHS regulatory requirements. Corporate Regulatory Affairs is Compliance Program. Because Merck had acquired responsible for all operational regulatory activities within product portfolios in the USA that lacked some safety the Merck Group, such as hazard exposure and risk information, we initiated a multinational program in 2012 assessment, hazard communication via safety data sheets to push regulatory coverage and bring the portfolios up (SDS), and chemical product registration. Its goal is to to Merck’s renowned standards. Our target is not only ensure global consistency and harmonization of hazard to close existing compliance gaps, but to also be the communication to our customers. frontrunner in implementing the new GHS requirements CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Product safety 44 under HazCom 2012 in the USA, which will take effect in to our regulatory expertise and stable processes, we June 2015. Merck is already well prepared for chemical receive around one complaint per week on incorrect products imported into and produced in the United hazard communication. States. By the end of 2014, our major production sites there had started delivering GHS-labeled chemical All information related to the safe use of our products products. is also accessible on our website, which furthermore features an application called ScIDeEx®. This tool enables Safety analyses during product development customers to check whether a chemical can be safely used under the conditions in which they plan to utilize it. The In the Merck Group, we utilize various instruments to current version, ScIDeEx® 3, is based on the latest model ensure that the development process yields products that of ECETOC TRA version 3.1, a program that is recognized are safe to use. This includes different hazard, exposure by the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). and risk assessments. We subject all product innovations to a formal Environment, Health and Safety analysis that In our 2014 stakeholder survey, labeling of chemicals was investigates aspects such as human health and identified as a material issue for Merck. With regard to environmental impacts. The Corporate Regulatory Affairs chemical product labeling, Merck’s regulatory goals unit provides support and advises our employees on include establishing, optimizing, and harmonizing global safety assessments during the product development hazard communication processes, which will allow us to phase. efficiently support businesses and customers with globally harmonized labels and GHS-compliant safety data sheets. We implemented a dedicated function within Transparent information to boost Corporate Regulatory Affairs that is accountable for product safety global label management, thus reflecting the importance of this topic for Merck. Proper hazard communication for chemical products via safety data sheets or labels is a prerequisite for the safety We are committed to product safety that goes beyond the of humans and the environment. For all of our products, legal requirements and support the goals of the Global we provide extensive information on safe use. We deliver Product Strategy, an international initiative of the our hazardous chemicals with safety data sheets that chemical industry. In this vein, we provide product safety comply with current local regulatory requirements, summaries that are available on the website of the available in 35 languages. Although not required by law, International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). we provide safety data sheets for non-hazardous substances as well as ensure that our customers have all currently available information. Non-hazardous REACH registration substances only used in small volumes in lab applications are provided with a safety data sheet replacement letter. Merck completed the second phase of the REACH implementation process in June 2013 and had registered Merck keeps multiple hundreds of thousands of safety all substances we produce or import in quantities ranging data sheets updated and continuously launches from 100 to 1,000 metric tons per year – around 70 numerous new products, which means we have achieved substances – with the European Chemicals Agency a very high level of automation in the hazard (ECHA). The next step, part of the third phase, is for us to communication process. Within the Merck Group, six register all substances produced or imported in quantities regulatory affairs hubs around the globe share dedicated ranging from one to 100 metric tons by the beginning of responsibilities in hazard communication processes. These June 2018. We have already started this process and are hubs report to Corporate Regulatory Affairs, which drives on schedule with our activities. the work processes throughout the Merck Group. Thanks CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 45 PRODUCTS | Product safety Due to the Strategic Approach of International Chemicals In manufacturing and processing products, we strictly Management (SAICM), REACH-like requirements will take adhere to compliance with all statutory regulations and effect in South Korea (Act on the Registration and other applicable standards, such as the guidelines of the Evaluation of Chemicals, abbreviated AREC). Based on our German Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and expertise with the EU REACH implementation, Merck will Health (Bundesanstalt für Arbeitsschutz und be well equipped to handle these requirements as well. Arbeitsmedizin – BAuA) as well as the German Chemical Industry Association (Verband der Chemischen Industrie – VCI). We also provide our customers with information on Nanotechnology the proper handling of nanomaterials, for example during Nanotechnology is a highly innovative field of transport, processing, storage, and disposal. development that researches and uses structures that are 50,000 times thinner than a human hair. This technology Both internally and externally, we are constantly engaged makes it possible to produce materials with completely in an exchange regarding the opportunities and risks of new properties, benefits and functions for a wide variety nanotechnology. Our internal nano-coordination group of applications. consists of analysts, researchers, toxicologists, safety experts, and experts from other relevant areas of the Nanotechnology offers many opportunities for Merck. In company. We also maintain a continuous dialogue with our Life Science and Performance Materials business other companies, associations and regulatory agencies, sectors, we can use nanoscale materials to develop through channels such as the nano-coordination group products with new functions and properties – thus, for of the VCI’s Technology and Environment (Technik und instance, making resource and energy use more efficient. Umwelt) committee, and the Responsible Production and In our Healthcare business sector, we partner with Use of Nanomaterials group, a joint technology working external companies to explore the use of nanomaterials group of DECHEMA (Society for Chemical Engineering and to improve therapeutic options. Within the scope of joint Biotechnology) and the VCI. European research projects, we are also investigating the suitability of nanoparticles as vehicles for active Training seminars pharmaceutical ingredients. In 2013 and 2014, we conducted product safety seminars However, the special structure of nanoparticles can also in various countries around the world. Here, we focused entail risks. We assess these risks and utilize the new not only on our core markets but also offered training technology only with the greatest care. We take into in developing countries. We aim to increase awareness account Group-wide requirements for safety as well as as well as provide best practice advice and information environmental and health protection, employing our on using hazardous chemical products safely and easily. existing processes and systems for product safety. We This includes lab safety rules such as the handling of follow the precautionary principle and take nanomaterial flammable solvents and storage of various chemicals in safety issues seriously. In 2014, we updated our Groupwarehouses or safety cabinets. We are planning to hold wide Use and Handling of Nanomaterials policy; this such seminars in the future as well. document governs the handling of nanomaterials, whether used in pharmaceutical and chemical laboratories, production plants, filling plants, or warehouses. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Product-related crime 46 Goals: Safety and quality of chemical products Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Establish a globally uniform Implementation of REACH: Mid-2018 By the end of 2014, we had registered hazard and risk communication 15% of all phase 3 substances. system for all relevant Merck Register substances produced in chemicals in the supply chain, quantities ranging from 1-100 metric incorporating the principles of tons per year (phase 3 of REACH prevention implementation) and register non-phasein substances Implementation of GHS/CLP: Mid-2015 All mixtures have been classified according to CLP since mid-2013. Classify mixtures and sets according to the CLP regulation Implementation of the Global Product End of 2020 We have already completed Product Strategy (GPS): Safety Summaries for 17 substances registered under REACH; we are working Provide Product Safety Summaries within on nine additional Product Safety GPS for all hazardous substances Summaries. registered under REACH Projects for hazard communication: End of 2020 We have safety data sheets for around 20% of all non-hazardous substances Update safety data sheets for nonand continually review them. Around hazardous materials 40% of the non-hazardous substances have replacement letters. Increase the number of safety data sheets End of 2020 Around 90% of all safety data sheets are prepared to a globally uniform standard based on our Group-wide Merck GHS standard. Implementation of US GHS/HazCom Mid-2015 2012: Classify pure substances, mixtures and sets in the United States according to HazCom 2012 criteria Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Product-related crime platforms, the percentage of substandard and/or counterfeit medicines is growing rapidly in industrialized Across the globe, the pharmaceutical and chemical nations as well. industry is confronted with product-related crime. Counterfeit medicines in particular pose a major Because criminal organizations are becoming increasingly challenge, while also representing a serious threat to professionalized, pharmaceutical manufacturers are public health. According to the World Health Organization facing ever-growing requirements to track and monitor (WHO), a considerable proportion of the medicines for sale their products. Effective protection systems and market in developing health care systems are illegal, counterfeit monitoring are becoming increasingly important for both or substandard. Interpol estimates this at up to 30%. This the products themselves as well as the distribution issue is aggravated by a lack of adequate quality control channels. in the protection, security and drug approval systems. Due to the sale of products through unlicensed internet Merck develops and manufactures products of the pharmacies and online underground business-2-business highest quality. We take action against product-related crime to prevent harm from coming to customers and patients, as well as to protect our reputation as a CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 47 PRODUCTS | Product-related crime company. Here, we are developing a strategy of Supply Chain, and Quality Assurance. Its tasks include collaborating with law enforcement, fostering internal coordinating preventive measures, sharing information, and external networks, and establishing product security securing evidence, conducting investigations and measures. We have created policies, standards and developing and implementing security systems. Where processes that cover all businesses of the Merck Group appropriate, the network collaborates with the relevant worldwide. regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies. Group-wide network MACON reviews and handles approximately 70 cases of product-related crime per year, including inquiries from The Group function Corporate Security is the internal and authorities that arise during backtracking investigations. external point of contact for all anti-counterfeiting In 2013 and 2014, we focused our activities on the activities of the Merck Group and is also in charge of internal coordination and support of two major criminal steering and coordinating these activities. Corporate investigations conducted by law enforcement against Security follows Merck’s internal “Crime relating to major organized crime groups. products of the Merck Group” guideline, which describes the goals and strategy for handling product-related crime. Educating our employees and business All activities to fight product-related crime take place partners under the supervision of the Chief Security Officer and the Head of Environment, Health, Safety, Security and The fight against product-related crime and counterfeit Quality. Furthermore, at all Merck Serono sites we have products is an integral part of our risk management deployed local anti-counterfeiting correspondents; these system. In order to minimize risks, we provide training employees act as the interface between local regulatory to employees of our subsidiaries, as well as to business and law enforcement authorities, domestic associations, partners in the countries in which we lack our own legal Merck Group functions, and Merck's businesses. We entity. In 2013, we held multi-day workshops and training gauge our measures according to the number of incidents seminars in China and Germany. During a global reported, the severity of the incidents, and the rollout of workshop, Merck security personnel from the United product security features. States, Mexico, Latin America, and eastern Asia were brought together to develop ideas to continuously The Merck Anti-Counterfeiting Operational Network improve our internal control measures. Product-related (MACON) is headed by Corporate Security and is crime also featured as a topic during the Merck Africa responsible for monitoring and implementing all global Conference 2014. During 2013 and 2014, we conducted anti-counterfeiting measures for our products. The security audits at partner companies in Brazil, Mexico, network consists of experts from various units such as India, Russia, Italy, and Germany. Legal/Trademarks, Product Security, Export Control, CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Product-related crime 48 Four different categories of product-related crime Product counterfeiting: Merck defines a counterfeit product according to WHO standards as “A product that is deliberately and fraudulently produced and/or mislabeled with respect to its identity and/or source to make it appear to be a genuine product”. This includes products: • with incorrect concentrations of active ingredients • with incorrect active ingredients • without any active ingredients • with dangerous impurities • with modified/altered packaging and/or wrong brand names • with an authentic active agent, but not produced under GXP conditions • that have expired Illegal diversion of products: This term refers to the diversion of either chemical or pharmaceutical products from within the legitimate supply chain for illegal export, for use in the production of illegal drugs, weapons or explosives, or for any other illegitimate purpose. Black market crimes: This refers to the sale of counterfeit and/or diverted products via illegal channels (e.g. the Internet), or for illegal purposes Misappropriation of products: This includes theft from production sites and warehouses, or while in transit. Authenticity and tracking which thus allows physicians, pharmacists and patients to verify their medicines. Furthermore, Merck Besides implementing internal quality control systems Serono has launched Check My Meds. By using this and strictly adhering to all export and trade guidelines, free smartphone app, patients in the United States we also combat counterfeit products through innovative can verify the serial number of their medicines. solutions tailored to specific markets and target groups. • In the Mobile Anticounterfeiting System (MAS) project These measures aim to help our customers and patients in Nigeria, Merck is partnering with a supplier to determine for themselves the identity or authenticity of detect counterfeit medicines through a mobile phone/ a pharmaceutical product. Here, we are applying multiple text message-based identification system. Patients approaches in parallel. scratch off a barcode that is affixed to the product packaging and send it to the MAS via text message; • We use security markings with protected color travel they then immediately receive a message telling them pigments of our own manufacture on Merck product whether the number on the product is authentic or packaging and labels. Called Security-M, this enables not. These projects have fostered public and patient users to easily verify the authenticity of our products. awareness on the issue of counterfeit medicines and These security features are considerably harder to further increased the trust in our products. counterfeit than the holograms that are frequently used. In 2013, the Merck Group Quality Council We have made strong progress in systematically decided to further roll out Security-M on Merck implementing the requirements of the EU Falsified products. Medicines Directive, such as the application of a unique serial number to our pharmaceutical packaging. • We employ identification and shipment tracking Furthermore, we are participating in corresponding pilot systems such as Track and Trace, which has already initiatives of the German and European pharmaceutical been fully implemented in the United States and is industries. Similar efforts are underway in the U.S., where currently being expanded to other markets. the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires drug • Since December 2014, Merck Serono has been companies to include a unique serial number on each serializing all of its major brands in the United States, package of drugs dispensed by 2017. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 49 PRODUCTS | Product-related crime In addition to this, a comprehensive auditing system for compounds. With the MinilabTM, counterfeit medicines distributors and contract manufacturers ensures that can be detected quickly, easily and cheaply, even in Good Manufacturing and Good Distribution Practices developing health care systems. Further information can (GMP/GDP) are adhered to. This system is based on the be found under Society on p. 121. EMA ICH Q10 pharmaceutical quality assurance standard. Multifaceted engagement and For our customers in the pharmaceutical industry, we stakeholder dialogue offer Candurin® pearl effect pigments, which feature unique color properties that make tablets and capsules We are fighting product piracy in partnership with more difficult to counterfeit. organizations such as EFPIA, IFPMA, and VFA. We also support industry-wide initiatives and collaborate closely We have established an internal control system to with regulatory authorities and law enforcement at a monitor and track chemicals that can be misused to national, regional, and international level. produce illegal weaponry, explosives, and narcotic drugs, collaborating closely with regulatory and law A particular area of emphasis is our work with the enforcement authorities. Our system flags suspicious Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI); this organization orders and/or orders of suspicious products. We will only is dedicated to protecting public health by sharing release products once we have verified the existence of information on counterfeit pharmaceuticals as well as an end-user declaration. Furthermore, we also proactively initiating enforcement actions through the appropriate report suspicious orders to the relevant authorities. In authorities. When product-related crimes are committed, doing so, we are adhering to a commitment made by we collaborate with the law enforcement agencies and the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) and to customs authorities in the respective countries, with the “Guideline for Operators” published by the EU Interpol, with the World Customs Organization, with Commission. We also participate in export control health authorities, and with our peer industry. Merck is proceedings and, in certain cases, provide reports to law also a member of Rx-360, a consortium of global enforcement agencies. pharmaceutical manufacturers and suppliers that aims to prevent counterfeit products through the introduction of MinilabTM for on-site testing global quality control systems. Merck funds the non-profit Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF), which supplies a portable analysis kit (the GPHFMinilabTM) to check the quality of medicines on 75 drug CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Sustainable products 50 Goals: Product-related crime Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Protect customers and patients Update our international regulations with End of 2016 from harm by product-related a focus on product safety for all relevant crime products Monitor the dark figures in certain End of 2016 countries Support regional activities End of 2016 Pilot a project to improve product safety End of 2016 in high-risk regions of Africa using software-based solutions Increase awareness of strategic Expand scope of employee training and End of 2015 importance of counterfeit increase internal reporting on pharmaceuticals counterfeits Host a conference of the Pharmaceutical End of 2015 Security Institutes (PSI) with industry representatives Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Sustainable products technology, displays use 20% less energy than the precursor technology. Responsibility for our products is at the core of our • Under the licristal® brand Merck has developed energy corporate responsibility. We therefore strive to minimize saving Ultra-Brightness FFS (UB-FFS) technology, the impact that our products have on people and the which ensures a 15% increase in light transmission environment during their development, manufacture, and in displays. The benefits include less energy distribution, as well as during and after their use. This consumption and greater design flexibility for product includes providing comprehensive information on developers (e.g. longer battery life and higher picture responsible, safe and proper use of these products. It is, resolution). however, also crucial to conserve resources and minimize emissions and waste in our manufacturing processes, as • LCs are utilized in smart windows: They allow more well as to help our customers to do so. solar heat to enter during the winter and less in the summer, thereby improving the energy efficiency of Through our products, we are helping to overcome global buildings. challenges such as climate change and energy scarcity. • Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) make it possible Our Performance Materials portfolio contains numerous to produce energy-efficient displays with brilliant examples of such products. Among others, we are colors and sharp picture quality. Merck has a developing innovative solutions for energy-saving partnership with Epson, a Japanese printer displays and lighting, as well as materials for the manufacturer. Our common goal is the mass photovoltaics industry. production of large-area OLED displays using ink-jet printing. During the 2013-2014 period, this • Liquid crystals (LCs) provide computer monitors and partnership made excellent progress. In Japan, Merck televisions with high picture quality while also has installed the world’s first pilot production plant consuming little energy. Our materials for PS-VA for OLED inks. Several display companies are setting (polymer-stabilized vertical alignment) technology up ink-jet pilot printers to proof mass production help to significantly reduce the amount of concepts for large scale OLED displays. backlighting needed, which is the largest power consumer in these devices. With the PS-VA CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 51 PRODUCTS | Sustainable products • Modern light sources such as light-emitting diodes designers, architects, artists, scientists and experts from (LEDs) and organic light-emitting diodes are key other fields. The aim is to develop scenarios beyond pure technologies that will make it possible to decrease the technical approaches that show how human needs for energy consumption of lighting. communication and mobility are constantly changing, thereby impacting the properties of displays. At the • Our printable structuring materials are enabling the Displaying Futures Symposium in Shanghai, experts photovoltaics industry to manufacture solar cells in answered questions on how display systems impact a more environmentally sound way while improving architecture as well as people’s lives. their efficiency. In addition, we are further developing new materials and technologies for new types of solar cells. This includes innovative process materials for In dialogue with our customers from the cosmetics upcoming high efficiency silicon-based solar cells and industry, we develop proposals for cosmetic formulations new materials for next generation photovoltaics, such that meet strict sustainability criteria and are in line with as organic solar cells and dye-sensitized solar cells. the current trend towards more natural cosmetics. Several These materials will enable flexible, semi-transparent of our products have been certified by ECOCERT, an and lightweight solutions significantly broadening the independent organization that represents high application range of photovoltaics. international standards for environmentally sustainable products, and certifies that raw materials used in • AZ Electronic Materials has developed products such cosmetics and food applications are produced in an as PFOS-free antireflective coatings and photoresists ecological way. In 2013 and 2014, approximately 40 of that contain not a trace of hazardous chemicals. our products received this certification, which accounts The Displaying Futures initiative, launched in 2011, for about 20% of our pigments and cosmetics portfolio. creates space for interaction, interdisciplinary exchange and mutual inspiration for display and material producers, Examples The Merck Millipore portfolio consists of thousands of products with different characteristics and varying challenges with regard to sustainability. The following examples illustrate how we minimize our products’ impact on people and the environment, and help our customers achieve their own sustainability goals: • Our greener solvents show improvements of certain characteristics over the alternatives commonly used for a given application. These products may be safer, with reduced hazard or lower volatility, or may have reduced environmental impacts, increased biodegradability or be easier to recycle. • Our bioethanol offers a non-synthetic alternative to synthetically produced chemicals. Bioethanol was the first greener solvent we made available to customers, and we continue to work to provide additional renewable material-based solvents as well as products with lower toxicity. Production of bioethanol is a less toxic process than typical ethanol manufacturing. Our EMPLURA® product line of solvents is also being expanded to include products derived from renewable resources such as corn cobs and sugar cane bagasse. • The new Extran® AP 33 antifoam agent has the same effectiveness as its predecessor, but we eliminated formaldehyde and nitrilotriacetic acid. Further updated Extran® products (MA05, AP16 and AP17) do not contain nitrilotriacetic acid either. • The products we sell are also raw materials that our pharmaceutical customers use in their processes. We recognize that pharmaceuticals in the environment are a concern for our customers, and to help address this, we are focused on improving the bioavailability of drugs. To further collaborate with our customers and expand our capabilities in bioavailability enhancement, we opened a new R&D Center for Formulation in Darmstadt, Germany. There, we are partnering with the pharmaceutical industry to develop new and innovative materials and delivery systems that better enable them to develop drugs that can be more readily absorbed and thus less excreted. • We are also actively working to develop technologies that address global challenges like climate change and energy scarcity. For example, our bench-top Guava HT series flow cytometer is helping to drive biofuel research and development. Our customers use Guava instruments to determine which species will achieve maximum diesel production. Guava instruments are also being used in the production of ethanol from sugar, where they test the viability of bacteria that are used to digest sugars and produce gases that are refined into ethanol. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Sustainable products 52 Sustainability starts at the product Accolade addresses issues relating to technology, quality, regulatory requirements, and patents, enabling development stage researchers and product developers to compare and make decisions on uniform criteria to improve the sustainability The cornerstone of our products' sustainability lies in the of products. development phase. We have implemented various guidelines such as our Group-wide Product Safety Chemicals Policy” in order to reduce potentially negative At Merck Millipore, our Design for Sustainability (DfS) effects. In our Performance Materials business sector, we program is integrated within the product development adhere to the Halogen-free Policy of our customers and process. DfS aims to reduce the environmental and health have implemented the Green Product Policy . Among impacts of our products across their entire life cycle, from other things, this forbids the use of acutely toxic, manufacture to use through to disposal. We strive to mutagenic, or otherwise severely hazardous substances maximize performance and ease of use for our customers. that remain present in the end product. We furthermore Our design teams incorporate sustainability ensure that our products adhere to national and considerations early in the design process. They use a international regulations such as REACH and RoHS, as scorecard to assess a product’s main environmental well as fulfill other industryand customer-specific hotspots throughout its entire life cycle, driving requirements. improvement across six main focus areas: materials, energy & emissions, waste, water, packaging, and usability & innovation. Merck Millipore uses the DfS criteria to In addition, we have developed systems within the Merck measure progress towards our 2015 product Group that incorporate sustainability criteria into the sustainability goal of driving product sustainability product development process. In our chemicals business, improvement in 10% of the product families we offer. the Accolade project management system provides researchers with a tool box for the entire product life cycle. Design for Sustainability Merck Millipore has already employed DfS principles in the design of several products. Real life examples show how Design for Sustainability has been put into practice. • Clarisolve® Depth Filters, used in cell culture processing, were launched in 2013. With reduced pre-flushing requirements of the product as an important goal of the design, we completed a life cycle assessment to quantify this reduction and other environment-related improvements. The results show that significant progress has been achieved, especially for the use phase of the product. Compared to the alternative product (Millistak+® Pod Depth Filter) used by customers to produce one batch, Clarisolve® is characterized by 63% reduction in use-phase energy consumption, by a 46% reduction in use-phase water consumption (1,800L per batch), and by a 24% reduction in solid waste mass at the user facility. • In 2013, the EZ-Fit™ Manifold for laboratory filtration was launched. During the design process, the DfS approach was followed, which improved handling and reduced the environmental impacts compared to its predecessor, the Hydrosol Manifold. The EZ-Fit™ Manifold uses 47% less raw material and its packaging consists of 100% recyclable corrugated board. Because the filtration heads can be easily removed for cleaning, very little space is needed in the autoclave to clean the heads relative to the space needed to clean the whole device. This results in a 91% reduction in autoclave-associated carbon emissions. After the product’s 10 year validated lifetime, it can be easily disassembled, and over 95% of its parts are recyclable. • The design of the Snap i.d. 2.0 Protein Detection System reduces waste for the end user and cuts emissions from shipping. We managed to reduce consumable materials by 91%, GHG emissions for distribution in the United States by 99%, weight of packaging per weight of product by 93%, and solid waste mass at user facilities by 99%. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 53 PRODUCTS | Sustainable products Analysis as a prerequisite for improvement shipping to U.S. customers, a 42% reduction in packaging material mass, a 91% increase in renewable materials, and In order to reduce the unwanted effects of our products, a 73% reduction in solid waste. we must understand our products across their life cycle, which is why we perform corresponding analyses. In some We also conducted an LCA comparing the 200L ReCycler® cases, we investigate the complete life cycle ( cradle to product delivery system and the 4L glass bottle product grave ); in other cases, we focus on parts of the cycle delivery system. The study showed that the ReCycler® through the cradle-to-gate approach, meaning that we product delivery system has significant benefits over the analyze the R&D phase of a product up to the point glass bottles: a 69% reduction in life cycle GHG emissions, of delivery to the customer. Sometimes we concentrate a 77% reduction in life cycle energy demand, a 53% on particular aspects, such as greenhouse gas emissions, reduction in packaging-to-product weight ratio, 46% water consumption, or packaging. The results of the increase in cube utilization, and a 99% reduction in mass analyses show us where we have potential for of packaging solid waste. improvement. Our experts from R&D, Product Management, Quality, Procurement, and other units can Awards use these data as a basis to develop specific measures and initiatives across the entire product life cycle; they In 2013 and 2014, Merck received awards for its furthermore engage in an exchange of relevant best innovative products. In 2013, Merck received the Inter practices and ideas. We share the results of our analyses Solar Award in San Francisco (CA, USA) for the isishape with our customers as well. Selective Emitter Process and in Paris (France) for the isishape SolarEtch product line, both efficiency-gaining We have also calculated the product carbon footprint for and environmentally sustainable concepts. In 2014, Merck pearl-luster pigments and liquid crystal mixtures as well also received the Meyer-Galow Prize for business as the product water footprint for liquid crystal mixtures chemistry for the Energy-efficient liquid crystals for using the “cradle-to-gate” approach. Our customers smartphones and tablets project, for its contribution to utilize these data to calculate footprints for their products. advancements in smartphone and tablet PC displays. Since our performance materials are only present in the end product in minute amounts, our contribution to the Additionally, Merck Millipore received two R&D Magazine end product's footprint is generally very minor. 100 Awards for innovative products released to market in 2013. The 52nd Annual R&D Awards recognize the 100 Merck Millipore conducts several analyses to identify most technologically significant products introduced into product impacts and to improve the sustainability of its the marketplace over the past year. The Merck Millipore products. For example, a life cycle assessment (LCA) was products that were recognized are the SmartFlare™ conducted for the Clarisolve® Depth Filter. Another detection reagent and the Clarisolve® Depth Filters. example is the LCA comparing the Titripac® product delivery system with the 1L polyethylene bottle product Merck Millipore was also awarded the “Greenest Life delivery system. We calculated the life cycle energy and Science Company” in November 2014 at the bi-annual carbon footprint for both product delivery systems, and Life Science Industry Awards® (LSIA). The LSIA recognizes the results showed that the Titripac® had substantial the best-in-class life science suppliers across 28 product, benefits over the polyethylene bottles: a 61% reduction communications and support categories. Over 5,000 in GHG emissions, a 33% reduction in GHG emissions for individual scientists from 76 countries selected Merck Millipore as the “Greenest Life Science Company”. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Sustainable products 54 Goals: Sustainable products Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Improve the product sustainability Implement the Design for Sustainability End of 2015 Within the Design for Sustainability in 10% of the product families of program. process we defined several criteria for Merck Millipore ensuring product sustainability in each of the following areas: materials, emissions and energy, waste, water, packaging, and usability and innovation. We use these criteria to assess improvement in product sustainability. By the end of 2014, we had improved sustainability across more than 12% of our product families, which means we've already reached our goal. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Packaging use, while helping them reduce their own impact on the environment. We are therefore working on several Packaging plays an important role for our products in initiatives, including ones to develop reusable packaging two ways: Firstly, it protects our products from external systems and to reduce the use of foam components. Here influences and ensures that they reach the customer are a few examples: undamaged. Secondly, packaging guarantees that the environment will not be negatively impacted by • Glass bottles are still the most preferred packaging substances leaking out. The packaging must therefore for reagents. Although glass is an inert material, it remain safe throughout the product's entire life cycle – is highly fragile. In order to increase product safety, during transport, storage, usage, and disposal. we therefore developed the Safebreak bottle, which is coated in plastic (PE) to prevent acids from leaking out In addition to safety, efficient resource use also plays a if the glass breaks. Should the bottle fall and break, the crucial role. We identify potential areas for optimizing our acid and glass splinters are securely contained within resources in order to, for example, reduce material usage the PE coating. The Safebreak bottles can be recycled during packaging manufacture without compromising or disposed of with conventional glass bottles since quality and safety. We also strive to increase the the PE coating does not interfere with the glass percentage of materials that minimally impact the recycling process. environment. • Glass reagent bottles have traditionally been secured with EPS (expanded polystyrene) molded foam to The majority of corrugated boxes we use globally are prevent them from bumping into each other or falling environmentally certified, e.g. according to the standards during transportation and breaking. While EPS is an of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), Forest effective cushioning material, it is produced from Stewardship Council (FSC) and/or the Programs for the non-renewable petrochemicals and hard to recycle. Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC). Also EPS packaging is bulky and difficult to store. In recent years, Merck Millipore has thus been replacing Packaging for Merck Millipore products EPS foam with molded fiber components (molded pulp), consisting of cellulose and recycled paper, as Merck Millipore is currently developing a sustainable part of a replacement program. The use of molded packaging strategy. One important aspect of the strategy pulp reduces the amount of packaging waste for our is that we want to continue to deliver our products in customers, because it is easily recycled with other packaging that is safe and easy for our customers to paper materials and can be compacted for storage CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 55 PRODUCTS | Sustainable products and transportation. In Germany, we replaced 600,000 consumed. We are also pursuing opportunities to EPS molded foam components by the end of 2013. reduce the carbon footprint of distribution by working During 2014, we extended the EPS foam replacement on direct ship to customers and other logistics program and are now replacing more than 1 million efficiencies. packaging components per year in Germany. In • Our Titripac® packaging system for volumetric France, we are replacing 12,000 packaging solutions was designed to make titration more reliable components per year. In India, we initially conducted and less wasteful. Constructed from a recyclable additional investigations because of the climate corrugated outer box and durable inner bag, the conditions found there. In 2015 we will start packaging features a unique built-in contaminationexporting solvents from our EMPARTA® and proof dispenser tap and is less than half the weight of EMPLURA® product lines in molded pulp parts. conventional plastic bottles. Recyclability is improved Currently we are using a honeycomb corrugate since the outer box can be fully recycled. We material to replace EPS foam in the United States, conducted a product carbon footprint analysis but we are also investigating the use of molded pulp comparing the Titripac® and plastic bottle packaging there. systems, and found that the reduced material weight • In Europe, solvents for large-scale application in and high recyclability of Titripac® result in an overall preparative chromatography are supplied in reduction of 61% in life cycle greenhouse gas returnable stainless steel containers, and in the United emissions. Because this packaging design keeps the States, returnable stainless steel containers are product safe from contamination, the chemical utilized in the ReCycler® Program. By using these product can be used effectively to the last drop, containers, we are significantly reducing the thereby wasting less. consumption of primary packaging materials. Since • In 2013 Merck Millipore developed new user guide the stainless steel containers can be shipped without booklets from our Millex® Syringe Filter devices any secondary packaging material, we are also manufactured in Cork, Ireland. The new user guide reducing packaging by eliminating the cardboard design used less material and was more compact, boxes and molded pulp inserts used when shipping reducing the weight of the booklet by approximately glass bottles. 50%, saving Merck Millipore 4,700 kg of paper in • For our Milli-Q® Integral Water Purification Systems 2013 and 6,200 kg of paper in 2014. This also reduced utilized for lab water purification, molded pulp greenhouse gas emissions from paper production and cushioning is used for the product accessories. The product distribution by 38 metric tons CO2e in 2013 Q-Pod® and E-Pod® used to be packaged with and 51 metric tons CO2e in 2014. polyethylene, but now they utilize a custom molded pulp cushioning material that is made from 100% Packaging for Performance Materials products recycled fiber and is fully recyclable. We have thus also reduced the number of pallets required to store In South Korea, the Performance Materials business the material by 90%. utilizes a patented system of stainless steel canisters that are filled with liquid crystal mixtures at the Poseung site • We have developed a custom reusable totes program and delivered to South Korean display manufacturers. The for two of our U.S.-based customers for the bulk Merck Standard Canisters (MSCs) can be utilized directly delivery of our Millistak+® Pod Disposable Depth on the production lines without decanting. The empty Filters. This program offers these customers a cleancanisters are then sent back to Merck where they are room ready solution that can be reused up to 90 cleaned under validated conditions. The MSCs are reused times. In 2013, we conducted a life cycle assessment within a closed system over multiple years. A reusable to compare the environmental benefits of reusable polypropylene box serves as outer packaging. Similar totes versus corrugated packaging. Each tote can systems are in use at other liquid crystal mixture transport up to 900 units before being recycled, production sites in Asia. resulting in a 95% reduction in packaging materials CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Sustainable products 56 Reuse and recycling • Ech2o™: Recycling program for lab water purification cartridges: The Lab Water business field Through take-back programs, as well as environmentally of Merck Millipore launched the Ech2o™ program for sustainable recycling and disposal of used chemicals and water purification cartridges in 2012. The program packaging, Merck works with its customers to help reduce enables our customers in the U.S. to send back their the environmental impacts of its products and services. cartridges for recycling, thus avoiding the need for We strive to communicate and collaborate with our traditional disposal methods such as landfill or customers, suppliers and other partners to identify ways incineration. A life cycle assessment has revealed that to develop innovative, safe product packaging, recycling this can reduce the environmental impact of the and end-of-life programs that help our customers reduce cartridges by 10%-15%. During the last two years their own disposal impacts. more than 300 customers have returned over 2,000 used cartridges. This represents approximately 5 Merck Millipore’s Design for Sustainability program metric tons of product waste that has been diverted encourages our Research & Development teams to design from landfill or incineration. We are continuing to products with reduced life cycle impacts. This includes work with our customers and our partners to increase reusable or recyclable materials that are easy to recover or awareness of the program and training in the hopes disassemble. We furthermore strive to eliminate materials of driving up customer return rates. that are costly to manage, such as toxic substances. This allows Merck Millipore to continually improve the We are currently applying our lessons learned and recycling potential of new products through measures investigating how we can expand both of these programs such as simplified disassembly, or by increasing the beyond the United States, to markets in Europe and Asia. percentage of recyclable materials in its products. Our longer-term goal is to expand our product recycling and reuse initiatives beyond biopharma and lab water The following examples show how we are implementing purification cartridges, as well as capturing additional product packaging, recycling and end-of-life programs: plastic products in labs. • Biopharma product recycling program: Single-use Environmentally sustainable, safe disposal products play an increasingly important role in the biopharmaceutical industry. In 2012, Merck Millipore Initially set up in Germany over 20 years ago, the objective and five customers jointly launched a pilot Biopharma of the Retrologistik® program is to provide a system for Product Recycling Program in the United States. In safe and environmentally sound management of chemical 2013, we expanded this pilot program to include two waste and used packaging. In addition to agreements on more customers in the United States. The total environmentally sustainable disposal, this program offers product waste diverted from traditional disposal chemical users and local waste disposal firms access to during 2013 was 72 metric tons. In 2014 we increased information, training and services to implement sound the amount of product waste diverted to 117 metric chemical and package waste management. We expanded tons. Out of the 189 metric tons of product waste the program and established the concept in Indonesia, the diverted in 2013 and 2014, we were able to recycle Philippines and Thailand through a three-year strategic 91 metric tons of plastic. For its Biopharma Product alliance (2010-2013) with the German Association for Recycling Program, Merck Millipore received a International Cooperation (GIZ) called “Environmentally Sustainability award from its customer Biogen Idec – Sound Management of Chemical Waste in South East the first award to be given out to a supplier. This was Asia”. the first customer recognition for Merck Millipore’s Biopharma Product Recycling Program. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 57 PRODUCTS | Sustainable products Strategic alliance with GIZ The strategic alliance with GIZ aimed to establish the Retrologistik® concept in Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand in order to increase environmental awareness there as well as change how people handle hazardous materials. The project has improved training, auditing and implementation capacity in the respective countries, with the transfer of Merck technology and knowledge playing a crucial role. Informational and training materials were developed and made available in the national languages of each country and approximately 9,000 people received training. Furthermore, approximately 230 metric tons of chemical waste was properly managed in the participating countries between March 2010 and May 2013. At three universities in Thailand, 20 “model labs” were established to demonstrate responsible, environmentally sustainable chemical management. As a result of these pilot programs, it is estimated that 300 chemical users adopted the Environmentally Sound Management of Chemical Waste system or an equivalent system for their laboratories. Additionally, Merck and training partner organizations in Thailand will continue to offer training on Environmentally Sound Management of Chemical Waste to interested chemical users. In Indonesia, we built a bottle washing plant that operates according to European standards, the first of its kind. This plant has the capacity to treat 9,000 chemical bottles per month. After we installed the cleaning facility, the Jababeka Industrial Estate assumed ownership of the project and Merck continues to promote the project and spread awareness to their customers within the region. While the three-year strategic alliance ended in 2013, Merck is continuing to support the project and spread awareness in the region through sales and marketing activities. In the Philippines we implemented the Environmentally Sound Management of Chemical Waste concept, with a focus on photometric cuvette tests. In the region of Luzon, for instance, 25 companies participate in the program and approximately 500 test sets are safely disposed of per year. In the Philippines, training programs helped chemical users become more aware of the significance of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and of the information on chemical safety, storage and disposal available on the internet, especially on the Merck website. The academic sector in particular became more aware of the importance of the information readily available in the safety data sheet (SDS). We reached at least 50 academic institutions. Following the training, we observed improvements in the safety signs in the respective facilities, proper chemical separation and segregation, as well as support for company management and heads of schools regarding chemical safety programs. At least 400 participants from more than 150 companies came to the 7th Safety Summit held in Manila in June 2014. For the first time this program was also conducted in two other provinces to reach more laboratory practitioners. In all, Merck's subsidiary in the Philippines has reached more than 5,000 people through the various seminars and summits that we have conducted. In Europe, solvents for large-scale application in During 2014 we conducted a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) preparative chromatography are supplied in reusable on this system. We compared the 200L ReCycler® product stainless steel barrels or containers. Customers send back delivery system to our equivalent 4L glass bottle product the empty containers to Merck in Darmstadt, Germany delivery system. The total volume delivered was based on for professional cleaning and reuse. Approximately 20,000 1000L of product being used by a customer. We modeled stainless steel barrels and 20,000 stainless steel drums are the distances based on the three different locations within circulated in Europe. The rate of return is 90% for the the U.S. The study showed that the ReCycler® product barrels; for the drums it is around 50%. delivery system led to an average 69% reduction in life cycle GHG emissions, a 77% reduction in life cycle energy demand, a 53% reduction in packaging-to-product ReCycler® weight ratio, a 46% increase in cube utilization, and a Like the Retrologistik® program in Europe, our EMD 99% reduction in mass of waste due to packaging. ReCycler® Bulk Product Delivery System has been designed to increase safe handling and decrease packaging of our solvents for our U.S.-based customers. The system allows our customers to reuse a dedicated fleet of stainless steel containers for delivery of solvents. When the customer requests it, we send another full container to replace the empty one, which can then be sent back to be refilled. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Access to health 58 Access to health Strategic approach An estimated 1.3 billion people have no access to effective Access to Health (A2H) is a strategic priority for Merck. and affordable healthcare. According to the World Health Through our holistic A2H approach we aim to help Organization (WHO), developing countries bear 93% of improve sustainable access to high-quality health the world’s disease burden, yet account for only 18% solutions for underserved populations and communities of world income and 11% of global health spending. in lowand middle-income countries. Recognizing that Providing access to health in these countries is a complex access is a complex challenge, our programs and challenge. Improving access involves researching, initiatives are tailored to global, regional and local needs. developing and refining health solutions, creating Furthermore, we realize that we cannot work alone to efficient health systems and distribution channels, address all the access gaps and that partnerships, offering products at affordable prices and empowering collaboration and dialogue are key to delivering health workers and patients. sustainable access solutions. Our A2H strategy leverages our interdisciplinary expertise Clinical trials and skills and is sponsored by Stefan Oschmann, Vice Chairman of the Executive Board. At the end of 2014, As regards clinical trials, we adhere to all applicable he became President of the International Federation of statutory regulations and industry standards, such as Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA), Good Clinical Practice guidelines and the principles of the and has dedicated his two-year term to accelerating Declaration of Helsinki. Our clinical trials are performed access to high-quality health solutions for people in lowaccording to the same high ethical and scientific to middle-income countries. standards in all countries worldwide. In 2013, Merck established an Access to Health Unit at Read more under Clinical trials. on p. 70 Group level, which has identified access gaps and opportunities to better meet the needs of underserved Responsible Marketing patients and has become an integral part of how Merck conducts business. In order to ensure professional and transparent conduct in our pharmaceutical marketing activities, we comply not In 2014, we revised our strategy and the Merck Charter only with numerous statutory regulations, but have also on Access to Health in Developing Countries. The Charter defined our own code of practice. is composed of 6 position papers that include “Our Approach”, which defines our A2H strategy as well as Read more under Responsible marketing on p. 77 covers the following priority thematic access issues: pharmaceutical donations and philanthropy, research and Counterfeit medicines development for neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), pharmaceutical product pricing, intellectual property, and Counterfeit medicines pose a major global threat to public counterfeit medicines. health. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that a number of pharmaceuticals available on the market We leverage our core competencies and expertise across in developing countries are illegal, counterfeit or the health value chain in order to address access barriers substandard. We fight product-related crime in order to through our A2H strategy, which focuses on the “Four protect patients, our customers, and our company’s As of Access”: Availability, Affordability, Awareness and reputation. Accessibility: Read more under Product-related crime on p. 46 • Availability: Entails the research, development and refinement of health solutions that address unmet CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 59 PRODUCTS | Access to health needs and are tailored to local environments. 3. Implement: We implement innovative solutions in Examples include our engagement in the Pediatric collaboration with our partners to meet needs in a Praziquantel Consortium, our partnership with sustainable way. Medicines for Malaria Venture, and the Merck 4. Evaluate: We regularly monitor and evaluate our Millipore Muse Auto CD4/CD4% system. programs to ensure that we achieve the outcomes • Accessibility: Merck promotes initiatives to desired, and where necessary, we reorient our strengthen supply chains and to develop localized program to optimize results. We report on results health solutions in order to deliver and reach out through our A2H website, Annual Report and efficiently at the point of care. In India for instance, Corporate Responsibility Report. we support the River Ambulance Project, and in Ghana we have launched a pilot of our Rural Access to Medicine Index Pharmacy, which aims to serve remote areas of Africa. Every two years, the Access to Medicine Foundation • Affordability: We seek to provide assistance to those releases the Access to Medicine Index, which who are unable to pay for the health solutions they ranks pharmaceutical companies in terms of their need. Examples include our Merck Praziquantel contributions to improving access to medicines in Donation Program (MPDP), a partnership with WHO developing countries. Funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates to fight the tropical worm disease schistosomiasis, Foundation as well as the UK and Dutch governments, and our membership in WIPO Re:Search. the Index has been published every two years since 2008. • Awareness: Merck contributes to raising awareness Merck ranked sixth in the 2014 Access to Medicines Index, by empowering health workers, communities and two places higher than in 2012. In the 2014 Access to patients so that they can make informed decisions. Medicine Index report, Merck was recognized for its Take for example our Capacity Advancement Program progression from a philanthropy-driven access strategy to (CAP), a diabetes awareness campaign in Africa, the a strategic pro-business access approach, as well as for Suswastha project in India and the Ghana WASH leading examples such as: project. • Pro-access approach to Intellectual Property (IP) We believe that it is important to monitor and evaluate management and policies, including its commitment our access to health programs in order to better to not filing patents in a broad range of Index understand how we are meeting patients’ needs. To help countries; us assess our strengths and areas where we can further strengthen our efforts, we are working to develop • Piloting a pro-access business model in India through quantitative and qualitative indicators across all Four As the Suswastha project; of Access, which will be evaluated regularly by the A2H • Alignment of R&D strategy with developing countries’ steering committee that is currently being formed. needs with regard to communicable and noncommunicable diseases; Our approach to delivering initiatives along our Four As of Access involves a four-step process: • Forward integration of Merck’s Global Manufacturing and Supply; 1. Diagnose: We identify unmet needs of underserved • Active approach to dialogue and knowledge sharing populations and communities in lowand middlethrough the Merck Access Dialogue Series, a income countries. multistakeholder platform for sharing information and best practices as well as discussing collaborative 2. Design: We develop business-integrated action to overcome access barriers; approaches to provide support, utilizing our expertise and core competencies as well as our • Adoption of a multi-dimensional approach to partners’ experience. contribute to the elimination of schistosomiasis; CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Access to health 60 • Improved transparency through efforts such as the address the access challenges for underserved revised and broadened Merck Charter on Access to populations and to inform our dedicated strategy and Health in Developing Countries. initiatives. In 2014, the Access Dialogue Series was recognized as a best practice in the first-ever “Guiding Stakeholder dialogue Principles on Access to Healthcare Report” released by Business for Social Responsibility. We believe that partnerships, collaboration and dialogue are key to delivering sustainable access results. Our During 2013 and 2014, we sponsored a series of access partners include multilateral organizations, governments, seminars with the European Commission and Parliament non-governmental organizations, patient organizations, hosted by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical academia, healthcare professional associations, think Industries and Associations (EFPIA). The seminars focused tanks and private sector partners. We are committed to on important access issues in developing countries, the Millennium Development Goals, and we will including R&D for neglected diseases, clinical trials, collaborate with partners on defining priorities and technology transfer, and affordability. The debates delivering on commitments and goals for the post-2015 demonstrated that, in order to sustainably tackle global sustainable development agenda. health challenges, it is highly important for stakeholders from both developed and developing countries to Merck has launched the Access Dialogue Series, which proactively collaborate. Merck also supports a European provides a platform for information exchange and best Commission initiative on access to medicines in practice sharing among public and private sector developing countries, with a focus on Africa. stakeholders. These dialogues enable us to collaboratively Discussions at the global level In 2013 and 2014, we engaged in numerous discussions at the global level: • In November 2014, at a reception celebrating the 3rd anniversary of WIPO Re:Search, Stefan Oschmann, Vice Chairman of the Executive Board, formally announced that Merck was joining this initiative. • In October 2014, more than 100 healthcare professionals from different African countries attended the Merck Africa Luminary in Darmstadt. There, they benefited from medical education on disease management in the areas of diabetes, fertility and oncology, as well as sessions on improving supply chain integrity, pharmacovigilance, and fighting counterfeits. • In May 2014, at the 67th World Health Assembly (WHA), Stefan Oschmann and the Permanent Representative of Germany to the UN in Geneva hosted a meeting on the topic of “Addressing Accessibility Challenges in Developing Countries”. Merck also organized a reception with Stefan Oschmann, the then prime minister of Madagascar Roger Kolo, and Dr. Hiroki Nakatani, Assistant Director-General Neglected Tropical Diseases of WHO. • In April 2014, Stefan Oschmann attended a meeting with other pharmaceutical industry heads to celebrate the second anniversary of the London Declaration as well as to further discuss and accelerate the industry’s commitment to fight neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). • In September 2013, Merck participated in the EFPIA Global Health Initiative Debate at the EU Parliament on Access to Medicines: Supply Chain & Delivery Systems The Last Mile Challenge . • In August 2013, Merck participated in the “Global Post-2015 Development Agenda: Challenges and Opportunities for the German Business”, organized by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development in cooperation with the German Global Compact Network. • During the 66th World Health Assembly held in Geneva, Switzerland in May 2013, Karl-Ludwig Kley, Chairman of the Executive Board, met with Muhammad Ali Pate, at that time the Nigerian Minister of Health, and Dr. Hiroki Nakatani, WHO Assistant Director-General, to discuss the next steps in the fight against schistosomiasis. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 61 PRODUCTS | Access to health Discussions at the local level We also participated in numerous discussions in 2013 and 2014 at the local level as well. Below are several examples: • In September 2014, Merck participated in the European Head and Neck Cancer Awareness Week in Russia as part of the Make Sense Campaign. This is an international effort led by the European Head and Neck Society to raise awareness on head and neck cancer symptoms among the general population and healthcare workers. As part of an information campaign, various media were used, including TV, internet, social media, radio, and printed material. In 2014, the campaign covered 32 clinics in 17 cities, and over 6,000 patients were examined. 609 patients were diagnosed with cancer or a pre-cancer state. • In December 2013, Merck North & West Africa organized a symposium during the first African Pharmacovigilance Congress, held in Rabat, Morocco. The symposium was entitled La Pharmacovigilance, un enjeu africain and focused on European pharmacovigilance guidelines. • In August 2013, Merck Serono India co-organized a round table on Access to Rural Health in collaboration with the Rural Marketing Association in India and the Organization of Pharmaceutical Producers of India. • In Venezuela, Merck, a member of the over-the-counter chamber there, regularly engages with the national government as part of its efforts to ensure the country’s supply of life-saving medicines. Goals: Access to health Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Monitor and assess the progress Create quantitative and qualitative End of 2016 and efficacy of our Access to performance indicators for the 4 A's: Health programs. Availability, Accessibility, Affordability, and Awareness. Availability: Address unmet needs Expand our R&D portfolio for neglected End of 2017 through the research, tropical diseases within the scope of the development and refinement of Global Health Innovation Platform. We health solutions have created a three-year plan for our focal areas of developing a pediatric formulation to treat schistosomiasis in preschool-aged children and developing a new anti-malarial drug. Affordability: Address inability to Through our WIPO Re:Search End of 2016 pay membership, engage in a collaboration agreement to share our intellectual property and knowledge to catalyze the development of medical products against infectious diseases. Awareness: Empower health Develop an integrated initiative of our End of 2016 workers, communities and Healthcare and Life Science business patients sectors to raise awareness and empower people to make informed decisions. Accessibility: Strengthen supply Develop an initiative to reach patients, End of 2016 chains and provide localized regardless of their geographic location, solutions and ensure they have access to health solutions. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Access to health 62 Medicines to combat neglected diseases specifically, the fellowship places successful candidates with leading product development organizations, The most effective way to achieve progress and develop including pharmaceutical companies and product new approaches to fighting neglected diseases, is to work development partnerships, for a period of up to 24 through robust public-private partnerships, innovative months. On returning to their academic institutes, the alliances and interdisciplinary approaches to health and fellows are expected to become an important resource development. for institutional capacity development and to undertake as well as manage clinical research in accordance with In January 2014, Merck Serono launched the Global international regulatory requirements and standards. Health Innovation Platform to address unmet medical needs for neglected diseases in children from developing Through this Innovation Platform, Merck is currently countries. Under its One Merck for Children social focusing on two priority issues in its research and business concept, the Global Health Innovation Platform development (R&D) activities: the pediatric praziquantel has the goal of developing innovative, affordable, and formulation for the treatment of pre-school age children integrated health solutions leveraging from Merck’s suffering from schistosomiasis, and an anti-malaria drug. cross-business competencies. This R&D platform is based Initiatives are ongoing to assess new opportunities for on public-private partnerships (PPP) and collaborations additional projects to build up our portfolio in both areas. with leading Global Health institutions and organizations In addition, interdisciplinary approaches in health and in both developed and developing countries. The R&D development are being fostered through internal R&D activities for the Global Health Innovation Platform focus cross-business collaboration, such as the diagnostics on schistosomiasis and related helminth diseases, as well being co-developed by Merck Serono and Merck Millipore. as malaria. The Global Health Innovation Platform They are currently exploring the development of a malaria operating model functions through a series of diagnostic kit from the existing Muse, a diagnostic point partnerships and collaborations. Our partners include of care (IVC) used for the detection of HIV/AIDS. This Medicines for Malaria Venture (and its extended network initiative aims to allow co-diagnosis of HIV and malaria in across the globe), the Swiss Tropical and Public Health countries where the co-infection rate is high. Institute, the African Institute of Biomedical Science & Technology (AiBST) in Zimbabwe, the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, the London Center for NTD Research, Praziquantel pediatric formulation and Saint George’s University in the United Kingdom. We Since July 2012, the Pediatric Praziquantel (PZQ) have furthermore signed a Memorandum of Consortium, an international, non-profit public-private Understanding with both the Kenya Medical Research partnership, has been operating with the aim to develop, Institute (KEMRI) as well as the University of Makerere in register, manufacture and launch a pediatric formulation Uganda. We are also a leading partner of the Pediatric of praziquantel, the gold standard treatment for Praziquantel Consortium. schistosomiasis. To date, the oral praziquantel tablets have only been available for adults and children over the age Through the Global Health Innovation Platform, Merck of 6. However, the high-risk age group of pre-school age Serono promotes and sponsors educational programs. children (from 3 months to 6 years old) accounts for Some examples of this include grants for post-doctoral about 10% of the estimated 249 million people already fellowships at the AiBST in Zimbabwe and grants for infected with schistosomiasis worldwide. The pediatric healthcare worker disease awareness at the University of formulation will bridge the current treatment gap. Namibia. Through these efforts, we are striving to help Initiated and led by Merck, consortium partners include: build capacities in endemic countries. Additionally, Merck Astellas Pharma GmbH (Japan), the Dutch pharmaceutical Serono participates in international fellowship programs research enabler TI Pharma, the Swiss Tropical and Public that host post-docs from developing countries. The postHealth Institute, Farmanguinhos (Brazil) and Simcyp (UK). docs are trained on clinical operations practices and clinical trial execution across all Phases (I-IV). More CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 63 PRODUCTS | Access to health Significant progress has been achieved within the Serono’s leadership, this alliance is aiming to have at least Pediatric PZQ formulation program: upon successful one pre-candidate drug move into the non-clinical phase completion of the pre-clinical phase, a clinical by the end of 2015. development strategy was defined, and the first Phase I clinical trial in healthy volunteers was completed in South Stakeholder dialogue Africa. Work is ongoing to implement the second Phase I trial in South Africa as well as a taste study in Tanzania, Over the last two years, we have been participating in and to plan for a clinical Phase II/III trial in African a series of conferences focused on schistosomiasis and countries. In 2014, the Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel malaria. These conferences have fostered the dialogue (MBAP) discussed how to specifically guarantee that the and interactions with key stakeholders and scientific children's parents and guardians be informed of the risks experts in these two fields, from both public as well as of trial participation in an ethically responsible manner private sectors. In particular: and give their consent. In particular, the MBAP expert discussion provided guidance to shape the clinical • The 13th International Symposium on Schistosomiasis development plan with regard to aspects such as ancillary (Belo Horizonte, Brazil, 2012) opened an important care, and drew attention to key aspects such as dialogue with governmental representatives; it led to reimbursement. one new partner (Farmanguinhos, the federal governmental pharmaceutical laboratory of the Anti-malaria drug Fiocruz Foundation in Brazil) joining the Pediatric Praziquantel program, thereby bringing its unique Malaria remains a long-standing public health problem expertise for the production and distribution of the and has a major impact on vulnerable populations in over new pediatric formulation in endemic countries; 100 countries: more than 3 billion people are at risk of • The 11th Malaria Meeting at the end of 2013 (Aachen, infection and more than 200 million cases are recorded Germany), which fostered a new dialogue and per year. An estimated 627,000 deaths are caused by partnership with Saint George’s University (UK); malaria every year, primarily in African children under 5 years of age. Thus, despite an existing product portfolio • The 7th EDCTP (European and Developing Countries and pipeline, there is an urgent need for new products Clinical Trials Partnership) Forum in mid-2014 (Berlin, to overcome the problem of increasing resistance and to Germany); achieve the overall goal of eradicating the disease. • The Harvard University Symposium on Malaria and Tuberculosis at the end of 2014 in Boston, MA (USA), In 2014, Merck Serono and Medicine for Malaria Venture during which Merck Serono presented their (MMV), an internationally recognized, Swiss-based notinnovative business model and fostered a number of for-profit organization, renewed the contract of their future collaboration opportunities. partnership on the anti-malarial long-acting compound program, which was originally signed in April 2013. The Pricing partnership allows them to reach out to a large key expert network including the Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation Merck’s pharmaceutical pricing approach helps to ensure in Spain, Monash University in Australia, and the Imperial a sustainable supply of products for future generations College of London. Merck and the MMV aim to develop of patients. This allows us to recover the costs we incur, urgently needed anti-malarial compounds through their including, among others, costs from research, lead optimization program, which comprises chemical development, manufacturing, regulation and distribution. series that have shown significant anti-malarial potential. We can furthermore continue investing in the discovery The main component of this collaboration between Merck and development of new medicines. and MMV is a new chemical series that entered the exploratory development phase in 2014. Under Merck CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Access to health 64 The affordability of our health solutions is part of our patients who cannot afford the treatment but wider patient value proposition, which includes who could benefit from Erbitux®. Merck Serono accessibility, availability and awareness. We are aware of set up registration centers at around 100 the importance of affordable access to medicines in selected hospitals in 60 cities, through which developing countries. As a result, we commit to pricing patients can apply. So far, more than 3,100 our products responsibly and to engaging in innovative patients have benefited from this program. equitable pricing schemes in partnership with We also have PAPs in other countries such as the governments and other key stakeholders. Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand, where we offer Erbitux® for colorectal cancer at reduced prices to patients We recognize that individual countries have varying who do not have health insurance and who would abilities to pay for our health solutions. We conduct yearly otherwise have to pay the full price for this treatment. reviews of our pricing strategies to identify ways to expand access to health by aligning prices with affordability. We are committed to implementing interLocal manufacturing, distribution and supply country equitable pricing schemes. Via low-priced chain tenders, we offer intra-country differential prices to health ministries and to social health insurance systems. To address the varying abilities of countries to pay for our These institutions play a critical role in financing the health solutions, we implement innovative mechanisms, healthcare of patients who would not otherwise be able such as supporting local manufacturing in these to afford treatment. countries. Merck produces a range of essential medicines for patients with diabetes, heart disease and low There are three ways in which Merck makes its products respiratory conditions in its own manufacturing plants affordable to different patient segments within individual located in developing countries, such as Pakistan. Local countries: manufacturing allows us to supply affordable medicines to local markets and neighboring countries (in this case 1. Participation in government tenders for products Afghanistan, Sri Lanka and Myanmar) at considerably used in public hospitals serving low-income lower prices than in Europe. patients. Of the approximately 350 medicines on the WHO Essential • Merck supplies products to governments at Medicines List, Merck provides 65 medicines to developing reduced rates in Africa, Latin America, the countries. These medicines are currently distributed in 74 Middle East and Southeast Asia. developing countries, including 35 countries in Africa, 18 2. Establishing second low-price brands of existing in Asia and 12 in Latin America. Our products are available brands to address patients with out-of-pocket in nearly two thirds of Least developed countries (LDCs), expenses: including nations such as Afghanistan, Benin, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Haiti, Mali, Myanmar, Nepal, Senegal, and • In South Africa, Concor and Ziak Sudan. (antihypertensive agents) second brands are available at discounted prices. Safe and secure supply chains help ensure patient access 3. Patient Access Programs (PAPs) that can offer to quality health solutions. In delivering our health products at reduced costs: solutions to patients, our policies and procedures help ensure that appropriate quantities of our products are • Through the Erbitux® China Patients Aid delivered in the right condition, at the right place and Program (ECPAP), the Beijing Red Cross on time. We improve efficiencies and speed up product Foundation and Merck Serono in China are delivery by bringing all actors together as well as by working collaboratively to help expand access integrating the steps along the supply chain. to Erbitux® for metastatic colorectal cancer. This program, launched in 2011, aims to identify CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 65 PRODUCTS | Access to health We are dedicated to maintaining quality and safety at make six prescription and OTC products in Kenya more every step of production and delivery. We do this by affordable for patients at the point of delivery. Thanks to following internal quality management guidelines, innovations in our distribution strategy, we lowered prices complying fully with global Good Manufacturing by as much as 44%-55%, which was made possible by Practices (GMP) and Good Distribution Practices (GDP) streamlining our processes in Kenya. For instance, we are and working with associations and partners. For instance, now using fewer middle men in-country to distribute our we are a part of Rx-360, a consortium responsible for products. This demonstrates how lower prices can be an protecting patients’ safety by sharing information and indirect outcome of more efficient distribution systems. developing an end-to-end safe supply chain. We use a variety of approaches to ensure the authenticity of the Intellectual property products manufactured and sold under the Merck brand. Intellectual property protection is important for Merck to As supply chain barriers cannot be solved by one actor make investments in research and development needed alone, we are an active partner of the Neglected Tropical to enhance the therapeutic efficacy of our existing health Diseases Supply Chain Forum. We have also launched a solutions and to create new therapies for future multi-stakeholder dialogue on accessibility challenges to generations. We recognize that responsible handling of discuss how we can partner to strengthen developing intellectual property is essential for improving access to country supply chains. health in developing countries, where governments and patients face significant resource constraints and access In order to strengthen local supply chains we support barriers. various initiatives that were recognized in the 2014 ATM Index as best practices: In 2014, Merck joined WIPO Re:Search, an open innovation platform sponsored by the World Intellectual • Merck is developing a platform to ensure local quality Property Organization. With over 90 members worldwide, manufacturing standards known as the Virtual Plant the platform accelerates early discovery for infectious Team. This will provide support, expertise and training diseases through intellectual property and knowledge to local managers in Africa, Asia and Latin America. sharing. • Through Merck’s Temptation Project, Merck uses heat Merck has adopted a policy of not filing or enforcing and humidity sensors to monitor the transportation patent applications in the vast majority of developing conditions of all its products shipped from Europe to countries. In markets where we file patent applications, the rest of the world. We use the data collected in we are committed to enhancing data sharing with a centralized system to ensure product quality and researchers and improving public access to clinical trial improve transport centers. information. The patent status of our products is made We are also seeking ways to address the forward publically available. integration of supply chains through a software tool that can improve stock management, which has been tested Merck supports voluntary licensing agreements of all in Sudan and Ethiopia. This tool has been integrated with kinds, including non-exclusive voluntary licenses and Merck’s order management system and improves price legally binding non-assert declarations or clauses that are transparency while reducing lead time and focused on improving access. We focus these agreements miscommunication. on medicines to treat non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer, and chronic In May 2014, IMS Health, a global information and pulmonary diseases, which represent a growing health technology services company, issued a report entitled burden in developing countries. Merck welcomes requests “Supply Chain Optimization in Africa’s Private Sector: for such licenses from manufacturers that can meet our Reducing the Price to Patient”. In this report, Merck was recognized as a best practice company for our efforts to CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Access to health 66 quality and performance standards. When we grant a immune system and act as markers for T cell lymphocytes. license, we commit to supporting technology transfer that Patients with a low count of these cells in their blood are ensures the manufacture of high-quality products. at increased risk of opportunistic infections. Merck supports the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Merck Millipore is currently developing the Muse Auto standards for intellectual property rights, including the CD4/CD4% system, another diagnostic kit for monitoring WTO’s Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual T cells. The Muse Auto CD4/CD4% system will replace Property Rights (TRIPS) and subsequent amendments our Guava Auto CD4/CD4% system. Overall, 600 Guava such as the Special Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement instruments have been sold and around three million and Public Health at the Doha Ministerial Conference in patients have been tested and informed of their status. November 2001 (Doha Declaration). The Doha Declaration In addition to addressing the needs of adults, the Muse exempted Least developed countries (LDCs) from system will also monitor T cells in children and offer a complying with TRIPS provisions until January 1, 2016. more competitive instrument at a modest price that is We support this exemption of LDCs and an extension of intended for use in developing countries. In the the exemption beyond 2016. development phase of the new Muse system, Merck Millipore partnered with the University of California and Patents ensure temporary exclusive rights for marketing in February and April 2014, clinical trials were carried an innovative product. However, we respect the right of out at the University of Yaounde in Cameroon. A second developing countries to enact compulsory patent research study started in November 2014. A final clinical licensing in specific situations, as embodied in TRIPS trial is planned for 2015. Article 31 and as modified by the Doha Declaration. However, we believe that in some cases, approaches other Merck is committed to making health workers aware of than compulsory licensing may be more appropriate and the new Muse Auto CD4/CD4% system as well. For many would avoid undermining innovation in the years, Merck has been participating in meetings held by pharmaceutical industry. For example, differential pricing the International AIDS Society, the Global Fund to fight and voluntary licensing can achieve improved health AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM), the World Health outcomes in developing countries. Organization (WHO), UNICEF, the African Society of Laboratory Medicine, and the American Association for We also promote responsible regulatory data protection Clinical Chemistry. Merck has also developed strong policies. Such policies encourage innovator companies to working relationships with NGOs including the Clinton conduct clinical trials and to invest in additional research Health Access Initiative, Catholic Relief Services, and the and development. Elisabeth Glazier Pediatric AIDS Foundation (EGPAF), among others. In addition, Merck Millipore works directly We support the concept of patent pools. However, we with government organizations including PEPFAR/SCMS believe patent pools should be structured to improve as well as numerous health ministries. access to medicines and should therefore avoid anticompetitive effects and geographic limitations. We Philanthropy and product donations consider joining patent pools if they are relevant to our portfolio and if they meet efficacy, quality and safety Product donations and philanthropic activities are not requirements. stand-alone initiatives. To us, they are part of a broader approach. We support awareness and education HIV diagnostics programs as well as capacity and infrastructure building in developing countries. More than 35 million people are infected with HIV worldwide. However, in 2014 UNAIDS reported that only 19 million of them are aware of their status. In the course of an HIV infection, CD4 cells indicate the state of the CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 67 PRODUCTS | Access to health Medicine donations by Merck provide them with access to health solutions that meet their needs. In India, we also support the River Ambulance In general, we conduct our medicine donation activities that helps expand access to health services and solutions within developing healthcare systems and prioritize them to underserved local populations along the Narmada based on expressed need and expected impact. Medicines River. In Ghana, Merck supports the Ghana WASH project may also be donated in response to emergencies or to improve water, sanitation facilities and hygiene (WASH) specific one-time requests. In 2013 for example, in among children, and will be providing training on water Colombia, Merck supported a medical and surgical brigade quality testing in the future. Furthermore, Merck has that brought medical care to a population in extreme created the rural pharmacy – an innovative pharmacy poverty, in which 812 people benefited from the threespecifically designed for rural parts of Africa that is being day-project. The Merck Praziquantel Donation Program is piloted in Ghana. Merck's largest philanthropic initiative. In addition to these projects, since mid-2014 we have All medicine donations by Merck are in alignment with the also been partnering with the German Association for WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations, our company’s International Cooperation (GIZ), the Kilimanjaro School of Policy and Procedure for Approval and Notifications of Pharmacy (founded by the Evangelical Lutheran Church Donations and Support, as well as our Code of Conduct in Tanzania), Boehringer Ingelheim, and Bayer Health Care and relevant local regulations. The position paper on to support the expansion of four education centers in pharmaceutical product donations in the Merck Charter Tanzania for pharmaceutical assistants. The three-year on Access to Health in Developing countries provides project aims to improve access to high-quality medicines further information on Merck product donations. in rural Tanzania as well as to offer people better health consultation options. Improving health infrastructure and awareness Helping people help themselves We support several projects to educate healthcare providers and patients on disease prevention. As part of According to estimates, around 382 million people suffer the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program, educational from diabetes across the globe, with lowand middlematerial is produced and distributed in order to further income countries accounting for a particularly large promote the prevention of schistosomiasis. In the percentage of patients. Very few of these patients have Jharkhand region in northeastern India for example, we adequate access to insulin, syringes, and the medical are working to improve the education as well as health equipment needed to monitor their blood pressure. Merck care available in the areas where mica, a raw material for is therefore committed to improving access to quality our pigments, is mined. The Suswastha project in India diabetes treatment. aims to directly reach underserved rural patients and CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Bioethics and biotechnology 68 Capacity Advancement Program (CAP) Merck is committed to improving the accessibility and quality of diabetes treatment. The Merck Capacity Advancement Program (CAP) is a fiveyear program that aims to expand professional capacity in Africa and Asia in the areas of R&D, clinical research, supply-chain integrity and efficiency, pharmacovigilance, medical education, and community awareness, with special focus on diabetes and non-communicable diseases. The program was established in 2012 and has been implemented across Africa, India and Indonesia in collaboration with ministries of health, health science universities and local patients’ diabetes associations. The goal is to raise awareness of diabetes by educating the current and future healthcare providers as well as supporting the healthcare system with ways to prevent, diagnose and manage diabetes effectively. To spread awareness of the Merck Capacity Advancement Program, we have conducted more than 250 events across Kenya, Uganda, Mauritius, Namibia, Mozambique, Ghana, India, Indonesia, and Germany. Furthermore, the Get informed Get Active Get Healthier campaign has reached more than 25,000 people in Kenya, Ghana, Uganda and India, providing patients with free screening and medical check-ups. Additionally, more than 100,000 patient leaflets about diabetes have been distributed in camps and in the largest supermarket chains in Kenya and Uganda for better coverage and reach to community members. As part of CAP, in 2014 around 2,000 medical and pharmacy students from health sciences universities in Africa furthermore participated in clinical diabetes management training. This medical education program was developed by EXCEMED, an independent organization providing medical education programs in partnership with the Oxford Centre of Diabetes, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK, and was accredited by the European Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education. In 2015, Merck will provide the same course to medical and pharmacy students at the University of Indonesia and to medical undergraduates in 18 medical colleges of the Maharashtra University in India. CAP aims to reach 15,000 medical and pharmacy undergraduates in Africa and Asia by 2018. Bioethics and biotechnology a global company, Merck must address developments concerning bioethical issues at an international level; we Bioethics must identify the changes and incorporate them into our position on bioethics. To this end, we have established the Bioethics is concerned with fundamental questions that Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP), which convenes arise from how humans treat other creatures, both at least once a year to advise Merck. It is headed by human and animal. These issues are the subject of often our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and consists of globally heated debate, not least because people's ethical positions renowned bioethics experts from a range of pertinent are the reflection of their differing cultural, social, and disciplines such as law, theology and medical ethics. The religious backgrounds. MBAP provides clear recommendations on the issues discussed, which we then integrate into our guidelines For Merck, bioethical issues arise in many areas; these and internalize in our conduct. In order to educate our include the use of stem cells, the use of genetically employees on bioethical considerations, we publish highmodified microorganisms, the research and application of level summaries from the MBAP meetings on Merck’s infertility drugs, and the wide array of clinical research intranet. that we conduct. Beyond compliance with regulations and laws, we have a strong commitment to conducting In 2013, the MBAP met to discuss clinical trial data research in an ethical manner, to ensure patients’ transparency and principles on data sharing. At the end wellbeing and to evaluate different positions on of 2013, Merck introduced its policy on clinical trial data controversial topics (e.g. stem cell research) in order to sharing and published a summary of our responsible data make informed decisions. sharing principles on our data request website. They are in line with the respective principles of the European Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), as well as the Pharmaceutical Research and Bioethical issues are debated in a diverse social Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). environment. Many of these questions are perceived very differently from country to country, and how people view them is furthermore subject to changes in society. As CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 69 PRODUCTS | Bioethics and biotechnology Other discussion topics included biobanking and genetic informed of the risks of trial participation in an ethically testing, as well as pharmacogenomics and targeted responsible manner and then be asked to give their therapies in pharmaceutical development. A biobank is a consent. The MBAP discussed the proposal for Phase I repository that stores tissue samples, along with coded testing of the pediatric praziquantel formulation and patient data and sample data. Biobanks have great concluded that the overall aim of the pediatric potential for future research in areas such as oncology. praziquantel clinical development program is ethically They require, however, adherence to high ethical appropriate. standards both in terms of collecting specimens and genetic data, as well as how the databases are operated. In addition to this, the MBAP discussed ethical These aspects are described in the Informed Consent form, considerations regarding biosimilars. To promote a document in which study participants must confirm worldwide access to high-quality biologics, Merck that they have been informed, that they understand, and established a biosimilars unit in 2012. We strongly that they authorize the use of their specimens. This advocate that the same standards of high quality, safety, includes consent to anonymize samples, store them and efficacy, and scientific need be consistently applied to eventually destroy them. The MBAP emphasized that all medicines and across all geographies, regardless of biobanking can only be considered viable if the intended whether the drug in question is patented or a biosimilar. uses of the biobank are made transparently clear, and if bioethical standards are conscientiously applied. With Clinical trials regard to pharmacogenomics and targeted therapies, We aim to alleviate human suffering by researching and Merck is taking various approaches into consideration, developing innovative medicines. To achieve this, we including the use of tumor characteristics such as certain adhere to all relevant statutory and regulatory mutations. These approaches are important for the design requirements, as well as industry standards. For clinical of future clinical trials. studies, these standards include the Declaration of Helsinki and the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines In 2014, the MBAP discussed several topics, including of the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH). post-clinical trial access to study drugs and issues arising More details can be found under Clinical Trials on p. 70. from the development of praziquantel for small children, as well as the opportunities and bioethical implications of Stem cell research biosimilars. When clear statutory and regulatory requirements are lacking, Merck collaborates closely with experts to develop Access to study drugs post trial is a commitment laid appropriate guidelines. The requirements described in the out in several ethical guidance documents, such as the Stem Cells and Human Cloning Principle enable Merck Declaration of Helsinki. These state that if a study drug to conduct stem cell research within a strictly defined has shown itself to be beneficial, safe and in line with legal framework. They prevent us from violating local requirements, it should continue to be available to applicable laws and regulations while enabling us to work trial participants after the clinical trial, which is what the within the framework of established ethical principles. Our MBAP has recommended. If the drug is commercially Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee reviews internal available, the patient will be switched to the marketed stem cell research proposals and commercial strategies drug. If the drug is not yet approved, a single/named for compliance with our ethical and legal guidelines. patient, compassionate use or early access program may be considered in order to continue treatment. Merck is not involved in clinical programs utilizing stem cells or human cloning for therapeutic purposes and does Within the scope of the Merck Praziquantel Donation not pursue such approaches. Program, we are researching a formulation of praziquantel for small children. This project requires clinical trials involving children in low-resource areas such as Africa. The children's parents and guardians must be CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Clinical trials 70 Infertility treatment research compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. In developing treatments for infertility, Merck avoids all When conducting multinational, multi-site trials in both invasive types of prenatal diagnostics. Within the the industrialized as well as developing countries, we framework of our Fertility Research Policy , however, we follow the highest legal, ethical and scientific standards. are focusing on improving the success rate for in vitro fertilization. Merck only conducts clinical trials if a sound, established scientific methodology is available to investigate a Our Embryo Viability Assessment Test (Eeva) is designed to scientific or medical question of relevance to patients, improve in vitro fertilization (IVF) outcomes by providing medical professionals and society as a whole. We only clinicians and embryologists with objective information enroll the number of participants required to answer the that will enable them to predict embryo viability with scientific questions being investigated. a new level of accuracy. Eeva uses intelligent computer vision software to measure key scientifically and clinically The Merck Pharma Compliance Policy Clinical Research , validated cell division parameters from video image. released in October 2013, serves as a basis for the conduct of clinical trials. Biotechnology and genetic engineering Adhering to the highest standards Merck utilizes genetically modified organisms in research In all its research and development activities, Merck and development and has been manufacturing biotech adheres to the most stringent international legal, ethical, products that are produced using genetically modified scientific and quality standards. These include: organisms (GMOs) since the 1980s. Without this technology, the major medical advances of the last several • The Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines of the years would not have been possible. International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) • The Declaration of Helsinki from the World Medical Merck's major research centers for medical biotechnology Association are located in Darmstadt (Germany), Boston (United • The Belmont Report States), Beijing (China), and Tokyo (Japan). Important production sites for this are Aubonne and Corsier-sur• Good Pharmacovigilance/Laboratory/Manufacturing/ Vevey in Switzerland. Distribution Practice (GVP/GLP/GMP/GDP) • The International Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical The biotech facility in Corsier-sur-Vevey remains one of Research Involving Human Subjects” of the Council the largest biotech production facilities in Europe. Merck for International Organizations of Medical Sciences is a leader in this field. We produce our highly valuable (CIOMS) biotech products utilizing the highest standards. All biotechnological activities at Merck are subject to strict • The “Joint Position on the Disclosure of Clinical Trial legal regulations worldwide; compliance with these Information via Clinical Trial Registries and Databases” regulations is monitored by biological safety officers. and the “Joint Position on the Publication of Clinical Merck continually tracks regulatory changes pertaining Trial Results in the Scientific Literature”, both issued to biotech products and adapts its processes accordingly, by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical thus ensuring compliance with all statutory requirements. Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA), the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the Japanese Pharmaceutical Clinical trials Manufacturers Association (JPMA), and the In our quest to thoroughly understand our Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products throughout their entire life America (PhRMA) cycle, we ensure that patient needs are foremost at all • The EFPIA & PhRMA “Principles for Responsible times. We conduct top-quality clinical research in Clinical Trial Data Sharing” CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 71 PRODUCTS | Clinical trials To provide a broad, in-depth basis for the development of and PhRMA commitment to share study protocols, new medicines, Merck frequently works in collaboration anonymized patient-level data, study-level data, and with external partners in academia and industry, as well as redacted clinical study reports from clinical trials with with medical-scientific advisory boards, service providers qualified scientific and medical researchers; this applies and vendors. We expect and verify that all our partners to all Merck drugs approved in the EU and United States – especially contract research organizations (CROs), from January 1, 2014 onwards. licensing partners and suppliers – abide by the same set of high standards when conducting clinical trials. Publication of clinical trials Merck is committed to the transparency of clinical trial In 2013, Merck Serono entered into a partnership with a information and to publicly communicating clinical trial CRO for the exclusive conduct of all Merck Serono’s global results in an accurate, objective and complete manner. trials, known as the Merck Serono-Quintiles Strategic Merck furthermore ensures that publications arising out Partnership. Within this partnership, the Articles of of its clinical trials are produced in a responsible, ethical Association as well as a comprehensive manual clearly fashion in accordance with applicable laws and industry define our expectations and escalation paths. Our aim codes, and published in a timely manner. is to promote the highest quality and compliance when conducting clinical trials. Merck Serono retains ultimate We publish clinical trial information and results in the accountability for any issues that pertain to the quality or Global Clinical Trials registry and results database run by procedural compliance of the trials. the U.S. National Institutes of Health, which can also be accessed via the World Health Organization Clinical Trials In 2014, we entered into a strategic alliance with Pfizer on Registry Platform. Since 2014, we have also been the joint clinical development of an anti-PD-L1 antibody, registering clinical trials and publishing results in the which is currently being developed by Merck as a potential EudraCT (European Union Drug Regulating Authorities treatment for multiple tumor types. Up to 20 high-priority Clinical Trials) database in accordance with EU immuno-oncology clinical development programs are regulations. expected to commence in 2015, including pivotal registration studies. In this alliance, just as in all of our Clinical trial governance partnerships, we adhere to our high standards for the The Head of Global Research and Development, supported conduct of clinical trials. by the corresponding operating committees, has overall responsibility for product development and the related Responsible clinical trial data sharing governance process. Information sharing related to company-sponsored clinical trials is central to Merck’s mission and enables the Merck has two dedicated clinical trial governance medical and scientific community to further develop their committees, those being the Integrated Clinical Study medical and scientific knowledge base. We are committed Committee responsible for development studies and the to enhancing public health by responsibly sharing clinical Global Medical Affairs Decision Board responsible for trial data in a manner that is consistent with: (a) studies with marketed products. Chairs and members of safeguarding the privacy of patients, (b) respecting the both committees are senior medical/scientific experts and integrity of national regulatory systems, and (c) executives with long-standing experience in clinical maintaining incentives for investment in biomedical research. Each meet on a regular basis to conduct a research. comprehensive review of the proposed clinical trial designs in order to verify that our trials are scientifically We are increasing our commitment to responsible clinical sound, have a legitimate scientific purpose and are trials data sharing in alignment with the European undertaken according to the latest standards and best Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations practices. and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. Since 2014, Merck has been fulfilling its EFPIA CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Clinical trials 72 Furthermore, independent quality assurance audits are Practice and that the data are accurately generated, conducted regularly, thus ensuring that our documented and reported in line with all applicable investigational sites and contract research organizations requirements. In the 2013-2014 period, we received no (CROs) continuously adhere to Good Clinical Practice significant complaints regarding this clinical trial (GCP) standards. In 2013 and 2014, there were no findings procedure from third parties or regulatory agencies. giving rise to concerns that trials were not being conducted in line with ICH-GCP standards and the We continuously collect and communicate safety data Declaration of Helsinki. for our products, promptly providing clinical investigators with important new findings relevant to the patients. This Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) investigates aims to ensure the safe use of our pharmaceutical safety issues and benefit-risk profiles of our marketed and products. Potential safety issues and risks are taken into investigational products in order to ensure their safe and consideration in order to evaluate the benefit/risk of our appropriate use by patients. The MSEB is chaired by the products and manage risk. Product information, including Chief Medical Officer and consists of senior physicians the Investigator’s Brochure and Subject Information, is and scientists with long-standing experience in drug updated accordingly. safety and clinical research. We engage patient advocacy groups in a discourse on Conducting clinical trials responsibly our clinical trials. For example, EMD Serono, one of our Protecting the rights, safety, dignity and wellbeing of subsidiaries in the U.S., is the National Sponsor of AWARE volunteers and patients participating in our clinical trials for All, an educational outreach model by the non-profit is of utmost importance to us. Individuals enrolled in our Center for Information and Study on Clinical Research clinical trials will not be intentionally exposed to undue Participation (CISCRP). AWARE for All educates the public risk or irreversible harm. Privacy of all personal about the importance of clinical research; it is driven by information is respected and confidentiality is ensured in the premise that awareness, realizing the value of compliance with statutory regulations. participation, and ongoing engagement are the keys to generating public support and attracting more clinical Prior to enrolling participants in an interventional clinical research volunteers. Ultimately, CISCRP hopes to trial, a qualified independent ethics committee/ empower patients and the public to make more informed institutional review board (EC/IRB) must review and decisions about participating in clinical research. During approve each and every trial. All local regulatory or the 2013-2014 period, EMD Serono collaborated with the governmental authorizations required in the respective Lupus Research Institute in a pioneering effort to make country must furthermore be obtained. In accordance our Lupus Clinical Trials more patient-centric. with Good Clinical Practice guidelines (ICH-GCP), every participant must give their informed consent before We are planning to expand the dialogue with patient enrollment in a clinical trial. Participants are fully organizations, especially for therapeutic areas in which informed about all aspects of the clinical trial in a we are conducting clinical trials. For instance, we would language that they understand; this includes the potential like to increase the degree of informed consent and make risks and benefits from participating in the trial. They clinical trials more patient-friendly in order to ensure that also are given ample time and opportunity to inquire the trials are designed and conducted around patient about details of the trial before deciding whether or not to needs. participate. All questions posed by potential participants are answered by the clinical investigator or another Clinical trials conducted in developing health qualified health care professional familiar with the study. care systems Regardless of location, all Merck’s clinical trials are Once a trial has started, precisely defined procedures are conducted in compliance with international scientific and followed to ensure that the study is conducted to the ethical standards, in addition to the locally applicable laws utmost standards in accordance with Good Clinical and regulations. We are actively shifting our development CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 73 PRODUCTS | Animal testing activities to more diverse markets in order to address the research to be performed prior to testing the effect of new healthcare needs in various regions and to support the drugs in humans, or prior to marketing chemicals on a development of their health care systems. large scale. In performing clinical trials in developing health care Animal research is only permitted if there are no systems, we apply the same principles that apply when recognized alternative methods available; otherwise, the conducting such trials in developed countries. When we alternative methods must be utilized. Animal research is, conduct clinical trials in a developing health care system: however, still unavoidable in many fields and frequently cannot be replaced by alternative testing. Because living • We only do so in an environment that can follow systems are extremely complex, the entire living system Good Clinical Practice, i.e. where ethics committees of an animal must be observed and tested in order to and well-trained clinical investigators are present. explore, explain, or predict the course of diseases or the effects of possible treatments. All aspects of animal • We only address diseases and test innovative research are regulated by laws and regulations, which medicines that are relevant for the local population. govern the housing of laboratory animals (such as cage • We conduct clinical trials in countries where there is size, temperature, ventilation and relative humidity), the a reasonable expectation that the drug tested will be conduct and approval of animal tests, and the reliability submitted for marketing authorization and be made and expertise of all involved individuals. Animal testing is available to patients after proof of efficacy and safety. approved and monitored by regulatory authorities. • We assure that enrollment into a clinical trial does not discriminate against participants on the basis of For Merck, animal welfare is not just an important ethical ethnic origin, gender or socio-economic status. issue, but also influences the quality of test results. In order to get reliable, accurate data from our studies, we Within the scope of the Merck Praziquantel Donation need animals that are comfortable and provided the best Program (MPDP), Merck is partnering with the World living conditions possible. In addition to this, Merck is Health Organization (WHO) to combat the parasitic worm committed to applying high, state-of-the-art quality and disease schistosomiasis in African school children. animal welfare standards in the housing, care and feeding Praziquantel tablets in their current form are suitable for of laboratory animals, striving to continuously improve adults and children over the age of six. For children these conditions. We therefore promote the 3R principles younger than six, it is currently not possible to properly of animal welfare: treat the disease. Within the scope of a public-private partnership (PPP), Merck is researching a liquid 1. Reduction of the required number of animals. formulation of praziquantel that is intended to be suitable for small children. This project makes it necessary to 2. Refinement, e.g. to minimize the stress placed on conduct clinical trials involving children in Africa. Further animals before, during and after testing. details are described under Neglected Diseases on p. 61. 3. Replacement of animal research. Animal science and welfare Group-wide regulations and organizational at Merck structures In line with ICH guidelines and the REACH regulation, Merck keeps animals in its own facilities at various sites research-based chemical and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. At all Merck sites where animals are kept or are statutorily required to perform animal tests when animal tests are performed, we have appointed developing new drugs in order to test the product safety responsible individuals and groups (such as animal care of biological preparations and chemicals. Animal research and welfare officers, institutional animal care and use provides crucial information on product efficacy and committees) both on a voluntary basis as well as in safety. Therefore, international laws require animal response to national requirements. These units assess and CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Animal testing 74 assure the quality of the respective animal husbandry accredited by the Association for Assessment and practices. In 2010, Merck Serono signed the Interpharma Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International Charter on Animal Welfare. In this charter, pharmaceutical (AAALAC) by the end of 2015. The AAALAC accreditation companies commit to global Animal Welfare principles factors in national laws and guidelines while also taking and highest possible standards in animal research into account the high international quality standards of worldwide. the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals from the Institute for Laboratory Animal Research (ILAR). Our Corporate Policy Use, Care and Welfare of Laboratory Our two laboratory animal facilities in Darmstadt, Animals describes our principles for the housing, care Germany were successfully reaccredited in 2013 and and feeding of laboratory animals, as well as the roles and 2014. The Grafing site in Germany was accredited at the responsibilities of the Group function Corporate Animal beginning of 2015. The U.S. facility in Billerica, MA was Science and Welfare. In this guideline, we commit AAALAC-accredited in 2012 and is preparing for ourselves to high quality and to continually improving reaccreditation in 2015. the housing, care and feeding of our laboratory animals and expect the same from contract research organizations Employee training (CRO) as well as our business partners. In order to ensure that animals are handled, tested, In 2014, we created the Merck Group Manual for the housed, fed, and cared for according to the latest Group function Animal Science and Welfare . It describes standards, all employees working with laboratory animals the requirements for the implementation, maintenance at Merck are specially trained and receive continual and improvement of laboratory animal science and advanced training. These training seminars are planned, welfare. scheduled, performed, and documented by Merck animal welfare managers in accordance with local legislation. The Merck’s Animal Science and Welfare unit is headed by the Group function Animal Science and Welfare supervises Corporate Animal Welfare Officer, who creates uniform these measures, providing consultation and selected animal welfare standards. This Group function initiates training as well. and conducts audits as well as institutes additional improvements to animal welfare at Merck and its The nature and scope of this training is governed by partners. A global laboratory animal science network, national and international legislation as well as local established in 2013, brings together Merck Animal Science requirements, and the training is monitored by the and Welfare experts. The network supervises the local responsible regulatory authorities. In addition to this, our animal welfare units and supports specific projects and employees participate in external continuing education processes related to animal science and welfare (e.g. site programs, such as the accredited laboratory animal accreditation, strategic planning concerning animal science courses offered by the Federation of European science and welfare). Laboratory Animal Science Association, and training provided by the Society of Laboratory Animals, the Audits and site accreditation Industrial Laboratory Animal Scientists and the “Interessengemeinschaft Tierpfleger” (Community of In 2013 and 2014, our Animal Science and Welfare Animal Caretakers). We also provide online training organization performed five audits at Merck’s own programs and classroom courses on animal welfare, the laboratory animal facilities; eight animal science and 3R principles and the AAALAC accreditation standard. welfare audits took place at contract research organizations and animal breeders. Using and developing alternative methods To demonstrate that we adhere to the highest Whenever practical and legally feasible, Merck uses international animal welfare standards, it is our goal to alternative testing methods instead of animal research, have all our laboratory animal facilities at Merck Serono including in-vitro tests and computer-based methods. In CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 75 PRODUCTS | Animal testing November 2014, Merck researcher Stefan Weigt received international recognition, both animal research and the Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize. He developed alternative testing have to be conducted in parallel when a method through which all possible disruptions of developing pharmaceuticals intended for global embryonic development due to active substances can be distribution. The Merck Corporate Animal Welfare Officer tested in vitro on fish embryos. This work is a major represents EFPIA at the AAALAC Board of Trustees and is contribution to the reduction of animal research. the chair of the IQ 3Rs Consortium in 2015. Over the last several years, Merck researchers have We actively support the SET Foundation and the 3R received multiple awards for developing alternative test Foundation, both of which are dedicated to finding methods: alternative and complementary animal testing methods with the aim of reducing animal testing. Currently, the • 2014: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for Corporate Animal Welfare Officer is the Vice Chair of the Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal SET board. In addition to these foundations, we are also Tests collaborating with EFPIA to devise performance indicators that can be used to evaluate the methods for 3R • 2010: The IUTox Bo Holmstedt Scientists Award for improvements developed by companies. Alternative Test Strategies according to the 3R Principles Since 2015, Merck has also been a member of the • 2009: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists European Animal Research Association (EARA). The EARA Award informs, educates and unifies audiences in support of • 2008: The Eurotox Bo Holmstedt Young Scientists research and facilitates an open debate on animal Award for Alternative Test Strategies according to the research. 3R Principles • 2007: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for Animal species Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Tests Before a substance is administered to an animal, we perform a careful species selection process involving • 2006: The German Animal Welfare Research Prize computer simulation and in vitro preliminary scientific awarded by the Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture testing, as well as comparison with similar compounds. and Consumer Protection (BMELV) for Alternative Mice and rats constitute more than 96% of the species Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Tests used within the Merck Group. Other animal species (in • 2005: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists particular non-rodents like dogs, pigs or non-human Award primates) are only used if specified by statutory regulations or if essential for scientific reasons. For Within the scope of our collaboration in associations such example, regulatory authorities require pharmaceuticals as the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries in development to be safety tested in both a rodent and Associations (EFPIA), the German Association of species (e.g. rat or mouse) as well as a non-rodent species. Research-based Pharmaceutical Companies (VFA), Other guidelines (e.g. REACH) also require testing in nonInterpharma, and the IQ 3Rs Consortium, we strive to rodents under certain circumstances. In this way, obtain regulatory recognition for alternative testing potential side effects can be identified with higher methods that transcends national boundaries. There is accuracy and included in the risk assessment. In all a serious need for action here because animal research experiments, the safety of human beings is our top can only be truly reduced if a new methodology gains priority. widespread recognition at an international level. Without CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Animal testing 76 Animal species Animal welfare practices of external partners scope of our work with Interpharma, Merck was closely involved in developing an audit concept for contract We procure our lab animals from special animal breeders research institutes and animal breeders. An Interpharma and furthermore hire special contract research audit was conducted on an animal breeder at two organizations to conduct animal research on our behalf. different sites in Germany in 2013. In 2014, Interpharma We also collaborate or partner with industry institutes performed two more audits on animal breeders in France and universities. Around 80% of animal research activities and Denmark. Three animal breeder sites and five CROs are conducted in-house, around 20% by leading contract were audited by Merck in 2013 and 2014. Generally, all institutes or partners from industry and academia. Our sites were considered of high quality and well suited to animal welfare policy stipulates that the same high serve as animal breeders. Only in a few specific instances standards that apply within Merck also be applied equally did findings suggest some room for improvement. Three to these external partners. audits on breeder facilities in the Netherlands and the U.S. are planned for 2015. Merck is developing its own auditing concept and performs animal science and welfare audits on external partners on a risk-based approach. In addition, within the CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 77 PRODUCTS | Responsible marketing Goals: Animal science and welfare Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Harmonize animal welfare GroupEstablish Group-wide governance for End of 2014 In 2014, we created a manual for the wide Corporate Animal Science & Welfare Animal Science and Welfare Group function that is in effect throughout the Merck Group. It describes roles and responsibilities for implementing, adhering to and improving animal welfare, such as the Corporate Animal Science and Welfare network. Nominations have been confirmed and governance has been established. Develop a Group-wide audit concept for End of 2015 The audit concept is described in the the facilities of contract animal research Animal Safety & Welfare Manual and is organizations currently being revised and expanded. Harmonize the high quality of Obtain AAALAC International End of 2015 In 2013 and 2014, two laboratory animal animal facilities at Merck Serono accreditation for all Merck Serono facilities in Darmstadt, Germany were laboratory animal facilities successfully reaccredited (performed every three years). Our site in Grafing, Germany also achieved reaccreditation. Implement a Merck 3R award Merck to participate in the 3Rs IQ/ End of 2015 The first award is being presented in AAALAC Award Program. 2015. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Responsible marketing Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA). Merck adheres to all provisions Group-wide regulations for pharmaceutical included in these codes, which cover marketing practices as well as interactions with health care professionals, marketing medical institutions and patient organizations. Merck's number-one goal for patients is for them to receive effective, high-quality treatment. Patient-centered Merck’s marketing and promotion is based on robust health care requires that the pharmaceutical industry scientific evidence, is consistent with national prescribing market its pharmaceuticals transparently and responsibly. information documentation and complies with all Merck is committed to ensuring that its promotional applicable laws and regulations established at national practices are responsible and patient-centered, and that levels. Individuals responsible for medicines promotion, as they comply with or even exceed strict ethical standards well as employees working in sales, marketing, medical, and statutory requirements. In October 2013, Merck and regulatory positions, are annually trained on Merck adopted a revised version of its “Pharma Code for marketing codes. In addition, all of Merck’s employees Conducting Pharmaceutical Business and Pharmaceutical also have access to its marketing codes and must receive Operations”. This Code is compliant with industry annual training on compliance (which includes the association codes (IFPMA, EFPIA) and sets the standards marketing and promotion of pharmaceuticals). within Merck for ethical marketing practices. Merck has in place internal processes and compliance In addition, Merck also abides by codes established by officers to govern its sales and marketing activities at the national industry associations as well as guidelines from global, regional and national level. major international industry associations, such as the “Code of Practice” and “Code of Pharmaceutical Should one of Merck’s marketing/promotional codes be Marketing Practices” published by the International violated, Merck has a system to take immediate corrective and, if need be, punitive action. Merck Serono is in full CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Interactions in the health care industry 78 compliance with local regulations on advertising. This results of the online training are evaluated. In 2013 and includes policy requirements such as disclosing the side 2014, 12,416 employees participated in seminars on the effects, contra-indications and effectiveness of the Merck “Pharma Policies”, in addition to the regular Code advertised prescription drug, as well as presenting clear, of Conduct training. accurate and balanced health information to patients and consumers. Merck only engages in direct-to-consumer Marketing chemicals advertising (DTC) in jurisdictions where this is currently allowed. DTC advertising can increase people’s awareness Responsible marketing is likewise important in our of disease and available treatments, enabling consumers Chemicals business. In order to ensure careful handling, and patients to make informed decisions about their we supply our chemicals only to commercial customers treatment. who have the proven expertise. In addition, we provide customers with information on the safe handling and The industry associations with which Merck is associated use of our products. To prevent the misuse of dual-use have put in place reporting channels for health care products, Merck has established an extensive safety and professionals, patients and the general public to report security net. Standardized export control guidelines are on any wrongdoing with regard to marketing practices. monitored by our central Export Control & Customs For Merck employees, we have implemented the SpeakRegulations unit, as well as by trade and export control Up Line to support anonymous reporting of compliance officers at the local Merck subsidiaries. If we suspect concerns. We have also set up systems to take immediate misuse, we refrain from doing business with that corrective and, if need be, punitive actions. customer. The Group-wide guideline Pharmaceutical Operations of Merck KGaA and Merck Serono S.A. in the United States Interactions in the health care specifically applies to Merck's pharmaceutical activities in industry the U.S. market. We believe that worldwide access to medicinal product information is one of the keys to improving health care Merck is a member of the Association for the Voluntary and treatment for patients. For this reason, we support Self-Control of the Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA), which scientific research, patient organizations, health care has defined its own rules of conduct for collaboration organizations, health care professionals, and other key between physicians and industry. When violations of the players in the health care industry by donating money FSA Code are suspected, members and third parties can and supplies. We furthermore sponsor activities such as file complaints with an arbitration board. independent initiatives and medical capacity advancement programs. In 2013 and 2014, Merck had to deal with three proceedings regarding alleged violations of the FSA Codex With this type of support, it is important for key players to with regard to the disclosure of sponsorship money. All remain neutral in order to protect the patients and ensure three proceedings were terminated. them the best treatment. All donations and sponsoring activities must comply with the internal and external All guidelines pertaining to marketing and advertising are standards that apply to Merck's marketing operations. To part of the Group-wide compliance program. They are meet our commitments as members of various regularly adapted to reflect current developments and associations, we furthermore transparently report on the apply for all employees who work in the corresponding support we provide. fields. Within the scope of the compliance training plan, all relevant employees receive online training and participate in classroom seminars. Participation is monitored, and the CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 79 PRODUCTS | Transport and storage safety Promoting research and education information that the organizations communicate to their members. For comprehensive transparency, we publish To support the health care industry, Merck makes our donations to European patient organizations on our monetary contributions and donates supplies to website and update the information annually. This enables professional institutions, organizations and associations. us to fulfill a commitment we have made through our These include medical science professional associations, membership in the European Federation of hospitals and university clinics. Our engagement reflects Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). the Merck Values and makes it easier for research institutes and related institutions to do their work, which Increasing transparency ultimately serves the common good. Our contributions are not intended to influence decisions regarding The transparency requirements for interactions in and treatment, prescriptions or purchasing. In compliance contributions to the health care industry are growing with the code of conduct of the German Association for increasingly stringent. Global transparency initiatives such the Voluntary Self-Control of the Pharmaceutical Industry as the Sunshine Laws in the United States and the (FSA), Merck publishes its contributions made in initiatives of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Germany in excess of € 10,000 per recipient per year and Industries and Associations (EFPIA) require the disclosure updates the information on an annual basis. of collaborations between the pharmaceutical industry and physicians, medical organizations, and patient In order to promote advances in the field of medicine, organizations. They are also requiring companies to Merck sponsors research and advanced medical training disclose individual partnerships, specifically naming the across the world. Merck Serono supports outstanding physicians in question, as well as to disclose the purpose research projects through its Grants for Innovation of the interaction and the amount contributed. We have in Fertility, Multiple Sclerosis, Oncology and Growth adapted the necessary processes, such as our contract Disorders. Through its Global Medical Education unit, management process, thereby ensuring compliance with Merck Serono furthermore provides grants to the data protection laws. We will start reporting in 2016. independent medical education providers, which enables them to develop and deliver advanced medical training Transport and storage safety for scientists, physicians, nurses, pharmacists, and other health care professionals. These service providers must For the storage and transport of our goods, we adhere to fulfill certain criteria, including a proven track record of strict safety guidelines in order to prevent risk to people high-quality medical content and a system to assess and the environment. Environment Health Safety Security educational outcomes. In addition, our Medical Education Quality (EQ) (see Environmental Management on p. 106), Funding Policy prohibits any third-party medical the Group function in charge of environmental protection education provider or related party from conducting at Merck, possesses the expertise to ensure warehouse activities that promote Merck unless an adequate system and transport safety and sets our policies, standards and to prevent improper influence and ensure separation of procedures. At the individual Merck Group sites such activities has been instituted. worldwide, the Site Director or Site Manager is responsible for the implementation of our standards and regulations, Collaboration with patient organizations as well as for issues pertaining to warehouse and transport safety. Patient organizations play an important role in providing patients, their family members and their caregivers The local Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Manager with support for and information on dealing with supports the Site Director or Site Manager and employees diseases. With these institutions, we share the common regarding compliance with all applicable national and goal of improving quality of life for patients, which is international EHS regulations as well as EHS Group why we support this important work. Merck explicitly policies, standards and procedures, providing technical endeavors to exert no influence or control over the guidance and advice. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS | Transport and storage safety 80 The local Dangerous Goods Manager is in charge of conducted on all stored substances, including finished advising the Site Director or Site Manager on all aspects chemical and pharmaceutical products, raw materials, regarding the transport of dangerous goods. Furthermore, intermediates, waste, packaging material, and technical the Dangerous Goods Manager’s tasks include monitoring materials. In addition to this, the standard lays out of and compliance with legal requirements for the safe mandatory rules of workplace conduct for all warehouse transport of dangerous goods, as well as the related employees. All warehouses are audited thoroughly and health and safety procedures. In 2014, the main tasks and regularly to check for compliance with safety duties of the Dangerous Goods Manager were adapted to requirements. Merck revisited and revised its current reflect the European regulation for the Dangerous Goods safety concept during 2013 and 2014. Safety Adviser . Our Group-wide standard “Warehouse requirements for To evaluate and further improve our approach to third-party warehouses” defines the structural and managing transport and storage safety, we created a organizational requirements for a facility. Third-party process and developed indicators for warehouses and warehouse providers have to provide a statement on transport in 2013. The results of the process have led to environment, health and safety before we sign contracts intensified training on cool and mixed storage. We are in order to show that they are in line with Merck’s working to enhance this monitoring process as well as warehouse requirements. Third-party warehouses are develop further key performance indicators for all sites regularly assessed by our EHS Managers; in 2013 and and third-party warehouses. 2014, we audited four of these warehouses and developed corrective action plans to address the findings. Regular training is provided for our warehouse employees, as well as for those employees involved in Transport safety the transport of goods. EHS Managers, Dangerous Goods Managers and Logistics Managers are regularly trained on For shipments transported by Merck or on behalf of our standards and procedures, changes to international Merck, safety is our top priority. We want to ensure that requirements, and incident management. Our EHS shipments reach our sites and customers undamaged, managers meet regularly at the EHS conference in with the correct labeling and documentation. Several Darmstadt, Germany, whose agenda includes bestsubstances that we ship are classified as hazardous practice sharing as well as training on transport and materials. Hazardous goods transport – whether by road, materials storage. These topics are also covered in the rail, plane, or ship – is heavily regulated across the globe three-day start-up training seminar that is mandatory for by conventions such as the European Agreement new EHS managers. concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR). The rules on the transport of For the recently acquired company AZ Electronic dangerous goods are revised every two years; the changes Materials, we have retained the existing transport and are implemented by our local sites worldwide with storage safety systems for the time being, but will be support from our EQ Group function experts. In 2014, we incrementally migrating them to Merck’s system starting introduced the new Group standard “Transport Safety”. in 2015. In this standard, we define the safety levels for our sites based on the United Nations “Recommendations on the Storage safety Transport of Dangerous Goods”. This is especially important for sites in countries that do not have local In order to safely store substances, we have implemented regulations for the transport of dangerous goods. We global safety concepts and standards for all our have refined our audit concept in order to monitor warehouses worldwide. The Warehouse Safety standard compliance with the transport safety regulations at Merck defines the operational measures needed to prevent sites as well as the compliance of those partners involved substance leakage, as well as fires and explosions. in the transport of goods on our behalf. According to this standard, risk evaluations must be CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 81 PRODUCTS | Transport and storage safety During 2013 and 2014, no incidents of significant In Germany, we participate in the German Transport environmental or social impacts resulting from goods Accident Information and Emergency Response System transport were recorded, nor were any incidents of non(TUIS), which provides qualified, rapid assistance for compliance with international regulations. incidents involving chemicals transport. Goals: Transport and storage safety Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Further improve warehouse and Expand scope of transport safety audits End of 2014 In 2013 and 2014, we conducted 18 EHS transport safety to include contracted service providers audits on transport and warehouse safety, four of which involved third-party warehouses. Develop additional performance End of 2014 We have developed transport and indicators to assess the safety of our warehouse safety indicators, which warehouses and transport of our indicate the safety rating of an inspected products subsidiary relative to the Group average and third-party warehouses. Implement improvement programs in End of 2016 countries and regions selected based on risks specific to the products being handled Implement a process to further improve End of 2016 We have instituted an analysis and our management approach to transport evaluation process and, in response, have and warehouse safety implemented the first set of measures. In addition to the results of local audits and inspections, we will be including customer complaints in our evaluation. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SUPPLIERS 82 Suppliers Merck's supplier management focuses on more than just typical sourcing priorities such as competitive pricing, quality and delivery reliability for us, compliance with fundamental environmental and social standards is also a key strategic goal. With this in mind, in 2013 and 2014 we further optimized our procurement strategies, processes and guidelines, aiming to improve adherence to internationally recognized compliance, environmental, and social standards along our supply chains, as well as to prevent violations of those standards. Because developing and emerging economies are gaining significance as sourcing markets, it is essential to ensure that suppliers located in these countries particularly adhere to these standards. 83 SUPPLIERS | Management Supplier management Supplier monitoring Our Group function Procurement is responsible for A key element of our supplier management process is integrating corporate responsibility (CR) with our sourcing ensuring that our suppliers implement CR standards, as and supplier management processes. An office within well as monitoring their compliance. For this reason, we Group Procurement coordinates all corresponding introduced an IT system in 2013 that utilized a structured measures, such as revising our guidelines and processes, questionnaire to collect self-reported information from or joining the Together for Sustainability chemical suppliers. After deciding to join the Together for industry initiative. Through reporting lines and the Merck Sustainability (TfS) initiative, we discontinued this system intranet, our Procurement employees in all countries because the initiative's EcoVadis® platform provides receive information on the guidelines and measures used extensive supplier assessments. to ensure compliance with our supply chain standards. The TfS initiative, founded in 2011 by companies in the Procurement guidelines chemical industry, aims to systematically assess and improve sustainability sourcing practices, including Our fundamental expectations for suppliers and service ecological and social aspects. Suppliers are assessed either providers include their compliance with fundamental on self-reported and publicly accessible information, or environmental and social standards that are derived on information obtained during audits. The evaluation primarily from the International Labour Organization Core results are utilized by member companies, who abide by Labor Standards and the UN Global Compact. To this end, all restrictions stipulated by competition law. Beyond we have been supporting the Compliance Initiative of the evaluations of the suppliers we have selected under our German Federal Association for Materials Management, risk-based approach, we thus also have access to Purchasing and Logistics (BME) since 2009 and have evaluations and audit results for other vendors who work additionally signed the BME Code of Conduct. This for us. document contains essential rules for combating corruption, violations of antitrust law, and child labor, In the course of 2015, we will be switching our supplier and features principles on promoting human rights, CR assessments and CR audits to the TfS method and environmental protection, human health, and fair working integrating the TfS database into our supplier conditions. management system. We are planning to start conducting assessments and audits according to this new procedure Through our Group Procurement Policy , updated in in 2015. 2013, we ensure that our procurement processes adhere to CR standards. These processes cover everything from Sustainability audits selecting to assessing and monitoring our vendors and service providers. This policy reflects numerous internal In addition to collecting self-reported supplier and external guidelines, such as the Merck Code of information, Merck also conducts CR audits on select Conduct, the Merck Human Rights Charter, our Corporate vendors based on the potential risk they pose. These EHS policy, ISO 14001, and the BME Code of Conduct. audits are based on the corresponding company standard. Suppliers are assigned a risk category based on the risk To complement our procurement policy, we drafted the levels in their country, the product category, and the share Merck Responsible Sourcing Principles and integrated of their sales that come from Merck. In general, we assign them Group-wide into our general terms and conditions vendors from non-OECD countries to a higher risk in 2013. These principles define what we require of our category. Regardless of their OECD status, suppliers are suppliers with regard to corporate responsibility, also audited if there are indications that they have failed obligating them to apply our corporate responsibility to comply with our requirements. standards to their upstream value chain. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SUPPLIERS | Management 84 All deviations from the Merck Responsible Sourcing course of action needed to address the issues. When it Principles or from national statutory requirements comes to defects that are classified as critical or major, we identified in the course of an audit are classified as either check whether the appropriate corrective action has been critical, major or minor. The audit results as well as any taken. For critical defects in particular, we consider the corrective action required are communicated to the option of terminating business relations if the problems vendors via an audit report. When an audit reveals defects are not sufficiently rectified. The audit team additionally in a supplier's processes and conduct, we require them to determines how often follow-up audits need to be provide us with a corrective action plan that describes the conducted. Defect classification • Critical defects: Any defect rated as critical must be rectified or mitigated as soon as possible. The supplier must submit a corrective action plan to Merck within one week of receiving the audit report. • Major defects: For major defects, the supplier must submit a formal corrective action plan within one month of receiving the audit report. • Minor defect: Minor defects do not require a formal corrective action plan, nor will we monitor the implementation of the corresponding corrective actions. In response to the results of our risk assessment, a total of We aim to cultivate long-term working relationships with 49 CR audits were conducted in 2013 and 2014, either by our direct suppliers. To this end, we conduct workshops us or by a service provider. We found critical defects at 16 in order to help them comply with our standards as well suppliers, and major defects at 40 suppliers. For 26 of the as to develop and grow. We held one vendor workshop in vendors with critical or major defects, the issues had to do China in 2013 and one in 2014. In addition to focusing with their ecological impacts, in particular stemming from on quality assurance, the training also covered our CR and waste and hazardous material storage at their facilities. EHS standards. Merck is furthermore involved in the local In addition to this, we also identified 40 suppliers who and regional supplier workshops organized by Together exhibited flawed work practices, primarily in terms of for Sustainability (TfS). One such workshop was held in occupational health and safety. Neither our audits nor China in 2014, and TfS is planning to host an event in the self-reported supplier information revealed significant Brazil in 2015. risks regarding violations of the right to assemble or engage in collective bargaining, nor with regard to child Reporting violations within the supply chain labor, forced labor or compulsory labor. Via our central SpeakUp Line, our employees can report In 2013 and 2014, our CR audits focused particularly on compliance violations as well as violations of CR our mica suppliers in India, 14 of whom were audited standards that occur within our supply chain. In the within this period. We terminated our business relations 2013-2014 period, we received no such reports. We do with two of our vendors because they failed to carry out not have a formal procedure for handling reports from the required corrective action in a satisfactory manner. outside of the company, nor do we currently have plans to establish one. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 85 SUPPLIERS | Supply chain Goals: Supplier management Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Ensure our suppliers adhere to Conduct 20 CR audits on high-risk End of 2014 In 2014, we conducted 24 audits on ethical, social, environmental, and suppliers in 2014 high-risk suppliers. compliance standards (part of our risk mitigation strategic procurement objective) Systematically collect self-reported End of 2013 We have set up an IT system and received supplier information the first set of self-reported supplier information. This system has been discontinued because we are instead integrating the TfS database into our supplier management system. Join the Together for Sustainability (TfS) End of 2014 We held workshops to prepare employees chemical industry initiative and joined the TfS Initiative in mid-2014. Conduct workshops to prepare Merck to integrate into the TfS program Systematically collect self-reported End of 2015 We are implementing the TfS supplier information in line with the TfS methodology for supplier assessments methodology and audits, as well as for tracking them. Establish a CR standard operating End of 2015 procedure Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Supply chain Of the goods and services (including R&D services) purchased in 2014, we purchased 55% from suppliers We procure the raw materials, packaging materials, based in EU countries and 30% from vendors in OECD technical products, components, and services we need countries outside the EU. The share of goods and services from over 60,000 suppliers across more than 130 sourced from non-OECD countries outside the EU rose countries. All goods and services purchased in 2013 from 12% in 2012 to 15% in 2014. totaled € 4.1 billion, with € 4.3 billion in 2014. 2014 Procurement volume (%) CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SUPPLIERS | Supply chain 86 These figures make it clear that emerging economies are As a result of our 2008 supply chain audit, we have realigned playing an increasingly important role in Merck's sourcing the mica supply chain in order to prevent child labor and to activities. One major reason is that certain pharmaceutical ensure that vendors comply with the principles of our Human products are being produced in the developing and Rights Charter. Since then, we have been sourcing only mined emerging countries in which they are commercialized. For mica. We no longer use any mica that is collected because, instance, the medicines we manufacture in India, Pakistan in this informal work environment, we cannot guarantee that and Indonesia are intended for those markets. This child labor is not being used. However, we consider it approach reflects our Access to Health strategy and is important to maintain our business relationships with also stipulated by local law. For our products to be suppliers in the regions where mica comes from and thus manufactured locally, we require compliance with our safeguard jobs in Jharkhand, a region in northeast India quality and safety standards; the same goes for the plagued by poverty and political uncertainty. This is why we transfer of our technology, skills and intellectual property. maintain direct business relationships with our partners along All of Merck's pharmaceutical products, whether for the mica supply chain, meaning the mica mine operators developed or developing markets, are produced in and the mica processing plants. We have set up an office manufacturing plants that meet global Good in the region; our staff there are in close contact with our Manufacturing Practices (GMPs). business partners, whom we have instructed on our values, along with the social and environmental standards that we Merck has no internal guidelines stipulating that local expect of them. Mine owners and processing plants accept suppliers are to be given preference in the contract award their responsibilities and help us keep the mica supply chain process. However, there are cases in which local vendors have free of child labor. a competitive advantage owing to their proximity, for instance when it comes to the purchase of technology or In addition to these measures, we have also set up a mica packaging materials. Furthermore, local legislation sometimes tracking system in order to guarantee that the raw materials requires us to use local vendors, especially in the supplied to Merck come exclusively from mines and not from pharmaceutical industry. Otherwise, we source our goods and uncontrolled sources. In order to track the mica flow, owners services globally, depending on availability and supply. maintain a daily log of the amount produced by their mines. It is unlikely that mine owners would falsely reported inflated production figures for the individual mines and then make up Responsibility in the mica supply chain the difference with mica from uncontrolled sources. After all, Merck utilizes mica from India as a primary raw material for such a course of action would incur additional licensing fees effect pigment production. This special mica has properties that would then have to be paid to the government. Merck that are necessary for the manufacture of top-quality crosschecks the final amounts once a month. pigments. In the course of an investigation in 2008, we discovered that at the start of the supply chain, mica is On top of this tracking system, we have also developed an sometimes collected by children, generally together with their audit system that entails surprise audits conducted by Merck parents. This is not compatible with our corporate values, nor or third party partners. This system aims to ensure that the with the principles of our Human Rights Charter. mines and processing plants are complying with our requirements for environmental protection, safety, and Merck takes a firm stance against child labor. As a working standards. Once a month, a local organization signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are investigates the working conditions and standards in the actively fighting to end this practice. We require our mines. In addition to this, an international organization also suppliers to act accordingly and contractually prohibit conducts an annual audit that reviews both working them from utilizing child labor. standards, as well as environmental, health and safety standards. The audit reports indicate all issues identified and specify corrective action. Our employees in Jharkhand check whether the required corrective action has been taken. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 87 SUPPLIERS | Supply chain Mica supply chain In 2013 and 2014, we conducted 14 audits on our mica project aimed to improve understanding for children's suppliers that were part of the standard yearly audit rights and foster the basic conditions for children to process. Around three-fourths of the corrective actions regularly attend school. In collaboration with local specified in the previous audits had already been taken or communities, civil servants, and teachers, the project has were underway when the audit was performed. Because made visible progress. they failed to carry out the corrective actions in a satisfactory manner, we terminated business relations Stakeholder dialogue on the mica supply chain with two of our vendors. Since the start of our supply chain changeover, we have Social engagement along the mica been keeping interested customers and other stakeholders supply chain regularly informed on the progress made on mica sourcing as well as the associated projects. Employees Apart from our strategy to guarantee oversight of the in our Jharkhand office are in communication with our entire mica supply chain, we are working together with project partners and other stakeholders, such as local and the IGEP Foundation to better the living conditions of federal agencies. the families in the mica mining regions of India. We are therefore financing three schools with daycare centers as well as a vocational training center for tailoring and carpentry. These schools now have an enrollment of around 500 children. At a fourth school opened by one of our mica suppliers in 2014, Merck furthermore provides scholarships for 100 children. We are improving medical care in the region through a local wellness center that is operated by the IGEP Foundation. This facility has a doctor and a nurse on duty every day and is highly appreciated by the region's 20,000 inhabitants, who previously had no health care at their disposal. The doctor and nurses also pay visits to schools and villages in the vicinity. From 2010 until 2013, we partnered with the Indian nonprofit organization Bachpan Bachao Andolan to develop 20 child-friendly villages in Jharkhand. This three-year CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES 88 Employees In accordance with the Merck Values, we live a culture of mutual esteem and respect. We strive to bolster our company's performance by recruiting, developing and motivating the best-suited employees. In addition, we would like to further enhance the performance culture within our company and foster the diversity of our workforce. 89 EMPLOYEES | Management Human resources management complying with fundamental labor and social standards, as well as the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) As of December 31, 2014, a total of 39,639 employees core labor standards, the UN Global Compact and the worked for Merck across 66 countries. In accordance with Responsible Care® program of the chemical industry. We the Merck Values, we live a culture of mutual esteem have put global policies and guidelines in place to ensure and respect. Through workplace provisions defined in the that these standards are implemented at our sites, often “Merck Human Rights Charter”, we commit ourselves to going beyond the legal requirements. Distribution of employees (by region, %) Strategic goals In order to evaluate the impact of our strategic measures, we conduct surveys on our programs. For instance, in the Our strategic HR goals include developing a goal-oriented, 2013-2014 period, we surveyed our employees regarding performance-driven corporate culture that features a our new mywork@merck working model, in which global talent development process and a performanceemployees can decide when and where they work. One related, market-oriented compensation structure. We are year after implementing this system in July 2013, we furthermore focused on recruiting talent, building their turned our attention to Generation Y employees. The loyalty and retaining them for the long term. For this results revealed that far more than 90% of those surveyed reason, Merck has introduced global programs, for consider flexibility in the choice of working hours and example the Performance Management Process and work location to be highly important. In addition to a new Global Rewards Policy, as well as the Talent and working model, we also introduced a new comprehensive Succession Management Process. Through targeted approach to employee surveys in the 2013-2014 period. measures, we are also aiming to build workforce diversity The key tool here is the Organizational Health Index, which and foster a culture of inclusion within our company. For serves to predict Merck's future performance capacity. instance, we are thus striving to increase the percentage of management positions (Global Grade 14 and higher) Organization and responsibilities held by women to 25%-30% by 2016 (26% are currently held by women). Through our vocational training and Kai Beckmann, an Executive Board Member, is responsible continuing education offerings, we are working to build for human resources at Merck. The Group Human employee buy-in to our performance culture as well as Resources (Group HR) function manages and coordinates bolster their professional development. all HR activities worldwide. Regional employees of Group HR are in charge of implementing the measures in their respective subsidiaries. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES | Management 90 Group HR comprises the units Corporate HR, HR Business Global employee data collection and Partners and HR Services. Corporate HR designs all global controlling HR guidelines, programs and policies. HR Business Partners provide advice and support to business units We collect and assess employee data across the Merck at all subsidiaries; HR Services performs administrative Group in order to check whether we are making progress services and supports all employees with regard to HRtoward our strategic goals. related matters. In the 2013-2014 period, we completed the transition to this structure across all local HR Since 2012, all relevant HR processes have been organizations. consolidated on a single IT platform: global performance management, development planning, identification and Actions taken in 2013-2014 assessment of talent and successors, recruiting, learning management, bonus calculation, and annual The Group-wide Fit for 2018 transformation and growth compensation review. Called HR Suite , this platform has program aims to maintain Merck's competitive edge in harmonized and simplified HR processes Group-wide. the long term. A key goal of this initiative is to bolster Over the 2013-2014 period, we gradually expanded the buy-in to the company's performance culture. For us, this HR Suite group of users. We will be focusing on further means setting clear expectations and goals for all our integrating processes and data as well as consistent employees, providing regular and transparent feedback, reporting. and recognizing good performance. This is why Merck launched the capability initiative known as ONE Talent Through internal audits, Merck regularly reviews all issues Development, Rewards and Performance Management. covered in HR guidelines and regulations, such as Part of our Group strategy, this initiative aims to recruit compliance with the statutory minimum working age the talent needed for our business success, offer them among all employees. development and growth opportunities, and retain them for the long term. We are therefore working to establish a talent pool for all critical positions at Merck. This includes Training and educating employees jobs that, from a strategic standpoint, are absolutely All new employees at Merck receive training on our Code essential to our operations. In addition to this, we are of Conduct, and are educated on what diversity and striving to further improve our internal talent pool, as well inclusion means to Merck. This is how we convey a as to identify and start nurturing talent earlier on in their common understanding of our Values and reinforce our Merck career. corporate culture. To ensure that all HR functions partner more closely with In the 2013-2014 period, we adapted our activities and the businesses during the growth phase of Fit for 2018 , measures in order to meet new challenges such as the HR Business Partner functions that previously increased international and Group-wide collaboration, as operated separately are being consolidated into one single well as accelerated innovation cycles. Since many teams HR Business Partner organization starting in 2015. The now feature employees of differing nationalities, we are Organization Center of Expertise and HR Services are also focusing our education and training activities more being consolidated into one organization. The heads of heavily on a solid, fundamental understanding of other both units will report to Kai Beckmann, Executive Board cultures. In addition to this, Merck has developed a tool Member and Head of Group Human Resources. kit that aims to improve team performance and collaboration, and features workshop formats and elearning courses. So far, 35 workshops have been held for various teams from various units. Furthermore, we have implemented talent identification and development processes across the entire Group. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 91 EMPLOYEES | Good leadership In the coming years, cooperation between HR and the for an Executive MBA. We plan on further harmonizing managers of the businesses will continue to grow, which our training programs so that all of our managers live the will ensure that all managers and staff worldwide live our same concept of good leadership. Values and strengthen our corporate culture. Our teams are increasingly composed of employees from Good leadership various sites and various countries. Our management processes must therefore take a global approach, and our Merck managers drive our innovative business model by managers must possess cross-cultural leadership qualities motivating their teams, as well as by recognizing and that are effective across an Internet connection. In the leveraging the opportunities offered by the diverse 2013-2014 period, we further harmonized our manager cultures and experience of their employees. They development activities. Since 2013, we have been offering furthermore act as role models, bolstering our Values and our employees and managers Group-wide an enhanced feedback culture. development portfolio. Take for instance our Emerging Markets Management Program, which we developed in In order to reinforce good leadership qualities, we China in collaboration with the renowned China Europe launched the strategic initiative known as ONE Talent International Business School. This initiative is targeted to Development, Rewards and Performance Management in young managers in emerging markets in order to groom 2014 as part of the growth phase of our Fit for 2018 them and build loyalty to the company. Over a period program. We furthermore initiated the Merck of up to two years, the program covers business Competence Model, which has replaced the Merck administration content such as marketing and financial Competency Compass and Merck's leadership guidelines. analysis, along with topics specific to Merck such as our This new model is based on six core competencies: strategy and corporate culture. The goal is to equip customer-focused, global, innovative, result-oriented, participants to work in any of Merck's businesses in an efficient, and engaged. They describe the type of conduct international setting. Merck launched the Emerging that we expect of and therefore encourage in our Markets Management Program in China in 2013 and in employees and managers in order to drive Merck's the Intercontinental region in 2014. Similar programs are strategic alignment and business success. This model being initiated in Latin America in 2015 and in India in constitutes the foundation of learning and development 2016. activities at Merck. In addition to this new model, during 2013 and 2014 the Diversity Council also developed We gauge the efficacy of our activities through our diversity and inclusion expectation criteria for managers. Performance and Talent Management Process, as well as by the fluctuation rates of managers and top talent in We offer our top talent and senior managers programs the company. In addition to this, we conduct an on the topic of good leadership . For instance, the Future organizational health survey as well as an employee Leaders program helps employees acquire business and engagement survey to get employee feedback on leadership skills in the early phases of their career. The leadership qualities. participants take on strategic cross-functional projects and work abroad for two years. During the nine-month Identifying talent International Management Program, young talent have the chance to hone their leadership skills as well as their Continuous performance assessment is critical for both ability to think globally. In addition to this initiative, the individual employees as well as the success of the Merck University, launched in 1999, offers a multicompany. Clear objectives, differentiated feedback, and regional, modular one-year program in cooperation with individual development plans constitute the foundation top international universities. To date, 284 senior of employee development. We utilize the Performance managers have taken part. Merck also cooperates globally and Talent Management Process to evaluate our with universities to support employees who wish to study employees' performance and identify talent. In doing so, we are bolstering Merck's performance and feedback CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES | Diversity and inclusion 92 culture while ensuring that in-house positions are filled select colleagues, and, as needed, external consultants more efficiently. This harmonized approach has replaced assess for instance the employee's skills and conduct, all previous tools for talent identification, performance thereby helping them better identify their personal evaluation and skill development; it is managed and strengths and development opportunities. In addition, line documented via our HR IT system, known as the HR Suite. managers can utilize the assessment results to create a Key components of our Performance and Talent detailed development plan for their employees. Management Process include annual feedback meetings and performance evaluations for employees rated Global Around the world, approximately 27,600 employees in Grade 10+ in our position grading system. In 2013, Merck 2014 and 31,395 employees in 2014 took part in the extended the variable bonus model of the Performance Performance and Talent Management Process. In total, and Talent Management Process to include non-exempt we identified 4,200 talented individuals in 2014, which employees as well. We are thus encouraging outstanding represents around 19% of the participants. These talented performance as well as furthering the success of the employees must work with their line manager to design a business and the company. development plan. Starting in 2015, we will be expanding the process to include employees rated Global Grade nine The Performance and Talent Management Process or lower. features three assessment tools that employees can use to systematically advance their development. Line managers, Six competencies define important leadership skills Diversity and inclusion have therefore set ourselves the goal of increasing workforce diversity and optimally leveraging this for our We believe that workforce diversity and a culture of business by creating the conditions for each employee to inclusion lead to greater innovation and better team reach their maximum potential. Here, we are focusing our performance within the company. A good balance efforts on promoting women in management positions between different cultures and nationalities, between as well as addressing the topics of internationality and different age groups, and between male and female demographics. employees is conducive to the company’s success. We CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 93 EMPLOYEES | Diversity and inclusion Ultimate responsibility for diversity lies with Kai The companies report on their progress at an annual press Beckmann, who as an Executive Board Member is conference. With support from the Chief Diversity Officer, responsible for Group Human Resources, among other the Diversity Council is developing specific performance areas. The Chief Diversity Officer (CDO) is responsible for indicators to assess whether the objectives of the 2015 strategic diversity management and reports directly to the diversity and inclusion strategy are being attained. Executive Board Member responsible for Group HR. Training and educating employees In 2013, we instituted the Diversity Council, which consists of managers from all businesses as well as select In September 2014, we presented our new diversity and Group functions. In the 2013-2014 period, the Diversity inclusion strategy to our employees in Darmstadt Council revised Merck's diversity and inclusion strategy. (Germany) and Billerica (MA, USA) at our Diversity Days The strategy focuses on four areas: event. Members of the Diversity Council discussed the new strategy with several employees, the results of which • Attracting the right employees to the company, were then presented at a panel session. In addition, the fostering them and building long-term loyalty topics of diversity and inclusion are also featured in all • Fostering efficient collaboration training courses for employees, as well as in all management seminars for employees with managerial • Driving innovation and improvements responsibility. • Meeting the needs of our diverse customers The new strategy places a heavier focus on how a diverse Promoting women in management positions workforce can contribute to the success of our business strategy. Clear goals can be derived from each of the In 2011, Merck made the strategic decision to increase four focus areas, such as promoting intercultural the percentage of management positions held by women understanding in order to improve the performance of to 25%-30% by 2016. We reached the lower range of global teams, or promoting managers who drive inclusion this objective by 2013, having achieved 25%. In 2014, the and innovation within the company. The Diversity Council share of management positions held by women increased is responsible for implementing the new strategy within to 26%. On top of that, 2014 was the first time that Merck's various businesses and units, as well as for two women assumed leadership of two Merck businesses reviewing it. In the first half of 2015, Group Human (Merck Serono and Consumer Health). At the beginning of Resources will be conducting an audit to check whether 2015, Belen Garijo, a native of Spain and previously CEO all HR programs and processes reflect the new approach. of Merck Serono, joined the Executive Board and took over In 2015, the Diversity Council will continue to push ahead leadership of our Healthcare business sector. with the new strategy across the Merck Group. At local level, we have implemented numerous measures designed to further increase the percentage of women Monitoring and controlling across the entire workforce and to specifically increase the number holding management positions. For one, we Each quarter, Merck compiles data on the gender facilitate work-life balance for our employees in many distribution, nationality, and other demographics of its countries, such as by offering flexible working hours and employees for internal evaluation purposes. We analyze childcare options. Furthermore, women benefit from this data at the business and Group function level, as well special ongoing training and continuing education as by key countries and by groups of young professionals programs. These measures also include support from inand managers. We present select data in both our Annual house networks initiated by Merck employees, such as Report as well as our Corporate Responsibility Report. Women at Merck. In order to promote exchange among In 2011, Merck joined together with all other DAX® 30 women in management positions within the Merck companies to sign a voluntary commitment to increase Group, we support the internal Women in Leadership the proportion of management positions held by women. network at Global headquarters in Darmstadt, Germany, CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES | Diversity and inclusion 94 as well as the Group-wide Merck International Women’s non-German employees. The Diversity Council is working Network. Our Chief Diversity Officer and Kai Beckmann, on a concrete goal for increasing the percentage of an Executive Board member, engage these networks in managers who come from emerging markets. a regular dialogue. In addition, we also support external global networks that work toward diversity and inclusion In order to promote the internationality of our workforce, in the professional world. Since 2012, Merck has been a we pursue two goals when hiring people for new partner in the Healthcare Businesswomen´s Association positions: one, to increase the number of local employees (HBA). Thanks to this partnership, women in Darmstadt, at sites outside of Germany, across all hierarchical levels; Lyon (France) and Boston (MA, USA) can take advantage and two, to offer our employees international of the organization's seminars, mentoring programs and development opportunities. In addition to this conferences. In October 2013, Merck in Darmstadt hosted recruitment approach, we also require employees in upper the HBA's European summit. Among other topics, management to have acquired international work attendees discussed the development and advancement experience. Furthermore, we help our employees to of leadership skills for professionals in the health industry. acquire intercultural competencies. For this purpose, we In the United States, Merck sponsored the 10th promote intercultural training courses and international Massachusetts Conference for Women, which took place teamwork throughout the entire Merck Group. We offer on December 4, 2014 and was attended by 150 EMD special cultural immersion courses to managers working Millipore and EMD Serono employees. outside their home countries, which include language courses and international networks. Employee networks Demographic change In order to promote dialogue on diversity, Merck supports various employee networks, such as networks for women In Germany, Switzerland, several other EU countries, in management positions (see “Promoting Women in Japan, and the United States, demographic change is Management Positions”), networks for international already underway. At our sites in industrialized countries, employees, and the Rainbow Network for homosexual, the average age of our employees is already more than 40, bisexual and transsexual employees. Through their and we expect this to continue rising in the coming years. involvement in these networks, employees can advance In Germany, Merck has implemented various programs and hone their leadership and organizational skills. In to respond to demographic change. For instance, we are addition to this, in 2014 we launched a project designed fostering the employability of our workforce and working to systematically foster individual network members and to build employee loyalty. This includes adapting to better leverage the networks' potential for Merck's workplaces to the needs of older employees and business activities. In 2015, these networks will be establishing a health management program to maintain developing objectives for future planned activities as well their health, as well as their ability to do their job. Take as expanding their scope regionally and internationally. for example the health intervention program that we are running in cooperation with the company health Promoting internationality insurance fund at our facility in Darmstadt, Germany. When they resume exercising and sports activities, Being an international global player, one of our employees older than 40 receive special support in the fundamental principles is to recruit employees from the form of the Leben nach Herzenslust (Living Life to the countries in which we operate and offer them career Fullest) program. Furthermore, the Darmstadt site offers development opportunities. Merck currently employs courses specifically for employees over 40 and for people from 122 different countries, 27% of which come employees over 50, such as the Dranbleiben aber wie? from Germany. Altogether, our managerial staff includes Learning 40+ course ( How to stay sharp Learning at representatives of 67 nationalities. In the 2013-2014 40+ ). period, 61% of our management positions were held by CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 95 EMPLOYEES | Recruiting and retaining talent On top of this, health counseling sessions between nationality, religion, sexual orientation, or disability – a managers and employees also help reinforce healthy stance that is mandated by the Merck Code of Conduct. If behaviors and promote good health. In training sessions an employee feels they have been discriminated against, on healthy leadership, we educate managers on the they can report the issue via various channels. Their first connection between management culture, managerial point of contact is their manager, but they can also conduct and employee stress. In addition, in 2014 we contact Group Human Resources, Legal, or Compliance. issued our Group Health Policy , which promotes and If an employee prefers to anonymously report their case, maintains employee health as well as their ability to they can call our free hotline from anywhere in the world. perform. Our compliance organization is responsible for processing suspected cases. Confirmed cases of discrimination can lead to disciplinary action or consequences stipulated by Preventing discrimination labor law. In 2013 and 2014, one suspected case of Our commitment to diversity also means that we do not discrimination was reported via the SpeakUp Line. After tolerate discrimination anywhere within our company – thoroughly examining the case, legal steps were taken. whether based on gender, age, ethnicity, skin color, Goals: Diversity & inclusion Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Increase the percentage of Increase the percentage of management End of 2016 Institute communication measures and management positions (Global positions held by women through utilize HR processes such as Talent Grade 14+) held by women to at numerous initiatives that move women Management least 25%-30% into those positions 26% of management positions were held by women in 2014, which means that we have already reached the bottom range of our target. We will continue to pursue this goal in order to further increase the percentage of management positions held by women. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Recruiting and retaining talent Merck is striving to build its reputation as an attractive employer for potential employees. Our goal here is to In order to maintain our position as a successful, recruit and retain employees who represent our Values innovative company, we need talented and highly and show the potential for growth. For instance, we are qualified employees. Across all our sites, we face the systematically driving the development and growth of our challenge of attracting talent and retaining them. internal talent pool, thereby reducing the risk of vacancies. Particularly in Europe and the United States, but also in In addition to personal development opportunities, a China and other Asian countries, we are seeing growing competitive compensation policy is also instrumental to competition for specialists and experts, primarily the recruiting and retaining talent. consequence of demographic change. We are constantly seeking chemists, pharmacologists, medical scientists, The Center of Expertise (CoE) for Strategic Talent and biostatisticians, biochemists, business administration Performance, part of Group Human Resources, is experts, engineers, and IT specialists, as well as people who responsible for developing strategies and leading are able and willing to take on managerial responsibility. initiatives for attracting talent and retaining employees. In emerging markets, we face the particular challenge of The measures devised by this CoE are implemented by recruiting qualified executives for our company. local HR personnel. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES | Recruiting and retaining talent 96 Attracting young professionals guide, which aims to help graduates identify their In 2010, we launched the Make great things happen personal strengths, such as leadership potential or campaign to position Merck globally as an attractive outstanding dedication. employer. This initiative highlights our strengths. For instance, we offer diverse opportunities for employees University graduates can join Merck via direct hire or to contribute to the development and marketing of through a trainee program. Our trainee programs enable innovative products, as well as career opportunities in an participants to switch between different projects over a international, motivating and modern work environment. period of two years and include continuing education Furthermore, the claim of Make great things happen opportunities as well as mentoring programs. In the is also intended to reflect our strong sense of social 2013-2014 period, we further increased the number of responsibility as well as our commitment to maintaining trainee positions. In 2015, Merck has around 50 trainees, work-life balance. The positive impact of the campaign is primarily employed in Inhouse Consulting, but also in IT confirmed by Merck's ranking among the best employers and Finance as well. for senior scientists in Germany, which is published every year by the company Universum following a survey of To further increase Merck's reputation as an employer, over 5,000 participants. In 2013 and 2014, Merck ranked we have also expanded our loyalty-building Student fifth out of 100 companies, versus sixth in 2012. As part Excellence Program to include a larger target audience. of Merck's realignment under our Fit for 2018 This program is now open not just to our work-study transformation and growth program, we have revised our students, but to all interested university students. In order commitment to existing and potential employees, known to reach out to university students, we launched a new as the Employee Value Proposition, along with its key event format in November 2014 known as Merck statements. Furthermore, we have expanded our employer Discovery Day, which aims to give people a chance to branding campaign to cover a broader target audience, experience our company first-hand. The Discovery Day an effort to prepare us for issues such as greater future held in Darmstadt in November 2014 was attended by demand for engineers. 35 process engineering students from various German universities. Moreover, around 500 university students Our primary target groups are university graduates and and 321 high school pupils completed an internship at young professionals such as MBA graduates. For instance, Merck in Germany in 2013, with 316 university students in China, Germany, various other European countries, and and 312 pupils in 2014. the United States, we have selected universities with whom we will be cooperating more closely in the future. Apprenticeships and vocational training These institutions were chosen based on their courses of We view the vocational training of young people as one study and degree programs, their student body diversity, of the most important ways to prevent a shortage of and the distinctions their courses have received. Our trained staff resulting from demographic change. 2013 partner universities include, among others, the London was the first year in which the number of high school School of Economics. In February 2014, Executive Board graduates who went to university exceeded the number Chairman Karl-Ludwig Kley attended a networking event of high school graduates who entered a traditional dual at the London School and held discussions with a select vocational training program. Merck will nevertheless need group of students. In addition, Merck regularly exhibits not just academics in the future, but also specialists at recruiting fairs, which offer a suitable platform for trained via the dual system. In the 2013-2014 period, directly interfacing with young talent, advising them on we therefore launched various initiatives and activities career choices, and providing them information on job in order to make our vocational training programs more opportunities at Merck. A company's visibility and image attractive. For instance, young people can now do an are also key criteria used by our target group to search apprenticeship part-time. In addition to this, our for and decide on an employer. In the 2013-2014 period, apprentices can also collaborate on charitable projects. we furthermore compiled a campus recruiting interview In October 2014, for instance, nine apprentices built a CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 97 EMPLOYEES | Recruiting and retaining talent dormitory for homeless children in Kenya. We our employees on seminars and workshops across the furthermore help our apprentices pursue a work-study Group in order to gauge and compare their efficacy as program after completing their apprenticeship. well as ensure their quality. In 2013 and 2014, we filled all the apprenticeship slots In 2014, for the first time Merck employees had the that we offered in Germany. More than 450 young people opportunity to utilize the Development Advisor, an online completed an apprenticeship in one of 24 professions; tool that promotes lifelong learning. The Development more than 60 young people completed a dual degree Advisor offers individual employees suggestions on program in Business Administration, Business IT, development opportunities that build on our competency Chemistry/Process Engineering, and Mechanical model. This tool is part of our Performance and Talent Engineering. Since 2014, Merck has been giving unlimited Management Process, helping employees and line employment contracts to all apprentices working in managers identify suitable development options during occupations for which we have sustained demand. The the target agreement process. hiring rate – taking into account voluntary terminations – has been around 90% for several years now. As part of In 2014, the U.S. magazine Training named EMD Serono the MobiPro-EU program of the German Federal Ministry and EMD Millipore in the United States as one of 125 of Labour and Social Affairs, for the first time five young companies that excel in employer-sponsored training and people from Spain started an apprenticeship at Merck in development programs. The Training Top 125 winners Darmstadt in 2014. Moreover, in Darmstadt we offer our were officially announced at an award gala held on own one-year work preparation program called Start in February 9, 2015. den Beruf (Preparing to join the workforce). Thanks to the time spent at Merck, 20 secondary school students Performance-based pay previously unable to find an apprenticeship successfully Competitive salaries and additional benefits increase not qualified themselves for the job market. Since the only our attractiveness as an employer; they also motivate program's launch in 2006, 92% of the participants have employees and build loyalty to the company. At Merck, started an apprenticeship, 32% of which have now compensation is based on market analyses in the relevant successfully completed said apprenticeship. field and the value of the position, as well as the employee's competence and performance. Our Global Professional development Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation Fostering talent, developing our employees and providing and additional benefits across the entire Merck Group. ongoing training – this is an investment in our future and In order to harmonize our compensation structures at a a key factor in our entrepreneurial success. Merck strives regional and global level, we are constantly implementing to help its employees optimally develop their personal measures to improve processes and boost efficiency. Our and professional strengths. Satisfied employees who grow goal here is to offer all Merck Group employees the most within a company are a critical prerequisite for the comparable compensation structures possible. success of our businesses. When reviewing and optimizing our compensation Key features of employee development are clear policies, we engage relevant stakeholders early on in the objectives, differentiated and open feedback on process. We coordinate closely with employee performance, as well as individual development plans. The representatives to define our Group-wide compensation Performance and Talent Management Process at Merck policy. In order to achieve competitive compensation therefore mandates an annual overall performance structures, we consider both internal and external factors, assessment for all employees. In addition we, offer a assessing market requirements every year with regard to catalog of continuing education courses throughout the income developments and positioning. Controlling for Merck Group that is adapted to specific regional hierarchy level and value, current analyses of job participant needs. On top of this, we gather feedback from conditions indicate no gender-specific differences in compensation. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES | Recruiting and retaining talent 98 Work-life balance mywork@merck program was opened up to non-exempt employees whose position suited the working model. When As a family-friendly company, we strive for our employees mywork@merck was introduced, employees and line to achieve a good balance between work, family and leisure managers were given access to an e-learning program. In time. We are thus helping maintain and strengthen their addition, supervisors, HR business partners, members of the motivation and performance potential. Besides this, we build Works Council, and employee representatives met to discuss their trust in our company. Our employees can therefore take open issues pertaining to this flexible working model. By the advantage of flexible working models and diverse childcare end of 2014, around 3,500 employees in total were taking options, making it easier for them to schedule their lives and advantage of mywork@merck. achieve their personal goals. We furthermore offer our employees various health management programs along with Entitlement to parental leave ways to better reconcile the demands of a career while caring At numerous sites, our employees are able to take parental for family members. In addition to this, employees at all leave; this option is also provided for by law in some German sites can make use of a referral service that advises countries, such as Germany and the United States. Often, we them and connects them with home service providers. We offer our employees better conditions than those required by conduct regular surveys to gauge employee satisfaction with law. the respective services. In the United States, employees are legally entitled to a In 2012, berufundfamilie GmbH, an initiative of the Hertie 12-week unpaid leave of absence per year in the event of the Foundation, certified Merck's Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites birth of a child or illness of a family member. In addition to as being family-friendly for the third consecutive time this, EMD Millipore also provides its employees with financial (following 2005 and 2008). This distinction is based on a support. In total, the company offers eight weeks of paid family-friendliness audit conducted in accordance with maternity leave, two weeks of paid paternity leave, and five predefined criteria and is valid for three years. In 2013, Merck weeks of paid leave when adopting a child. Moreover, EMD submitted an interim report for the 2015 audit cycle. The Millipore will reimburse up to US$ 5,000 in adoption fees. Hertie Foundation has already certified that Merck is continuously working to adapt its operations and strategy to As of December 31, 2013, 433 of the employees working for help employees reconcile the demands of a career and family. Merck's subsidiaries in Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Grafing representing around 24% of total Merck Group employees Flexible work hour models globally in 2014 were on parental leave, with 507 on In Germany and other countries, we offer numerous options parental leave as of December 31, 2014. Fathers represented for employees to flexibly structure their work, including 33% of this total in 2013 and 31% in 2014. We provide choice of working hours and locations. In 2013 and 2014, parents returning to work after parental leave with our employees made use of more than 30 different part-time information on childcare support services. In addition to this, models, such as varying weekly work hours and individually Merck in Germany also holds presentations and meetings agreed working days. Globally, approximately 5% of our with parents, and the Darmstadt site furthermore offers employees worked part-time. contacts for individual consultation. In 2013, Merck officially implemented mywork@merck for Childcare options all exempt employees at its Darmstadt, Gernsheim and At various sites, our employees benefit from childcare options Grafing sites in Germany. This flexible working hour model that we subsidize. A daycare center for children aged 1-12 has aims to bolster the performance and trust culture within been operating at our headquarters in Darmstadt, Germany for Merck. Employees have the flexibility of selecting when and more than 40 years. It is supported by the family of owners where they work. Working hours are no longer clocked – (Merck'scher Kindertagesstätten-Verein e. V). In the 2013-2014 the important thing is that employees meet performance period, we extended the hours of operation and added an expectations. To this end, line managers and employees work additional 50 daycare spots. The center is now open year-round together to define targets. In October 2014, the from 6:30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and offers 150 slots total. In CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 99 EMPLOYEES | Recruiting and retaining talent Darmstadt, employees can furthermore take advantage of our In the United States, EMD Millipore offers its employees emergency service if their regular childcare provider falls assistance in finding the best childcare options. through. For employees at the Gernsheim site in Germany, five slots are available at a public daycare center. Reconciling demands of career and family In an aging society, more and more employees will be required We have been offering vacation camps for the children of to care for family members with special needs. In Darmstadt, Darmstadt site employees since 2008 and considerably Merck has therefore been offering special information and expanded the program in 2013 and 2014. In 2014, we offered consultation services since 2009. This includes the offerings of a total of 365 spots that employees could book in weekly Merck's company health insurance fund (BKK), which provides increments. The vacation camp includes sports programs, art informational material and connects employees with nursing and research projects, as well as numerous outdoor nature staff. Furthermore, we regularly hold training seminars in activities. Darmstadt on the topic of nursing care. Since 2013, an external partner has also been available to advise employees in their Since 2013, employees throughout Germany have had access search for suitable nursing care. This includes finding day to an external partner to advise them on childcare options, nurses or setting up an individual nursing network. helping them find a suitable childcare solution. The service connects employees with nannies, loaner grandparents and In the United States, EMD Millipore supports its employees tutors, among others. financially by enabling nursing care to be paid out of gross pretax income. Goals: Good leadership Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Talent & Succession Management: Use the Talent & Succession Ongoing In 2013, we introduced the Talent & Fill at least 2/3 of positions ranked Management Process to identify suitable Succession Management Process in order Global Grade 16+ with internal employees with management potential to systematically foster and develop candidates and define a process to systematically talent. develop them In 2014, 74% of our vacant management positions were filled internally. Have least 50% of managers Expand the geographical range of the End of 2018 rated Global Grade 14+ take part programs to reach a broader target group in a management program Have senior management act as the official program sponsors Build a talent pool that reflects Identify talent, inform managers on Ongoing the demographic structure of current demographics (e.g. age, Merck nationality, gender) Competency-based interviews Nominate suitable talent within the Ongoing with 20% of the talent scope of the Talent & Succession Management program Have 80% of all employees using Expand the HR Suite user group to new Ongoing the HR Suite IT system for their target groups annual Performance Management Process assessment Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES | Employee engagement 100 Employee engagement safety, as well as to lower waste output and emission levels. For instance, one group of employees modified the standard As a global, science-based company, we strive to create a packaging for liquid crystals in such a way as to cut down on working environment that nurtures innovation and continual packaging material. improvement. In this approach, our employees take center stage. Their dedication and skills are crucial to our company's In addition to this, we also reward the outstanding ideas of success. We therefore aim to foster a culture that broadens the our employees with Merck Awards. Every year, recognition is knowledge base of our employees that creates opportunities given in the categories of Change, Innovation, and Customer and motivates them to take a proactive role in our success. Orientation, along with the special prize, the CEO Award. We want our employees to take an active interest in our goals Through the strategic initiative known as ONE Global and Values, to engage in shaping processes and ideas. Headquarters, Merck is striving to transform the Darmstadt site. Dedicated, strong managers as well as self-motivated In line with our approach to employee engagement, we are employees both contribute equally to our success. We have focusing heavily on meeting the requirements of a changing built a framework of clearly defined, clearly communicated working world. This initiative aims to create an attractive strategic goals, using this foundation to design measures that environment for existing and potential employees that offers promote employee engagement and incorporate it into our scope for creativity and promotes innovation. In September processes. Through our idea management programs, we 2014, for instance, we started construction on a modular nurture and reward unconventional thinking, while our stateInnovation Center. This is where teams will have a place to of-the-art internal communication processes encourage work for the duration of their innovation projects, where interdisciplinary collaboration. Employee surveys allow us to interdisciplinary collaboration will flourish amidst a creative better understand the needs of our employees. atmosphere. We sincerely believe that this will tangibly improve our employees' performance and productivity. Our global Center of Expertise for Development and Engagement designs and steers our approach to conducting In order to involve employees in helping decide the company's employee engagement surveys. We utilize survey results to strategic alignment, we provide an internal online forum in devise concrete measures for our businesses, the which they can engage in a dialogue and discuss new ideas. implementation of which is steered by Group Human This forum is one of the many tools of our Fit for 2018 Resources. transformation and growth program. In 2014, we hosted a major employee celebration at our Darmstadt site as thanks for Idea management the successes achieved thus far under Fit for 2018 . The event also provided an opportunity for around 5,000 employees to At our Darmstadt site, we utilize an employee suggestion learn about ongoing strategic initiatives as well as to interact system to leverage our employees' ideas for the benefit of our with people from other departments and units. business. Here, Merck rewards employee suggestions that have been brought to fruition. The amount of money awarded Channels of communication depends on the actual cost savings achieved and/or the idea's contribution to occupational safety, environmental protection, Internal Communications develops and steers global or quality improvement. Merck employees submitted a total of communications activities within the company, providing tools 3,460 suggestions for improvement in 2013 and 3,590 in 2014. such as target group-specific media. For instance, These led to savings amounting to € 3.4 million in 2013 and communication packets and information are posted on the € 2.8 million in 2014. In exchange, Merck paid out prize money online pro Manager portal in order to improve manager of € 0.96 million in 2013 and € 1.0 million 2014. Around 75% discourse with employees. In the 2013-2014 period, Merck of the suggestions for improvement related to production; conducted two employee surveys on internal communications approximately 25% comprised suggestions relating to analysis, and then used the results to design new media that better technology and logistics. The ideas helped significantly in many satisfy the needs of employees and managers. One example instances to optimize production processes and occupational is pro , our international employee publication that has CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 101 EMPLOYEES | Employee engagement transformed from a newspaper into a magazine. It has been took part in the survey. Results show that employee motivation available in seven languages since September 2014 and is now at Merck is above average relative to other companies. In also available as an online magazine and app. It is thus reaching response to the OHI survey, Merck Serono has introduced more than 90% of our approximately 39,000 employees initiatives to promote more motivational management styles worldwide in their local language. For our employees in and to foster talent. Performance Materials utilized the results Germany, we have also been publishing the pro vor Ort in planning the integration of AZ Electronic Materials. newspaper. In addition to this, our businesses and Group functions issue their own newsletters to update their Building on the OHI survey, Merck Serono and Performance employees on progress and changes. Starting in 2015, we will Materials will be conducting the second employee engagement be launching our new online collaboration platform known as survey in 2015. The survey will cover topics such as leadership, EVA, which will replace our former Intranet. Here, we will be performance, reward, and career and development, along with focusing more on video communication to convey information content specific to Merck such as inclusion. By the end of 2015, quickly, concisely and directly to the desired target group. Merck Millipore, Consumer Health and all Group functions will be starting with the new employee survey approach by taking Employee surveys the OHI survey. We are striving to incorporate the ideas and know-how of our Engaging employees in corporate responsibility employees more heavily into our business operations. Because our company has changed greatly in the course of our Fit We educate our employees on corporate responsibility through for 2018 transformation and growth program, we developed events and communication campaigns. For instance, in a new approach to employee surveys in 2014. Through this, September 2013 we hosted an Africa Week at our Darmstadt Merck is aiming to strengthen its corporate culture and help and Gernsheim facilities in Germany. CR employees manned managers create a motivating work environment that will booths at site cafeterias, spreading information on our CR increase its success. The new approach includes a survey that projects in Africa. In addition to this, the cafeteria menu is part of the Organizational Health Index (OHI), along with featured ethnic African dishes. another survey that specifically addresses employee engagement. Together, these will be taking the place of the As part of Earth Month, Energy Month and World Water Pulse employee survey that Merck conducted in 2009, 2010 Week, Merck Millipore hosted environmental awareness and 2011. Because of the broader-based approach of these campaigns that provided tips on how employees can surveys, their results cannot be compared against Pulse results. minimize their impact on the environment at both work Both surveys are being implemented globally at the business and home. During the Earth Month campaign in 2014, level as well as the Group function level. employees also took part in numerous volunteer activities. In Temecula, California (USA), for instance, employees The OHI survey results serve to predict Merck's future worked together to clean the beach, while staff in Cork, performance capacity as well as indicate aspects that are Ireland cleaned the river bank; in Quito, the capital of particularly important for the success of the company. The OHI Ecuador, they planted trees, and in Massachusetts (USA) survey is based on nine dimensions: direction, accountability, they picked up trash in parks and on roadsides. coordination and control, external orientation, leadership, innovation and learning, capabilities, motivation and culture Merck Millipore furthermore utilizes volunteer work as part of and climate. The OHI Score reveals how well employees think its global team building activities. For instance, at a gathering Merck is doing in each of the dimensions. In 2014, 4,251 Merck of the Merck Millipore leadership team, 130 managers built 26 Serono employees and 2,600 Performance Materials employees bikes for children at the East Boston YMCA. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES | Occupational health and safety 102 Corporate Responsibility Ambassador Network In April 2014, Merck Millipore launched the Corporate Responsibility Ambassador Network, a global employee network for CR-related issues. Members view themselves as role models of proactivity, getting fellow co-workers involved in CR initiatives such as on-site recycling or community engagement in the vicinity of Merck's sites. Thus far, eight sites have CR Ambassador teams: Jaffrey (NH, USA), Billerica (MA, USA), Bedford (MA, USA), St. Charles (MO, USA), Temecula (CA, USA), Cork (Ireland), Amsterdam (Netherlands), and Molsheim (France). For instance, the network in Jaffrey invited people to a Biomass Lunch & Learn aimed at educating co-workers about the site's new biomass central steam plant along with its benefits for the environment. During Earth Month, CR Ambassadors in Cork organized a corporate responsibility open house to spread information on wastewater management, recycling and the Bike to work program. In addition to this, Merck fosters its employees' ideas for For its work on the Fit for 2018 program, the Darmstadt new businesses through its Innospire program. In 2014, Works Council was awarded the German Works Council the program centered on the topics of energy Prize in 2013. conservation, conversion and efficiency, water treatment, water quality analyses, and efficient water consumption, Occupational health and safety along with patient focus, personalized medicine and digital/mobile health. Merck employees were called upon As a responsible employer, it is especially important to to submit suggestions for new materials and systems, us to prevent workplace-related illnesses and accidents. as well as for new business models. During the 2014 To this end, our Group-wide guidelines and management Innospire program, 300 ideas were submitted, including structures establish uniform standards for occupational some that pertained to the above-mentioned topics. health and safety that are oriented to the requirements of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Employee co-determination Responsible Care® program of the chemical industry. We foster employee participation, co-determination and Occupational health and safety are an integral component dialogue in our company. For this reason, we regularly of Merck's Environment, Health, Safety (EHS) involve local employee representative bodies, relying on management system, which is aligned with the OHSAS them extensively for input. Take Germany for instance, 18001 standard. The Group function Environment, Health, where 11 Merck subsidiaries have employee Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) is responsible for this representative councils. Here, local works councils as well management system; they define goals, steer Group-wide as an overall Group Works Council represent our measures, and conduct internal audits to check that the employees' interests, discussing issues such as management system is functioning. In addition to this, compensation, working hours, and realignment. The the EHS management system is also audited every year by Senior Executives Committee represents the interests of independent experts. Local EHS managers are responsible senior management. for compliance with occupational safety laws and regulations, as well as for the implementation of The Merck Euroforum is our employee representative body measures at individual sites. at the European level and also serves as an information and advisory platform. Topics that are addressed regularly We compile data on workplace accidents at the individual include the economic and financial situation of the Merck sites on a monthly basis. The Group function EQ evaluates Group in Europe, the employment situation, and also all data and informs the other facilities about preventive significant changes within our company, such as measures as needed. In turn, all Merck sites are required acquisitions. to immediately report relevant accidents to EQ. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 103 EMPLOYEES | Occupational health and safety Issued in 1995, our Environment, Health and Safety The BeSafe! program Policy describes our approach to occupational health and safety and is the basis for numerous other guidelines. In order to prevent behavior-related workplace accidents, In 2014, we drafted our Group Health Policy , which we have implemented the BeSafe! Program. This initiative defines the manner in which we promote occupational works to continually educate and train our employees – in health and safety as well as the welfare of our employees. particular those at production sites throughout the Group One component of this policy is the Global Wellbeing – on potential workplace hazards, thereby reinforcing our and Health Promotion Framework , which describes the safety culture. In 2014, Merck rolled out the BeSafe! requirements of each individual country in which we program across our warehouse sites as well, which means operate. In line with this framework, the interdisciplinary that all of Merck's production sites and warehouses are Health Management steering committee designs and now part of this program. implements measures to promote good health, such as a health prevention program for shift workers. Furthermore, At our annual EHS congress in Darmstadt as well as EHS at our individual sites, employee and employer forums in North and South America, Europe and Asia, representatives have reached company agreements on EHS managers share best practices and learn from one occupational health and safety. For instance, in October another. In the 2013-2014 period, EHS forums were held 2013 such an agreement was reached on health in Poseung (South Korea), San Diego (CA, USA), and Bari counseling at our German sites. Among other measures, (Italy), which particularly focused on health management, this document covers counseling training for managers occupational exposure limits, and safety management for so that they learn to promptly recognize health risks and temp employees. At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites psychological strain in their employees. Reached in in Germany, we hosted an EHS training seminar for 18 September 2014, the agreement on health prevention for EHS managers from 15 countries in 2014. In addition to shift workers includes an extensive health intervention this, in December 2014 at our Bari site we held our fourth program. The goal here is to educate shift workers and EHS Best Practice Sharing Meeting. Participants included make them aware of the adverse effects of such work, EHS managers from various European sites as well as providing them with the tools to minimize these effects. representatives from local and international companies, industry associations, and academia. The key performance indicator for the success of our EHS measures is the lost time injury rate (LTIR), which means In 2014, we continued to educate our employees the number of workplace accidents resulting in lost worldwide on workplace hazards through initiatives, workdays per one million hours worked. This indicator is training seminars, awareness campaigns, and educational applied to both Merck employees and temps. Our goal is activities. In addition to this, individual subsidiaries in to achieve a lost time injury rate of 2.5 by the end of Latin America, such as in Brazil and Mexico, hold safety 2015. In 2014 we outperformed this goal, achieving an competitions at specific sites that help reinforce our LTIR of 1.8. In addition to slips, trips and falls, the primary safety culture. causes of lost time incidents were accidents involving the operation of machinery as well as business travel In 2014, Merck presented the Safety Excellence Award for incidents, primarily car crashes. the fifth time, which recognizes those production sites with no workplace accidents on record for the year. 42 out Despite our efforts to prevent accidents, there were of 69 sites received the award in 2014, with 38 out of 63 unfortunately two workplace accidents resulting in production sites in 2013. fatalities in 2014. In Venezuela, an employee died in a car accident, and in Pakistan, one employee was killed while performing maintenance work on a scissor lift. Health management Merck issued its Group Health Policy in 2014, which aims to maintain and continually nurture employee health and performance. In line with this policy, we have CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES | Occupational health and safety 104 implemented health-promoting programs to bolster the company and additionally offers special courses and employee welfare and performance. To this end, we have health care programs. In addition to this, Merck BKK runs established a Group-wide occupational health the Fit@Merck program on behalf of our Health management system that aims to incorporate healthManagement unit. This program enables employees to related goals into our corporate culture. Our health participate in health prevention classes and will subsidize promotion activities focus on health fundamentals (e.g. up to € 195 in costs. In addition to this, employees can workplace ergonomics), healthy leadership (e.g. take part in our company athletics program. At our managerial approaches that maintain employee health), cafeterias, we furthermore offer our employees meals that and individualized health intervention (e.g. offering health meet the requirements of the German Society of Nutrition promotion courses, encouraging employees to take (DGE). responsibility for their own health). EMD Millipore employees at the Massachusetts and New At our Darmstadt site, we furthermore offer numerous Hampshire facilities in the United States can take other activities and programs to promote good health. advantage of a comprehensive health intervention Our company medical center offers services such as program offered within the company. This program aims check-ups, medical care, and psychosocial counseling. to prevent, detect, and/or treat diseases and injuries early Through local offerings, we raise employee health on. It includes special exercise/training programs, awareness and encourage them to take responsibility for seminars, sports competitions, and ergonomic workplace their own health. Merck's company health insurance fund assessments. Employees who attend health intervention (Merck BKK) supports these programs across all areas of courses can receive up to US$ 300 in financial incentives. Goals: Occupational health & safety Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Reduce occupational accidents Implement the BeSafe! program; hold End of 2015 Through systematic accident prevention throughout the Merck Group (lost EHS forums on safety behavior change measures (such as training and time injury rate = 2.5) campaigns to strengthen our corporate safety culture), we attained an LTIR of 2.2 in 2013 and an LTIR of 1.8 in 2014. We are working to lastingly stabilize our LTIR. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 105 ENVIRONMENT Environment Our responsibility to protect the environment is derived from our values and our Group strategy. We have instituted Group-wide principles, strategies and organizational structures for corporate environmental protection and have also implemented a certified environmental management system for our Group-wide activities. In this way, we aim to reduce our emissions and waste while also ensuring that resources such as energy, water and raw materials are utilized as efficiently as possible. Process safety is a key prerequisite here. ENVIRONMENT | Management 106 Environmental management up and implement an environmental management system that conforms to Group standards and meets the Our responsibility to protect the environment stems from requirements for ISO 14001 certification. our Values and our Group strategy. We aim to continually improve our performance and reduce our impact on the Since 2009, Merck has had an ISO 14001:2004 group environment by applying the precautionary principle. This certificate for its environmental management system. As especially means efficiently conserving resources such as part of the certification process, multiple surveillance raw materials, auxiliaries, operating supplies, energy, and audits are conducted every year, which we passed with water. In addition to this, we strive to lower our emissions flying colors in both 2013 and 2014. Suitable action plans and waste so that we can reduce our costs as well as our have been drawn up and are now being implemented. The impact on the environment. group certificate currently covers 58 sites, including eight of nine production sites from AZ Electronic Materials, a Our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) company that was acquired in 2014. Due to site Policy, in effect throughout the Merck Group, establishes acquisitions made mid-year and the time needed to fully the framework for principles, strategies and implement an environmental management system, there organizational structures for environmental protection at are generally always a few production sites still Merck. The topics of health and safety are covered under undergoing implementation that have not yet been Employees: Occupational Health and Safety on p. 102. certified to ISO 14001:2004 by year-end. At the time of the surveillance audit in 2014, four sites fell into this Our EHS policy is implemented through internal category. guidelines and instruction manuals on compliant behavior, such as the Merck Group EHS, Security and A new version of ISO 14001 is scheduled for publication Quality Manual . This manual describes, for instance, the in 2015. Merck will be adapting its Group-wide fundamental global processes and organizational environmental management system and corresponding structure for environmental protection and occupational documents such as the Corporate EHS Policy and the safety at Merck. Our guidelines are based on the Merck Group EHS, Security and Quality Manual to meet Responsible Care® Global Charter, which the chemical these new requirements. industry drafted in 2005. Merck was among the first companies to sign the revised version of this charter in Organization 2014. We have furthermore aligned our guidelines to the ISO 14001 (environmental management systems) and Bernd Reckmann, Member of the Merck Executive Board, OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety bears overall responsibility for environmental protection management systems) standards. Merck has developed at Merck. The Merck Group function EQ is responsible for Group-wide standards as well as standard operating globally steering all environmental protection measures procedures for all environment, health and safety issues and is furthermore in charge of occupational health and relevant to Merck. safety, security, and quality. For our environmental protection activities, we have Each site has specific employees in charge of EHS-related established a management system that is structured matters. The local site managers are responsible for according to ISO 14001. We require all production sites operational environmental protection as well as with more than 50 employees to implement our occupational health and safety. When it comes to these environmental management system, which is optional for matters, they receive support and guidance from EHS sites with 50 employees or fewer. This system is certified managers or, at smaller sites, from EHS coordinators. on an annual basis by an accredited, independent organization. New production sites must subsequently set The company AZ Electronic Materials, acquired in 2014, has been completely integrated into EQ's structural organization and processes since the beginning of 2015. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 107 ENVIRONMENT | Management The processes for complying with local environmental and plant security. When sites and property are acquired protection laws, regulatory requirements, standards, and or divested, EQ performs its due diligence, drawing up business requirements are stipulated by EQ, but are also detailed EHS statements in order to ensure that partially defined by the sites themselves. EQ has created contaminated or otherwise problematic sites are neither internal standards and standard operating procedures for bought nor sold. all key environmental topics. Regular internal and external audits are conducted to verify compliance with these All employees tasked with environmental protection standards, the frequency of which is based on the site's responsibilities are trained on a continuous basis and risk potential. Employees can report violations to obtain additional qualifications. In addition to local Compliance. In the 2013-2014 period, no significant programs, this training also includes the annual violations of environmental laws or regulations were international EHS Congress in Darmstadt, as well as the recorded within the Merck Group. regional EHS Forum. These events inform attendees about new EHS issues as well as planned guidelines and laws, Using the Group-wide LION electronic data management and furthermore encourage best practice sharing at an system, environmental data is recorded at the individual expert level. In 2014, these events focused on topics such sites and reported to the Group function EQ at least once as management systems, pharmaceutical residue in the a year. environment, and environmental performance indicators. For all capital expenditure projects, either EQ or the local In 2014, Merck’s spending on corporate environmental EHS unit will conduct environmental impact assessments protection totaled € 146 million worldwide (€ 142 million to ensure sufficient environmental protection and in 2013). These figures also include capital investments occupational safety, as well as a proper degree of building made during 2013 and 2014. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT | Plant and process safety 108 Goals: Environmental management Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Audit and implement Certify environmental management Ongoing environmental management systems at further acquired sites systems at acquired sites Perform gap analysis on Merck Millipore End of 2014 We conducted a gap analysis on acquisitions (e.g. Heipha and Biochrom), Biochrom and Allergopharma production along with the Allergopharma production sites. site in Reinbek Due to production issues, the implementation of ISO 14001 has been delayed for Heipha. Integrate AZ Electronic Materials End of 2015 Eight out of nine production sites of AZ production sites Electronic Materials, which was acquired in 2014, have been incorporated into the group certificate. Implement the OHSAS 18001 End of 2016 occupational health and safety management system for all Performance Materials production sites Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Plant and process safety hazardous materials. We furthermore have a Group-wide Risk Management Process operating procedure that Plant and process safety is of great significance to Merck. specifies how to identify and assess risks, as well as how Failed safety systems can lead to chemical spillage, which to develop and implement measures to minimize them. can in turn adversely impact people and the environment. This can also result in financial damage from issues such The Group function EQ (see Environmental management as production stoppages. One of our top goals is therefore on p. 106) is in charge of environmental protection and is to prevent production disruptions that can cause the expert in plant and process safety guidelines as well as workplace accidents and chemical leaks. all related topics. At our individual sites worldwide, local EHS managers are appointed to handle environmental We apply the same uniform standard to plant and process issues pertaining to plant and process safety. safety across the globe. Our Group-wide standard Plant and Process Safety mandates safety-related In order to continuously identify potential for requirements be applied to the entire life cycle of a plant improvement, we regularly assess the plant and process including construction, normal operation, modifications, safety of each site using EHS performance indicators, maintenance, repair, and shutdown. This standard applies which gives us a comprehensive overview of safety at to all production plants and warehouses. A safety concept our sites. Accidents are evaluated retrospectively using is always developed for each plant before the plant is lagging indicators, and potential future situations are commissioned. Continuously revised and updated, this identified using leading indicators, which are based on concept contains an overview of potential risks (e.g. fires, factors such as near-accidents and identified areas of explosions, substance leakage into the environment) as improvement. well as the corresponding protective measures. The Group-wide standard Spillage Control defines These comprehensive EHS performance indicators consist organizational measures for preventing spillage during of a variety of data. For instance, since 2013 we have storage and transport, and also details how to handle been tracking the EHS Incident Rate, an indicator that CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 109 ENVIRONMENT | Climate protection synthesizes the following data: the number of workplace save on operating costs. Pressure from a growing number accidents involving Merck employees and contractors of statutory regulations governing greenhouse gas who work at Merck sites; environmentally relevant emissions has also encouraged us to take action. Merck incidents (e.g. product spills); activation of operational is subject to a variety of national as well as international safety systems without an adverse impact on people and energy and emissions regulations, such as emissions the environment (e.g. preventive system shutdown), and trading systems. Currently, the EU Directive 2012/27/EU deviations identified in the course of external reviews and on energy efficiency is being incorporated into the audits. For these indicators, product spills are defined national legislation of EU member states. It requires major according to a concept developed by the European industrial companies to conduct energy audits or Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) and the German implement energy management systems. Chemical Industry Association (VCI). Within the scope of the Carbon Disclosure Project, we Across all production, research and storage sites, we have been reporting on our greenhouse gas emissions registered a total of 44 incident-related substance spills activities, measures, and achievements for several years. in 2013. Thanks to improved plant and process safety, we In 2014, we were once more ranked in performance band only recorded 26 incidents across all sites in 2014. We B in the Climate Performance Scoring, which puts us investigate each individual incident at the respective site clearly in the upper range of all participating companies and take appropriate countermeasures in order to prevent in the Germany, Austria and Switzerland category. In the the same scenario or a similar one from recurring. We Climate Disclosure Scoring, which rates the thoroughness regularly organize best practice and information sharing and transparency of a company's reporting, Merck scored sessions so that all our production sites can learn from 87 out of 100 points, putting it well above the average. incidents and implement preventive measures. Of the incident-related spills reported in 2013 and 2014, none The Merck Group function EQ is responsible for globally resulted in significant environmental pollution. steering all climate protection activities (see Environmental management on p. 106). At the individual Since plant and process safety always involves the Merck sites, operational units are responsible for interaction of man and machine, we consider it highly implementing climate change mitigation measures. important for our employees to be well-trained and to receive ongoing training on a regular basis. To this end, In 2014, we implemented a new guideline on Group-wide in-house training on plant and process safety is regularly energy management. Our Energy Management standard conducted at production sites. In 2013 and 2014, two defines general principles for uniform energy training workshops were offered as part of an internal management across all Merck sites. Our Emissions of advanced training program for both site managers as well Refrigerants standard, implemented at the end of 2013, as for production, engineering and EHS managers from aims to reduce emissions from cooling processes that may our Life Science and Performance Materials business cause global warming as well as ozone layer depletion. In sectors. The primary topics included systematic risk 2013, we furthermore revised our company car policy and identification in processing plants, explosion protection, set a goal to reduce the average CO2 emissions from our and static electricity. global company car fleet by 30% by 2020, relative to 2012 levels. In order to reach this goal, we are switching our Climate protection pool of leased company cars over to more efficient, more economical models. As a company that operates responsibly, we are committed to helping protect the environment and Our strategic EDISON program mitigate climate change by conserving energy and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. Our climate We have set ourselves the goal of reducing greenhouse change mitigation activities are also of financial benefit gas emissions by 20% by 2020, relative to the 2006 to us since improved energy efficiency means that we baseline. In order to achieve this target, we initiated in CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT | Climate protection 110 2009 the EDISON energy efficiency and climate protection Merck's production sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim, program, which consolidates the climate change Germany, account for around 40% of Merck's global mitigation activities of the Merck Group. Worldwide, 20 energy consumption. With the cogeneration plant in Merck sites jointly account for 80% of our greenhouse Darmstadt and the heating plant in Gernsheim, these two gas emissions, so EDISON is focusing on these sites in sites are subject to the EU Emissions Trading System. particular. The reduction of our energy-related emissions Merck operates very efficient energy generation plants is one of our primary measures. To this end, we are and, in this third period of EU emissions trading stretching working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from energy from 2013 to 2020, we are also benefiting from a generation as well as to enhance the energy efficiency of situation in which some certificates are being allocated research and production processes. Furthermore, we wish free of charge. As things stand today, however, we will to lower process-related emissions through initiatives need to purchase additional CO2 certificates in the future. such as a process efficiency program at Merck Millipore. Improving the energy efficiency of our facility operations At the Darmstadt site, Merck is spending around and employing renewable energy are other measures that € 27 million on the construction of two state-of-the-art will contribute to this goal. For our Merck Millipore sites, energy stations. In July 2014, Executive Board Chairman we have set ourselves the intermediate goal of reducing Karl-Ludwig Kley and the German Federal Minister for greenhouse gas emissions by 10% by the end of 2015, Economic Affairs and Energy Sigmar Gabriel inaugurated relative to the 2006 baseline. the first station, which is supplying the site's pharmaceutical production operations and research To create and implement climate change mitigation activities with power, heating and cooling. The second projects, EQ collaborates with a working group that spans station is currently under construction and will cover the all of Merck's businesses. This group develops measures refrigeration needed by the site's chemical plants and and evaluates site-specific project proposals in terms of laboratories, among other power needs. Once both plants absolute CO2 reduction, CO2 reduction relative to capital are in operation, the site's CO2 emissions will decrease by spending volume, and potential cost savings. around 2,500 metric tons per year. Through the approximately 300 EDISON projects that In mid-2013, a highly efficient cogeneration plant was have been initiated since 2012, Merck aims to annually commissioned in Gernsheim, which saves around 7,000 save around 60,000 metric tons of CO2 in the medium metric tons of CO2 emissions per year. term. Around two-thirds of these projects have already been launched, or are currently being implemented. For Energy management is another component of EDISON. 2015, we have initiated 57 new projects, which we expect Eight of our sites have been certified to ISO 50001 Energy to reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 37,000 metric Management Systems : Darmstadt, Gernsheim and tons in the medium term. Wiesbaden in Germany, Molsheim in France, Bari and Tiburtina in Italy, Taoyuan in Taiwan, and Poseung in At the end of 2014, Merck commissioned a carbonSouth Korea. neutral biomass power plant in Goa, India that runs on the shells of locally farmed coconuts and cashews. This will You can find more information on our website: enable us to cut CO2 emissions by around 11,500 metric tons per year. On top of this, a biomass central heat plant • Biomass power plant in Goa, India went into operation in Jaffrey, New Hampshire (USA) in • Use of geothermal energy in Atsugi, Japan December 2014. This renewable energy biomass plant will run on locally produced wood chips and will enable us to • Solar power in Bedford & Billerica, Massachusetts cut CO2 emissions by around 3,500 metric tons per year. (USA) • Green buildings (LEED Gold-designed site in Bangalore, India) CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 111 ENVIRONMENT | Climate protection Energy consumption and CO2 emissions in To keep our employees informed, we publish a selection of climate protection facts and figures on Merck's intranet. 2013 and 2014 Furthermore, various tools such as energy checklists or examples of best practices are also available to help In 2014, Merck consumed a total of 1,622 GWh of energy, employees share information and learn from one another. which represents a slight increase over 2013 (1,566 GWh). We continuously provide information on Merck's climate Due to the complexity involved in collecting the data, we change mitigation efforts in our employee magazine and are currently not calculating the energy that is consumed in an employee newsletter. upstream or downstream during the production and transport of our raw materials. Through an online training system, we have trained employees at our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in In 2014, the Merck Group emitted 524,000 metric tons Germany on the topic of energy management. As an of greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalents), with incentive to use public transportation, the Darmstadt 567,000 metric tons emitted in 2013. This decrease can be Merck site offers a Jobticket , the cost of which is attributed mainly to a 30% reduction in emissions from partially covered by the company. In 2014, nearly 4,000 one production process. In this process, we have managed employees took advantage of this option. to reduce the emissions relative to production volume by almost two-thirds since 2008. CO2 emissions fell by 9% relative to the 2006 baseline, which means that Merck is In the United States, Merck Millipore supports employees' on the right path to achieving its 20% reduction target by individual climate change mitigation efforts through 2020. engagement programs and monetary subsidies. Employees receive subsidies to install solar panels on their homes, have an energy audit conducted on their homes, In order to report and calculate its greenhouse gas or purchase hybrid and/or electric vehicles. New for 2015 emissions, Merck utilizes the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) will be the addition of select electric motorcycles to the Protocol, an internationally recognized standard. Merck is personal climate change mitigation subsidies. The vehicle currently reporting Scopes 1 and 2 of the GHG protocol, subsidy has already encouraged over 150 employees to and parts of Scope 3. Scope 1 covers direct emissions that switch to a hybrid or electric car. In addition to this, Merck the company produces itself by burning fossil fuels, or Millipore is bolstering its employees' awareness of and through its own processes. Scope 2 pertains to emissions engagement in environmental protection through global from imports of energy, such as electricity or district campaigns such as Energy Month and its Corporate heating. Scope 3 includes emissions such as those from Responsibility Ambassador Network. Through the end of the manufacture and transportation of products, raw 2014, Merck Millipore and Merck Serono also installed materials, and waste, or from employee business travel. electric vehicle charging stations at our Bedford and Due to the complexity of Scope 3 emissions reporting, Billerica sites (Massachusetts, USA), where employees and Merck is currently only reporting on Scope 3 emissions visitors can charge their electric cars free of cost. from business travel, from employee commuting, from fuel and energy-related activities, and from the disposal and recycling of waste generated in the course of our Logistics business operations. Merck has done some product life cycle assessments and carbon footprint analyses (see We are working to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions Sustainable products on p. 50). that result from the transport of our products. To achieve this, we are reducing the use of air transport in favor of sea shipping. We have undertaken a project to identify Educating employees products that can be shipped by sea instead of air in order to reduce costs and CO2 emissions. These products need Our commitment to climate change mitigation is not only to safely withstand the longer travel time at sea without observed at work we encourage our employees to compromising the product quality and service level to exhibit this through more sustainable living habits as well. customers. This project encompasses all shipments from CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT | Climate protection 112 our Global Distribution Centers to customers and local operations and implementing supply chain efficiencies in warehouses worldwide. For instance, thanks to changing order to improve our performance annually with respect how we transport goods worldwide from Darmstadt, to how we ship our products. Germany, we reduced CO2 emissions by approximately 800 metric tons in 2014. As we continue to evaluate our logistics for further climate-saving measures, we believe this will not only We are also focused on reducing emissions from shipping help reduce our own greenhouse gas emissions, but will thousands of products to customers. In the United States, also support our customers' needs as they seek more Merck Millipore is an EPA SmartWay® Shipper. As a products and services with reduced carbon footprints. SmartWay® Shipper, we are committed to benchmarking Goals: Climate change mitigation Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Reduce direct and indirect Systematically examine the energy End of 2020 We continued to systematically examine greenhouse gas emissions consumption at Merck's individual sites ways to save energy at our production (Scope 1 and 2) of the Merck sites. For instance, energy audits were Group by 20% relative to the conducted on the Aubonne and Vevey 2006 baseline sites in Switzerland. Identify and implement ways to save End of 2020 Through the approximately 300 EDISON energy projects that have been initiated since 2012, Merck aims to annually save around 60,000 metric tons of CO2 in the medium term. Around two-thirds of these projects have already been launched, or are currently being implemented. Reduce process-related emissions End of 2020 We have made significant progress in reducing Merck Millipore's processrelated emissions. The average process emissions relative to production volume at our Jaffrey, New Hampshire (USA) facility has decreased by around twothirds. At this site, we have witnessed a 30% absolute reduction in process emissions in 2014 versus 2013, while production volumes have continued to increase. Implement sustainable measures to End of 2020 We are moving forward with our EDISON increase energy efficiency and reduce program, implementing new projects to greenhouse gas emissions increase energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013 and 2014, we introduced two new guidelines on Group-wide energy management and refrigerants emissions. Several sites were certified according to ISO 50001, accompanied by the respective training activities. Reduce Merck Millipore's greenhouse gas End of 2015 Merck Millipore has reduced greenhouse emissions by 10% by 2015 (2006 gas emissions by 13% relative to the baseline) 2006 baseline. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 113 ENVIRONMENT | Waste management Waste management in particular from the remodeling of our Global headquarters in Darmstadt. Merck disposed of 108,000 Waste management is a key aspect of our corporate metric tons of the total waste produced in 2014, and environmental protection activities. This includes 121,000 metric tons were recycled/recovered (material measures to prevent, reduce, and properly dispose of recycling plus waste to energy). waste, as well as recycle materials and energy. Our waste management activities also cover proper waste storage at For the most part, waste is externally recycled or disposed our sites, which is also crucial to occupational health and of (2013: approx. 85%; 2014: 91%). Being the one who safety. generates the waste, Merck is ultimately responsible for its final disposal. As such, service providers are chosen When it comes to waste management, Merck utilizes a with extreme care. The terms and conditions for disposal Group-wide environmental management system that is are contractually stipulated, and service providers are certified to ISO 14001. In the course of the ISO 14001 required to prove that the waste is properly disposed of. certification process as well as internal EHS audits, our Merck regularly audits these providers, especially if they waste management system is examined at both are involved with handling hazardous waste. headquarters as well as at the relevant sites. Merck continuously works to optimize chemical processes EQ, the Merck Group function in charge of environmental in order to prevent, reduce and recycle waste. Among protection, bears overall responsibility for waste other measures, solvents are treated and recycled. management (see Environmental management on p. 106). At sites outside of Germany, EHS managers For instance, in the 2013-2014 period, we started are responsible for implementing measures and receive recycling heptane, a chemical that accumulates during regular training from EQ. As part of the annual ISO 14001 the purification of liquid crystals. In this process, heptane audit of our environmental management system, EHS is utilized as a solvent to separate mixtures. We collect managers and site management are educated on waste the heptane, have an external recycling company treat it, prevention and recycling. and then reuse the purified solvent in our processes. Our recycling rate is over 85%, which is enabling us to lower With our Group-wide “Waste Management” standard, we our heptane consumption by 1,900 metric tons per year have implemented a uniform waste management and thus reduce our total waste. This is simultaneously framework for all Merck sites. This standard defines leading to significant improvement in the carbon organizational structures and processes and is regularly footprint of the process. updated. The type and quantity of waste is logged and documented at all sites and communicated to the EQ Merck Millipore uses methanol for the production of Group function. filtration membranes. While the majority of the methanol is treated on site and then reused, the remainder cannot Waste output in 2013 and 2014 be reused in the process. Luckily, methanol constitutes an important raw material for municipal wastewater The Merck Group produced more waste in 2014 than treatment, and Merck Millipore's remaining reclaimed in the previous year, which rose from 161,000 metric methanol is now being utilized by a local wastewater tons in 2013 to 229,000 metric tons in 2014. Waste from treatment plant. You can find more information on our construction and renovation projects accounted for the website. majority of the waste (2013: 24%; 2014: 47%), stemming CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT | Resources 114 Goals: Waste management Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Reduce Merck Millipore's waste Introduce measures to minimize waste End of 2015 Between 2006 and 2014, Merck Millipore output by 10% relative to the and recycle materials, solvents, and other lowered its waste output by 15%. baseline 2006) waste byproducts. Merck Millipore has identified and implemented opportunities to distill and reuse solvents in the manufacturing process. At the Bedford, Massachusetts (USA) facility, methanol that cannot be reused in the process after multiple distillations is used as a feed chemical for a local municipal wastewater treatment facility. In 2014, 145 metric tons of methanol were reused externally. Increases in production yields reduced the amount of products scrapped during manufacturing. Perform waste audits to identify ways to End of 2015 In 2014, waste audits were performed on reduce waste or increase recycling Merck Millipore's facilities in Molsheim, efficiency France, and Kankakee, Illinois (USA). Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Resources Water consumption For our business activities, we require energy, water, and In its production processes, Merck uses water primarily for raw materials, along with numerous other materials, cooling, as process water, and for exhaust air purification. which we mostly utilize for production purposes. Given For the most part, we draw groundwater from our own that these resources are becoming ever scarcer and more wells and drinking water from the local water supply. costly, we consider it important to utilize them efficiently. In 2013, we utilized a total of 9.6 million cubic meters We strive to not only cut costs, but also to preserve the of freshwater, with 11.1 million cubic meters consumed environment and conserve resources. in 2014. The water utilized in 2014 consisted of 57% groundwater from our own wells, 41% water from the We have therefore implemented programs and processes public water supply, and 2% surface water. No sensitive throughout the Merck Group in order to continually make water sources were impacted by Merck's water intake. resource management and consumption more efficient. This is a core component of our operations and a In the 2013-2014 period, we used public databases such prerequisite for maintaining our competitive edge. as the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and the Water Risk Filter to determine which of our sites are located Energy use in areas of high water stress and consume more than 30,000 cubic meters of water per year. Three of our sites In 2014, Merck utilized 1,622 GWh of energy in total, located in Mexico, Spain and Pakistan meet these particularly in production, which represents a slight criteria. Furthermore, at our facility in Savannah, Georgia increase compared to 2013 (1,566 GWh). Our energy (USA) we identified an increased risk to local water management processes are described in detail under availability. Within the scope of their ISO 14001 Climate protection on p. 109. environmental management systems, these four sites will be focusing on sustainable water management, setting for instance water targets. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 115 ENVIRONMENT | Water Where expedient, we also plan to help sites in areas of ingredients. The treatment of this wastewater, and thus moderate water stress implement more efficient water the prevention of environmental pollution, is a management systems as well. At the end of 2013, we fundamental part of our corporate environmental therefore created a best practice sharing platform for protection activities worldwide. water management projects, which we will be continuously expanding. EQ, the Merck Group function in charge of environmental protection, bears overall responsibility for water At Merck, cooling water for production processes is protection (see Environmental management on p. 106). At utilized in both closed/open circuit systems and in oncesites outside of Germany, local EHS managers are tasked through cooling systems; in some processes, production with implementing measures and receive regular training wastewater is treated and reused. We recycled a total from EQ. of 16.6 million cubic meters of water in 2013, and 16.0 million cubic meters in 2014. Our Group standard Water Protection defines the processes and responsibilities required for clean Material consumption wastewater in the Merck Group, and also covers the hiring of third parties to handle it. This standard is derived from From the very start of the process development phase, we our obligations under the Responsible Care® initiative. It focus on making the processes efficient and minimizing requires all sites to estimate and assess the specific risks the resulting waste. We furthermore ensure that the and effects of wastewater using tools such as materials utilized pose as little danger to people and the ecotoxicological data. The standard also requires risk environment as possible. assessments to take a site's wastewater treatment plants into account. Furthermore, each individual site must In particular, Merck uses production materials such as develop and implement a water pollution response plan chemical and pharmaceutical raw materials. In addition to that features measures to prevent wastewater or reduce these, we also employ operating supplies and packaging its volume. The plan must also define the documentation materials such as folding boxes, glass bottles and process for wastewater volume, points of origin, and local ampules. limits. The standard provides strict guidelines for wastewater treatment via external service providers. For The purchased materials that go directly into our instance, the service provider agreement must stipulate pharmaceuticals and chemicals are generally quantified the wastewater quality to be attained if not already by weight. We utilized a total of 209 metric kilotons of specified by law as well as the responsibilities involved. these materials in 2013 and 176 metric kilotons in 2014. These figures do not include packaging materials and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) audits are operating supplies such as energy or lubricants. conducted to verify whether our Water Protection standard is being properly implemented. In the The portfolio of our Merck Millipore business features 2013-2014 period, 57 internal audits were conducted by numerous devices and tools whose production requires the Environment, Health and Safety (EQ-E) unit, and 18 semi-finished and finished materials, such as fully audits were performed by external ISO 14001 certifiers. assembled electronic components or device casing. We These audits examine water-related aspects in proportion log these by the piece. to how relevant they are to the individual site for instance, water is a bigger issue at production sites than at administrative locations. Water At Merck, water is used in production primarily for In 2014, Merck produced 10.1 million cubic meters of cooling, as process water, or for exhaust air purification. wastewater. At our Darmstadt site in Germany, the After being utilized, the water may contain eutrophicating discharge of purified wastewater into the Darmbach (a substances, heavy metals, or active pharmaceutical stream in the Darmstadt area) accounted for over 5% of CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT | Biodiversity 116 the average annual volume of this body of water, which measures are defined and implemented on a site-by-site is permissible by law. The discharge did not have any basis. For instance, production and purification processes significant impact on the Darmbach, or the associated are being optimized at our sites in order to maximally habitats. In the 2013-2014 period, Merck did not reduce API concentrations in the wastewater. discharge significant amounts of purified wastewater into other bodies of water either. All our pharmaceutical production sites have wastewater treatment plants. At these sites, we regularly take readings Active pharmaceutical ingredients in the to assess the amount of APIs being discharged. For these assessments, we apply the predicted no effect environment concentration (PNEC) values. If the concentrations are below the PNEC, then the substance is not expected to Our standard Water Protection stipulates that the adversely impact the environment. In the 2013-2014 amount of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) in our period, we did not exceed these limits. wastewater should be kept to a minimum. Appropriate Goals: Water Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Reduce Merck Millipore's water Implement water reuse and reduction End of 2015 Despite significant increases in use by 10% relative to the 2006 initiatives production volumes, between 2006 and baseline 2014, Merck Millipore reduced water consumption by 2%. In 2014, we performed five water audits at Merck Millipore facilities. Our Molsheim, France facility identified viable projects that will be investigated further in 2015. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Biodiversity environmental protection measures in place, all of which work indirectly to safeguard biodiversity. For instance, we Since the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) have implemented measures to assess and reduce entered into force in 1993, the concept of biodiversity has pharmaceutical residues in wastewater. included diversity within species, between species and of ecosystems. Opened for signature at the United Nations Our production sites are located in established industrial Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) and commercial zones; they are located neither inside of in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, this treaty has the following nor within 10 kilometers of IUCN Category I or Category three main goals: conservation of biological diversity, II protected areas, which are set aside to safeguard sustainable use of its components, and fair and equitable biodiversity. Category I includes strict nature reserves and sharing of benefits arising from genetic resources. wilderness areas in which human visitation, use and impacts are strictly controlled and limited, while Category The loss of biodiversity is one of the greatest challenges II includes national parks. In order to prevent substances of our time. Ecosystems provide us with services and that could negatively impact biodiversity from leaking resources such as sufficient quantities of good-quality into the environment, we design and operate our facilities water that are absolutely essential to our business according to strict Group-wide safety and environmental operations worldwide. We therefore consider it extremely requirements. For instance, in our Group-wide standards important to protect biodiversity and have put numerous we have defined measures for processing waste and CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 117 ENVIRONMENT | Biodiversity production wastewater (see Resources on p. 114). We have furthermore implemented a Group-wide program called EDISON in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We improve the habitats for plants and animals at our sites, for instance by increasing the amount of unsealed surface area. This is, however, not always possible since we seal certain surfaces to protect them from any leakage that may occur. In 1995, we developed a green open space concept for our Darmstadt site, and around 30% of the premises have now been greened. The green areas are designed to improve the functionality of the production areas without degrading the ecological value of existing open areas. In 2008, we signed an agreement with the city of Darmstadt that established the framework to increase the role of nature conservation in the industrial use of our site, as well as better integrate the site into its urban surroundings. The stipulated planning guidelines require, for example, an increase in the percentage of native plants on the site. When planning new sites and facilities, we consider environmental aspects such as aeration, land-use structures that contribute to a favorable microclimate, and energy-efficient construction concepts. For instance, we conducted a biodiversity study when planning the expansion of our site in Corsier-sur-Vevey, Switzerland. To protect the bordering alpine meadows, we developed a landscape plan in which the meadows are tended to by a local farmer. When we acquire new sites, we investigate their environmental situation, taking into consideration information from public sources such as neighbors and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). We assume responsibility for pollution we have caused and investigate our sites before selling them. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETY 118 Society Taking responsibility toward society is an integral part of our entrepreneurial approach. We are convinced that we can make an important contribution to society through our knowledge, our skills and our products. 119 SOCIETY | Management Managing our social engagement total monetary and non-monetary donations made by our subsidiaries in 2014, 61% (2013: 63%) went to Emerging Merck sees itself as part of the community, not only at Markets (Latin America and Asia, excluding Japan), 37% its individual locations, but also at a global level. Within (2013: 36%) to Europe, and 2% (2013: 1%) to North the scope of our business activities, we play an important America and the Rest of World region. role in the vicinity of our sites. We create jobs and invest in the training and welfare of our employees. We source These figures do not include activities that primarily serve goods and services from many local companies. On top of to market our products. this, we also support charitable initiatives, often doing so in partnership with our employees. Fighting schistosomiasis Our social responsibility activities are primarily focused on Over 232 million people in Africa suffer from areas in which we have specific expertise stemming from schistosomiasis, a tropical worm disease. It is estimated our businesses. We therefore engage in health promotion that more than 200,000 people die each year as a result projects and environmental protection, while also of this chronic parasitic condition, which makes fostering cultural activities and education initiatives. We schistosomiasis one of the most devastating neglected provide disaster relief in emergency situations, especially tropical diseases (NTD) in terms of public health burden in those regions in which we operate. and economic impact. Schistosomiasis is prevalent primarily in the tropical and subtropical areas of subTo increase the effectiveness and impact of our projects, Saharan Africa, and is considered to be the third highest we focus our resources on three global projects: burden among Neglected Tropical Diseases. In these regions, the vast majority of the population has no access • In the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program, we are to clean water and sanitary installations, which also partnering with the World Health Organization contributes to the spread of the disease. (WHO) to combat the worm disease schistosomiasis in African school children. Schistosomiasis is caused by flatworms and is spread through stagnant water. People become infected by the • The Global Pharma Health Fund is a charitable worm larvae in the water while bathing, fishing, playing, initiative funded by Merck to fight counterfeit washing their clothes, or working on agricultural land. medicines in developing and emerging countries. These larvae penetrate human skin and enter the blood • The Deutsche Philharmonie Merck is the musical vessels, where they grow into adult worms. The female's ambassador of our company. eggs infest inner organs such as the intestines, bladder, Our subsidiaries are also engaged in local projects and spleen, or liver and often cause severe inflammation. invest in the communities in which we operate, which Symptoms include severe abdominal pain, diarrhea and also serves to secure our future. When it comes to bloody urine or stool. The infection rate is especially high choosing projects, we have defined criteria that are used among children, and the chronic symptoms that result are by our local subsidiaries to decide which initiatives to particularly serious. For example, schistosomiasis stunts pursue. The Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility growth and contributes to malnutrition, causing learning Group function coordinates and implements global disabilities and anemia in children. projects and regularly provides progress reports to the Executive Board. Praziquantel, which was developed by Merck in the 1970s as part of a research collaboration, is the only active We conduct annual global surveys to ascertain the ingredient to treat all forms of schistosomiasis and is a regional scope of our social engagement, to determine well-tolerated drug. Since 1983, it has been on the Model our goals and focus, and to track our progress. In 2014, List of Essential medicines published by the World Health Merck spent a total of € 50.8 million on its social Organization (WHO). engagement activities, with € 46.2 million in 2013. Of the CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETY | Schistosomiasis 120 Managing and monitoring Research In 2007, we launched the Merck Praziquantel Donation Within the scope of a public-private partnership (PPP), Merck Program (MPDP) in partnership with WHO. This project was is researching a formulation of praziquantel for small children. originally intended to run for a period of 10 years, but Merck Praziquantel tablets in their current form are suitable for adults has decided to continue the fight until the parasitic disease and children over the age of six; for children younger than six, schistosomiasis has been eliminated in Africa. In order to it is currently not possible to properly treat the disease. reach this goal, we pledged in 2012 to significantly expand our donation by a tenfold increase of up to 250 million As part of the donation program expansion, Merck is also praziquantel tablets per year. Our efforts to fight working to optimize the formulation of the drug. For instance, schistosomiasis reflect the United Nations Millennium our researchers are also working on a film coating to make Development Goals as well as the WHO strategic NTD praziquantel tablets easier to swallow as well as more resistant roadmap; they are also part of the London Declaration, an to long transport times. initiative to fight neglected tropical diseases launched by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2012. Educating people In close collaboration, WHO and Merck each provide their Merck supports an awareness program at schools in Africa respective expertise to the MPDP. Merck donates Cesol® 600mg that uses comic booklets and posters to explain the causes of praziquantel tablets to WHO. We produce quality-assured schistosomiasis, teaching pupils how to prevent the disease. praziquantel and ship the tablets to the respective countries, Following the success of the pilot projects, the program was where WHO in turn manages, monitors, and documents the extended in 2013 to Senegal and Malawi. In addition to 75,000 local distribution of the tablets and works with local authorities informational posters on schistosomiasis, we provided one to administer the treatment at schools. WHO is also responsible million educational booklets in total; 250,000 of these went to for supplying local data on morbidity rates and treatment Malawi and the rest to Senegal. In collaboration with WHO, frequency in the countries in which the MPDP has been rolled we are funding the translation of the booklets that are already out. The data for each country can be found in the WHO PCT available in English and French into Swahili, Arabic and databank which is the global repository of preventive Portuguese. chemotherapy treatments. A steering committee consisting of representatives from WHO and Merck convenes twice a year in During the 2013-2014 period, Merck also helped the Uraha order to review the program's progress and decide on its future Foundation Germany set up a local radio station in the north of course. This committee also advises on the allocation of tablets Malawi. Radio Dinosaur has been broadcasting since the end of for each country. 2014; it provides information on politics, environmental issues, history, culture, and health, doing so in the local languages of Since the start of the program, Merck has donated over KyaNgonde and ChiTumbuka. Among other activities, Merck 200 million tablets. To date, more than 54 million people have is funding the production of broadcasts that educate people been treated, mainly school-aged children. In 2013, Merck about schistosomiasis. donated around 50 million tablets for twelve African countries. We produced around 75 million tablets in 2014, more than 72 million of which were supplied to 20 African countries by Fighting schistosomiasis worldwide the year's end, a collaborative effort with the World Health Organization. In May 2014, Merck called for different NTD constituencies to form the Global Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA). This initiative focuses and coordinates efforts to address remaining gaps and challenges in order to meet the schistosomiasis elimination target worldwide. In December 2014, Merck organized the first meeting of the GSA at the UN Conference Centre in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. During this roundtable, the key founding CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 121 SOCIETY | Counterfeit pharmaceuticals partners of the GSA introduced themselves to an expert Gates Foundation, the Schistosomiasis Control Initiative, the audience from all over the world. Besides Merck, these United States Agency for International Development, and founding partners include, among others, the Bill and Melinda World Vision International. Goals: Fighting schistosomiasis with praziquantel Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Eliminate schistosomiasis in Provide tablets containing praziquantel Ongoing Since 2007, more than 50 million patients African school children free of charge to treat school children in have been treated, primarily school-aged Africa children. Incrementally increase annual tablet End of 2016 In 2014, we produced around 75 million donation by a factor of ten, to up to tablets, of which more than 72 million 250 million were supplied to 20 African countries by the year's end, a collaborative effort with the World Health Organization. Optimize the praziquantel formulation End of 2014 We have finished developing the formulation. The dossier has to be submitted to the regulatory authorities for marketing authorization. Research a new praziquantel formulation End of 2014 The Phase 1 clinical trial was conducted for children under 6 years old. in South Africa. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Detecting counterfeit GPHF has supplied 685 MinilabsTM to 90 countries at cost. In 2013 and 2014, they donated 113 MinilabsTM in pharmaceuticals total. These compact labs are utilized by national health Substandard medicines and counterfeits pose a deadly agencies, often in collaboration with governmental drug hazard. Interpol estimates that up to 30% of all medicines safety laboratories. They are also frequently a key in developing nations are either illegal, counterfeit or of component of multilateral health projects in partnership inferior quality. The Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF), with organizations such as UNICEF or the Global Fund. a non-profit initiative funded by Merck, has therefore In addition to selling them at cost, which is handled by taken up the fight against counterfeit medicines. With the a distribution agent, the GPHF and Merck will also MinilabTM developed by the GPHF, counterfeit medicines sometimes donate the test kits. In the 2013-2014 period, can be detected quickly, easily and cheaply. Two suitcases 25 MinilabsTM were donated by the GPHF and 13 by each weighing around 30 kilograms contain a large Merck. number of test methods that state healthcare workers in developing countries can use to inspect pharmaceuticals. We participate in external research with the aim of Reference samples are used to test the identity and increasing the number of medicines that can be tested. concentration of 75 active ingredients in total, including In 2013 and 2014, the GPHF developed testing methods anti-malarials, antibiotics, analgesics, and antipyretics. for 12 additional pharmaceuticals and updated the user manual accordingly. The GPHF offers training courses in The GPHF has specifically developed the MinilabTM for use order to familiarize local users with the testing procedures in regions with a simple infrastructure. The rapid analyses and ensure that the MinilabsTM are utilized in a can be performed even without lab equipment using professional manner. In 2013, four courses were offered normal drinking water. There is currently no other product in Germany, Kenya, Mozambique, and Myanmar, which like it. The majority of the countries where MinilabsTM were attended by 70 participants in total. In 2014, the are used are located in Africa and Asia. Since 1998, the GPHF trained 60 participants total in Ethiopia, Germany, Kenya, and Nigeria. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETY | Deutsche Philharmonie Merck 122 In 2013, the GPHF and the Center for Pharmaceutical can identify substandard and counterfeit medicines. Since Advancement and Training (CePAT) in Ghana – established 2014, the GPHF has furthermore been partnering with the by the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention – formed a IFPMA FightTheFakes campaign, which uses social media strategic alliance to combat counterfeit pharmaceuticals. to increase awareness of counterfeit medicines. This alliance aims to expand local capacities so that they Goals: Combating counterfeit medicines with the MinilabTM Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Fight counterfeit medicines by Develop new test methods for five active End of 2014 Develop five new testing methods and providing and enhancing the ingredients and expand manuals to update the manuals GPHF MinilabTM describe the new testing methods Develop new test methods for five active End of 2015 ingredients and expand manuals to describe the new testing methods Conduct 4 training seminars on the use End of 2014 Four training seminars on the use of the of the GPHF MinilabTM; sell 50 MinilabsTM GPHF MinilabTM have been conducted, and 37 MinilabsTM have been sold. Conduct 3 training seminars on the use End of 2015 of the GPHF MinilabTM; sell 25 MinilabsTM Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Deutsche Philharmonie Merck in Istanbul. In 2014, the orchestra gave a charity concert in the United Arab Emirates (Dubai) to benefit patients Merck has a long tradition of cultural commitment. We with multiple sclerosis. consider classical music in particular to be the universal language that brings people together; as such, it is an Community engagement at our important part of our culture that is represented by the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck, our musical ambassador. sites across the globe The concerts of this professional ensemble are highly Health, environment and culture are key focal areas of popular, with more than 26,000 people attending them our social engagement at both the global and local level. per year. They represent an integral part of the cultural life In accordance with the Merck Values, all subsidiaries of in the vicinity of our Global headquarters in Darmstadt, the Merck Group assume responsibility for their local Germany. Special events for children and adolescents as communities. They foster an open dialogue with their well as partnerships with schools are intended to neighbors and other community representatives and encourage young people to develop a taste for classical therefore know where Merck can make the most valuable music. In both 2013 and 2014, around 50 children contributions. Sustainable engagement means that participated in our annual orchestra workshop, rehearsing projects have a long-term scope, and that we generally and performing with the philharmonic members. oversee and support them over a period of multiple years. Furthermore, the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck gave four cushion concerts , thereby reaching around 800 children. Our subsidiaries were involved in 136 projects in 2014 (2013: 125). Take for example the Erbitux® China Patients The Deutsche Philharmonie Merck regularly invites Aid Program (ECPAP) launched in 2012. In this program, international ensembles to Darmstadt while itself also we work with the Beijing Red Cross Foundation to provide touring internationally. In July 2013, the philharmonic Erbitux® free-of-charge to low-income patients with orchestra gave a concert at the International Jazz Festival colorectal cancer. Over 3,100 patients have participated in the program to date. Other examples include running CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 123 SOCIETY | Projects across the globe a hospital on the island of Baba Bhit in Pakistan and Rote Kreuz (DRK) to help combat ebola. At the end of a wellness center in Jharkhand. Merck employees also 2014, Merck collaborated with UNESCO (the United support and institute numerous initiatives. For instance, Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) in the School Water Project in China, our Merck Millipore to launch a joint initiative that is working to advance employees taught elementary school pupils about medical education and capacity in the fight against ebola. environmental issues and clean water. At universities in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea, the first set of seminars were held for aspiring doctors and Merck grants and promotes four literary prizes worldwide. pharmacists, part of the Merck Capacity Advancement Since 1964, we have been sponsoring the renowned program. In addition to this, Merck also provided disaster Johann Heinrich Merck Award for Literary Critique and aid for the victims of Typhoon Yolanda in the Philippines, Essay, which is presented by the German Academy for the earthquake in Ludian, China, and the flooding in Language and Poetry at its annual autumn conference. Pakistan. The award, which comes with a € 20,000 prize, went to publicist Carolin Emcke in 2014. For 12 years, Merck has More examples of Merck’s engagement at our sites across been sponsoring the Premio Letterario Merck in Italy. This the globe can be found on our website. award is worth € 10,000 and recognizes authors who build bridges between literature and science, thereby making them accessible to a wide audience. In 2014, the award went to Carlo Rovelli, an Italian physicist, and to Francisco Gonzales-Crussi, a Mexican physician and writer. In India, Merck collaborates with the GoetheInstitut Calcutta to present the Merck Tagore Award, which is worth 500,000 Indian rupees (around € 7,200); this literary prize is granted every two years to authors who have made a distinctive contribution to the cultural exchange between Germany and India. In April 2014, the award went to Professor Pramod Talgeri, Vice Chancellor of the India International Multiversity. In October 2014, Merck and the Goethe Institut Tokyo presented the firstever Merck Kakehashi Literature Prize. Worth a total of € 20,000, this award is granted to contemporary works by German authors that are made accessible to a wider readership in Japan. The prize went to German author Arno Schmidt for his book Seelandschaft mit Pocahontas (Lake Scenery with Pocahontas) and to the book's Japanese translator, Jun Wada. In Brazil, we sponsored projects to help integrate disadvantaged children and adolescents, enabling them to learn skills such as playing a musical instrument. In the 2013-2014 period, we extensively revised our processes for and approach to strategic disaster relief. The Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Group function partners with representatives from our businesses and subsidiaries to steer our efforts to help disaster victims. In October 2014, Merck donated € 250,000 to the Deutsche CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES 124 Facts and figures The report profile specifies the reporting framework, shows how data was collected, and describes how the content of the report was determined. We use indicators to facilitate comparison of our ecological, economic and social performance. The figures have been subjected to a limited assurance audit. We have compiled our goals into a single overview. The GRI Index documents Merck's fulfillment of the requirements of the GRI guidelines on sustainability reporting. In the Communication on Progress for the Global Compact , we describe the implementation of the Compact's ten principles. We have issued a statement of compliance with the German Sustainability Code. 125 FACTS AND FIGURES | Report profile Report profile impact as well as the number of employees there. LION's scope of consolidation therefore covers all Merck Group This is Merck's seventh Corporate Responsibility (CR) sites that have a relevant impact on the environment. Report. We have a long history of reporting on issues pertaining to our corporate responsibility a tradition The occupational health and safety indicators reflect the that began in 1993 with the publication of environmental inclusion of the new AZ Electronic Materials production reports. In 2003, we published our first full Corporate sites since they were incorporated into our data collection Responsibility Report detailing how we fulfill our process in 2014, which now covers more than 95% of all obligation to society and have since done so every two employees. years. Our goal is to create transparency and inform stakeholders about our activities and successes, as well as To improve data quality, we help our sites optimize their challenges that we face. At the same time, our CR Report data collection processes as well as the associated quality also documents the progress we've made in implementing control procedures. The processes and the reported data the principles of the United Nations Global Compact are reviewed by EQ through measures such as internal ( Communication on Progress ) while also meeting the EHS audits. criteria of the Sustainability Code (DNK) established by the German Federal Government. We have issued a statement The data on employees and social engagement pertains of compliance with the German Sustainability Code. to the entire Merck Group. Employee master data is continually updated in an SAP-based database. Other Reporting framework employee data such as info pertaining to core ILO standards and data on social engagement are queried on This CR Report covers the 2013 and 2014 fiscal years an annual basis. and pertains to the entire Merck Group with legal entities across 66 countries. This report also covers the activities Some employee data is only disclosed for the sites in of AZ Electronic Materials, a company that we acquired Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Grafing (all in Germany), during this period. As needed, we specifically indicate which employed around 24% of the Merck Group when the information provided diverges from this workforce in 2014. We indicate accordingly when reporting framework. referring only to this restricted set of data. Data collection and consolidation systems Determining report content Since 2005, we have been using the Group-wide Location We use the results of our materiality analysis as well as Information Online System (LION) to collect input from stakeholders to inform our CR Reports, which environmental data as well as occupational health and are aligned to the internationally recognized guidelines of safety data, which is input locally at the individual sites the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as well as its principle and approved after being reviewed. In order to ensure of completeness. This report was drafted in accordance that the data is highly reliable, the Merck Group function with the requirements of the GRI G4 guidelines and meets Environment Health Safety Security Quality (EQ) the criteria for a comprehensive application level. furthermore checks the data’s plausibility. We have furthermore taken into account the We compile environmentally relevant performance requirements of the capital market for assessing indicators from all Merck Group production sites, as well companies' contributions to sustainability. as from relevant warehouse and research sites. In assessing the relevance of these warehouse and research In 2014, we performed a materiality analysis to determine sites, we take into account the sites' environmental the CR issues of relevance to Merck. As part of this process, we conducted an international online stakeholder survey in summer 2014, and hosted an internal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Report profile 126 materiality workshop in Darmstadt in autumn 2014. We have derived the content of this CR report from the results of this materiality assessment. This report addresses all issues identified as material. Detailed information on the materiality analysis as well as the materiality matrix can be found under Materiality analysis on p. 27. The Executive Board of the Merck Group has reviewed and approved this report. External audit KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the annual financial statements and management report of the Merck Group and issued an unqualified opinion. Furthermore, after undergoing a limited assurance audit, Merck has obtained an independent audit certificate for non-financial key performance indicators. Points of contact: We are happy to receive your feedback and answer your questions. Merck KGaA Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Maria Schaad Frankfurter Str. 250 64293 Darmstadt Germany Telephone: +49 (0)6151 72-0 Fax: +49 (0)6151 72-200 Merck's next CR report is scheduled for publication in April 2017. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 127 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Indicators The figures presented below pertain to the entire Merck Group, unless otherwise indicated. You can find further information on our reporting framework and data collection systems in our report profile on p. 125. The following indicators have undergone a limited assurance audit by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. Indicators in this chapter: Indicators: Economics on p. 128 Indicators: Compliance on p. 129 Indicators: Products on p. 131 Indicators: Employees on p. 132 Indicators: Environment on p. 145 Indicators: Society on p. 152 CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 128 Indicators: Economics Audited Total revenues, sales, operating result (EBIT) and R&D costs, by division (€ million) Performance Merck Serono Consumer Health Materials Merck Millipore Group* 2013** Total revenues 6,060.4 745.0 1,644.4 2,645.3 11,095.1 Sales 5,688.4 742.1 1,642.1 2,627.5 10,700.1 Operating result (EBIT) 793.1 162.1 653.3 262.0 1,610.8 R&D costs 1,178.1 21.8 145.4 159.8 1,506.6 2014 Total revenues 5,975 768.8 2,060.5 2,696.5 11,500.8 Sales 5,783.3 766.1 2,059.6 2,682.5 11,291.5 Operating result (EBIT) 956.5 149.9 611.5 289.2 1,762.0 R&D costs 1,343.7 22.3 170.6 162.6 1,703.7 * As a non-operating segment, Corporate and Other is not shown here (see Annual Report 2014, Segment Reporting). ** The previous year's figures have been adjusted (see Annual Report 2014, Notes on Segment Reporting). CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 129 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Indicators: Compliance Audited Internal audits on corruption and Human Rights Charter 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of audits relating to corruption 34 28 40 30 36 % of audits relating to corruption not recorded not recorded not recorded 64 68 Number of audits relating to the workplace section of the Merck Human Rights Charter 26 26 40 27 32 Compliance violations reported via the SpeakUp Line 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of reported compliance incidents 21 29 20 22 26 Number of confirmed cases 3 5 5 9 11 Compliance training seminars 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014** Total number of persons trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures in the respective year* 8,600 13,399 22,890 24,168 7,519*** % of employees trained on the topic of anti-corruption in the respective year 21 33 59 63 14 Number of employees Global Grade 10 or higher trained on the topic of anti-corruption in the respective year not recorded 7,540 10,164 12,390 3,071 % of employees Global Grade 10 or higher trained on the topic of anti-corruption in the respective year not recorded 53 60 69 17 % of employees Global Grade 9 or lower trained on the topic of anti-corruption in the respective year not recorded 22 58 51 12 * Until 2010, anti-corruption training was part of Code of Conduct training seminars. ** In Q1 – Q3 2014, Group Compliance performed a thorough analysis and review of the Compliance Training Program. No courses were scheduled for these quarters. *** Includes 2,023 independent contractors and supervised workers such as temps that have been trained on anti-corruption. In order to address the special responsibility held by employees of a certain management level, as well as by employees with HR responsibility, these employees are increasingly receiving anti-corruption training. This includes all employees rated Global Grade (GG) 10 or higher. To date, we have not differentiated between regions when recording compliance training; we are planning to provide this information in the next reporting period. Our compliance and anti-corruption principles are communicated to all our business partners, who undergo the Business Partner Risk Management (BPRM) process. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 130 Legal actions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total number* of legal actions pending or completed (for anti-competitive behaviour, violations of antitrust or violations of monopoly legislations) 2 3 3 3 2 pending 2 3 2 2 2 completed 0 0 1 1 0 * As published in the annual reports the herein listed total number of legal actions refers to the significant legal risks as per the company’s definition. The significance of legal risks is based on potential negative effects on projected financial objectives as well as on the probability of occurrence. For further information please see our annual reports: • Annual Report 2012, page 88 and pages 168-169, no. 50 • Annual Report 2013, pages 132-134 and pages 226-227, no. 48 • Annual Report 2014, pages 130-131 and pages 213-215, no. 48 CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 131 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Indicators: Products Audited Customer Privacy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total number of substantiated complaints received from outside parties not recorded not recorded not recorded 0 0 Total number of complaints from regulatory bodies not recorded not recorded not recorded 0 1 Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data not recorded not recorded not recorded 0 0 A corporate directive regulates data protection within the Merck Group. We have received no significant complaints by customers or outside parties. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 132 Indicators: Employees Audited Workforce structure Number of total employees As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total number of employees 40,562 40,676 38,847 38,154 39,639 Men 23,171 23,347 22,505 22,253 23,273 Women 17,391 17,329 16,342 15,901 16,366 The slight increase in the number of employees in 2014 is largely attributable to the integration of AZ Electronic Materials. Number of employees by hierarchical level As of Dec. 31 2010* 2011* 2012 2013 2014** Total employees 40,562 40,676 38,847 38,154 39,639 Senior Management (Global Grade above 17) 51 49 54 63 63 Low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) 1,354 1,355 1,719 1,949 2,108 Other employees (Global Grade below 14) 39,157 39,272 37,074 36,142 37,468 % of women (total) 43 43 42 42 41 thereof in Senior Management (Global Grade above 17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 10 10 thereof in low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 498 562 thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14) not recorded not recorded not recorded 15,393 15,794 % of men (total) 57 57 58 58 59 thereof in Senior Management (Global Grade above 17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 53 53 thereof in low and middle management (Global Grade14–17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 1,451 1,546 thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14) not recorded not recorded not recorded 20,748 21,673 by age group Up to 29 years old (%) not recorded 17 15 15 15 thereof in Senior Management (Global Grade above 17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 0 0 thereof in Low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 5 6 thereof in Other employees (Global Grade below 14) not recorded not recorded not recorded 5,901 5,884 30 to 49 years old (%) not recorded 65 65 64 64 * Figures do not entirely include the employees of the Millipore Corporation, which was acquired in July 2010. The Global Grading System was instituted there incrementally. ** Figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, which was acquired in July 2014, as they had not yet been graded as of December 31, 2014. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 133 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Table continued Number of employees by hierarchical level As of Dec. 31 2010* 2011* 2012 2013 2014** thereof in Senior Management (Global Grade above 17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 27 24 thereof in Low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 1,233 1,340 thereof in Other employees (Global Grade below 14) not recorded not recorded not recorded 23,302 24,082 50 years or older (%) not recorded 18 19 20 21 thereof in Senior Management (Global Grade above 17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 36 39 thereof in Low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 711 762 thereof in Other employees (Global Grade below 14) not recorded not recorded not recorded 6,939 7,502 * Figures do not entirely include the employees of the Millipore Corporation, which was acquired in July 2010. The Global Grading System was instituted there incrementally. ** Figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, which was acquired in July 2014, as they had not yet been graded as of December 31, 2014. Average number of employees by functional area Average number of employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Group 36,347 40,570 39,939 38,282 38,930 Thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 16,110 Production 8,327 9,317 9,486 9,985 10,176 Thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 3,202 Logistics 1,927 2,054 1,665 1,779 2,207 Thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 774 Marketing and Sales 11,541 12,322 12,353 12,214 12,113 Thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 4,814 Administration 4,378 4,696 4,416 5,106 6,342 Thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 3,557 Research and Development 4,116 4,632 4,558 4,433 4,738 Thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 2,534 Infrastructure and Other 6,058 7,549 7,461 4,765 3,354 Thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 1,230 Average Head Count (HC) is calculated based on the End HC of the last 5 quarters. In 2013 and 2014, Merck assigned all positions to a standardized job profile, thereby substantially increasing transparency. In this way, positions previously not assigned to specific functional areas were classified according to function. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 134 Number of employees by region As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total 40,562 40,676 38,847 38,154 39,639 Employees in Europe * 21,830 20,777 20,013 20,537 thereof women * 9,832 9,261 8,755 8,893 Employees in North America * 4,964 4,848 4,911 5,092 thereof women * 2,314 2,225 2,246 2,272 Employees in Emerging Markets** * 12,229 11,642 11,688 12,176 thereof women * 4,565 4,274 4,335 4,562 Employees in Rest of World * 1,653 1,580 1,542 1,834 thereof women * 618 582 565 639 * No retroactive calculation based on the new regional structure. ** Latin America and Asia excluding Japan. Supervised workers such as temps are currently not logged in our employee data system. We are investigating possibilities to record information on supervised workers throughout the Merck Group. Percentage of women As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of women in the entire workforce 43 43 42 42 41 % of management positions held by women (Global Grade 14 or above)* 22* 23* 24 25 26** % of women in the Merck Serono and Consumer Health divisions 47 47 46 46 45 % of women in the Performance Materials and Merck Millipore divisions 33 38 37 37 36 * These figures do not entirely include the employees of the Millipore Corporation, which was acquired in July 2010. The Global Grading System was instituted there incrementally. ** This figure does not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, a company that was acquired in July 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented there. Full-time and part-time employees As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of full-time employees 94 94 94 95 95 % of part-time employees 6 6 6 5 5 In 2014, women accounted for 39% of employees working full-time in the Merck Group (2013: 39%), with women representing 90% of employees working part-time (2013: 92%). In 2014, 10% of our part-time employees were men (8% in 2013). CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 135 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Temporary and permanent contracts As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total employees 40,562 40,676 38,847 38,154 39,639 Number of employees with permanent contracts not recorded 39,261 37,732 36,908 38,410 % of employees with permanent contracts not recorded not recorded not recorded 97 97 by contract type: full-time not recorded not recorded not recorded 34,911 37,573 % full-time not recorded not recorded not recorded 95 98 thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded 13,524 14,497 thereof women (%) not recorded not recorded not recorded 39 39 part-time not recorded not recorded not recorded 1,994 2,066 % part-time not recorded not recorded not recorded 6 5 thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded 1,839 1,869 thereof women (%) not recorded not recorded not recorded 92 90 Number of employees with temporary contracts not recorded 1,415 1,115 1,246 1,219 % of employees with temporary contracts not recorded not recorded not recorded 3 3 CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 136 New Employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total number of new employee hires not recorded not recorded not recorded 5,007 6,212 by age group Up to 29 years old not recorded not recorded not recorded 2,358 2,305 30 to 49 years old not recorded not recorded not recorded 2,397 3,361 50 or older not recorded not recorded not recorded 252 546 by gender Women not recorded not recorded not recorded 2,051 2,513 Men not recorded not recorded not recorded 2,945 3,689 by region Europe not recorded not recorded not recorded 1,757 2,312 North America not recorded not recorded not recorded 526 826 Emerging Markets not recorded not recorded not recorded 2,608 2,578 Rest of World not recorded not recorded not recorded 116 496 Rate of new employee hires* (%) not recorded not recorded not recorded 13 16 by age group Up to 29 years old not recorded not recorded not recorded 40 37 30 to 49 years old not recorded not recorded not recorded 10 54 50 or older not recorded not recorded not recorded 3 9 by gender Women not recorded not recorded not recorded 13 40 Men not recorded not recorded not recorded 13 59 by region Europe not recorded not recorded not recorded 9 37 North America not recorded not recorded not recorded 11 13 Emerging Markets not recorded not recorded not recorded 21 42 Rest of World not recorded not recorded not recorded 20 8 * Formula for the rate of new employee hires: Total number of new employees / End HC. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 137 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Staff turnover 2010 2011* 2012* 2013 2014 Total turnover rate not recorded 13.37 13.71 14.61 11.01 Turnover rate by gender Men not recorded 10.98 13.17 13.98 10.75 Women not recorded 12.07 14.45 15.00 11.38 Turnover rate by age group Up to 29 years old not recorded 22.4 23.77 21.55 18.71 30 to 49 years old not recorded 11.58 12.48 13.44 9.72 50 or older not recorded 11.4 9.91 13.01 9.49 Turnover rate by region Europe not recorded 8.57 9.52 14.61 7.05 North America not recorded 14.48 12.75 10.51 12.45 Emerging Markets not recorded 21 21.46 21.15 17.02 Rest of World not recorded 17 14.68 14.14 11.50 Total number of Leavers not recorded not recorded not recorded 5,573 4,364 by gender Men not recorded not recorded not recorded 3,110 2,502 Women not recorded not recorded not recorded 2,385 1,862 by age group Up to 29 years old not recorded not recorded not recorded 1,273 1,102 30 to 49 years old not recorded not recorded not recorded 3,300 2,474 50 or older not recorded not recorded not recorded 1,000 788 by region Europe not recorded not recorded not recorded 2,367 1,447 North America not recorded not recorded not recorded 516 634 Emerging Markets not recorded not recorded not recorded 2,472 2,072 Rest of World not recorded not recorded not recorded 218 211 * The figures for 2011 and 2012 have been recalculated based on the reporting date and therefore now differ from the figures reported in prior years. The table contains unadjusted turnover rates, calculated as follows: number of separations*100/number of employees as of Dec. 31. The unadjusted turnover rate excludes employees who leave due to parental leave or a long-term illness, as well as employees who are transitioning to the non-working phase of partial retirement. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 138 Staff turnover (2) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Turnover rate of employees who were hired during the 18 months preceding Dec. 31 of the respective year not recorded 12.23 14.07 12.77 12.67 Turnover rate by gender Men not recorded 13.49 15.20 13.74 13.16 Women not recorded 10.42 12.34 11.34 11.97 Turnover rate by age group Up to 29 years old not recorded 16.25 16.20 15.55 15.76 30 to 49 years old not recorded 9.18 12.73 10.76 11.20 50 or older not recorded 8.51 9.69 10.64 9.32 Turnover rate by region Europe not recorded 7.16 8.16 8.71 10.07 North America not recorded 7.30 7.91 6.42 7.22 Emerging Markets not recorded 17.11 19.06 16.10 16.83 Rest of World not recorded 5.67 11.90 15.77 9.72 Merck records the new employee turnover rate over the course of 18 months because 12 months is too short a time to become truly familiar with a new position, especially when it comes to management positions. The turnover rate is calculated as follows: (Number of new hires within the preceding 18 months who left Merck within this period)/(average number of employees in the preceding 18 months)*100. The figures exclude employees who leave due to parental leave or a long-term illness, as well as employees who are transitioning to the non-working phase of partial retirement. Core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of full-time employees (standard contract, excluding exempts) with contractually stipulated working hours of maximally 48 hours/week1 99 99 99 99 99 % of full-time employees (standard contract) with at least 15 vacation days/year2 94 96 95 98 95 % of female employees with access to maternity leave programs3 100 100 100 100 100 % of employees with the right to collective bargaining4 96 96 97 97 97 % of employees working at companies where collective agreements apply not recorded* not recorded* not recorded* 68 66 1 ILO: Hours of Work (Commerce and Offices) Convention, 1930 (No. 30). 2 ILO: Holidays with Pay Convention (Revised), 1970 (No. 132). 3 ILO: Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952 (No. 103). 4 ILO: Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87). * In the years 2010, 2011 and 2012 Merck recorded the percentage of employees who have a right to collective bargaining. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 139 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Table continued Core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of sites that rule out complicity in child labor as described in ILO Convention 138 100 100 100 100 100 Age of youngest employees, excluding apprentices 17 18 18 16 17 1 ILO: Hours of Work (Commerce and Offices) Convention, 1930 (No. 30). 2 ILO: Holidays with Pay Convention (Revised), 1970 (No. 132). 3 ILO: Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952 (No. 103). 4 ILO: Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87). * In the years 2010, 2011 and 2012 Merck recorded the percentage of employees who have a right to collective bargaining. Local minimum wage 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of sites that guarantee a salary above the local minimum wage* 100 99 100 100 100 * Minimum wage as stipulated by law, or derived from other provisions such as collective agreements. The Global Rewards Policy applies to all Merck subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure. Base pay is oriented to the median base pay, and short-term variable compensation is based on the third quartile of the relevant reference market. The overall compensation package thus exceeds the market median. Occupational health and safety Work-related accidents 2010 2011 2012 2013** 2014 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 3.0 2.1 2.3 2.2 1.8 by region Europe 4.5 3.1 3.9 3.7 2.9 North America 1.3* 1.5 1.1* 0.9 1.0 Emerging Markets 1.9 0.9 0.7 0.8 0.7 Rest of World 0.4 2.1 1.0 1.0 0.9 Number of deaths 1 0 0 0 2 by region Europe 0 0 0 0 0 North America 0 0 0 0 0 Emerging Markets 1 0 0 0 2 Rest of World 0 0 0 0 0 by gender * Figures retroactively adjusted. ** from 2013 onwards: incl. supervised workers CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 140 Table continued Work-related accidents 2010 2011 2012 2013** 2014 Women 1 0 0 0 1 Men 0 0 0 0 1 * Figures retroactively adjusted. ** from 2013 onwards: incl. supervised workers Merck employees have been included in the calculation of the indicators as well as supervised employees of external companies. Independent contractors have not been taken into account. Using the LTIR, we record work-related accidents of Merck employees that involve at least one day of missed work. A work-related accident is an injury that results from the type of work, in the course of doing said work, and that has no internal cause (cumulative trauma). Work-related accidents are considered relevant if they occur on the premises, on business trips, during a transport accident, in the course of external influences (e.g. natural disasters), or due to criminal acts involving personal injury. Commuting accidents and accidents during company sporting activities are not included. First-aid incidents are generally not included in the LTIR since these usually do not result in more than one day of missed work. We have set ourselves the goal of reducing the LTIR to 2.5 by 2015. In 2014, by means of targeted accident prevention measures we again outperformed this goal as we did in the previous three years, achieving an LTIR of 1.8. For Merck KGaA (24% of the employees of the Merck Group) we report work-related illnesses if these have been diagnosed and verified by a physician. In the reporting period, one case of work-induced illness was recorded. We do not keep track of the number of work-related illnesses throughout the entire Merck Group. We have defined the LTIR as the key indicator for the Merck Group. Therefore, we do not publish any other indicators such as workplace accidents, lost days or days of absence. The LTIR is not broken down by gender as this differentiation is not relevant to our strategic planning. Continuing education and training Spending on advanced training for employees (€) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Average continuing education spending per employee 1,152 982 699 679 718 We record and report the costs of vocational training and continuing education for our employees. We are not currently tracking the average number of continuing education hours consolidated at Group level, but we are working on a technical solution to track all training hours globally. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 141 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Employees who regularly receive a performance and development evaluation As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013** 2014*** % of employees who receive a performance and development evaluation 88 98 98 72 79 by gender Women not recorded not recorded not recorded 75 84 Men not recorded not recorded not recorded 71 77 by employee category Senior Management (Global Grade above 17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 100 97* Low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) not recorded not recorded not recorded 100 96* Other employees (Global Grade below 14) not recorded not recorded not recorded 72 78* * The fluctuations in participant numbers by employee category can be explained by Merck’s acquisition of AZ Electronic Materials, among other factors. By the 2014 reporting date, the majority of AZ employees had been classified according to our grading system. However, because they were not integrated until the end of 2014, they had not yet taken part in Merck’s Performance Management Process. ** The 2013 data in the above table is based on a reporting date of March 12, 2014. *** The 2014 data in the above table is based on a reporting date of March 2, 2015. Regular feedback and employee performance evaluations are essential to a systematic development process. Our globally uniform Performance and Talent Management Process requires annual feedback meetings and performance assessments for all employees rated Global Grade 10 and up in our position grading system. Apart from evaluating employee performance, this helps us to identify individual development opportunities. When it comes to applying this process, our individual subsidiaries can decide for themselves whether to include employees rated below Global Grade 10. In Germany, all permanent employees have been participating in the Performance and Talent Management Process since 2013. In 2014, around 31,395 employees worldwide (including non-exempt employees in Germany) were involved in the process (2013: approx. 27,600 employees). The Performance and Talent Management Process is coordinated via the HR Suite IT system. As of 2013, we changed the table to reflect only the performance evaluations that are documented in the HR Suite IT system. For these evaluations, we can provide details on the Global Grade as well as gender of the participating employees. For all other employees not participating electronically in this globally uniform process, other methods of performance assessment are available. In 2014, 97% of our employees took part in a performance and development evaluation, the same percentage as in 2013. Apprentices* As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of apprentices 513 523 528 516 498 % of apprentices 5.9 5.6 5.7 5.6 5.4 * Only pertains to the Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Grafing sites in Germany (which accounted for around 24% of Merck Group employees in 2014). CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 142 Diversity and inclusion Internationality of employees 2010* 2011* 2012 2013 2014** Number of nationalities 128 125 121 114 122 Number of nationalities in management positions (Global Grade 14 or above) 55 54 57 64 67 % of non-Germans in management positions (Global Grade 14 or above) 57 56 61 60 60 * These figures do not entirely include the employees of the Millipore Corporation, which was acquired in July 2010. The Global Grading System was instituted there incrementally. ** These figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, a company that was acquired in July 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented there. Employee age by region Europe (including Emerging Number of employees Worldwide North America Germany) Germany Markets Rest of World 2013 Up to 29 years old 5,906 462 2,362 1,494 2,883 199 thereof women 2,411 204 1,071 587 1,059 77 30 to 49 years old 24,562 2,867 12,774 6,221 7,882 1,039 thereof women 10,666 1,359 5,851 2,447 3,044 412 50 or older 7,686 1,582 4,877 3,153 923 304 thereof women 2,824 683 1,833 1,074 232 76 Average age 40.4 44.1 41.9 42.6 36.0 40.5 Total employees 38,154 4,911 20,013 10,868 11,688 1,542 2014 Up to 29 years old 5,890 512 2,427 1,513 2,711 240 thereof women 2,458 221 1,105 579 1,049 83 30 to 49 years old 25,446 2,804 12,979 6,359 8,426 1,237 thereof women 10,854 1,302 5,862 2,486 3,231 459 50 or older 8,303 1,776 5,131 3,319 1,039 357 thereof women 3,054 749 1,926 1,133 282 97 Average age 40.57 44.5 42.02 42.69 36.52 40.36 Total employees 39,639 5,092 20,537 11,191 12,176 1,834 CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 143 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Employees with disabilities* (%) As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employees with disabilities* 4.1 4.2 4.9 5.0 4.7 * Only pertains to the Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Grafing sites in Germany (which accounted for around 24% of Merck Group employees in 2014, calculations based on the German Social Code IX SGB IX). Insurance and retirement benefits for employees Insurance and pension systems for employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of employees who are obliged to contribute to a statutory pension system 95 98 99 99 100 % of employees with company accident insurance 100 100 100 100 100 % of employees with statutory health insurance 88 88 87 85 87 % of employees with employer-funded health insurance 88 88 93 95 96 We offer a company pension in numerous countries along with various programs for supplemental company pensions and survivor's benefits. Around two-thirds of our employees are enrolled in such a program. Long-term pension obligations and post-employment benefits € million 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Present value of all pension obligations as of Dec. 31 2,356 2,490 2,830 2,737 3,813 Pension expenses 132 168 159 147 157 Depending on the legal, economic and fiscal circumstances prevailing in each country, different retirement benefit systems are provided for the employees of the Merck Group. Generally these systems are based on the years of service and salaries of the employees. Pension obligations of the Merck Group include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and comprise both obligations from current pensions and accrued benefits for pensions payable in the future. In the Merck Group, defined benefit plans are funded and unfunded. Provisions also contain other postemployment benefits, such as accrued future health care costs for retirees in the United States (see our Annual Report 2014, Note on Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits). Reconciling the demands of a career and family Flexible working hours 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of employees with the option of working flexible hours 57 58 69 75 74 CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 144 Parental leave in Germany* As of Dec. 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of employees with a right to parental leave not recorded 237 299 254 331 thereof women (recorded via maternity leave in the respective year) not recorded 82 139 120 165 thereof men (recorded via special paternity leave in the respective year) not recorded 155 160 134 166 Number of employees who took parental leave** 368 401 434 433 507 thereof women not recorded 283 303 292 349 thereof men not recorded 118 131 141 158 Number of employees on parental leave who worked part time during their leave not recorded 123 137 81 99 thereof women not recorded 117 135 77 94 thereof men not recorded 6 2 4 5 Number of employees who returned from parental leave not recorded 144 162 151 187 thereof women not recorded 58 62 60 83 thereof men not recorded 86 100 91 104 Return to work rate (%) not recorded not recorded not recorded 34.87 36.88 thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded 20.55 23.78 thereof men not recorded not recorded not recorded 64.54 65.82 Number of employees still working for Merck one year after their return from parental leave not recorded 140 130 152 *** thereof women not recorded 55 34 57 *** thereof men not recorded 85 96 95 *** Retention rate (%) not recorded not recorded not recorded 93.83 *** thereof women not recorded not recorded not recorded 91.94 *** thereof men not recorded not recorded not recorded 95.00 *** * Figures only pertain to the Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Grafing sites in Germany (which accounted for around 24% of Merck Group employees in 2014). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also includes those employees who took parental leave during the calendar year, but who had not returned by Dec. 31. ** Since parental leave can be taken for a period ranging from one month to three years, it is possible for employees to be recorded across a period of up to four calendar years. This explains why the number of employees on parental leave exceeds the number of employees who have a right to it. *** Figure will be available on Dec. 31, 2015. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 145 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Indicators: Environment Audited Environmental management Spending on environmental protection, safety and health (€ million) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Spending 140 141 146 142 146 These figures include both investments in as well as internal and external spending on waste and wastewater management, water, occupational safety, fire protection, noise reduction, air pollution prevention, decontamination, preservation of nature and the landscape, climate protection, and energy efficiency. Greenhouse gas emissions Total greenhouse gas emissions (metric kilotons) (Scope 1 and 2 of the GHG Protocol)* 2006** 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total CO2eq emissions 575 577 541 551 567 524 Thereof direct CO2eq emissions 318 352 318 321 350 323 indirect CO2eq emissions 257 225 223 230 217 201 Biogenic CO2 emissions 6 6 5 5 6 11 * In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. AZ Group in 2014) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). ** Baseline for our emission targets is 2006. eq = equivalent Our response to the Carbon Disclosure Project contains a detailed description of our calculation methods. We have included the following gases into our calculation of direct and indirect CO2eq emissions: • Direct CO2 emissions: CO2, HFCs, PFCs; CH4/N2O negligible; SF6/NF3 not available. • Indirect CO2 emissions: CO2. In 2014, we emitted 0.046 kg of CO2eq per euro of sales. This calculation includes data from the AZ Group and assumes that first-time consolidation had already taken place as of January 1, 2014 (further information can be found here). CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 146 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total gross other indirect emissions (metric tons CO2eq*) 28,958 47,324 48,588 64,616 320,219 Fueland energy-related activities, not included in Scope 1 or 2 (category 3) not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 98,340 Waste generated in operations (category 5) not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 95,430 Business travel air travel (category 6) 28,798 47,203 47,618 63,279 73,791 Business travel rail travel (category 6) 160 121 122 45 21 Business travel rental car travel (category 6) not recorded not recorded 848 1,292 1,223 Employee commuting (category 7) not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 51,414 Upstream leased assets (category 8) not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 0** Processing of sold products (category 10) not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 0*** Downstream leased assets (category 13) not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 0 Franchises (category 14) not recorded not recorded not recorded not recorded 0 * eq = equivalent ** already covered under Scope 1/2 emissions *** Merck produces a huge variety of intermediate products for various purposes. Due to their many applications and our customer structure, the associated GHG emissions cannot be tracked in a reasonable fashion. In 2014, we reported data on multiple Scope 3 categories for the first time. As a result, the total 2014 emissions cannot be compared to previous years. No data is available for Scope 3 categories not listed above. Their relevance to Merck is assessed in the Scope 3 document. Biogenic emissions (Scope 3), if present, are not being recorded. Other air emissions Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (metric tons) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total emissions of ozone-depleting substances 0.7 1.0 1.9 1.5 0.9 CFC-11eq* 0.04 0.06 0.10 0.08 0.05 * CFC-11eq is a unit of measure used to compare the potential of various substances to deplete the ozone. Reference figure 1 indicates the potential of CFC-11 to cause the depletion of the ozone layer. Substances included: R-12, R-22, R-141b, R-402a, R-409a, R-401a. Source for the emission factors: Montreal Protocol. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 147 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Other air emissions (metric kilotons) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 Nitrogen oxide 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 Sulfur dioxide 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Dust 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.01 0.02 The VOC, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and dust emissions reported here are production-related. These figures do not include emissions from vehicles. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Transport Transport of finished goods, by means of transportation* 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % Truck 58 58 58 56 56 % Boat 36 36 36 37 38 % Airplane 6 6 6 7 6 * Pertains to goods shipped by the German sites Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Hohenbrunn. These figures pertain to the total weight of the transported products. Indicated here is the primary means of transport. In shipping finished goods from production sites to local warehouses of the subsidiaries, we are working to reduce the use of air shipping in favor of sea shipping. In doing so, we cut costs and reduce the CO2 emissions incurred by transporting goods. In 2014, this allowed us to save 800 metric tons of CO2. Resource consumption Energy consumption* in GWh 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total energy consumption 1,505 1,497 1,556 1,566 1,622 Direct energy consumption 919 920 940 1,001 1,071 Natural gas 799 802 827 884 937 Liquid fossil fuels** 105 105 100 102 107 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 15 13 13 15 27 Indirect energy consumption 586 577 616 565 551 Electricity 518 519 502 500 466 * In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the energy consumption has been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). ** Light and heavy fuel oil, liquified petroleum gas (LPG), diesel and gasoline. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 148 Table continued Energy consumption* in GWh 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Steam, Heat, Cold 68 58 114 65 85 Total energy sold 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.3 Electricity 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.3 Steam, Heat, Cold 0 0 0 0 0 in TJ 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total energy consumption 5,418 5,389 5,602 5,638 5,839 Direct energy consumption 3,308 3,312 3,384 3,604 3,856 Natural gas 2,876 2,887 2,977 3,182 3,373 Liquid fossil fuels** 378 378 360 367 385 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 54 47 47 54 97 Indirect energy consumption 2,110 2,077 2,218 2,034 1,984 Electricity 1,865 1,868 1,807 1,800 1,678 Steam, Heat, Cold 245 209 410 234 306 Total energy sold 2 1 2 1 1.1 Electricity 2 1 2 1 1.1 Steam, Heat, Cold 0 0 0 0 0 * In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the energy consumption has been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). ** Light and heavy fuel oil, liquified petroleum gas (LPG), diesel and gasoline. At our sites in Billerica, Massachusetts (USA), Bedford, Massachusetts (USA), Molsheim (France), Tel Aviv (Israel), Rome (Italy) and Ciudad de Guatemala (Guatemala), we use photovoltaics to produce power. Merck currently only records purchased secondary energy – this is primarily electricity and, to a lesser extent, heat/steam/ cold. Details on the local energy mix, including the respective percentage of primary energy, renewable energy, etc. are currently not available. Data on local energy efficiency in electricity or heat generation are currently not available either. Merck production sites are located in countries with a widely varying energy mix. Our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany have a high energy consumption, representing 40% of our Group-wide total. At these sites, fossil energy (coal, gas, etc.) accounts for approx. 57%, nuclear energy approx. 17% and renewable energies approx. 26% of the energy mix. Renewable energies account for a higher share in electricity generation at production sites in Switzerland, with nuclear energy taking the lead in France and Japan. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 37% for the conversion and distribution of generated electricity, this results in a primary energy consumption of 1,260 GWh for 2014. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 85% for heat/steam/cold, this results in a primary energy consumption of 100 GWh for 2014. This gives a total primary energy consumption of 1,360 GWh for 2014. (The calculation is based on factors stated in the Handbuch für betriebliches Energiemanagement Systematisch Energiekosten senken ( Manual for energy management in practice Systematically reducing energy costs ) published by DENA, 12/2012. In 2014, Merck's energy intensity relative to sales totaled 0.141 kWh/€. This calculation includes data from the AZ Group and assumes that first-time consolidation had already taken place as of January 1, 2014 (further information can be found here). CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 149 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Water consumption (millions of m3) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total water consumption 18.0 17.6 16.3 9.6* 11.1 Surface water (rivers, lakes) 8.7 8.3 7.0 0.0 0.3 Groundwater 5.5 5.7 5.3 5.4* 6.3 Drinking water (from local suppliers) 3.8 3.6 4.0 4.2 4.5 Rain water and other sources 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.03 * Figures retroactively adjusted. 2013: Gernsheim The sharp decrease in total water use in 2013 is attributable to the closure of the Merck Serono site in Geneva, Switzerland. The site utilized surface water from Lake Geneva for cooling and heating purposes and used lake water to cover a large portion of the site's energy requirements. Our water usage increased in 2014 because this was the first time that the manufacturing sites of the AZ Group acquired in 2014 were incorporated into our reporting. These figures do not include the ground water that we utilize in relation to safety measures at the Gernsheim site in Germany. Here, the water is fed back directly into natural circulation. Water reused 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Water reused (millions of m3) not recorded not recorded 17.8 16.6 16.0 Wastewater Wastewater volume and quality 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total wastewater volume (millions of m3) 8.8 11.1 8.5 8.6 10.1 Chemical oxygen demand (metric tons of O2) 967 911 929 756 968 Phosphorous (metric tons) 9 8 7 7 11 Nitrogen (metric tons) 61 73 76 77 81 Zinc (kg) 283 248 267 293 288 Chromium (kg) 20 21 21 23 78 Copper (kg) 40 34 37 36 34 Nickel (kg) 39 101 101 110 128 Lead (kg) 38 40 35 42 55 Cadmium (kg) 10 10 10 10 10 Mercury (kg) 1 1 1 1 1 Arsenic (kg) 7 6 3 4 4 CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 150 The wastewater volume includes indirect discharge into both public and Merck-owned wastewater treatment plants, as well as direct discharge (such as rainwater and cooling water). Our water usage increased in 2014 because this was the first time that the manufacturing sites of the AZ Group acquired in 2014 were incorporated into our reporting. Wastewater from the neighboring municipality of Biebesheim is also treated at the wastewater treatment plant at the Gernsheim site in Germany. The communal wastewater from Biebesheim is included in the wastewater volume as well as in the emissions stated in the table. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Waste Hazardous and non-hazardous waste (metric kilotons) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total waste 194 200 189 161* 229 Hazardous waste disposed** 47 43 62 37 53 Non-hazardous waste disposed** 27 36 36 31* 55 Hazardous waste recycled 32 45 48 50* 50 Non-hazardous waste recycled 88 76 43 43 71 * Figures retroactively adjusted. ** Disposed = incineration and landfill. We reduced our hazardous waste disposed to landfills from approx. 300 metric tons in 2013 to 176 metric tons in 2014. Exported/Imported hazardous waste (metric kilotons) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Exported* not recorded not recorded not recorded 7.1 10 Imported** not recorded not recorded not recorded 0.01 0.003 * Disposal within the EU. ** Within the scope of the return system for our cell tests, these tests are brought to our Gernsheim site in Germany for their proper disposal. Waste by disposal method 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total waste (metric kilotons) 194 200 189 161* 229 Disposed waste (metric kilotons) 74 79 98 67 108 Landfilled waste (metric kilotons) 13 14 19 13 37 Incinerated waste (metric kilotons) 61 65 79 54 71 * Figures retroactively adjusted. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 151 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Table continued Waste by disposal method 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Recycled waste (metric kilotons) 120 121 91 94* 121 Material recycling (metric kilotons) 100 97 67 69* 94 Waste-to-energy (metric kilotons) 20 24 24 25 27 Recycling rate (%) 62 61 48 58 53 * Figures retroactively adjusted. The waste output of the Merck Group rose to 229,000 metric tons in 2014 (2013: 161,000 metric tons). Waste from construction and renovation projects accounted for the majority of the waste (2013: 24%; 2014: 47%), stemming in particular from the remodeling of our Global headquarters in Darmstadt. Significant Spills 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total number of significant spills not recorded not recorded 0 0 0 CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators 152 Indicators: Society Audited Spending on social engagement (€ million) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total spending 6.9 7.9 11.8 46.2 50.8 We calculate the value of pharmaceutical product donations according to the WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations; for other product donations, we apply their fair value. The increase in our spending on social engagement is attributable to the expansion of the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program (MPDP) and the expansion of the Erbitux® China Patients Aid Program. In the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program, we are partnering with the World Health Organization to combat the worm disease schistosomiasis in African school children. In the Erbitux® China Patients Aid Program we work with the Beijing Red Cross Foundation to provide Erbitux® free-of-charge to low-income patients with colorectal cancer. Spending on local social engagement, by region (%)* 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Europe 29 39 20 36 37 North America 17 23 13 <1 <2 Emerging Markets 49 37 66 63 61 Rest of World 5 1 1 <1 <1 * Excluding lighthouse projects. As a result of the sharp increase in spending on social engagement in Europe and Emerging Markets, the relative share of spending in North America declined from 2013 onwards. Focus of local social engagement (%)* 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Disaster relief 3 10 3 6 4 Education 21 22 16 23 23 Environment – 5 9 10 10 Health – 28 30 23 33 Support for culture and sports activities near our sites 14 18 28 19 15 Other** 62 17 14 19 15 * Excluding lighthouse projects, based on number of projects. ** 2010 includes discontinued focus areas. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 153 FACTS AND FIGURES | Indicators Motivations for our social engagement (%)* 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Charitable activities 56 52 32 20 9 Community investment 20 24 52 59 59 Commercial initiatives in the community 24 24 16 21 32 * Excluding lighthouse projects, based on total spending. We assign the motivations for our engagement to categories based on the model of the London Benchmarking Group and the guidelines of the Bertelsmann Foundation for corporate social engagement. Projects that primarily aim to make improvements within the community are classified as Community investment . Projects that are predominantly aimed at company-relevant factors such as image or personnel recruitment are classified as Commercial initiatives in the community . Charitable activities” comprehends any other projects that benefit a charitable organization, but cannot be assigned to either of the other two motivation categories due to missing data or their narrow scope. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals 154 Goals Products Goals: Safety and quality of chemical products Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Establish a globally uniform Implementation of REACH: Mid-2018 By the end of 2014, we had registered hazard and risk communication 15% of all phase 3 substances. system for all relevant Merck Register substances produced in chemicals in the supply chain, quantities ranging from 1-100 metric incorporating the principles of tons per year (phase 3 of REACH prevention implementation) and register non-phasein substances Implementation of GHS/CLP: Mid-2015 All mixtures have been classified according to CLP since mid-2013. Classify mixtures and sets according to the CLP regulation Implementation of the Global Product End of 2020 We have already completed Product Strategy (GPS): Safety Summaries for 17 substances registered under REACH; we are working Provide Product Safety Summaries within on nine additional Product Safety GPS for all hazardous substances Summaries. registered under REACH Projects for hazard communication: End of 2020 We have safety data sheets for around 20% of all non-hazardous substances Update safety data sheets for nonand continually review them. Around hazardous materials 40% of the non-hazardous substances have replacement letters. Increase the number of safety data sheets End of 2020 Around 90% of all safety data sheets are prepared to a globally uniform standard based on our Group-wide Merck GHS standard. Implementation of US GHS/HazCom Mid-2015 2012: Classify pure substances, mixtures and sets in the United States according to HazCom 2012 criteria Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 155 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals Goals: Product-related crime Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Protect customers and patients Update our international regulations with End of 2016 from harm by product-related a focus on product safety for all relevant crime products Monitor the dark figures in certain End of 2016 countries Support regional activities End of 2016 Pilot a project to improve product safety End of 2016 in high-risk regions of Africa using software-based solutions Increase awareness of strategic Expand scope of employee training and End of 2015 importance of counterfeit increase internal reporting on pharmaceuticals counterfeits Host a conference of the Pharmaceutical End of 2015 Security Institutes (PSI) with industry representatives Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Goals: Sustainable products Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Improve the product sustainability Implement the Design for Sustainability End of 2015 Within the Design for Sustainability in 10% of the product families of program. process we defined several criteria for Merck Millipore ensuring product sustainability in each of the following areas: materials, emissions and energy, waste, water, packaging, and usability and innovation. We use these criteria to assess improvement in product sustainability. By the end of 2014, we had improved sustainability across more than 12% of our product families, which means we've already reached our goal. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals 156 Goals: Access to health Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Monitor and assess the progress Create quantitative and qualitative End of 2016 and efficacy of our Access to performance indicators for the 4 A's: Health programs. Availability, Accessibility, Affordability, and Awareness. Availability: Address unmet needs Expand our R&D portfolio for neglected End of 2017 through the research, tropical diseases within the scope of the development and refinement of Global Health Innovation Platform. We health solutions have created a three-year plan for our focal areas of developing a pediatric formulation to treat schistosomiasis in preschool-aged children and developing a new anti-malarial drug. Affordability: Address inability to Through our WIPO Re:Search End of 2016 pay membership, engage in a collaboration agreement to share our intellectual property and knowledge to catalyze the development of medical products against infectious diseases. Awareness: Empower health Develop an integrated initiative of our End of 2016 workers, communities and Healthcare and Life Science business patients sectors to raise awareness and empower people to make informed decisions. Accessibility: Strengthen supply Develop an initiative to reach patients, End of 2016 chains and provide localized regardless of their geographic location, solutions and ensure they have access to health solutions. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 157 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals Goals: Animal science and welfare Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Harmonize animal welfare GroupEstablish Group-wide governance for End of 2014 In 2014, we created a manual for the wide Corporate Animal Science & Welfare Animal Science and Welfare Group function that is in effect throughout the Merck Group. It describes roles and responsibilities for implementing, adhering to and improving animal welfare, such as the Corporate Animal Science and Welfare network. Nominations have been confirmed and governance has been established. Develop a Group-wide audit concept for End of 2015 The audit concept is described in the the facilities of contract animal research Animal Safety & Welfare Manual and is organizations currently being revised and expanded. Harmonize the high quality of Obtain AAALAC International End of 2015 In 2013 and 2014, two laboratory animal animal facilities at Merck Serono accreditation for all Merck Serono facilities in Darmstadt, Germany were laboratory animal facilities successfully reaccredited (performed every three years). Our site in Grafing, Germany also achieved reaccreditation. Implement a Merck 3R award Merck to participate in the 3Rs IQ/ End of 2015 The first award is being presented in AAALAC Award Program. 2015. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Goals: Transport and storage safety Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Further improve warehouse and Expand scope of transport safety audits End of 2014 In 2013 and 2014, we conducted 18 EHS transport safety to include contracted service providers audits on transport and warehouse safety, four of which involved third-party warehouses. Develop additional performance End of 2014 We have developed transport and indicators to assess the safety of our warehouse safety indicators, which warehouses and transport of our indicate the safety rating of an inspected products subsidiary relative to the Group average and third-party warehouses. Implement improvement programs in End of 2016 countries and regions selected based on risks specific to the products being handled Implement a process to further improve End of 2016 We have instituted an analysis and our management approach to transport evaluation process and, in response, have and warehouse safety implemented the first set of measures. In addition to the results of local audits and inspections, we will be including customer complaints in our evaluation. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals 158 Suppliers Goals: Supplier management Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Ensure our suppliers adhere to Conduct 20 CR audits on high-risk End of 2014 In 2014, we conducted 24 audits on ethical, social, environmental, and suppliers in 2014 high-risk suppliers. compliance standards (part of our risk mitigation strategic procurement objective) Systematically collect self-reported End of 2013 We have set up an IT system and received supplier information the first set of self-reported supplier information. This system has been discontinued because we are instead integrating the TfS database into our supplier management system. Join the Together for Sustainability (TfS) End of 2014 We held workshops to prepare employees chemical industry initiative and joined the TfS Initiative in mid-2014. Conduct workshops to prepare Merck to integrate into the TfS program Systematically collect self-reported End of 2015 We are implementing the TfS supplier information in line with the TfS methodology for supplier assessments methodology and audits, as well as for tracking them. Establish a CR standard operating End of 2015 procedure Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 159 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals Employees Goals: Diversity & inclusion Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Increase the percentage of Increase the percentage of management End of 2016 Institute communication measures and management positions (Global positions held by women through utilize HR processes such as Talent Grade 14+) held by women to at numerous initiatives that move women Management least 25%-30% into those positions 26% of management positions were held by women in 2014, which means that we have already reached the bottom range of our target. We will continue to pursue this goal in order to further increase the percentage of management positions held by women. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Goals: Good leadership Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Talent & Succession Management: Use the Talent & Succession Ongoing In 2013, we introduced the Talent & Fill at least 2/3 of positions ranked Management Process to identify suitable Succession Management Process in order Global Grade 16+ with internal employees with management potential to systematically foster and develop candidates and define a process to systematically talent. develop them In 2014, 74% of our vacant management positions were filled internally. Have least 50% of managers Expand the geographical range of the End of 2018 rated Global Grade 14+ take part programs to reach a broader target group in a management program Have senior management act as the official program sponsors Build a talent pool that reflects Identify talent, inform managers on Ongoing the demographic structure of current demographics (e.g. age, Merck nationality, gender) Competency-based interviews Nominate suitable talent within the Ongoing with 20% of the talent scope of the Talent & Succession Management program Have 80% of all employees using Expand the HR Suite user group to new Ongoing the HR Suite IT system for their target groups annual Performance Management Process assessment Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals 160 Goals: Occupational health & safety Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Reduce occupational accidents Implement the BeSafe! program; hold End of 2015 Through systematic accident prevention throughout the Merck Group (lost EHS forums on safety behavior change measures (such as training and time injury rate = 2.5) campaigns to strengthen our corporate safety culture), we attained an LTIR of 2.2 in 2013 and an LTIR of 1.8 in 2014. We are working to lastingly stabilize our LTIR. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 161 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals Environment Goals: Environmental management Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Audit and implement Certify environmental management Ongoing environmental management systems at further acquired sites systems at acquired sites Perform gap analysis on Merck Millipore End of 2014 We conducted a gap analysis on acquisitions (e.g. Heipha and Biochrom), Biochrom and Allergopharma production along with the Allergopharma production sites. site in Reinbek Due to production issues, the implementation of ISO 14001 has been delayed for Heipha. Integrate AZ Electronic Materials End of 2015 Eight out of nine production sites of AZ production sites Electronic Materials, which was acquired in 2014, have been incorporated into the group certificate. Implement the OHSAS 18001 End of 2016 occupational health and safety management system for all Performance Materials production sites Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Goals: Climate change mitigation Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Reduce direct and indirect Systematically examine the energy End of 2020 We continued to systematically examine greenhouse gas emissions consumption at Merck's individual sites ways to save energy at our production (Scope 1 and 2) of the Merck sites. For instance, energy audits were Group by 20% relative to the conducted on the Aubonne and Vevey 2006 baseline sites in Switzerland. Identify and implement ways to save End of 2020 Through the approximately 300 EDISON energy projects that have been initiated since 2012, Merck aims to annually save around 60,000 metric tons of CO2 in the medium term. Around two-thirds of these projects have already been launched, or are currently being implemented. Reduce process-related emissions End of 2020 We have made significant progress in reducing Merck Millipore's processrelated emissions. The average process emissions relative to production volume at our Jaffrey, New Hampshire (USA) facility has decreased by around twothirds. At this site, we have witnessed a 30% absolute reduction in process CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals 162 Table continued Goals: Climate change mitigation Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status emissions in 2014 versus 2013, while production volumes have continued to increase. Implement sustainable measures to End of 2020 We are moving forward with our EDISON increase energy efficiency and reduce program, implementing new projects to greenhouse gas emissions increase energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013 and 2014, we introduced two new guidelines on Group-wide energy management and refrigerants emissions. Several sites were certified according to ISO 50001, accompanied by the respective training activities. Reduce Merck Millipore's greenhouse gas End of 2015 Merck Millipore has reduced greenhouse emissions by 10% by 2015 (2006 gas emissions by 13% relative to the baseline) 2006 baseline. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Goals: Waste management Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Reduce Merck Millipore's waste Introduce measures to minimize waste End of 2015 Between 2006 and 2014, Merck Millipore output by 10% relative to the and recycle materials, solvents, and other lowered its waste output by 15%. baseline 2006) waste byproducts. Merck Millipore has identified and implemented opportunities to distill and reuse solvents in the manufacturing process. At the Bedford, Massachusetts (USA) facility, methanol that cannot be reused in the process after multiple distillations is used as a feed chemical for a local municipal wastewater treatment facility. In 2014, 145 metric tons of methanol were reused externally. Increases in production yields reduced the amount of products scrapped during manufacturing. Perform waste audits to identify ways to End of 2015 In 2014, waste audits were performed on reduce waste or increase recycling Merck Millipore's facilities in Molsheim, efficiency France, and Kankakee, Illinois (USA). Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 163 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals Goals: Water Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Reduce Merck Millipore's water Implement water reuse and reduction End of 2015 Despite significant increases in use by 10% relative to the 2006 initiatives production volumes, between 2006 and baseline 2014, Merck Millipore reduced water consumption by 2%. In 2014, we performed five water audits at Merck Millipore facilities. Our Molsheim, France facility identified viable projects that will be investigated further in 2015. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Goals 164 Society Goals: Fighting schistosomiasis with praziquantel Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Eliminate schistosomiasis in Provide tablets containing praziquantel Ongoing Since 2007, more than 50 million patients African school children free of charge to treat school children in have been treated, primarily school-aged Africa children. Incrementally increase annual tablet End of 2016 In 2014, we produced around 75 million donation by a factor of ten, to up to tablets, of which more than 72 million 250 million were supplied to 20 African countries by the year's end, a collaborative effort with the World Health Organization. Optimize the praziquantel formulation End of 2014 We have finished developing the formulation. The dossier has to be submitted to the regulatory authorities for marketing authorization. Research a new praziquantel formulation End of 2014 The Phase 1 clinical trial was conducted for children under 6 years old. in South Africa. Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal Goals: Combating counterfeit medicines with the MinilabTM Goal Action By? Status in 2013 and 2014 Status Fight counterfeit medicines by Develop new test methods for five active End of 2014 Develop five new testing methods and providing and enhancing the ingredients and expand manuals to update the manuals GPHF MinilabTM describe the new testing methods Develop new test methods for five active End of 2015 ingredients and expand manuals to describe the new testing methods Conduct 4 training seminars on the use End of 2014 Four training seminars on the use of the of the GPHF MinilabTM; sell 50 MinilabsTM GPHF MinilabTM have been conducted, and 37 MinilabsTM have been sold. Conduct 3 training seminars on the use End of 2015 of the GPHF MinilabTM; sell 25 MinilabsTM Legend: Achieved In progress Not achieved New goal CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 165 FACTS AND FIGURES | Recognition and rankings Recognition and rankings The following table presents a selection of major awards businesses or sites can be found in the respective chapter and rankings for 2013 and 2014. Information on of the 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report, or on our additional rankings and awards received by individual company's website. Recognition and rankings for 2013 and 2014 Name For? Carbon Disclosure Project The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a not-for-profit organization that, on behalf of investors, purchasers and governments, has pioneered a disclosure system enabling companies to transparently report their greenhouse gas emissions and water use. In the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, which assesses the level of reporting detail as well as transparency, Merck scored 87 out of 100 possible points. In the Carbon Disclosure Performance Index, which measures corporate performance in reducing emissions, Merck was graded B on a scale of E to A, which clearly places us in the upper performance band among all companies from Germany, Austria and Switzerland. FTSE4Good-Index Since 2008, Merck has been included in the FTSE4Good Index, a leading international sustainability index that annually evaluates companies' social, environmental and ethical performance. Oekom Research Sustainability Rating In 2013, oekom research AG, a sustainability ratings agency, gave Merck a C+ on a scale of Dto A+ (top grade). Merck thus once more achieved Prime Status. STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Index In 2014, Merck's stocks were once again included in STOXX Global ESG Leaders, a sustainability index that assesses companies based on key environmental, social and governance criteria. Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Merck has been selected as a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe Europe and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment since 23/03/2015. The ESI indices universe is composed of companies included in the Russell Global Register Index that display the best performance in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility. Furthermore, Merck is a member of the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register. Access to Medicine Index In the Access to Medicine Index, Merck went from 8th place in 2012 to 6th in 2014. This Index assesses 20 pharmaceutical companies with respect to their activities to improve access to medicine in developing countries. The index is published every two years by the Access to Medicine Foundation, an international not-for-profit organization. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 166 GRI Index The CR Report 2014 is based on the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and meets the criteria for the application level Comprehensive . The following GRI Index provides an overview of standard disclosures, the GRI indicators identified as relevant, and where the corresponding contents are described. General Standard Disclosures: GRI Index: Company and report profile on p. 167 Specific Standard Disclosures: GRI Index: Economic performance indicators on p. 172 GRI Index: Environmental performance indicators on p. 174 GRI Index: Social performance indicators on p. 177 CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 167 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index GRI Index: Company and Report Profile General Standard Disclosures External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Letter by Karl-Ludwig Kley on p. 21 of the organization G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities CR strategy and organization on p. 25 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Company Profile on p. 4 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Company Profile on p. 4 Products G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Company Profile on p. 4 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization Company Profile on p. 4 operates, and names of countries where either Share ownership by country the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Company Profile on p. 4 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic Company Profile on p. 4 breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Company Profile on p. 4 Management Employees on p. 89 Indicators Employees on p. 132 Indicators Economics on p. 128 Net sales Capitalization Consolidated Balance Sheet G4-10 Total number of employees by employment Supervised workers such as Management Employees on p. 89 contract and gender temps are currently not Indicators Employees on p. 132 logged in our employee data system. We are investigating possibilities to record information on supervised workers throughout the Merck Group. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Employee Engagement on p. 100 collective bargaining agreements Indicators Employees on p. 132 G4-12 Organization's supply chain Management Suppliers on p. 83 Supply chain on p. 85 * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 168 Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Management Suppliers on p. 83 regarding size, structure, ownership, or its Company Profile on p. 4 supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach Management Environment on p. 106 or principle is addressed by the organization Transport and storage safety on p. 79 Plant and process safety on p. 108 Occupational health and safety on p. 102 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental Values and external initiatives on p. 23 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Responsible care on p. 24 to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations Stakeholder dialogue on p. 36 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization's Report profile on p. 125 consolidated financial statements Company Profile on p. 4 G4-18 Definition of report content Materiality Analysis on p. 27 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for Materiality Analysis on p. 27 defining report content G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Materiality Analysis on p. 27 G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Materiality Analysis on p. 27 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information Report profile on p. 125 provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting Report profile on p. 125 periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder dialogue on p. 36 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Stakeholder dialogue on p. 36 stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder Stakeholder dialogue on p. 36 engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through Stakeholder dialogue on p. 36 stakeholder engagement Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Report profile on p. 125 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Report profile on p. 125 G4-30 Reporting cycle Report profile on p. 125 G4-31 Contact point for questions Report profile on p. 125 G4-32 GRI Index GRI Index on p. 166 G4-33 External Assurance Report profile on p. 125 * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 169 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization CR strategy and organization on p. 25 Management Statement of Corporate Governance G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, CR strategy and organization on p. 25 environmental and social topics from the Procedures of the Corporate Bodies highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and CR strategy and organization on p. 25 social topics G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue on p. 36 and the highest governance body Employee Engagement on p. 100 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body Management and its committees Statement of Corporate Governance The Executive Body G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Statement of Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive officer Management G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 highest governance body and its committees Corporate Bodies Objectives of the Supervisory Board G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to Compliance on p. 33 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and Corporate Governance Practices managed G4-42 Highest governance body's and senior CR strategy and organization on p. 25 executive's roles in the development, approval, Values and Compliance and updating of the organization's CR strategies, Report of the Supervisory Board policies, and goals G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the CR strategy and organization on p. 25 highest governance body's collective knowledge Executive Board of economic, environmental and social topics Statement of Corporate Governance G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body's Board of partners performance with respect to governance of Supervisory Board economic, environmental and social topics Articles of Association G4-45 Highest governance body's role in the CR strategy and organization on p. 25 identification and management of economic, Report on Risks and Opportunities environmental and social impacts, risks, and Statement of Corporate Governance opportunities Compliance on p. 33 G4-46 Highest governance body's role on reviewing the CR strategy and organization on p. 25 effectiveness of the organization's risk Report on Risks and Opportunities management processes for economic, Report of the Supervisory Board environmental and social topics G4-47 Frequency of highest governance body's review CR strategy and organization on p. 25 of economic, environmental and social impacts Report on Risks and Opportunities risks, and opportunities Report of the Supervisory Board * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 170 Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally Report profile on p. 125 reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to Compliance on p. 33 the highest governance body Values and Compliance G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns Compliance on p. 33 that were communicated to the highest Values and Compliance governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest Compensation Report governance body and senior executives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Compensation Report G4-53 How stakeholders' views are sought and taken Recruiting and retaining talent on p. 95 into account regarding remuneration Compensation Report G4-54 Ratio of annual total compensation for the Competitive salaries and organization's highest-paid individual to the additional benefits increase median annual total compensation for all not only our attractiveness as employees in the same country an employer; they also motivate employees and build loyalty to the company. At Merck, compensation is based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Merck Group. We strive to offer all our employees the most comparable compensation structures possible. In addition to this, we monitor compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under G4-54 and G4-55 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total Competitive salaries and compensation for the organization's highestadditional benefits increase paid individual to the median percentage not only our attractiveness as increase in annual total compensation for all an employer; they also employees in the same country motivate employees and build loyalty to the company. At Merck, compensation is * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 171 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Merck Group. We strive to offer all our employees the most comparable compensation structures possible. In addition to this, we monitor compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under G4-54 and G4-55 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards and Values and external initiatives on p. 23 norms of behavior Human rights on p. 24 Compliance on p. 33 G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Compliance on p. 33 advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Management Suppliers on p. 83 concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 and matters related to organizational integrity Compliance on p. 33 * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 172 GRI Index: Economic Performance Indicators Specific Standard Disclosures External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA Management Approach Economic performance Pension Plans Report on Risks and Opportunities Employee Engagement on p. 100 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Income Statement distributed Cash Flow Statement Figures by division, country and region Personnel expenses Indicators Society on p. 152 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and We report in detail on Climate protection on p. 109 opportunities for the organization's activities various aspects of climate Global Compact CoP on p. 185 due to climate change change as part of our CDP participation in the Carbon Report on Risks and Opportunities Disclosure Project (CDP). G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit Indicators Employees on p. 132 plan obligations Pension Plans G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Accounting policies for property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment Research and development spending Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA Management Approach Management Employees on p. 89 Good leadership on p. 91 Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 Employee Engagement on p. 100 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender This indicator is not relevant Indicators Employees on p. 132 compared to local minimum wage at significant to Merck, which is why we Human Rights Charter locations of operation do not collect data on the ratio of the standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage. Being a pharmaceutical and chemical company, Merck employs highly qualified individuals. Our Global Rewards Policy applies to all Merck subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure. Base pay is oriented to the * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 173 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance median base pay, and shortterm variable compensation is based on the third quartile of the relevant reference market. The overall compensation package thus exceeds the market median. G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from We encourage both local Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 the local community at significant locations of hiring and international operation appointments across all levels of the hierarchy. The percentage of local managers is not recorded as it is not relevant to strategic personnel planning at Merck. Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Supply chain on p. 85 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Supply chain on p. 85 significant locations of operation * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 174 GRI Index: Environmental Performance Indicators Specific Standard Disclosures External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Management Approach Climate protection on p. 109 Management Environment on p. 106 Sustainable products on p. 50 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Climate protection on p. 109 Resources on p. 114 Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the Climate protection on p. 109 organization Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption We are currently only calculating the CO2 savings from measures we have implemented. In future, we plan on measuring the reduction in energy consumption as well. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products Sustainable products on p. 50 and services Examples of products from our Performance Materials division Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Management Approach Climate protection on p. 109 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope Climate protection on p. 109 1) Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Climate protection on p. 109 emissions (Scope 2) Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Climate protection on p. 109 (Scope3) Indicators Environment on p. 145 Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Climate protection on p. 109 Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Indicators Environment on p. 145 Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Management Approach Plant and process safety on p. 108 Waste management on p. 113 * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 175 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Water on p. 115 Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Waste management on p. 113 method Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Plant and process safety on p. 108 Indicators Environment on p. 145 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Indicators Environment on p. 145 treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel convention annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Water on p. 115 value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization's discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Management Approach Sustainable products on p. 50 Packaging on p. 54 Reuse and recycling on p. 55 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Sustainable products on p. 50 impacts of products and services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their Packaging on p. 54 packaging materials that are reclaimed by Reuse and recycling on p. 55 category Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Management Approach Management Environment on p. 106 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total Management Environment on p. 106 number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Management Approach Transport and storage safety on p. 79 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of We do not consider relevant Transport and storage safety on p. 79 transporting products and other goods and any data queried under this Indicators Environment on p. 145 materials used for the organization's indicator that goes beyond operations, and transporting members of the the data already reported. workforce Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Management Suppliers on p. 83 using environmental criteria * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 176 Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Management Suppliers on p. 83 environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Compliance on p. 33 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental Management Suppliers on p. 83 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through Management Environment on p. 106 formal grievance mechanisms * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 177 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index GRI Index: Social Performance Indicators Specific Standard Disclosures Labor Practices and Decent Work External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Management Approach Management Employees on p. 89 Recruiting and retaining talent on p. 95 Occupational health and safety on p. 102 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires Indicators Employees on p. 132 and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that At Merck KGaA (24% of Recruiting and retaining talent on p. 95 are not provided to temporary or part-time Merck's total workforce), Occupational health and safety on p. 102 employees, by significant locations of operation part-time employees receive Indicators Employees on p. 132 the same job benefits as fulltime ones. Employees with temporary contracts, however, are not entitled to all company benefits; for instance, they are not entitled to a company pension. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after Recruiting and retaining talent on p. 95 parental leave, by gender Indicators Employees on p. 132 Aspect: Labor/Management relations G4-DMA Management Approach Employee Engagement on p. 100 Management Employees on p. 89 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational The regulations on periods of changes, including whether these are specified notice vary worldwide. We in collective agreements apply the rules that are in force locally. It is not relevant for us to log periods of notice at Group level. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Management Approach Occupational health and safety on p. 102 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Occupational health and Occupational health and safety on p. 102 formal joint management-worker health and safety committees are safety committees that help monitor and advise required by law in Germany, on occupational health and safety programs which is why all employees of Merck KGaA (Darmstadt, Grafing, and Gernsheim, * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 178 Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Germany) are represented by such a committee at each site. Employees of Merck KGaA account for around 24% of the workforce. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Occupational health and safety on p. 102 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Indicators Employees on p. 132 number of work-related fatalities by region and gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence of high risk or Occupational health and safety on p. 102 diseases related to their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal Merck KGaA facilities agreements with trade unions (Darmstadt, Gernsheim, and Grafing, Germany, around 24% of the total workforce) are subject to a company agreement on occupational health and safety. Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Management Approach Good leadership on p. 91 Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 Recruiting and retaining talent on p. 95 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Indicators Employees on p. 132 employee by gender and by employee category Training on specific topics: Compliance on p. 33 Safety of drugs on p. 41 Safety of chemical products on p. 43 Product-related crime on p. 46 Animal testing on p. 73 Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 Occupational health and safety on p. 102 Management Environment on p. 106 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 learning that support the continued Recruiting and retaining talent on p. 95 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Good leadership on p. 91 performance and career development reviews, Indicators Employees on p. 132 by gender and by employment category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Management Approach Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 Objectives of the Supervisory Board * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 179 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Because the term minority Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 breakdown of employees per employee does not mean the same Indicators Employees on p. 132 category according to gender, age group, thing across the globe, we Executive Board minority group membership, and other do not record this sort of Supervisory Board indicators of diversity. data. Moreover, many Objectives of the Supervisory Board countries in which we operate have strict data protection regulations governing the recording of personal employee data. Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men G4-DMA Management Approach Recruiting and retaining talent on p. 95 Compensation Report G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of The salaries at Merck are Recruiting and retaining talent on p. 95 women to men, by significant locations of predicated on the job operation descriptions and are based on our Global Job Catalog, which has fixed salary bands that are identical for men and women. Variable salary components that fall under performance-based compensation are paid on the basis of whether mutually agreed targets have been achieved. A performance management system governs this process. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Management Suppliers on p. 83 labor practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative Management Suppliers on p. 83 impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Compliance on p. 33 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices Management Suppliers on p. 83 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Compliance on p. 33 grievance mechanisms * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 180 Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Human Rights External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Management Approach Responsible care on p. 24 Compliance on p. 33 G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant Compliance on p. 33 investment agreements and contracts that Management Suppliers on p. 83 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human Human rights on p. 24 rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-DMA Management Approach Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 corrective actions taken Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Human rights on p. 24 Compliance on p. 33 Human Rights Charter G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the Management Suppliers on p. 83 right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Human rights on p. 24 Compliance on p. 33 Human Rights Charter G4-HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified Management Suppliers on p. 83 as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Human rights on p. 24 Compliance on p. 33 Human Rights Charter * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 181 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having Management Suppliers on p. 83 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Aspect: Assessment G4-DMA Management Approach Human rights on p. 24 Compliance on p. 33 G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations Compliance on p. 33 that have been subject to human rights reviews Indicators Compliance on p. 129 or impact assessments Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Human rights on p. 24 Compliance on p. 33 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Management Suppliers on p. 83 using human rights criteria G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative Management Suppliers on p. 83 human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Human rights on p. 24 Compliance on p. 33 G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights Management Suppliers on p. 83 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Management Approach Compliance on p. 33 Values and Compliance G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations Compliance on p. 33 assessed for risks related to corruption and the Values and Compliance significant risks identified Indicators Compliance on p. 129 G4-SO4 Communication and training in anti-corruption Values and external initiatives on p. 23 policies and procedures Compliance on p. 33 Indicators Compliance on p. 129 * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 182 Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions As applicable, we report on Compliance on p. 33 taken risks from litigation and legal Report on Risks and Opportunities proceedings in our Report on Risks and Opportunities. Aspect: Public policy G4-DMA Management Approach Stakeholder dialogue on p. 36 Code of Conduct G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country Stakeholder dialogue on p. 36 and recipient/beneficiary Code of Conduct Publication of donations made via PACs (EMD Serono) Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior G4-DMA Management Approach Compliance on p. 33 Values and Compliance Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiIndicators Compliance on p. 129 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Management Approach Compliance on p. 33 Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total As applicable, we report on Indicators Compliance on p. 129 number of non-monetary sanctions for nonrisks from litigation and legal Report on Risks and Opportunities compliance with laws and regulations proceedings in our Report on Risks and Opportunities. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Compliance on p. 33 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Management Suppliers on p. 83 using criteria for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative Management Suppliers on p. 83 impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Grievance mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Management Approach Management Suppliers on p. 83 Compliance on p. 33 G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society Management Suppliers on p. 83 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Compliance on p. 33 grievance mechanisms Product Responsibility * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 183 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance Aspect: Customer health and safety G4-DMA Management Approach Safety of drugs on p. 41 Safety of chemical products on p. 43 Sustainable products on p. 50 Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service Safety of drugs on p. 41 categories for which health and safety impacts Safety of chemical products on p. 43 are assessed for improvement Sustainable products on p. 50 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance As applicable, we report on Report on Risks and Opportunities with regulations and voluntary codes risks from litigation and legal concerning health and safety impacts of proceedings in our Report on products and services during their life cycle, by Risks and Opportunities. type of outcomes Aspect: Product and service labelling G4-DMA Management Approach Safety of drugs on p. 41 Safety of chemical products on p. 43 Responsible marketing on p. 77 Interactions in the health care industry on p. 78 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information Safety of drugs on p. 41 required by the organization's procedures for Safety of chemical products on p. 43 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Safety of chemical products on p. 43 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Within the scope of our B2B Stakeholder dialogue on p. 36 satisfaction activities, we maintain close Sustainable products on p. 50 contact with our customers Responsible marketing on p. 77 and endeavor to find out what they want from us and what they think of us as business partners. Individual customer survey results that are used for strategy development are confidential. Aspect: Marketing communications G4-DMA Management Approach Responsible marketing on p. 77 Report on Risks and Opportunities * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | GRI Index 184 Table continued External DMA* and Indicators Comment Link Assurance G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Responsible marketing on p. 77 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance As applicable, we report on Responsible marketing on p. 77 with regulations and voluntary codes risks from litigation and legal Report on Risks and Opportunities concerning marketing communications, proceedings in our Report on including advertising, promotion, and Risks and Opportunities. sponsorship by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer privacy G4-DMA Management Approach Clinical trials on p. 70 Compliance on p. 33 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Clinical trials on p. 70 regarding breaches of customer privacy and Indicators Products on p. 131 losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Management Approach Compliance on p. 33 Report on Risks and Opportunities G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonAs applicable, we report on Report on Risks and Opportunities compliance with laws and regulations risks from litigation and legal Indicators Compliance on p. 129 concerning the provision and use of products proceedings in our Report on and services Risks and Opportunities. * Disclosures on Management Approach. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter Facts and figures , including explanatory notes, in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report on p. 188 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 185 FACTS AND FIGURES | Global Compact CoP Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Communication on Progress regarding the implementation of the Global Compact Principles The Global Compact (GC) is a United Nations (UN) initiative founded in 2000. Signatories of the initiative commit themselves to ten principles based on key UN conventions regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. At the same time, the compact obliges the signatories to actively engage themselves in propagating the principles within their own sphere of influence. Merck has been a Global Compact participant since 2005. The following table presents the key measures that Merck took in 2013 and 2014 to implement the principles of the Global Compact. Link: www.unglobalcompact.org Global Compact – COP Relevant GRI UNGC Principles Indicators Key actions in 2013 and 2014 Link Human Rights Principle 1: Support and respect G4-HR2, • Adoption of a Group-wide Human Rights Human rights on p. 24 human rights G4-HR7, Management Suppliers Charter G4-HR8, Counterfeit pharmaceuticals on p. 121 G4-HR9, • Revised supplier management in terms of G4-HR12, Corporate Responsibility (CR) aspects and G4-SO1, joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS) G4-SO2 initiative • Formation of the Global Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA) to fight NTDs • Increase in praziquantel donations to eliminate schistosomiasis Principle 2: Rule out complicity in G4-HR1, • Adoption of a Group-wide Human Rights Human rights on p. 24 human rights abuses G4-HR10–11 Compliance on p. 33 Charter Management Suppliers • Human Rights Impact Assessments • CR audits on suppliers and collection of selfreported supplier information • Revised supplier management in terms of CR aspects and joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative Labor Standards Principle 3: Uphold freedom of G4-11, • Internal audits on labor standards of the Human rights on p. 24 association G4-HR4, Compliance on p. 33 Human Rights Charter G4-LA4 Management Suppliers • CR audits on suppliers and collection of selfreported supplier information CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Global Compact CoP 186 Table continued Global Compact – COP Relevant GRI UNGC Principles Indicators Key actions in 2013 and 2014 Link • Revised supplier management in terms of CR aspects and joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of G4-HR6 • Internal audits on labor standards of the Human rights on p. 24 forced and compulsory labor Compliance on p. 33 Human Rights Charter Management Suppliers • CR audits on suppliers and collection of selfreported supplier information • Revised supplier management in terms of CR aspects and joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative Principle 5: Abolition of child labor G4-HR5 • Internal audits on labor standards of the Human rights on p. 24 Compliance on p. 33 Human Rights Charter Management Suppliers • CR audits on suppliers and collection of selfSupply chain on p. 85 reported supplier information • Revised supplier management in terms of CR aspects and joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination G4-10, • Internal audits on labor standards of the Human rights on p. 24 G4-EC5–6, Compliance on p. 33 Human Rights Charter G4-LA1, Diversity and inclusion on p. 92 G4-LA3, • Corporate goal to increase percentage of Recruiting and retaining talent on p. 95 G4-LA9, management positions held by women G4-LA11–13, G4-HR3 • Worldwide hotline for people to anonymously report cases of discrimination Environmental Protection Principle 7: Take a precautionary G4-EC2, • ISO-14001 Group certificate for company Management Environment on p. 106 approach to environmental challenges G4-EN1, Climate protection on p. 109 environmental management G4-EN3, Resources on p. 114 G4-EN8, • Annual reduction of greenhouse gas Sustainable products on p. 50 G4-EN15–17, emissions (reduction target 2020: 20% Safety of drugs on p. 41 G4-EN20–21, relative to 2006 baseline Safety of chemical products on p. 43 G4-EN27, Plant and process safety on p. 108 G4-EN31 • Signed the revised version of the Responsible Transport and storage safety on p. 79 Care® Global Charter Water on p. 115 Waste management on p. 113 • EHS standards updated • Product safety measures (e.g. REACH, GHS, Global Product Strategy) • Identified sites located in areas of high water stress and created a best practice sharing platform for water management projects CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 187 FACTS AND FIGURES | Global Compact CoP Table continued Global Compact – COP Relevant GRI UNGC Principles Indicators Key actions in 2013 and 2014 Link Principle 8: Promote greater G4-EN1–34 • Implementation and update of Group-wide Climate protection on p. 109 environmental responsibility Plant and process safety on p. 108 standards and guidelines (e.g. on Energy Transport and storage safety on p. 79 Management and company car policy) Water on p. 115 • New measures within EDISON climate Waste management on p. 113 protection program Safety of drugs on p. 41 Safety of chemical products on p. 43 • Internal and external EHS audits Reuse and recycling on p. 55 • Energy checks at sites • Product labeling • Packaging take-back programs Principle 9: Encourage diffusion of G4-EN6–7, Sustainable products on p. 50 environmentally friendly technologies G4-EN19, • Product life cycle analyses Performance Materials G4-EN27, • Sustainable products developed G4-EN31 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Fight corruption in all its G4-56–58, • Internal audits on corruption Compliance on p. 33 forms G4-SO3–SO6 • Assessment of business partners’ compliance standards • Anti-corruption training • Worldwide hotline for people to anonymously report cases of corruption CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Assurance Report 188 Independent Assurance Report1 To the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt We were engaged to provide assurance on the sustainability information relating to ‘Materiality analysis’ and ‘Stakeholder dialogue’ as well as on the indicators in the chapter ‘Facts and figures’, including explanatory notes, in the online ‘Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2014’ (further ‘the Report’) for the business year 2014 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt (further ‘Merck’). The Executive Board is responsible for the appropriateness of the determination and presentation of the sustainability information in the Report in accordance with the reporting criteria. This responsibility includes the conception, implementation and maintenance of systems and processes for ensuring adherence to sustainability reporting principles when determining material report contents. Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report on the selected sustainability information, including the explanatory notes, published in the Report. Scope Our assurance engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether the following selected sustainability information for the business year 2014, including the explanatory notes, are presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria: In the chapter ‘Facts and figures Indicators’ the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures on: • Economics • Compliance • Products • Employees • Environment • Society In the chapters ‘Materiality analysis’ and ‘Stakeholder dialogue’ the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures: • ‘Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries’ GRI G4-17 to 23 • Stakeholder Engagement’ GRI G4-24 to 27 The sustainability performance information in the scope of our assurance engagement is marked in the column “External assurance” of the GRI Index with the following symbol: Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 189 FACTS AND FIGURES | Assurance Report Reporting criteria and assurance standards Merck applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative, the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 und 2), and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard of World Resources Institute/ World Business Council for Sustainable Development, supported by internal guidelines, as described in the section of the Report ‘Report profile’, as reporting criteria. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: ‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements‘, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. These standards require, amongst others, that the assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to provide assurance on sustainability information, and that we comply with the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants to ensure our independence. Work undertaken Our procedures included: • An evaluation of the process for determining material aspects and respective boundaries, including results of Merck’s stakeholder engagement. • A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for Merck in the reporting period. • Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the indicators, including the consolidation of the data, at corporate and site level. • Interviews with relevant staff on corporate level responsible for providing and consolidating the data, as well as carrying out internal control procedures on the data including the explanatory notes. • Visits to Tiburtina (Italy) and Bari (Italy) to assess local data collection and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data. • An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all sites for consolidation at Group level. • Use of the insights and relevant work performed for the group and statutory audit of the (consolidated) financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 of Merck KGaA with regard to audit procedures on those information and indicators that were derived from those consolidated financial statements. • An evaluation of the overall presentation of the selected indicators, including the explanatory notes, within the scope of our engagement. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Assurance Report 190 Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the sustainability information, including the explanatory notes, in the Report are not, in all material respects, presented in accordance with the reporting criteria. Frankfurt am Main, April 15, 2015 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft [Original German version signed by:] Fischer Glöckner Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 1 Translation of the independent assurance report, authoritative in German language. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 191 FACTS AND FIGURES | Assurance Report Glossary Chromatography Chromatography is a technique used to separate mixtures. 3R principle The 3R principle applies internationally as the guiding CISCRP principle for all animal testing. By using methods to The Center for Information and Study on Clinical replace animal experiments (replacement), reduce the Research Participation (CISCRP) is an independent nonrequired number of tests and animals (reduction), and profit organization dedicated to educating and informing improve the test methods (refinement), the number of the public and patients about clinical research. CISCRP laboratory animals used as well the stress placed on also provides information and resources to help research them before, during and after testing are to be kept to an and health professionals better serve their patients and absolute minimum. study volunteers. AAALAC CLP The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of The European CLP regulation (Classification, Labelling and Laboratory Animal Care International is a private, Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) is based on the nonprofit organization that promotes the humane Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and treatment of animals in science through voluntary Labelling of Chemicals. accreditation and assessment programs. CO2eq ATM CO 2 equivalent: This indicates how much a specified Access to Medicine quantity of a specific greenhouse gas has contributed to the greenhouse effect and uses the global warming Audit potential of carbon dioxide as a reference. An audit is a process performed by a trained auditor to investigate things such as management systems. Compliance This term means adherence to laws and regulations as Biodiversity well as to voluntary codices that are internal to the The term is used to describe the diversity of ecosystems, Merck Group. Compliance is a component of diligent habitats and landscapes on earth, the diversity of the corporate governance. species, and the genetic diversity within a biological species or population. Demographic change The term describes the development of a population, Biosimilars such as the change in the age structure. In Germany, Biosimilars are officially approved subsequent versions of Switzerland, several other EU countries, and the United innovator biopharmaceutical products made by a States, the average age of the population is on the rise. different sponsor after the original product's patent or exclusivity expires. Based on guidance from the EMA Dual-use products (European Medicines Agency), biosimilars must Dual-use products are goods that are normally used for demonstrate comparability, or biosimilarity, to an existing civilian purposes, but that may also have military approved product. applications. Carbon Disclosure Project Due diligence The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an independent Due diligence means a risk analysis exercised with not-for-profit organization that works on behalf of particular care that is done in preparation for a business investors to motivate companies to transparently report transaction. their greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Assurance Report 192 EBIT FDA Earnings before interest and taxes on income. Equals the Food and Drug Administration: U.S. government agency operating result. responsible for protecting and advancing public health, especially as concerns food and drugs. ECETOC ECETOC is the leading European scientific forum for the First-in-man clinical trials ecotoxicology and toxicology of chemicals, biomaterials Clinical trials to test medical procedures or substances on and pharmaceuticals. ECETOC's work focuses on the human subjects for the first time. health assessment and environmental safety of substances. ECETOC's Targeted Risk Assessment (TRA) Generation Y tool calculates the risk of exposure from chemicals to Also known as Millennials, this is the generation born workers, consumers and the environment. between 1980 and 2000. The letter Y ( why? ) refers to a fundamental characteristic evinced by this Ecotoxicology demographic cohort: to challenge tradition while seeking Ecotoxicology focuses on the effects of substances on flexibility, freedom and self-actualization. the ecosystem. GHG Protocol EDISON The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol is the most widely Company-wide program that consolidates the Merck used accounting and reporting system for greenhouse Group's climate protection activities. gas emissions. EFPIA GHS The European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries Globally Harmonized System of Classification and and Associations (EFPIA) is a European umbrella Labelling of Chemicals: An international standard system organization representing individual pharmaceutical to classify chemicals that covers labeling as well as safety companies as well as national associations of researchdata sheets. based pharmaceutical companies. Global Compact EHS The Global Compact is an initiative set by the United Environment, Health and Safety: This abbreviation Nations in 2003. Its signatories commit themselves to ten describes environmental management, health protection principles based on key UN conventions on human rights, and occupational safety throughout the company. labor standards, environmental protection, and anticorruption. EQ Environment Health Safety Security Quality: A Merck Global Grade Group function Merck uses the Global Grading System from Towers Watson to value positions. The system has a total of 23 Essential medicines different global grades available to grade all positions of Essential medicines as defined by the World Health the Merck Group, thus aligning jobs across the company Organization are those drugs that satisfy the health care and providing a basis of comparison. needs of the majority of the population . Global Product Strategy Eutrophicating The Global Product Strategy is an initiative of the Eutrophicating substances cause an overabundance of International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) nutrients in the ecosystem. through which participating companies of the chemical industry make a commitment to comprehensive product responsibility. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 193 FACTS AND FIGURES | Assurance Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to promote uniform assessment criteria for product The GRI is a global network of stakeholders and experts registration in Europe, the United States and Japan. The that has created guidelines for producing sustainability ICH makes recommendations toward achieving greater reports with the aim of achieving comparability among harmonization in the interpretation and application of these reports. The GRI G4 standard is the fourth technical guidelines and requirements for pharmaceutical generation of the guidelines. Apart from information on product registration. This includes, for instance, Good planning, content and quality of reporting, it contains a Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines for clinical trials of list of the required data on management approach and pharmaceuticals and Good Manufacturing Practice indicators that are to be communicated as part of (GMP) guidelines for flawless manufacturing. sustainability reporting. IFPMA GMP The International Federation of Pharmaceutical Good Manufacturing Practices are rules and procedures Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) is the global that help ensure that pharmaceuticals are of the required umbrella organization for research-based pharmaceutical quality. GMPs pertain to the methods, facilities and companies as well as pharmaceutical associations. control processes utilized for manufacturing, processing, packaging, and/or storing pharmaceuticals. In vitro In vitro refers to procedures involving components of an Good Clinical Practice organism that have been isolated from their usual Good Clinical Practices (GCP) are rules and procedures for biological surroundings (e.g. test tube experiments). clinical drug trials involving human subjects. Inert GPHF In chemistry, the term inert ( inactive in Latin) is used to The Global Pharma Health Fund e.V. is a charitable define substances that are not chemically reactive, or organization funded by Merck. The organization's goal is that react only minimally to other chemicals. to promote health care within the scope of development assistance, especially with respect to the fight against International Labour Organization (ILO) counterfeit medicines through the use of the GPHFThe ILO is a United Nations agency dealing with labor Minilab®. issues, in particular the formulation and implementation of international labor and social standards, especially the Greenhouse gases core ILO labor standards. The agency's work focuses on Greenhouse gases are gases in the atmosphere that an inclusive, democratically governed globalization contribute to global warming. Greenhouse gases can be process and the creation of decent employment either naturally occurring or caused by humans (such as opportunities as a fundamental prerequisite for CO 2 emissions caused by burning fossil fuels). prosperity. HazCom 2012 Interpharma HazCom 2012 refers to a U.S. OSHA standard pertaining A federation of research-based pharmaceutical to the safe handling of chemicals in the workplace, with companies in Switzerland. an emphasis on occupational safety and environmental protection. This standard requires manufacturers and Interpol distributors to provide information on the hazards posed International Police Organization. by a product as well as ways to minimize risks. Interventional clinical trials ICH Interventional studies are investigations conducted on The aim of the International Conference on humans with the purpose of researching or proving the Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for clinical or pharmacological effects of medicines, or of Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) is determining their side effects, or of investigating their CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Assurance Report 194 absorption, distribution, metabolism, or excretion, in Mutagen order to discern the safety and/or efficacy of the drug . A substance that changes the DNA of an organism. (German Federal Drug Law (AGM), section 4, para. 23). Neglected tropical disease ISAE 3000 Neglected tropical diseases (NTD) are conditions that Short for International Standard for Assurance occur primarily in developing countries. NTDs include Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical schistosomiasis, intestinal worms, trachoma, lymphatic Financial Information , the ISAE 3000 is published by the filariasis, and onchocerciasis. This group of diseases is International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board called neglected because, despite the large number of (IAASB) and is currently the far most internationally people affected, they have historically received less applied corporate responsibility standard. attention and research funding than other diseases. ISO 14001 NGO This international environmental management standard Non-governmental organization sets globally recognized requirements for an environmental management system. Non-communicable disease Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are non-infectious ISO 50001 and not passed from person to person. They can refer to This international standard defines globally recognized chronic diseases, which are of long duration and mostly requirements for energy management systems. slow progression. Other NCDs may, however, also result in rapid death. The four main types are cardiovascular IUCN diseases, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases, and International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). diabetes. Least developed countries OECD Least Developed Countries (LDC) are countries that, The Organization for Economic Co-operation and according to the United Nations, exhibit the lowest Development, headquartered in Paris, is a forum of 34 indicators of socioeconomic development. countries committed to the principles of democracy and market economy. Life cycle assessment (LCA) A life cycle assessment (also known as ecobalance) is a OHSAS systematic analysis of the environmental impact of The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series products throughout their entire life cycle. (OHSAS) is an international occupational health and safety management system. Liquid crystals (LC) These specialty chemicals are used in LC displays (LCDs), OLED such as those used in flat-screen televisions, notebooks, Organic light-emitting diodes, a new technology for mobile telephones, etc. displays and lighting used in applications such as mobile phones, MP3 players, and now also in televisions and LTIR lamps. Lost time injury rate: indicator for workplace safety. The number of workplace accidents with one or more days of Organizational Health Index (OHI) lost time per million hours worked. The Organizational Health Index was developed by the consultant firm McKinsey. It measures and tracks a Merck Values company's health by using pre-defined parameters to Merck's values are: Courage, Achievement, Responsibility, benchmark the company against peers in the same Respect, Integrity, and Transparency. industry, of the same size, orientation, etc. One CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 195 FACTS AND FIGURES | Assurance Report component of the process is an employee survey on the RoHS organization's performance capacity. Restriction of Hazardous Substances: This EU directive, which was adopted in 2002, serves to limit the use of PFOS certain hazardous materials, such as lead and cadmium, PFOS is the abbreviation for perfluorooctanesulfonic acid. in the manufacture of various types of electrical and electronic equipment in the European Union. Pharmacogenomics Pharmacogenomics is the study of how genes affect a Schistosomiasis person's response to drugs. It deals with the influence of Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease that is spread in genetic variation on drug response in patients and aims warm lakes and ponds by snails that serve as to optimize drug therapy with respect to the patient's intermediate hosts. genotype, thereby ensuring maximum efficacy with minimal adverse effects. Security This term stands for all necessary measures and Pharmacovigilance Governance activities to detect, analyze, handle, and Pharmacovigilance is the continual, systematic mitigate securityand crime-based threats to the monitoring of a drug's safety. company. This helps to protect employees as well as the tangible and intangible assets of Merck. PNEC This stands for predicted no effect concentration and Stakeholder represents the concentration below which the substance Stakeholders are people or organizations that have a is not expected to adversely impact the environment. legitimate interest in a company, entitling them to make justified demands. Stakeholders include people such as Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) employees, business partners, neighbors in the vicinity of A product carbon footprint quantifies the total amount our sites, and shareholders. of greenhouse gas emissions that a product causes throughout its entire life cycle, making transparent the Stem cells extent to which a product adversely affects the climate. Stem cells are undifferentiated cells with the potential to develop into many different cell types that carry out PS-VA different functions. Abbreviation for polymer-stabilized vertical alignment: A polymer layer pre-aligns the molecules inside the display Sunshine Laws in a certain direction. In the black state, the liquid crystals The Sunshine Provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection are not exactly vertical, but slightly tilted, which allows and Affordable Care Act aim to create more transparent the liquid crystals to switch more quickly. The light relationships between manufacturers of drugs, medical transmittance of the display is significantly higher, thus devices and medical aids on the one hand, and doctors reducing the backlighting, one of the most costly and teaching hospitals on the other. components to produce. Total revenues Public-private partnership (PPP) Sum of sales as well as royalty, license and commission A public-private partnership is a collaboration between income. Royalties are earned primarily through patents public sector (government) organizations, private held by the Merck Serono business. companies and/or non-profit organizations. UK Bribery Act REACH The UK Bribery Act is an anti-corruption law in the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of United Kingdom. It applies not only to UK companies, but Chemicals: This is an EU regulation that entered into also to all companies that do business in the United force in mid-2007 in order to further improve chemical Kingdom in any way. safety. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 FACTS AND FIGURES | Assurance Report 196 VCI The German Chemical Industry Association (Verband der Chemischen Industrie) represents the economic policy interests of 1,600 German chemical companies. VfA The German Association of Research-Based Pharmaceutical Companies (Verband der forschenden Pharma-Unternehmen) represents the interests of 44 international research-based companies and over 100 subsidiaries in health care, research and economic policy. VOC Volatile Organic Compounds: A collective term for organic chemical compounds that evaporate readily and are gaseous even at low temperatures. WHO The World Health Organization is a specialized agency of the United Nations. WHO is the directing and coordinating authority for public health within the United Nations system. CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 197 PUBLIC INFORMATION Publication information Published on April 16, 2015 by Merck KGaA, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Frankfurter Strasse 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 6151-72 0 Fax: +49 (0) 6151-72 5577 E-mail: comms@merckgroup.com Website: www.merckgroup.com Contact for questions regarding this report: Maria Schaad, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Concept and implementation of HTML version & PDF: nexxar GmbH, Vienna – digital reporting evolved www.nexxar.com Text and consulting: Schlange & Co. GmbH, Hamburg www.schlange-co.com Photos and graphics: Merck, Getty Images und J. Kratschmer CORPORATE RESPONISIBILITY REPORT 2014 Merck KGaA Frankfurter Strasse 250 64293 Darmstadt, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 6151-72 0 Fax: +49 (0) 6151-72 5577 www.merckgroup.com
