TABLE OF CONTENT Message from the CEO UNITED NATIONS Human Rights GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION Labour Environment Anti-corruption ProData Consult fact-sheet ON PROGRESS AUGUST 2015 Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT ProData Consult is a Danish based IT Consultant Company. The company delivers some of the strongest and most advanced IT consultants to Message from the CEO cutting edge technology projects in Northern Europe. The company grew more than 35% last year and Human Rights grossed close to EURO 56 million. It is now present in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Holland, Poland Labour and Germany. Environment The management of ProData Consult realizes and accepts that making a statement and a commitment Anti-corruption such as this one, placing moral above money, can result in lost business. Last year we declined delivery in at ProData Consult fact-sheet least 1 instance to a project involving offensive weapon systems. CEO statement ProData Consult has been a proud member of the With this annual report on progress we want to reconUnited Nation Global Compact since 2014. Already firm and recommit ourselves to the ten principles of having a strong CSR profile mainly focusing on the the United Nations Global Compact Initiative covering United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and Human rights, Labour, the Environment and Antisupporting organizations forwarding this message, corruption and urge other companies to do the same. we joined the UN Global Compact initiative to take advantage of an already existing program which would ensure us the implementation of a 360 degree CSR July 24, 2015 program, but mainly to help us to do our part in making this world a better place. Søren Rode, CEO Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Human Rights • ProData Consult has in 2014 and 2015 financially supported Amnesty International, Youth for Principle 1: Human Rights and Unicef and thus directly Businesses should support and respect the protection Message from the CEO contributed to organizations advocating and of internationally proclaimed human rights. working on protecting these rights. Human Rights Principle 2: • ProData Consult has a publicly know policy of not Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Labour delivering to any public administration or company abuses. abusing Human rights. Environment Actions • The Company has internal policies and processes Anti-corruption • ProData Consult re-formulated our Code of where any client or project potentially violating Conduct as a result of joining the UN Global above human rights has to be approved by ProData Consult fact-sheet Compact Initiative. The internationally proclaimed Management. human rights are now an integral part of our Code of Conduct. • Within the last year we declined our services to a specific project involving software development to • The revised Code of Conduct was released to all be used in offensive weapon systems and thus to employees October 2014 and is now an integral a project potentially making us complicit in human part of our company awareness. All employees right abuses. No other possible issues covering read it and know this is the values the company is this point were reported or detected. based upon and have to agree with and abide by. • Our participation in the UN global Compact, our Code of Conduct and the full UN Human Rights Declaration was further published on our updated website(s) in 2015. Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Measurement of outcome: • No violations of Human rights have been detected. Message from the CEO • An increased internal awareness about Human rights has been created. Human Rights • A new Code of Conduct was formulated integrating Labour Human rights. Environment • Thank you letters from receiving organizations, promoting and protecting Human rights, were Anti-corruption received acknowledging our donations. ProData Consult fact-sheet • One project which potentially could make us complicit in human rights abuses were detected and stopped. Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Labour • ProData Consult financially supports Unicef and thus an organization working on abolishing child Principle 3: labour in all its forms. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Message from the CEO and the effective recognition of the right to collective • ProData Consult re-formulated our Code of bargaining; Human Rights Conduct as a result of joining the UN Global Compact Initiative. Non-discrimination and labour Principle 4: Labour rights are an integral part of our Code of Conduct. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Environment • The revised Code of Conduct was released to all employees October 2014. All employees read it Principle 5: Anti-corruption and know this is the values the company is based The effective abolition of child labour; upon and that they have to agree with and abide ProData Consult fact-sheet by this Code. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of • We do not discriminate due to race, sex, political employment and occupation. or religious beliefs or sexual observation and have a no tolerance policy on any cases of discriminaActions tion discovered. • ProData Consult fully supports freedom of association and right and all employees have the • ProData Consult welcomes a diverse labour right to collective bargaining. force and sees differences as strengths. We work towards having as diversified a labour force as • We support the elimination of all forms of forced or possible. compulsory labour. • ProData Consult will work for the effective abolition of child labour and will not deliver to any company or organization profiting on this. Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Measurement of outcome: • No instances of forced and compulsory labour nor child labour were detected. Message from the CEO • No cases of discrimination were detected. Human Rights • An increased internal awareness about Labour and Labour non-discrimination has been created. Environment • A new Code of Conduct was formulated integrating Labour and non-discrimination. Anti-corruption • Although we operate in a traditionally male ProData Consult fact-sheet dominated business segment (IT), we have succeeded in going from an administration with less than 25% women employed in 2010, to +50% women employed by 2015. • We had an inspection from the Danish Labour Environment Control authorities in June 2015 in our Danish headquarters where +50% of all our administrative staff are situated and passed this inspection to the highest level receiving a “Green Smiley” – meaning the company lives up to the highest labour environment standards and processes. Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Environment • We are encouraging reduced printing and we consider the environment in all outgoing mails from Principle 7: all employees in all countries. Businesses should support a precautionary approach Message from the CEO to environmental challenges; • ProData Consult re-formulated our Code of Human Rights Conduct as a result of joining the UN Global Principle 8: Compact Initiative and environmental awareness Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Labour and precaution is now an integral part of our Code responsibility; of Conduct. Environment Principle 9: • The revised Code of Conduct was released to all Encourage the development and diffusion of Anti-corruption employees October 2014. All employees read it environmentally friendly technologies. and know this is the values the company is based ProData Consult fact-sheet upon and that they have to agree with and abide Actions by this Code. • Internally we recycle all paper. • We are delivering to and contributing to a large • In 2014/2015 we implemented a new automated number of IT projects focused around energy and digital contract system making our contract savings and environmentally friendly technologies. flow 100% paperless thus saving substantial This includes several large Scandinavian Energy amounts of paper for us and our hundreds of subproviders and public power suppliers, thus directly contractors and clients. contributing and being an instrumental partner in both the development and diffusion of new and • More than 75% of our purchased groceries are innovative technologies directly benefitting our organic. environment. • All our major vendors are certified CO2 neutral. Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Measurement of outcome: • All paper is recycled. Message from the CEO • We have substantially reduced our paper usage by digitalizing our contract system and thus making it Human Rights paperless. Labour • More than 50% of all groceries are organic. Environment • An increased internal awareness about the environment has been created. Anti-corruption • A new Code of Conduct was formulated integrating ProData Consult fact-sheet the Environment. Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Anti-corruption • All expenses related to building relations with clients and sub-contractors have to be approved Principle 10: by Management (CEO level). Businesses should work against corruption in all its Message from the CEO forms, including extortion and bribery. • We further started supporting Transparency Human Rights International financially to contribute to a more Actions transparent and less corrupt world. Labour • ProData Consult re-formulated our Code of Conduct as a result of joining the UN Global Environment Compact Initiative. Anti-corruption is now an integral part of our Code of Conduct. Measurement of outcome: Anti-corruption • The revised Code of Conduct was released to all • No incidents of corruption were detected and ProData Consult fact-sheet employees October 2014. All employees read it Management can guarantee that no such and know this is the values the company is based incidents have occurred. upon and that they have to agree with and abide by this Code. • An increased internal awareness about anticorruption has been created. • We run an honest, open and transparent company with these values as core values for our company. • A new Code of Conduct was formulated We only want to win business based on delivering integrating anti-corruption. best quality service for best price, nothing else. Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com ProData Consult the leading provider of IT Consultants TABLE OF CONTENT IT Consultants IT Consultants • ProData Consult is a full-service Consultant Company. Message from the CEO Time and Material Time and Material • The largest IT consultant provider in Human Rights Denmark within our segment. Labour Nearshoring Nearshoring • With a mission to: Help our clients with their IT by delivering uncomproEnvironment IT Development in Warsaw IT Development in Warsaw mising quality. Anti-corruption • With direct representation in: Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Poland, ProData Consult fact-sheet Vendor Management Vendor Management The Netherlands and Germany. Administration of consultant suppliers Administration of consultant suppliers Management Management Management Service and Business Development Management Service and Business Development Online Administration Module Online Administration Module Effective administration of consultants Effective administration of consultants Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com ProData Consult a full-service consulting company ProData Consult A/S is one of the largest independent IT consultant companies in the Nordic region. The company is headquartered in Copenhagen, with branches / TABLE OF CONTENT subsidiaries in Denmark, Sweden and Norway as well as Germany, the Netherlands and Poland. Growing IT consulting company ProData Consult awards Message from the CEO ProData Consult Founded in 1994 by IT consultants, Denmark ProData ProData Consult is now owned by a Human Rights Management Copenhagen, leading group of employees and board Aarhus & Aalborg members. The company has experiLabour enced steady growth over the years, and has continuously expanded a national Environment ProData ProData ProData ProData ProData and international network of consultants Consult Sweden Consult Norway Consult Netherlands Consult Poland Consult Germany in Scandinavia and Europe. We deliver Anti-corruption Malmö Oslo Gorinchem Warsaw Munich consistent positive financial results. ProData Consult fact-sheet Our extensive national and international network of IT In 2014, ProData Group grossed €56 consultants enables us to identify and present the right million. IT consultant for your business. We ensure that our consultants have industry-relevant experience and possess the right skills to do the job. Award-winning consultning company The growth and results of the company throughout the years has been honoured by a number of awards. 60 ProData Consult has been awarded Best IT Consul50 tancy Company by Computerworld/IDG five times 40 within the last ten years. 30 20 10 Expert IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com
