Template C Communication on Progress S. No COP (2012) Pages in Corporate Responsibility report 2012 Global compact Summary of action taken & Impact achieved http://www.moserbaer.com/ principles overview_csr_sustainabilityreport.asp 1. Businesses As responsible corporate, ensuring protection and respect of human Pages 16-22 should rights of its workforce is an integral part of Moser Baer’s functioning. support and Policies and programmes related to sensitisation on human rights and respect the the effective implementation of human rights policies further reinforce protection of our commitment to control any human rights violation at our internationally workplace. proclaimed human rights 2. and make sure As an SA 8000 certified company, Moser Baer has put in place stringent Pages 13 that they policies to ensure that there is zero tolerance are not complicit of any human rights violation in human rights abuses 3. Businesses We have various committees that ensure the participation of the Page 16-18 should employees in decision making. uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of P 1/3 Template C the right to collective bargaining 4. the elimination We do not practice Forced Labour in any form. Holding back the Page 20-21 of all original document and any other personal property of the persons hired forms of forced is prohibited, and clearly defined in the HR policy manual of the Moser and Baer. compulsory labour Our philosophy behind the HR Policies and Labour Practices are to avoid any kind of harassment of workforce. 5. the effective Moser Baer is a SA 8000 certified company and various audits and Pages 20 & 13 abolition of reviews are carried by the internal auditors as well as the external child labour agencies to verify that the systems are free of unfairness and prejudice. The Company has neither encountered nor encouraged Child Labour. Regular audits are conducted as part of SA8000 and documented. 6. and the We believe in providing equal employment opportunity to all, Pages 15 & 20 elimination of irrespective of race, colour, creed, religion, national origin, sex and discrimination in sexual orientation, disability, age, and marital status as our policy respect mandate. Regional diversity in hiring the employees also depicts non of employment discrimination in the recruitment. and occupation 7. Businesses For Moser Baer, addressing environmental concerns and stakeholders Pages 25-26 & 3132 should needs simultaneously is the key towards sustainable development. support a Environment, health and safety (EHS) are an integral part of Moser Baer precautionary and focus on building a robust culture of EHS by involving employees at approach to all verticals. EHS also encompasses other environmental issues like environmental improving energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emission and use challenges of renewable energy. Our EHS department is responsible for implementing EHS policy across plant locations. We have environment management systems, certified by international bodies, conforming to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. 8. undertake Management programme related to improving energy efficiency, water Pages 26,29 & 30 P 2/3 Template C initiatives to conversation and Bio gas from kitchen forms integral part of EHS promote greater department. Moser Baer’s Integrated Management system (Comprising environmental of ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001;2007 & ISO 14001:2004) ,certified by responsibility leading and well reputed certification bodies show the commitment towards EHS in line with other important function i.e. Quality. A robust EHS audit, both internal and external, is carried out at all our locations periodically to ensure continual improvement in our environment, health and safety standards. 9. and encourage We make continuous efforts to reduce the impact of business on the Page 26 the environment by promoting environment friendly initiatives. In addition development to incorporating these practices into business processes, we also and diffusion sensitise our associates by engaging them into various environment of protection activities. environmentally friendly technologies 10. Businesses We believe, conducting ethnical business requires adequate Page 7&8 should consideration to a number of issues outside the traditional scope of work against all making money, of which building an ethical & values based culture is forms of most certainly one. Therefore, a lot of emphasis is laid on conducting corruption, ethical business with the stakeholders to develop mutual trust and long including term relationships. To achieve the same, there are stringent systems in extortion and place to check the unethical practices and behaviours and ensure bribery corruption free environment. P 3/3
