2015 OVER 4,000 PEOPLE COMMITTED TO OUR CUSTOMERS’ FUTURE Since 1918, World leading company for advanced batteries designed for industry Contents 1 Group presentation ......................................................................................................... 2 1.1 Group profile ........................................................................................................... 2 Saft in brief.................................................................................................................... 2 1.2 Group strategy and competitive advantages ................................................................ 3 1.3 Activities................................................................................................................. 3 1.3.1 Technologies .................................................................................................... 3 1.3.2 Applications and markets ................................................................................... 4 1.3.3 Research and development ................................................................................ 6 1.4 Sustainable development .......................................................................................... 8 1.5 Organisation and locations ........................................................................................ 9 1.5.1 An organisation and international presence supporting the Group’s development ...... 9 1.5.2 Corporate governance ensuring the balance of powers ........................................... 9 1.6 Key figures ........................................................................................................... 10 1.7 GROUP Organisation charts ..................................................................................... 11 1.8 Shareholders and stock market information .............................................................. 12 2 Risk Factors ................................................................................................................. 13 2.1 Operational risks.................................................................................................... 13 2.1.1 Risks related to the ability to retain qualified staff ............................................... 13 2.1.2 Risks related to purchases and suppliers ............................................................ 13 2.1.3 Risks of Internal Control failure and risks of fraud ............................................... 14 2.2 Risks related to the impact of the Group’s business on the environment, human health and safety ....................................................................................................................... 14 2.2.1 Environmental risks related to operating factories ............................................... 14 2.2.2 Risks related to the availability and use of chemical substances ............................ 15 2.2.3 Risks related to the end of life of products sold ................................................... 15 2.2.4 Risks to human health and safety...................................................................... 16 3 Sustainable Development .............................................................................................. 17 3.1 Environmental responsibility.................................................................................... 18 3.1.1 General environmental policy ........................................................................... 18 3.1.2 Legal and regulatory compliance ....................................................................... 19 3.1.3 Chemical substances – REACH Regulation .......................................................... 19 3.1.4 End of life Batteries Directive (2006/66/EC) ..................................................... 19 3.1.5 Environmental performance indicators ............................................................... 19 3.1.6 Environmental objectives assigned to our foreign subsidiaries............................... 21 3.1.7 Environmental impact of Group activities ........................................................... 22 3.1.8 Remediation of contaminated sites .................................................................... 22 3.1.9 Provisions for recycling and environmental risks ................................................. 23 3.1.10 Resource conservation ..................................................................................... 23 3.1.11 Helping respond to and control global warming ................................................... 23 3.1.12 Biodiversity .................................................................................................... 23 3.2 Social responsibility................................................................................................ 24 3.2.1 human resources Development ......................................................................... 24 3.2.2 Vision and values ............................................................................................ 24 3.2.3 Human resources management......................................................................... 25 3.2.4 Saft reward and recognition systems ................................................................. 26 3.2.5 Labour relations management and collective agreements status ........................... 26 3.2.6 Occupational health and safety ......................................................................... 26 3.2.7 Other employment data ................................................................................... 27 3.3 Corporate social responsibility ................................................................................. 28 3.3.1 Local, economic and social impact ..................................................................... 28 3.3.2 Subcontracting and suppliers ............................................................................ 28 3.3.3 Measures to protect consumer health and safety ................................................. 28 3.3.4 Human rights group’s commitments, international labour organisation (ILO) and membership of the UN Global Compact ..................................................................... 29 3.4 Independent third-party report on consolidated social, environmental and societal information published in the management report of Saft ....................................................... 30 1. Attestation of completeness of the CSR Information ................................................... 31 2. Fairness report with respect to CSR Information ........................................................ 31 3. Reasonable assurance report on selected CSR information .......................................... 32 4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE BETWEEN ENVIRONNEMENTAL, SOCIAL AND CORPORATE INFORMATION AND THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT ....................... 33 Chairman’s message Dear Customers, Dear Shareholders, Dear Suppliers, Dear Stakeholders I am pleased to confirm in this second communication on progress that Saft reaffirms its support for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. Those principles are an integral part of our Group’s operations. In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our main communication channels. Ghislain Lescuyer Chairman of the Management Board Page 1 | 40 1 Group presentation 1.1 GROUP PROFILE 1 Group presentation Saft, the world leader in advanced and innovative 1.1 GROUP PROFILE battery systems* Created in 1918, Saft is the world’s leading designer, developer and manufacturer of advanced technology batteries for industry. SAFT IN BRIEF With a consolidated turnover of €678.4m in 2014, Saft sells multi-technology battery systems meeting the needs of a wide variety €678,4 of customers worldwide: • nickel-based and primary lithium batteries for industrial infrastructure, transportation, civil and military electronics applications; sales in 2014 • lithium-ion solutions for energy storage, telecoms, vehicles, marine, space and defence applications. 4,078 Saft’s customers include original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors, and final end-users. Saft works in close cooperation with them to develop the batteries that best meet their needs, continuing to develop new staff worldwide generations of batteries for new applications, helping customers to propose innovative present IN products and services. On most of the advanced-technology battery markets 18 targeted, the Saft brand is a key criterion in countries the customers’ purchase decisions. However, the Group also markets products under other well-known brands: Alcad, Tadiran, Eternacell, around the world Nife and Ferak. This strategy enables the Company to leverage its position on certain specialised markets throughout the world and 9,5% meet the diverse needs of its customers. Saft operates through two divisions: • the Industrial Battery Group division (IBG), which manufactures rechargeable batteries for transportation, stationary of sales invested in Research and backup power applications and energy Development in 2014 storage systems. In 2014, IBG sales represented 61% of the Group’s consolidated turnover; 14 • the Specialty Battery Group division (SBG), which manufactures primary and rechargeable batteries for civil and military electronics activities, space and defence. In manufacturing sites worldwide 2014, SBG sales represented 39% of the Group’s consolidated turnover. 2014 key events are presented in the management report in chapter 5 of this Registration Document. Key dates of Saft history are presented in chapter 8. * Management estimation. 1.2 GROUP STRATEGY AND COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES There is growing awareness throughout the them hand-in-hand in the development phase world, both at government and consumer for new applications, which in turn leads to levels, that whatever the price of fossil fuels, opportunities for new supply contracts. it has become imperative to turn to Saft is present in 18 countries, has 14 sustainable and clean sources of energy. This manufacturing facilities at sites in nine means the battery market has a promising countries, and its broad sales network mean future. Saft can service customers worldwide on a Saft’s strategy is to address the market local basis giving it a key competitive segments where its advanced technologies advantage. provide a significant advantage over These three principles give the Group key alternative technologies. This strategy is assets and lead to high margins justified by founded on three principles: innovation, the technology used and the technical knowgrowth and excellence. how required. In addition, this strategy • Innovation enables Saft to have customers in a wide Saft invests significant resources in its range of different industrial sectors thereby Research and Development activities, limiting exposure to the cyclical fluctuations employing approximately 475 engineers and which can affect certain industries. Finally, it technicians who work in applied research, enables the Group to hold significant market develop new battery technologies, and shares worldwide in most of its markets and optimise existing products, adapting various to implement a premium pricing policy in line batteries to customer specifications. Saft with its financial strategy. employs a wide range of technologies: the Saft intends to maintain this strategy and use Group filed 6 new patents in 2014 divided into its competitive advantages to increase its 147 patent families related to its battery market shares in the sectors where it technologies; operates, to increase sales and operating • Growth margins, and to gain new markets and new Saft identifies markets and advanced industrial applications for the lithium-ion industrial applications with a high growth technology it has developed. potential where customers need customised To achieve these objectives, Saft relies on: products. To this effect, Saft works in close • continued investment in its various collaboration with its key customers. technologies and in new markets; • Excellence • further expansion of its commercial Saft supplies batteries for applications where presence, notably in Asia; the cost of failure would be very high to the • cutting production costs. Saft continues to end-user, particularly in the aviation, defence seek opportunities to reduce component and space industries. With nearly one hundred and manufacturing costs in order to years’ experience in the battery market, Saft’s improve its competitiveness while reputation for making reliable, safe, and high maintaining a high level of quality through, performance products represents a significant among other things, its World Class competitive advantage in these markets. Manufacturing Program for continuous Saft develops solid relationships with its main improvement. customers enabling the Group to work with 1.3 ACTIVITIES Saft‘s strategy of innovation entails proposing a portfolio of advanced technologies to multiple industrial markets. 1.3.1 TECHNOLOGIES energy. The principal primary battery Batteries are stand-alone power sources that technologies Saft uses are lithium-based; convert chemical energy into electrical energy • rechargeable batteries are batteries that through a chemical reaction when the battery can be used (charged and discharged) is discharged. There are two main types of repeatedly. The achievable number of batteries produced by Saft: non-rechargeable recharge cycles varies among technologies batteries (primary) and rechargeable batteries and is an important competitive factor. The (secondary): main rechargeable battery technologies • the active materials in a non-rechargeable used by Saft are nickel and lithium-ion (Libattery are irreversibly converted during ion). These advanced technologies offer the chemical reaction that produces better and more reliable performance, Page 3 | 40 1 Group presentation 1.3 ACTIVITIES especially under extreme conditions, and • Rechargeable lithium (Li-ion): Li-ion is the batteries have a longer life, reducing a rechargeable lithium technology, the frequency with which they must be developed in the early 1990s, that Saft replaced and therefore cutting costs for the expects will be increasingly used in customer. advanced applications in the defence, The main technologies used by Saft are: marine, and transportation markets. Li-ion • Nickel-based: Developed in 1910 this technology based batteries accounted for technology remains, with lead acid, the approximately 18% of the Group’s main technology for industrial batteries. consolidated revenues in 2014. In addition Nickel technology based batteries Saft has developed a Super-Phosphate accounted for approximately 48% of the Lithium-ion technology for applications that Group’s consolidated revenues in 2014; require a high tolerance to abuse, for • Primary lithium: (Non-rechargeable) example in the medical and marine lithium batteries, which were first sectors; developed in the 1960s, have high end• Other technologies: Silver-based storage and performance capabilities over technologies are used to manufacture a large range of formats. Primary lithium batteries for missiles and torpedoes. They batteries accounted for approximately 30% accounted for approximately 1% of the of the Group’s consolidated revenues in Group’s consolidated revenues in 2014. 2014; 1.3.2 APPLICATIONS AND MARKETS can be difficult and costly due to their remote Industrial Battery Group (IBG) location. Growth in this market is generally driven by Presentation levels of capital expenditure in the Nickel-based batteries are the traditional telecommunications industry. expertise of Saft’s Industrial Battery Group Energy storage systems (IBG) and it is on the foundations of this long Essential for the stability of the grid, energy heritage, that the Group has successfully storage also helps to smooth the peaks and developed lithium-ion technology to meet the troughs of renewable energy generation. Saft ever diversified requirements of its customers, offers battery solutions to ensure the constant whose applications benefit from the smaller, reliability required to better integrate this lighter, longer-life and versatile batteries that intermittent energy and also smaller systems Li-ion offers. IBG is now going that extra mile for residential and commercial sites. With high in satisfying customer needs by offering not energy efficiency, the range of Saft Li-ion only systems integration, for example in batteries for these applications offers high energy storage systems, but also full turnkey performance, long life and limited solutions that cover all aspects from maintenance. installation to commissioning and as well as Transportation the training of local operatives on preventive Rail and corrective maintenance, refurbishment Saft supplies primarily nickel-based batteries and recycling. to railway and mass transit operators as well Market segments as train manufacturers for backup power, Stationary backup power communication, lighting, air-conditioning and on-board communication as well as for critical Industrial standby safety applications such as emergency braking Saft designs and manufactures batteries for and for door opening systems. Batteries industrial standby applications. These supplied to the rail market must be reliable batteries are generally robust, have a long life and able to withstand extreme conditions. and can perform under extreme conditions. They generally have a life of ten to fifteen The main product application is principally years. The rail market is also demanding ever emergency power backup systems in the more compact batteries that require little following markets: oil and gas, power maintenance. The replacement and generation and distribution, railway signalling refurbishment of rolling stock as well as systems, in which the Group delivers the investments in mass transport systems drive products directly to the end customers. growth in this market. Growth in this sector is generally correlated Aviation with GDP growth, and in particular with capital expenditures in the industrial sector. Saft is the world’s leading supplier of battery systems for the aeronautics industry (OEMs, Telecommunications networks distributors and airlines) and its batteries are Saft manufactures backup power stationary aboard two thirds of the world’s fleet of civil nickel or Li-ion batteries, in case of grid (passenger and freight) and military aircraft. failure. Generally installed in outdoor Saft nickel batteries are used mainly for telecommunications terminals, these batteries power backup and emergency systems, as can face extreme conditions or maintenance well as for engine and turbine starting and Market segments flight preparation. As the consequences of Civil electronics power failure are significant for aircraft With its two major brands, Saft and Tadiran, operators, batteries supplied to the aviation Saft continues to be the world’s leading market must be irreproachably reliable and supplier of primary lithium technologies for durable, especially in extreme conditions. the market segments targeted. Saft designs Although most of the batteries used in the and manufactures lightweight, high aviation market are nickel-based batteries, Liperformance, highly reliable batteries tailored ion is a promising emerging technology in this to the demands of OEMs. market. Customers in this market include both Vehicles specialised OEMs and distributors seeking In this innovative sector, Saft develops and resistance, long-life, reliability and provides Li-ion battery solutions for the compactness from their battery systems. In electrification of industrial vehicles, such as general, prototypes are developed to the buses, trucks and forklift trucks, and specifications of the application. These then motorsports. Both sectors require high undergo testing before being selected by the performance and efficiency and Saft battery OEM client. The qualification and testing systems are particularly well suited to these period can take up to two years prior to innovative vehicles. production launch. Given these requirements, once a battery manufacturer is qualified as IBG competitive environment the supplier, it is generally in a strong position For its nickel battery activity, IBG is the leader to continue supplying the batteries for the on almost all its markets but faces lifespan of the product. Standardized products competition from other manufacturers in are sold to distributors enabling sales to cover Europe and India although their production a wider geographic area. capacity is smaller than Saft’s. Space However the main competition the Group Saft is the world’s leading company for the faces is from lead-acid technology whose design, development and manufacture of Liperformance is lower and life shorter than ion batteries for communications, scientific nickel batteries, especially in difficult climatic and military satellites and is continually conditions but whose initial ownership cost is breaking new ground in this area. Satellites lower. represent the major share of Saft’s space Where Li-ion is concerned, the range of activity. The Company also equips satellite competitors is wider and comes mainly from launchers, where it has pioneered solutions Asia. The Group’s financial strength gives it based on lithium-ion technology combining the power to constantly develop new products lighter weight with improved thermal and be present worldwide to keep its management. Saft is the only manufacturer leadership position. with a complete range of battery technologies With its deep knowledge of the high valuefor the space market. added markets for nickel-based activities, Satellites require batteries that can withstand exciting new Li-ion opportunities, two new extreme conditions such as temperature world class factories and its extensive sales variations and vibrations, operate reliably network, Saft has a unique multi technology throughout the entire mission, and comply offer of high performance and competitive with strict size and weight constraints. Saft products. produces specialised batteries customised for the particular needs of each satellite. The Specialty Battery Group (SBG) development and production of a satellite battery typically takes three years from initial Presentation inquiry to satellite launch. Demand is driven Saft’s Specialty Battery Group (SBG) is by telecommunications investment, defence acknowledged as the world leader in the budgets and scientific and special projects. design, development and manufacture of Reliability and long life are essential high-performance primary lithium and characteristics of satellite batteries as a faulty rechargeable lithium-ion (Li-on) battery embarked item cannot be replaced. systems that are small, lightweight, resistant, reliant, powerful and long lasting to meet Marine customer requirements in the civil and There is a growing demand from many of the military electronics industry, defence and world’s major maritime and fluvial port cities space and marine industries. for hybrid or all‑electric‑powered water Saft develops batteries in cooperation with vessels (ferries, offshore vessels, cruiseOEMs that generally leads to a supply contract liners, cargo vessels…) as they not only offer with the OEM and subsequent replacement significant fuel savings compared with diesel sales to end users. The division also supplies engines but operate quietly and pollute less. silver-based batteries for conventional In addition the European Union is considering defence applications such as electric legislation that shore-side electricity supply is torpedoes. to be installed as a priority in maritime and inland ports. Saft’s Li-ion technology is well Page 5 | 40 1 Group presentation 1.3 ACTIVITIES suited to this marine market where the Group more than a dozen small or middle sized is a relative newcomer. Chinese companies – offering a significantly Military activities smaller choice of technologies with more Saft is a leading designer, developer and limited performance. Amongst these, only one manufacturer of high performance lithium or two are qualified suppliers and all have solutions for defence applications. These lesser technical capacity than Saft’s brands. In batteries power equipment that range from the military market segment, Saft has only night-vision goggles to missile launchers and one smaller competitor that offers a limited from communications systems to military choice. Saft’s brands are leaders in all key vehicles. segments of this market. • Military lithium (for portable devices) In rechargeable Li-ion, SBG mainly addresses requires highly technical batteries that technically driven niche markets, offering a provide reliable power under extreme complete battery solution. Competition from conditions with strict size and weight companies in the United States, Europe and constraints. Sales of lithium batteries to Asia varies depending on the market. There the defence market are predominantly are many manufacturers of cells in Asia, driven by sales of replacement batteries including Korea, China and Japan, but these directly to armed forces. Once a battery are dedicated to consumer products for which supplier has qualified with an OEM for an Saft does not produce and are therefore not in initial sale, replacement sales are made competition with the Group. Saft has directly to the end-user, generally positioned itself on market segments that pursuant to multi-year contracts submitted produce technically complex products and for bids to qualified suppliers. Long-term need the highest requirements in terms of Saft/customer relationships are particularly battery capacity or cell performance. Unlike important with OEM customers to reduce many of its competitors who must incorporate the size and weight of batteries for these cells from various manufacturers into their mainly portable and unmanned systems’ products, Saft can provide its strategic applications. markets with complete in-house battery • Saft designs and manufactures silversolutions, ensuring a strong position on the based batteries for defence applications market. Saft has two large capacity where it has a strong position producing manufacturing sites in Jacksonville, USA and mainly silver-zinc batteries for torpedoes Nersac, France, enabling the Group to offer and missiles. These batteries are competitive pricing for large volume contracts customised and must be robust, resistant for both batteries and complete systems. to shocks and have a long shelf life. Saft’s In space activities, Saft’s principal competitors customers are mainly European OEMs that are a large Asian company and a small manufacture torpedoes with whom the European manufacturer. However, thanks to Group has concluded long-term sales Saft’s higher technology and ability to contracts. Shelf life and reliability are key manufacture complete cells and batteries in purchasing considerations in this market. both Europe and the United States, it holds a • Smart weaponry, hybrid military vehicles dominant market share in the space sector. and mini-submarines are some of the new In the defence sector, Saft has no major defence systems for which Saft is competitor that can reach out to all regions developing high performance Li-ion and markets, but has two serious competitors batteries in collaboration with OEMs. These in silver-based technology. However, Saft advanced defence systems require reliable, remains the market leader thanks to its lightweight and high-energy power technical expertise and significant productivity sources. Saft, as a general rule, is able to efforts. In lithium-ion products, Saft faces secure supply contracts with OEMs for competition from multiple small to medium successful applications. sized regional manufacturers of cells and batteries. SBG competitive environment In the marine market, there is one competitor The Lithium Batteries division of SBG offers a in North America and one in Europe, neither wide portfolio of primary lithium technologies of which manufacture their own cells. and has a leading position in its strategic markets. It faces competition mainly from Asian companies – one Korean company and 1.3.3 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT If Saft has succeeded in establishing itself as research, new materials, improved production a world leader in cell and battery systems, it processes, design, development and is in large part thanks to the Company’s longenhancement, systems and software, data term commitment to Research and management, maintainability, and more. Development. Saft’s engineers and A major portion of Saft’s R&D work is technicians work on multiple R&D dedicated to creating new, cost-competitive programmes – basic electrochemistry products that meet specific customer requirements and offer very near-term In the shorter term, the R&D teams have benefits. further intensified their systems development In 2014, Saft invested nearly €65 million in activity to integrate power electronics and Research and Development, representing software so as to offer customers complete, more than 9% of sales. R&D headcount customised solutions. The Systems further increased to 475. In 2014, 6 new Development Unit (SDU based in Bordeaux) is patents were filed adding to Saft’s portfolio of the fastest growing team in Saft’s R&D patent families of around 147. community, and a SDU unit has also been Li-ion technologies, the major growth area for created at the Jacksonville lithium-ion plant in Saft, represent about 75% of the Company the United States, whose engineers have the R&D investment. Thanks to its R&D advances, task of integrating specific US customers’ Saft positions itself as a multi-chemistry needs into the systems. SDU continues to lithium-based battery provider. work on several programmes to improve the Primary lithium represents another area of system content of Energy Storage Systems, significant growth opportunities for Saft in the offering more energy and more power at a future so the R&D team also works on more competitive price in the market. In improving traditional primary lithium products further developing systems, the R&D teams as well as bringing new products to market. enable Saft to deliver more storage to more Finally, R&D engineers continue to enhance applications, and therefore expand the Saft’s nickel-based batteries to bring greater product portfolio. benefits to customers. To be efficient, R&D Turnkey solutions are high on the priority list teams work closely with the Group’s sales and of Saft R&D as they are increasingly being marketing services that are deployed in sales requested by customers. Much of the focus offices located on the five continents. here is on maintainability. With systems that have a service life of twenty years or more, Cell and system development maintenance is important so needs to be As far as long-term research is concerned, the integrated in the initial design criteria to Group continues to focus on new materials, ensure that the electronics are easily new chemistries and innovating processes. accessible by service technicians and safe to This will lead to improved performance and handle. This requires new and more stringent lower cost products for the future. In addition, modular design criteria that the R&D research is also expanding the work on engineers are developing for future products. models and algorithms to support system development. Page 7 | 40 1 Group presentation 1.4 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1.4 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In designing and manufacturing products that in 2014. LCA involves measuring impacts at contain chemicals, Saft strives to make different phases of a component or system life efficient use of resources and reduce the to detect where improvements are needed to environmental impact to a minimum. This is reduce, inter alia, CO2 emissions or energy achieved by improving performance, usage. This can lead to changes in design or extending lifetime and reducing the weight materials or in the manufacturing process. and footprint of the products. It can also be Saft is the first battery supplier to conduct enhanced by saving energy and minimising such LCAs, and customers highly appreciate the CO2 emissions of its factories. Saft the initiative. supports end-of-life battery recycling and the use of recycled materials. These actions are Plants and products all included in programmes Saft has Saft actively promotes the principles of introduced to preserve the environment. sustainable development, organised into three Saft continues to make every possible effort areas: society, economy and the environment. to protect people and the planet, while A reporting process on indicators has been set bringing benefits to the users of its products. up to measure the Group’s performance in The Group uses a set of Key Performance these areas. Data is collected on these nonIndicators (KPIs) to monitor the impact of its financial indicators every year and published activity on the environment and the results of in section 3 of this Registration Document. In the Group’s efforts. In most cases, these KPIs order to show its commitment and give more show the Group is making good progress. In weight to these indicators, Saft began in 2011 addition, all Saft sites in Europe and China are to have them audited externally. now ISO 14001 certified. In 2012, Saft completed a greenhouse gas The Company contributes to protecting the audit on its French sites. This audit covered environment through its end-of-life direct emissions and indirect emissions linked programmes, where Saft is fully compliant to energy. In 2014, the 42 social, societal and with national laws. An important element is environmental indicators which are governed the Saft “take-back” programme. For many by the French Grenelle 2 law have been years, Saft has encouraged end-users of Saft independently reviewed. nickel-based batteries to return them to Saft is also very involved in the practice of voluntary bring-back points for recycling. Now sustainable design. Product developers cothat this is an EU wide requirement, Saft goes operate with recyclers to understand the beyond the legal demands. The programme constraints and costs of design to recyclers. has been extended geographically to cover Developers are seeking to include recyclingover 30 countries, well beyond the EU-27 related constraints in initial design without area. Programmes set up for other battery impacting product performance. Saft holds a technologies comply and exceed regulatory role of expert and is very active in the requirements. Rechargeable Batteries project, led by the Association RECHARGE. Re-cycling and life cycle assessment Recycling has long been a policy at Saft. All Health and safety products returned are recycled back into The Group makes every effort to fully comply manufacturing processes. With nickel-based and exceed legal health and safety batteries, for example, recycled cadmium is requirements to reduce risks and uses a used to produce new batteries, while nickel is number of indicators which demonstrate risks re-used either in batteries or in other are controlled. These indicators continue to industries. show progress year on year. The Group also carried out a full Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) on nickel railway batteries 1.5 ORGANISATION AND LOCATIONS 1.5.1 AN ORGANISATION AND INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE SUPPORTING THE GROUP’S DEVELOPMENT The Group is organised around the holding “Saft Groupe SA”. The Group organisation chart at December 2014 is detailed in chapter 8 of this Registration Document. AN INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE AND AN ORGANISATION ANSWERING CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS In total, Saft employs 4,078 people across 18 countries, with: • 14 production sites; • about 30 sales offices. Saft has been historically present in Europe and the United States, but is constantly developing in emerging countries, including Asia, South America and Russia. Each Saft division has its own sales team, though if the customer situation demands, one division can work with the other in certain markets. The Industrial Battery Group (IBG) sales and marketing teams comprise 236 people. They are organised by geographic zone, whereas the Specialty Battery Group (SBG) sales and marketing teams of 82 people are structured by brand. In certain markets or regions, the sales teams are complemented by agents or distributors with whom the Company has often been working for several years. 1.5.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ENSURING THE BALANCE OF POWERS The Saft Group has governance bodies whose operating principles are transparency and dialogue. It is guided by the applicable Page 9 | 40 1 Group presentation recommendations and provisions of three-year term. It is composed of five Afep‑Medef Code of Corporate Governance members: (June 2013 version) and of AMF. • Yann Duchesne, Chairman; The Saft management team is driven by a • Jean-Marc Daillance, Vice-Chairman; long-term vision and is recognised for its • Charlotte Garnier-Peugeot; stability and its international experience. • Bruno Angles; Since Saft has been listed on the Eurolist • Marie-Claire Daveu market of Euronext in June 2005, the Group has had a Supervisory Board and a The Supervisory Board is assisted in its Management Board. functions by an Audit Committee, a Remunerations and Nominations Committee The Management Board is appointed by the and a Strategy and Technology Committee. Supervisory Board. It has the most extensive powers to act under any circumstances in the A Management Committee (called Saft Company’s name. It decides the strategy and Management Committee or SMC) also exists priorities for Saft’s activities. It is composed of within the Group, which serves as a forum for five members: discussing and for implementing the Group’s strategy. In addition to the members of the • Ghislain Lescuyer, Chief Executive Management Board, the Management officer Committee (SMC) comprises: • Bruno Dathis, Chief Financial Officer; • Thomas Alcide, General Manager of • Frédéric Hapiak, Director of the SBG and President of Saft America Energy Storage Unit since 1 January Inc.; 2015; • Xavier Delacroix, General Manager of • Igal Carmi, General Manager of IBG; Tadiran Batteries Ltd.; • Franck Cecchi, Lithium-ion • Kamen Nechev, Chief Technology Operations General Manager, Officer. appointed as member of the • Elizabeth Ledger, Corporate Management Board on 21 July 2014, Communications and Institutional Relations Director, The Supervisory Board exercises permanent control over management of the Board of Information relating to Saft Group governance Directors and its members are appointed by is described in chapter 4 of this Registration the Shareholders’ General Meeting for a Document. 1.6 KEY FIGURES SALES 2014 CONSOLIDATED SALES BY MARKET (in € million) SEGMENT 1.7 GROUP ORGANISATION CHARTS Page 11 | 40 1 Group presentation 1.8 SHAREHOLDERS AND STOCK MARKET INFORMATION 1.8 SHAREHOLDERS AND STOCK MARKET INFORMATION IDENTIFICATION Listing: Euronext Paris Market: Eurolist Compartiment B Indexes: SBF 120; CAC Mid 60; CAC IT; CAC Mid 100; CAC PME; Enternext Tech 40; CAC Industrial Index. ISIN code: FR 0010208165 Eligible security for French equity saving plan (PEA, PEA PME) and for deferred settlement service (SRD) for long positions. MAIN SHAREHOLDERS Harris Associates: 8.52% Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations: 4.13% CAPITAL DISTRIBUTION* THE SPLIT BY REGION IS AS FOLLOWS: * Based on an analysis of shareholdings in 31 December 2014. 2 Risk Factors This section describes the significant risks risks that could have a material adverse effect which the Group considers it is exposed to on its business, financial position or results through its activities and environment, as well and its ability to achieve its objectives, and it as the steps taken to lower the probability of feels there are no risks, other than those such risks materialising and to reduce their listed below, that the Company deems potential impact. relevant and meaningful. At the time that this annual report was prepared, the Company performed a review of 2.1 OPERATIONAL RISKS 2.1.1 RISKS RELATED TO THE ABILITY TO RETAIN QUALIFIED STAFF qualifications, there can be no assurance that Types of risks Saft will be able to do so. Saft’s success is highly dependent on the quality and experience of its management Risk management team, and of key employees responsible for In order to limit the impact of this risk, Saft manufacturing processes and Research and HR policy is based, in particular, on programs Development. These highly qualified of anticipating needs and talent retention: employees have generally been at the Group • drafting of a succession plan for for a number of years, and have an excellent management teams and key employees; knowledge of its business and the sectors in • implementing a process for rewarding which it operates. The departure of one or performance and retaining staff such as: more managers or key employees could lead • development of rewarding and to a loss of expertise and affect the Group’s challenging careers, ability to grow some of its businesses or attain • implementation of programs for skills certain strategic objectives. development and change management The Group’s future success will partly depend through trainings, on its ability to attract, train, motivate and • implementation of an attractive retain highly qualified employees and remuneration system. managers. However, given the intense These measures are described in more detail competition to attract employees with such in section 3.2 of this Registration Document. 2.1.2 RISKS RELATED TO PURCHASES AND SUPPLIERS monitoring, for example, the European Regulatory risks related to regulation on chemical substances, “REACH” programme (Registration, Evaluation, purchases Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals). Types of risks The Group is subject to a large number of Supplier risks regulations at the local, European and international levels in relation to its Types of risks purchasing activities. As with any manufacturing company, Saft is Non-compliance with these requirements exposed to a risk related to the quality and would entail legal and financial risks and in durability of its raw materials and components some cases restrictions on access to public supplies. Like any company that manufactures sector contracts. Saft therefore takes high technology products, Saft regularly uses particular care in ensuring it complies with a number of suppliers of specialised products. these regulations. If one or more of these suppliers were to fail, it could have a significant impact on the Risk management Group’s business and financial performance. In order to mitigate these risks, the Group’s buyers are regularly informed of changes in Risk management the legal and regulatory framework in which In order to limit these risks, each unit has they operate. Moreover, compliance with supplier risk evaluation procedures in place, at certain legislation is subject to specific least annually, as does the management of the Group’s Purchasing Department. In Page 13 | 40 2 Risk Factors addition, progress plans and specific action implemented according to the risk levels plans are regularly drawn up and identified. 2.1.3 RISKS OF INTERNAL CONTROL FAILURE AND RISKS OF FRAUD based on a set of rules and procedures that it Types of risks has circulated to all its subsidiaries. In Saft’s international profile means that its addition, regular audits of different Group administrative, financial and operational sites or audits of processes are carried out processes are managed in various legal and according to a programme established and regulatory environments, with varying approved annually by General Management degrees of Internal Control and risk and the Audit Committee. Lastly, Saft has management sensitivity from one entity to implemented a number of initiatives to raise another. Moreover, they may be managed the awareness of employees of risks relating with different information systems. to fraud, corruption or non-compliance with In this context, Saft cannot rule out a failure the Group’s rules of ethics. of Internal Control or an instance of fraud that The process of evaluating risks is described in could have a significant financial impact greater detail in the report prepared by the and/or harm the Group’s reputation. Chairman of the Supervisory Board, presented Risk management hereafter in section 4 of this annual report. In order to mitigate these risks, Saft has set up a review process of its Internal Control, data, security of materials and applications. In Risk management addition, the Group has implemented and To minimize the impact of these risks, the released an IT charter that defines best Direction of Information Systems of Saft practices and responsibilities to contribute to Group has established strict rules on data IT security. backup, protection and access to confidential 2.2 RISKS RELATED TO THE IMPACT OF THE GROUP’S BUSINESS ON THE ENVIRONMENT, HUMAN HEALTH AND SAFETY 2.2.1 ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS RELATED TO OPERATING FACTORIES • additional regulations could limit the Types of risks Group’s ability to modify its processes or In each country where the Group operates an expand its factories or to continue to industrial facility, it is subject to a large operate a facility; number of local, national and international • additional regulations could also oblige the environmental protection laws and Group to implement pollution prevention regulations. In particular, these laws and measures, or to incur new costs for the regulations impose increasingly restrictive remediation of existing sites; rules on atmospheric emissions and waste • the Group could be required, in the future, water discharge; the use, storage and to contribute to the remediation of sites or disposal of hazardous substances, soil plants owned or operated by third parties, protection; removal of asbestos; transport of and on or in which the Group has stored or products, collection, recycling and/or disposal disposed of the waste it has generated; of waste. • failure to comply with these requirements These environmental laws and regulations could result in administrative or criminal therefore expose the Group to the risk of sanctions (fines), or civil compensation having to bear significant costs and claims. responsibilities, including in relation to assets sold, transferred or past activities: Risk management • the Group could be required to incur The Group invests significant sums to ensure significant additional operating expenses that it minimises the risks of harming the and significant investment obligations in environment in conducting its activities, and the event that new laws, regulations or regularly makes the investments necessary to government policies are adopted, decided meet regulatory requirements. In particular: or required, or in the event of additional • the Group’s central objectives comply with demands by competent authorities; these legal requirements and the control systems operated at each manufacturing In addition, when Doughty Hanson acquired site in order to ensure such compliance the Alcatel group’s battery business, Saft have been documented and certified in Finance Sarl (a direct subsidiary of Saft accordance with the international Groupe SA) was granted a certain number of ISO 14000 standard for most European contractual guarantees in respect of sites; environmental matters, including in particular • the Group has progressively set up – within certain limits – the costs of indicators that are used to evaluate the remediation of sites and land affected by the impact of its operations on the natural Group’s operations prior to 2004. These environment, which are subject to guarantees were effective until the beginning consolidation and internal monitoring and of the year 2014. To the current knowledge it are also communicated to local supervisory is not expected that the remediation of sites authorities. Detailed information on these and land affected by previous operations indicators is provided in section 3.1 of this achieved before 2004 lead in the future to Registration Document. significant expenses. 2.2.2 RISKS RELATED TO THE AVAILABILITY AND USE OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES Agency (ECHA) to place these substances on Types of risks the Authorisation List (Annex XIV REACH), at The Group’s efforts to control the risks involve any time. in particular the design of products and associated production processes to limit their Risk management impacts. This helps to minimize the regulatory In 2008, Saft completed an evaluation of the and legal risks. impact of REACH on its operations and On 30 December 2006, a European Union identified the steps necessary for compliance regulation named REACH (Registration, with this regulation. Following this study, Saft Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of made from 2010 pre-registration required, Chemicals) was published in the Official records of all substances to be recorded no Journal of the European Union. The purpose of later than 1st December 2010, and of several REACH is to improve the protection of human other substances which could benefit from a health and of the environment via systematic delay (1st June 2013 or 1st June 2018). In evaluation of the properties of chemical addition, the Group contacted its suppliers to substances and the risks they pose. This determine whether they had also completed regulation also provides for stricter rules to the necessary formalities. Finally, Saft Group govern the use of certain chemical substances continues to pursue actions to ensure identified as “Substances of Very High compliance with the requirements of this Concern (SVHC)” by an authorization process, Regulation. which can provide their substitution by To its current knowledge, Saft does not alternative substances when suitable expect that the REACH authorisation process replacements have been identified. will lead to the Group having to stop making During 2013, cadmium and cadmium oxide, or selling any of its finished products in both of which are substances used by Saft in Europe. the manufacturing process of industrial Ni-Cd The steps taken by Saft to comply with this batteries, were identified at the request of the regulation are described in section 3.1 of this Swedish government as “SVHC”. This Registration Document. registration could lead the European Chemical 2.2.3 RISKS RELATED TO THE END OF LIFE OF PRODUCTS SOLD • on the other, limit the use of mercury in Types of risks batteries and accumulators for non-military On 26 September 2006, a directive on purposes and of cadmium in most batteries batteries and accumulators was published in for non-industrial, non-professional or the Official Journal of the European Union non‑military purposes. under the reference 2006/66/EC. The aim of The Group is not affected by the limitations of this directive, which has been applicable since use of the substances described above, September 2008, is to: because the products manufactured and sold • on the one hand, ensure that used by the Group comply with the principles batteries and accumulators are collected edicted by the directive. However, the and recycled at the end of their lifecycle; European Commission is likely at any time to re-examine the current derogations in respect Page 15 | 40 2 Risk Factors 2.2 RISKS RELATED TO THE IMPACT OF THE GROUP’S BUSINESS ON THE ENVIRONMENT, HUMAN HEALTH AND SAFETY of the ban on certain substances and could guaranteeing a high level of environmental issue additional proposals for prohibitions to performance to all its customers, regardless be imposed, and such prohibitions may affect their geographical location. market segments in which Saft is present. In addition, this program has been extended to ensure the collection of primary lithium Risk management batteries in European countries where Saft In the mid 1980s, Saft has developed in has a Producer status. With the grow of Sweden and throughout northern Europe, a lithium-ion accumulators, this system has service to collect and recycle industrial nickel been extended to European countries where accumulators for the benefit of users of these Saft has a Producer status of these materials. products. In the 1990s, this service was This network see the extended firstly to whole Europe, then in http://www.saftbatteries.com website for developed markets where the Group operates. details enables users of those products to Finally, since 2000, this service is gradually ensure, at lower cost, a correct end of life deployed in emerging markets. with respect to environment, while ensuring This initiative is based on continuously larger good management of natural resources. It network of logistics partners, which act as also enables Saft to comply with the free points of collection for users of these obligation for recovery and recycling imposed products, and also based on recycling plants by the Directive 2006/66/EC since 2008 to that extract metals and plastics and ensure producers of batteries and accumulators their reuse in industrial sectors. located in European Union countries. The Saft requires from all recycling partners, steps taken by the Group on recycling are European as non-European, to comply with described in detail in section 3.1 of this the objectives of recycling efficiency Registration Document. demanded by the European directive, thus 2.2.4 RISKS TO HUMAN HEALTH AND SAFETY risk, either in the Group’s factories or at the Risks related to the use of toxic or premises of battery users. Accidents of this nature, should they occur, could lead to hazardous substances considerable production or shipping delays for Types of risks which the Group could be held liable and could In the manufacture of its products, the Group therefore become subject to customer has used and continues to use significant compensation claims. Any such occurrence amounts of toxic or hazardous materials. could have an adverse effect on the Group’s Some employees or sub-contractors may also business, income, financial position, or have been or are being exposed to these reputation. substances which are harmful to health and Risk management could develop diseases for which they may To limit this risk, Saft has established safety seek to hold the Group liable. procedures in its research and development Risk management activities and production operations, and has The corresponding risks are the subject of taken steps to raise awareness among and strict prevention measures and monitoring, provide regular training for its employees. such as the use of suitable protective In addition, the Group implements an external materials, frequent training programmes as insurance policy to cover these industrial well as regular, compulsory health checks for risks. This policy is described in section 2.8 employees. hereinafter. The provisions set aside by the Group to confront current environmental risks are Industrial risks described in section 3.1, in section 3.1.9 and Types of risks in note 21 of the Consolidated Financial Due to the high energy density of certain Statements. batteries and accumulators manufactured by the Group, the batteries may lead to a fire 3 Sustainable Development Saft promotes Sustainable Development collated and published is, in order of principles, based on three pillars: society, the descending preference: economy and the environment. This approach • the actual data for the December 2013draws in particular on the introduction of November 2014 period, reporting, consolidation and communication of • the actual data for the January 2014indicators designed to measure the Group’s November 2014 period, with an performance as regards its environmental, estimated amount being added for social and corporate responsibility. These nonDecember 2014. financial indicators are collated globally for publication in this annual report, in line with Collation and consolidation of the provisions of articles R.225‑104 and R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code, non financial data The data are tracked throughout the year by the ministerial decree Act no. 2010-788 of the reporting managers designated at each 12 July 2010 (known as Grenelle n°2 law) and site. The data are centralised annually by HQ, the order of 13 May 2013. In order to reflect which collates, processes and consolidates the its commitment to further enhancing these information. indicators, the Group undertook to have nonThe environmental data are reported via a financial informations audited by an common framework for all sites introduced independent third party beginning 2011. since 2003 and yearly updated. An information note is included in order to specify Scope and consolidation method of the collation scope and define a few non-financial data indicators. The indicators relating to Sustainable The labour-related data are collated via a Development are consolidated globally across special reporting system in English language all subsidiaries and companies whatever their used by all sites within the collation scope, activity, in which Saft holds a majority accompanied by a methodology note detailing interest (> 50%). Changes in scope (opening how the requested data is defined. This or closing of new sites, production increases, procedure and documentation were put hiring, etc.) are considered in the information together in 2008 and are regularly updated. A supplied, thereby explaining certain year-onconsistency check is carried out by the Group year changes. In fact, it was decided not to HR Department, which also carries out a freeze the scope but instead to have the series of additional calculations, compares the financial information reflect the scope as data with those from the previous year and financial reporting does. Thus, where these reconciles them with certain data reported changes in scope give rise to variations that elsewhere by group management controllers. impact the consistency of the data or a proper Data comparison is done from monthly understanding of how they have changed, reporting notably on social data regarding the additional explanations are given on key workforce and training. events during the financial year. The above principles are applied subject to Methodological limitations the following qualifications: There may be limitations to the methodologies • the environmental indicators only cover the underpinning certain environmental and manufacturing facilities operated by the labour-related indicators by virtue of the Group. They do not therefore cover the absence of nationally or internationally assembly and distribution units, in light of recognised definitions and of required their marginal impact on the various estimates. In particular, the collation of data environmental indicators tracked by the on waste volumes is dependent on definitions Group; as regards the hazardous or non-hazardous • the environmental indicators published nature of waste, which is something that below include information on the Indian varies from one country to the next. The lack subsidiary Amco-Saft, except some of agreement as regards definitions for certain indicators considered not yet fully usable labour-related indicators led the Group HR or not yet collected: cadmium amount in Department to establish a common water releases, cadmium and nickel framework. The Group thus established a amounts in air releases, water usage; common definition for statistics on • the environmental indicators published occupational accidents (excluding commuting below for 2014 do not include information accidents, having resulted in at least one lost on the US site “Precious Plate Florida”. day). Indeed, this site has been closed in 2014; • where the numbers for an environmental indicator for December were not available Glossary of calculated indicators when they were being collated for the and methodological detail purposes of this report, the information Page 17 | 40 3 Sustainable Development Environmental data Accident Frequency Rate: Number of Hazardous and non-hazardous waste: accidents with day off/Actually worked hours definition of the hazard is based on local in the year x 1,000,000. regulation. Accident Severity Rates: Number of Days Recovered waste: definition of recovery is Lost x 1,000/Actually worked hours. based on local regulation. Gas usage: gas usage is measured in MWh External audit HHV (Higher Heating Value). The auditing of environmental, labour-related Social data and corporate information by an independent Headcount: Any individual who is recognized third party is split into three separate phases: as an employee of Saft and on payroll under • a review of the procedures used to collate an employment with Saft according to information: chosen scope, organisation of national law, collective agreement, collation process and systems used; employment contract or practices. • the checking, with a reasonable level of Staff Turnover 2014: (Flow-in-Flow-out)/2 assurance, of the accuracy of data divided by prior year headcount. reported on a selection of labour-related Hours actually worked in a year: and environmental indicators and on a Registered employees in Full Time Equivalent representative sample of sites; the (FTE) x Average number of hours worked in indicators that have been evaluated with a the day in a full-time job x Average number of reasonable level are identified by the  days worked in a year by full-time job sign on the following pages; (without public holidays and paid leaves). • a review of the consolidation of indicators Yearly absenteeism rate: Measure of actual and a review of consistency of required absenteeism as a percentage of days lost vs information of Art. R.225-105-1 of the theoretical worked hours for the same period. French Commercial Code. This rate is calculated as follows: number of The exact nature of the work done and the days off for work related unpaid absence, sick conclusions of this work are presented in the absence, occupational disease (excluding long auditor’s report on certain environmental, term sick absences and maternity & paternity social and societal indicators, which can be leave) x Average no. of hours per day, all found in section 3.4 of this annual report. divided by the number of theoretical worked hours per year by the salaried workforce. 3.1 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY For Saft, the environment and sustainable in particular, are duly analysed in order to development are key priorities. The batteries reduce it. Saft also strives to maximise the manufactured by the Group supply electrical use of secondary rather than primary raw energy without producing any emissions materials, such that the Group’s products during use. Furthermore, the impact of the make a real contribution to sustainable products in the other phases of their development. lifecycles, during manufacturing and recycling 3.1.1 GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Compliance with regulatory requirements and specialists thus coordinates all ongoing reducing the environmental impact of the improvement measures, heightens and Group’s activity has been at the core of the informs plant employees to environmental Group’s values for many years. In order to problematics (environmental communication, implement this policy, the Group has created awareness of waste sorting, waste water a dedicated team responsible for monitoring treatment plant operation, programme to and minimising the environmental impact of educate all newly employed personnel, its activities and products throughout their life Celebration of World Environmental Day, cycle. etc.). It is also tasked with identifying any Coordinated by the Environmental Director, planned new environmental regulations in this team consists of Environmental Managers advance so that they can be incorporated into located at each production site, an Eco‑design practical action plans in a timely manner. Manager and a Health and Environment The Eco-design Manager implements the Life Programme Manager. Cycle Assessment methodology (LCA) in the On-site Environmental Managers are under Group and provides specialised support to the the direct authority of the plant directors who development teams in each division. The goal are themselves responsible for implementing is to identify and implement efforts to reduce Group policy at the operational level. Each the impact of products manufactured. Environmental Manager is trained on the The Health and Environment Programme specific areas of impact of the site at which he Manager contributes her expertise in order to or she works. This team of environmental ensure compliance with environmental obligations notably on batteries end of life. She is also responsible for monitoring the of the performance indicators detailed below. Group’s environmental performance by means 3.1.2 LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE In every country in which Saft operates a impacts. Such permits notably cover the production facility, this facility operates within handling, storage, and emissions of hazardous a technical and legal framework as part of an substances, as well as the management of “operating permit”, which strictly governs waste generated at the site. industrial activities with a view to minimising 3.1.3 CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES – REACH REGULATION In 2010, Saft registered all of the substances the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA), and requiring registration on or before actively exchanges information with its supply 1 December 2010, as well as several other chain to ensure the effective dissemination of substances for which the Registration deadline all information regarding the presence of is set at a later date (1 June 2013 or 1 June SVHC substances in a purchased preparation 2018). or item, thereby complying with its disclosure Saft is also monitoring the list of Substances requirements towards the downstream chain. of Very High Concern (SVHC), drawn up by 3.1.4 END OF LIFE BATTERIES DIRECTIVE (2006/66/EC) Over the years, the Group has progressively As a result of this policy and partner network, introduced a policy of collecting and recycling the vast majority of the Group’s customers its spent batteries and in particular its nickelnow have the option of dropping their spent based range. The policy originated at Saft’s batteries off at a designated bring-back point, Oskarshamn plant in Sweden, which built a from which the waste can be dispatched to an recycling unit originally established for the authorised recycler, in compliance with the recycling of production scrap. During the rules governing cross-border waste 1980s, the recycling of spent batteries from transportation. Swedish industrial users started to be offered. A few years ago, a European Union directive This recycling service was progressively (2006/66/EC) was adopted by the EU Council extended to customers located in other and Parliament with a view to regulating the Northern European countries. During the design and end of life of batteries marketed in 1990s, it became a full-fledged policy which the European Union. This directive establishes was gradually extended to all customers some design limitations as well as an located in the European Union and in North extended producer responsibility regarding America. To this end, the Group established a the end of life and the recycling of spent network of voluntary bring-back points in a batteries. position to collect spent batteries from Thanks to the deployment of this take back industrial end users, to sort them and repolicy over many years, a simple adaptation dispatch them to specialized recycling was sufficient to ensure compliance with facilities. 2006/66/EC directive and its obligations on More recently, efforts have been devoted to collection, treatment and recycling of identifying voluntary bring-back points within batteries. the new Member States of the European More recently, this take back policy has Union as well as in more distant countries, evolved to cover different battery chemistries such as Thailand, Singapore, Taiwan, Australia put on the market by the Group. and South Africa, and several other African Finally, the design requirements mandated by countries. During the present time, efforts this directive have been implemented by the concentrate on developing collecting and Group: capacity labelling, marking with a recycling organisations in emerging crossed-out wheeled bin symbol and economies which must put in place efficient indicating the presence of certain substances. waste management infrastructures more and more. 3.1.5 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Saft Group has progressively developed a range of indicators to measure the impact of its activity on the environment. These indicators are consolidated and monitored for Page 19 | 40 3 Sustainable Development 3.1 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY internal purposes but are also communicated generating process waste water, and it is thus to the local authorities responsible for issuing not always possible to modify those processes the operating permits under which our without altering battery performance. manufacturing sites generally operate. More direct improvements on water releases are possible via the design and operation of Water usage water treatment stations. Total water usage, whether for manufacturing Since 2003, quantities of cadmium and nickel or sanitary use, is monitored at all our sites. in water discharges have respectively fallen The water used by our sites is either supplied by 78% and 46%. However, despite this trend by local authorities, private companies or is to fall since several years, notably thanks to a taken directly from the water table. Such uses better efficiency of water treatment are conducted in compliance with public processes, there is a rise of these indicators in regulations governing the protection of water 2014. This increase can be explained by the resources. increase of production on Bordeaux plant and There are no particular constraints as regards technical problems with purification on the use of water from the natural environment Oskarshamn (Sweden) and Raskovice (Czech surrounding industrial sites. Republic) plants. Total water usage is treated before it is used in battery manufacturing, washing and Quality of air releases rinsing. Hence, the Group’s water usage is In a similar way, chemical substances with directly correlated to production volumes and environmental impacts present in air releases is strongly linked with its product mix. In fact, have been identified and are monitored for usage per facility varies greatly depending on both concentration and absolute quantity battery technologies and manufacturing released. Air emissions from our production processes. It is therefore difficult to assess sites are subject to appropriate treatment. the evolution of water usage over time. Several avenues are available to reduce the Reduction in usage can be achieved by quantities of pollutants present in the air implementing more economical industrial releases: process changes and release processes or closed circuit systems (in abatement (e.g. filtration of particulate particular for cooling systems). matters, condensation of substances such as It should be noted that only a minor fraction solvents, etc.). of the water used by the Group is With regard to process changes, the incorporated into our products. The majority performance requirements of the finished is returned, after proper treatment, to the products drive to a certain extent the environment (as a liquid or atmospheric manufacturing processes, some of which release) in compliance with the quality generate atmospheric releases, and it is not specifications which govern releases to the always possible to modify those processes environment. without altering battery performance, which The results of the Group’s efforts can be seen must comply with very precise specifications. in the table below in section 3.1.7. Since More direct improvements of air releases are 2011, water usage has been cut by 6%. possible by improving the performance of air Furthermore, since 2003, when consolidated capture and filtration systems. tracking was implemented for this indicator, The results of the Group’s efforts can be seen water usage overall has been reduced by in the table presented in section 3.1.7 below. 44%. Since 2011, air emissions of cadmium and nickel have fallen by 54% and 31%. These Quality of water releases decreases in air emissions are due to All chemical substances in Saft’s water improvement actions and in particular a more discharges having an environmental impact efficient filtration of particles. have been identified and are monitored in In 2015, the Oskarshamn plant (20% and terms of both concentration and absolute 40% of the Group’s air emissions of nickel and quantity released. Process water is treated by cadmium) plans to implement a program to water treatment stations, either (most reduce metals in air release. frequently) on site or by public waste treatment plants with which the Group Type and amount of waste generated subsidiaries have agreements specifying the by the plants nature and maximum admissible quantity of All waste flows generated by the Group’s sites pollutants in order to ensure the water flow are duly identified, weighed and then recorded remains within the capabilities of these in the waste register. Our waste flows are treatment plants. thus precisely monitored and recorded based Several avenues are available for reducing the on their characteristics (hazardous or nonquantities of pollutants present in wastewater: hazardous) and final destination (recovery or process changes and release abatement. elimination). With regard to process changes, performance The quantities of waste generated may be requirements of the finished products drive to reduced by improving control over a large extent the manufacturing processes. manufacturing processes. However, since our Some of these processes are responsible for products are constantly evolving and new products typically require novel manufacturing Noise pollution processes, we are often required to discard Acoustic measurements are done on some non-conforming products, treating them as sites within the framework of their “operating waste. permit”. These measurements show that noise Saft constantly strive to identify new recovery pollution does not represent a relevant solutions and better segregate waste flows in indicator in Saft activity. Ambiance noise level order to decrease the fraction of nonis below standards. recovered waste. The results of the Group’s efforts can be seen in the table presented in section 3.1.7 below. Energy consumption Since 2011, the amount of waste generated All energy consumption is metered, whether it by the Group has increased by 8% due to, be electricity (from all sources), natural gas or firstly, the organic growth in business and steam. Energy consumption can be reduced production volumes and secondly, the by optimising the energy efficiency of acquisition on 1 January 2013 of a lithium-ion industrial processes and buildings (heating, cells and batteries production unit in Nersac, lighting, air conditioning, etc.). France. Energy consumption has decreased by 4% Furthermore, 44% of hazardous waste and since 2011 notwithstanding higher production 77% of non-hazardous waste undergoes volumes and integration in 2014 of data from recovery, thereby allowing the materials the Group’s Indian subsidiary. extracted to be reused for industrial purposes. ISO 14001 Certification It is the Group policy to certify the environmental management systems that are implemented on our industrial sites: 11 ISO 14001 certified manufacturing operations  Date of certification Jacksonville – United States 2014 Saft Zhuhai – China 2010 Saft Bordeaux – France 2008 Saft Poitiers Space and Defence – France 2007 Saft Poitiers Lithium Battery division – France 2007 Saft Nersac – France 2007 Friemann & Wolf Batterientechnik – Germany 2004 Saft Ferak – Czech Republic 2003 Tadiran – Israel 2000 Saft Oskarshamn – Sweden 1999 Tadiran – Germany 1999 3.1.6 ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES ASSIGNED TO OUR FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES The Group makes no distinction between its within the Indian company Amco-Saft, in sites and aims to apply the same policy as which the Group is a majority shareholder, regards regulatory compliance, environmental the environmental data set out in the table impact reduction and sharing of best practices below include part of the data for this across all its sites. As new sites have been company, the other part of data are not fully integrated, environmental impacts of usable or not collected. production facilities have been fully included: Saft Zhuhai in China in 2010, Saft Jacksonville in the US in 2011. Group’s environmental policies are being progressively rolled out Page 21 | 40 3 Sustainable Development 3.1 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.1.7 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF GROUP ACTIVITIES Variation Variations in since Units 2014 2013 2012 2011 comparison measures with 2011 consolidation Quality of water releases 2003 Cd amount(1) kg 9.0 6.1 12.1 15.4 (42)% (78)% Ni amount kg 61.9 31.6 57.4 57.6 8% (46)% Quality of air releases 2003 Cd amount(1) kg 5.0 4.7 5.1 10.9 (54)% (68)% Ni amount(1) kg 26.7 21.8 37.9 38.6 (31)% (79)% IPA(1) t 83 137 170 185.6 (55)% n.d. Water usage 2003 Total water 000 t 487.8 495.6 481.5 520.0 (6)% (44)% consumption(1) City water(1) 000 t 346.1 334.0 344.9 362.1 (4)% (51)% Well water(1) 000 t 141.8 161.6 136.6 157.9 (10)% (11)% Waste generated 2005 Total waste generated t 7,570 7,825 7,369 7,038 8% 14% Hazardous t 2,762 2,605 2,367 2,268 22% 13% recovered fraction t 1,207 1,271 809 777 55% (3)% Non-hazardous t 4,807 5,220 5,002 4,770 1% 14% recovered fraction t 3,725 3,579 3,301 3,078 21% 56% Energy usage 2005 Total energy usage: MWh 224,963 268,826 224,269 233,887 (4)% (12)% • Electricity MWh 140,166 144,360 134,235 142,190 (1)% 4% • Gaz MWh 67,710 108,024 73,619 75,058 (10)% (39)% • Steam MWh 14,867 16,442 16,415 16,638 (11)% 34% n.d. Not determined. (1) Indicator excluding the Indian subsidiary, Amco-Saft Ltd. 3.1.8 REMEDIATION OF CONTAMINATED SITES In 2009, the Kalmar County Board and the the Group is thus reimbursed by Alcatel as Municipality of Oskarshamn, in which the these costs are incurred. Swedish facility of Saft AB is located, entered On the site of Valdosta, United States, an into two agreements with Saft AB under which historical soil pollution surrounding one of the Saft AB agreed to partly fund, up to a buildings has been detected previous to the maximum of 41 million Swedish crowns, the sale of the site in 2004 by Alcatel. Following cost of cleaning up the Oskarshamn harbour, several studies conducted in connection with where sediment was discovered. the direction of the “Georgia Department of Ninety percent of these costs are covered by Natural Resources”, these soils were various provisions of the agreement governing remediated in 2014. Remediation costs are the sale in 2004 of Saft Groupe by Alcatel and covered by Alcatel under the provisions of the agreement governing the sale of Saft Groupe. 3.1.9 PROVISIONS FOR RECYCLING AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS The Group has set aside provisions for incurred to clean contaminated sites up, which environmental risks totalling €12.4 million as in principle, would only be expected to be of 31 December 2014 (compared to incurred if these sites were to be closed. €11.7 million and €13.9 million respectively The change over the prior year is mainly due for 2013 and 2012). These provisions cover to exchange rate fluctuations of the euro the future cost of collecting and recycling against the US dollar. spent batteries and certain costs which will be 3.1.10 RESOURCE CONSERVATION Sustainable development also means developed by the Group are used to store preserving resources, and Saft recycling energy produced by solar and wind farms programs make a significant contribution before being reinjected into the electricity towards achieving this goal. As detailed grid, helping to reduce losses. Their use also above, Saft endeavours to minimise its water contributes to reduce impacts associated with and energy consumption in the course of its intermittent power generation of wind and industrial activities. solar farms. Furthermore, the sophisticated technologies Lastly, the installation of solar panels on the used in Saft batteries make it possible to save roof of the facility in Jacksonville makes it raw materials, as batteries have markedly possible to provide up to 10% of the site’s longer life spans than traditional batteries. electricity needs. The Group also supports the development of renewable energy. In fact, some batteries 3.1.11 HELPING RESPOND TO AND CONTROL GLOBAL WARMING In order to measure the impact of the Group’s reduction goal of emissions. At the end of plants on the environment with an aim of 2014, most of actions have been conducted. limiting impact on global warming, a They consist in working on thermal insulation greenhouse gas inventory on French territory on buildings, boiler operation optimization, has been introduced in 2012. This greenhouse setting up of metering system in order to gas emission inventory includes scope 1 have a better control of energy consumptions (direct emissions) and scope 2 (indirect per production unit on the same site, doing emissions linked to energy). Total emissions preventive maintenance in order to avoid any for 2011 are 14,655 tonnes of CO2 for refrigerant leak, make choice among less Bordeaux, Poitiers, Nersac, and Bagnolet. One emitter refrigerant in case of replacement of of the aim of actions implemented is to air-conditioning. decrease energy spendings and consequently Finally, emissions of the main Volatile Organic to limitate greenhouse gas emissions. Thus it Compound (VOC), isopropyl alcohol (IPA), was identified that in 2011, 18 tonnes of CO 2 released by the plants, are measured. The emissions were avoided thanks to recovery of data is consolidated in the table of energy during discharge of batteries on environmental indicators. benchtests. The amount of IPA released globally Following this inventory, a three-yearly action decreased by 55% since 2011. plan to reduce CO2 has been set up with a 3.1.12 BIODIVERSITY Biodiversity is managed locally, with actions study of the surrounding water, analysis of being taken at a number of sites. Some ambient air, plan to prevent pollution. actions can be mentioned: ecotoxicological Page 23 | 40 3 Sustainable Development 3.2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2.1 HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT In 2014, the Saft Group continued to increase (out of which 116 engineers and managers, its headcount in order to support its business 106 technicians and administrative staff, and and sales growth. As of 31 December 2014, it 64 operatives) and 623 on non-permanent counted 4,078  employees worldwide, a contracts (out of which 24 engineers and 5.8% increase compared to 31 December managers, 58 technicians and administrative 2013. staff, and 541 operatives). At constant perimeter, the average headcount Over the same period, 687 employees left the remained broadly stable at 3,962 employees Group, 296  voluntary departures, 151  against an average of 3,954 employees in end of non-permanent contracts, 91  2013. retirements and 78  dismissals. Temporary contracts remained stable in 2014, In 2014, the staff turnover was 20%  representing an average of 12% of the total (against 24% in 2013). headcount. However, excluding the turnover in the Chinese production unit, the turnover rate Staff turnover amounted to 14% in 2014 against a restated Over the past year, the Group hired 909  rate of 15% in 2013. people including 286 on permanent contracts Breakdown of Group employees A breakdown of employees by country  is shown below: Country 2014 2013 2012 France 1 458 1 456 1 750 US 889 870 786 Sweden 557 478 545 Israel 347 338 336 Czech Republic 232 202 193 Rest of the world 595 512 456 TOTAL 4 078 3 856 4 066 As of 31 December 2014, women represented 32.9%  of the Group’s total workforce, compared with 32.7% at the end of 2013. At that date, the breakdown of men and women by professional category was as follows: • “Managers and Engineers”: 255 women/820 men (compared to 237 women/805 men in 2013); • “Technicians and Administrative Staff”: 307 women/662 men (compared to 321 women/650 men in 2013); • “Operatives”: 771 women/1,221 men (compared to 704 women/1,139 men in 2013). 3.2.2 VISION AND VALUES The employees are federated around the Strategy and responsibility Group’s key values: The human dimension is a major strategic • Leadership, characterised by business axis for Saft who strives to be a high quality performance, management style and employer by: innovation; • recruiting and managing its employees in • Respect, primarily through customer focus an ethical and responsible manner; and team spirit; and • developing employees skills; • Progress, based on continuous • enabling professional development through improvement and personal development. rewarding and stimulating careers. The importance given by the Group to the human dimension is highlighted by a significant staff loyalty: 29%  of the Saft, it is based on the principles of its employees have been with the Group for more Leadership program and on the managers’ than twenty years. This team stability is the accountability for employees’ health and fruit of a strong corporate culture, nurtured by safety subjects. the transfer of skills and sharing of experience on a global scale. Diversity and professional equality The publication of the Saft Code of Ethics, Saft actively promotes diversity on a which Group’s employees can refer to, worldwide level. With a focus put on equality contributes to strengthen Saft’s views and between women and men, it is considered a values. This code promotes elements essential factor of progress, innovation and creation. to the setting up of a quality working For instance, in 2014, the Raškovice facility environment in which everyone can feel at (Czech Republic) has launched a significant ease: clear and regular communications, program to improve gender equality and respect for diversity and equality of work/life balance. This program concerned all opportunity, and health and safety protection. categories and the staff representatives were involved. It included studies, action plans, Manager charter trainings programs and the writing of In 2013, the manager charter has been information documents for the employees. developed and deployed within the Group. In accordance with the intercultural dimension of 3.2.3 HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT Attracting, developing and retaining talents career development and promoting internal throughout the world, strengthening and mobility. sustaining skills in many fields are major In 2014, 168  employees changed position issues for Saft. Therefore, processes of within the Group; 9  of those mobilities induction, career management, skills were inter-site. The professional mobility development and remuneration policy are key opportunities decrease compared to 2013 to the Group’s Human Resources strategy. (223 moves). Additional career management tools are also Induction program facilitating used. “People Reviews” are yearly held with a view to identifying, following and developing exchanges high potential employees as well as Engineers and managers newly-recruited at establishing succession plans for the worldwide level are involved in an induction management teams and other key employees. program organised every year around the visit of the three French production sites. In addition to an introduction to the Group’s A constant skills development effort products, businesses and activities, the In 2014, 10,326  training actions have contribution of the Saft Management been initiated which concerned 2,913 Committee (SMC) members is an important employees, which is 74%  of the workforce part of this program. By favouring (85% in 2013). These actions represent a interactions, this induction program also helps total of 51,017  hours of training (51,664 the participants gain an extensive hours in 2013). understanding of the Group’s values. The major recurring training topics are safety, Employees’ engagement and autonomy are quality, continuous improvement processes, key for the success of Saft who also relies on management, technology and information the richness of the exchanges between its systems. multicultural teams. In line with the Group’s growth target, a training program dedicated to the Customer Relationship dimension has been deployed for Career management facilitating the sales support teams worldwide. professional evolution In addition to these actions at group level, The Group encourages the geographical and each site manages its local training plan to functional mobility of its employees and address better its individuals’ and provides them with extensive information on organisation’s needs. the existing opportunities within the organisation. The available positions are Work time organization advertised through “Echo Job”, the internal Saft Groupe abides by all the legal and job posting system on the Group’s intranet. In contractual regulations regarding the addition, career interviews are carried out by organisation of the work time in each of its the local and corporate human resources subsidiaries. teams, mainly aimed at facilitating employees’ Page 25 | 40 3 Sustainable Development 3.2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.2.4 SAFT REWARD AND RECOGNITION SYSTEMS costs are given in note 23 to the Consolidated An attractive and coherent financial statements of this annual report. remuneration policy To strengthen the commitment of teams Contingency schemes, health care implies a coherent and attractive and social benefits remuneration policy for all employees. The According to the local regulations and Group’s salary schemes, which take local practices, Saft Groupe contributes to factors into account, are coordinated in a healthcare insurances, pension schemes, as transparent and equitable manner. In well as contingency schemes offering several particular, they are founded on benchmarking complementary guarantees to the employees. studies done by job category and geographical Details of these schemes are given in note 20 area, keeping the salary budget under control. to the Consolidated financial statements of The remuneration of engineers and managers this annual report. usually includes a fixed salary and variable incentives established according to Recognition for innovation performance objectives fixed at the beginning To enhance and value our teams’ expertise, of the year. The targets relate for part to the the Group rewards their successes notably financial performance of the Group, the through a Filling of Patents Award plan. division or the site, and for part to the individual performance. Details of personel 3.2.5 LABOUR RELATIONS MANAGEMENT AND COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS STATUS Germany, Cyprus, Spain, Italy, Czech Staff representation Republic, and Norway). This organisation Saft encourages a permanent and currently covers 61% of the Group’s global constructive dialogue with employee work force. representatives. Meeting once per year, Saft’s EWC is informed Staff representation in each entity of the on the evolution of the Group and on the Group and the frequency of meetings between decisions which could substantially change the management and staff representatives are work organisation or work contracts within its exercised in compliance with the applicable perimeter. local laws. Saft makes sure that staff representatives’ Collective agreements and working rights and freedom are strictly respected and time organisation that they have the same career and training In 2014, 45  collective agreements were opportunities as any other employee. signed within the Group (against 31 collective agreements in 2013). These agreements were European works council mainly related to pay, working conditions, and Saft’s European Works Council (EWC) healthcare schemes (none of them concerned represents employees from the Group’s safety specifically). European sites (France, UK, Sweden, 3.2.6 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Saft applies an active health and safety policy number of working days lost in 2014 was showing the Group’s commitment to this 1,045 (851 days in 2013 and 1,285 in subject, towards its employees, customers 2012). In 2014, 3 cases of occupational and the communities in which it is present. diseases were recorded in the Group. Saft’s action is part of a global politics in Saft promotes the notion of safety at work terms of environment, health and safety. The through clear commitments. Thus, the Group’s objective is to reach a rate of zero industrial sites of South Shields (UK), Poitiers work accident. and Bordeaux (France) and Tel Aviv (Israel) In 2014, the number of work accidents with are – partially or totally – OHSAS 18001 days off was 86  (as compared to 53 in certified. Several actions and measures 2013) and the frequency rate was 13.1 , as improving the work place ergonomics have compared to 8.0 in 2013 and 12.6 in 2012. been done at Poitiers and South Shields The rate of severity of accidents was 0.16  production sites. in 2014 (0.13 in 2013). Consequently, the In 2014, 2,906  people were trained on safety, representing 68% of the headcount 2,737 in 2013 (64% of the headcount) and (including temporary staff), compared to 2,103 in 2012 (52% of the headcount). 3.2.7 OTHER EMPLOYMENT DATA Workforce analysis by professional categories 2014 2013 2012 Overall workforce Engineers and managers 26% 27% 24% Employees and technicians 25% 25% 25% Operatives 49% 48% 51% Women: 33%  of workforce in 2014 Engineers and managers 24% 23% 22% Employees and technicians 31% 33% 34% Operatives 39% 38% 39% Men: 67%  of workforce in 2014 Engineers and managers 76% 77% 78% Employees and technicians 69% 67% 66% Operatives 61% 62% 61% Age structure Under 25 7%  6% 7% 25 to 39 31%  32% 29% 40 to 49 26%  27% 28% 50 and over 35%  35% 36% Length of service (years) 0 to 4 36%  34% 25% 5 to 14 27%  30% 29% 15 to 24 16%  16% 19% 25 years and over 21%  20% 27% Disabled employees* Number of disabled employees 84 95 129 Professional training Number of employees trained 2,913  3,274 3,434 % of total employees 74% 85% 84% Number of training hours 51,017  51,664 52,776 Absenteeism Total rate for the year 3.4%  3.6% 4.1% * according to legal definitions of the countries concerned Page 27 | 40 3 Sustainable Development 3.3 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.3 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3.3.1 LOCAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT Most of Saft’s production facilities are longNGOs and international organisations (Red standing operations and the Group is often Cross, Énergies Sans Frontières, etc.). recognised as being one of the major Saft regularly sponsors cultural venues and employers in the regions in which it operates. events, as well as sport teams and events in On the economic and technological sides, Saft Europe (notably in Spain, Sweden, France and supports many scientific projects, in particular Czech Republic) and in the United States. through partnerships with schools, universities Saft sites in the US and in Europe regularly and research laboratories in Europe and in the sponsor schools and professional associations United States. by organising meetings between students and Saft’s sites are involved in local industrial and professionals, factories visits and internships, economic development, taking part in as well as by providing financial support to professional and industrial associations and university events or associations (seminars, sitting on Chambers of Commerce and newspapers, junior enterprise schemes), Industry and other Local Committees. awarding grants to students and entering into partnerships with engineering schools and Community commitment universities as part of research programmes Saft plays an active role in local communities (French and European). by supporting or participating in a range of social, environmental and humanitarian Local commitments to equal initiatives. In 2014, donations were made to opportunities communities or organisations of public Through a partnership with the French interest (fire services, schools, social centres, association (Nos Quartiers/Territoires ont des etc.). Talents), Saft leads concrete actions to This year the Group has wished to support promote equal opportunity. In 2014, the sites research and treatment against heart diseases of Bagnolet, Poitiers and Nersac committed to in particular. encourage and support employees for being a The Group is also supportive for the disabled, mentor to young graduates in order to expand senior citizens, sick people, in most countries their employability. (USA, Czech Republic, UK, Israel, France and By inviting employees to give a few hours of Italy), in charity initiatives for medical their working time, Saft participates to change research associations in the US, UK, Israel the professional life of graduates in a difficult and Germany, not to mention support for employment context. 3.3.2 SUBCONTRACTING AND SUPPLIERS Saft Groupe makes sure to implement a ethics and environmental responsibility. This, responsible purchasing policy and to work for example, encompasses respect for with suppliers whose commercial and conventions 29, 111, 138 and 182 of the industrial practices respect this principle. International Labour Organisation (ILO). Saft’s Code of Ethics details the rules to be In the US, the Group complies with the respected by all employees in business obligations of the Federal Acquisition Act with dealings, and in particular when dealing with regard in particular to respect for minorities suppliers. In this respect, the Purchasing and principles of non-discrimination. Department ensures that buyers are regularly In France, in the course of its dealings with made aware of the need to respect these sub-contractors, the Group particularly rules. endeavours to follow the general Where Group suppliers operate in countries in recommendations of the report of 30 August which the governance indicators published by 2010 of the Médiateur des relations the World Bank (Worldwide Governance interindustrielles et de la sous-traitance, Indicators) fall below the median of the detailing unfair practices. In the US, it countries evaluated, they must formally complies with the provisions of the Davisundertake to comply with commitments built Bacon Act as regards daily rates paid to subon three principles: corporate responsibility, contractors. 3.3.3 MEASURES TO PROTECT CONSUMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Saft products are used by industrial the highest level of security. During their use, companies notably in the aeronautic and they do not emit any release. railway transportation, energy and defence Additionally, take back and recycling network sectors. They are usually not used in the are implemented in most of the countries consumer segment. These products are where the products are used, assuring an end designed and manufactured in order to ensure of life complying with regulation requirements. 3.3.4 HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP’S COMMITMENTS, INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION (ILO) AND MEMBERSHIP OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Beyond its compliance with national law and regulations of countries where the it operates, the Saft Group joined the United Nations Global Compact programme three years ago and embraces its ten principles: Human rights 1: Saft supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2: Saft makes sure that the group is not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: Saft supports the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4: Saft upholds the principle of the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; 5: Saft upholds the principle of the effective abolition of child labour; and 6: Saft upholds the principle of the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: Saft supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8: Saft undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9: Saft encourages the development and distribution of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10: Saft is opposed to corruption in any and all form, including extortion and bribery. These internal guiding principles are rooted in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, the Rio Declaration on environment and development, and the United Nations Convention against corruption. The Saft Code of Ethics, distributed to every employee in the Group, is consistent with the UN Global Compact principles. Page 29 | 40 3 Sustainable Development 3.4 INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION PUBLISHED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT OF SAFT 3.4 INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION PUBLISHED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT OF SAFT This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in French, and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and is construed in accordance with French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France Financial year ended 31 December 2014 Saft Groupe SA 12 rue Sadi Carnot 93170 Bagnolet To the Shareholders, As independent third-party, members of Mazars’ network, statutory auditor’s of Saft, whose accreditation was accepted by COFRAC under the number 3-1058(1), we hereby present our report on the consolidated social, environmental and societal information provided in the management report prepared for the year ended 31 December 2014, (hereinafter referred to as “CSR Information”), pursuant to Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Responsibility of the company The Board of Directors of Saft is responsible for preparing a management report including the CSR Information required under Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce), in accordance with the reporting criteria of the company (hereafter the “Reporting Criteria”) and available on request to the society headquarter. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the profession’s Code of Ethics and by the provisions of Article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce). Furthermore, we have set up a quality control system that includes documented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with deontological rules, professional standards and applicable legal texts and regulations. Responsibility of the Independent Third Party Based on our work, our role is to: • attest that the required CSR Information is disclosed in the management report or, that an explanation has been provided if any information has been omitted, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation of completeness of the CSR Information in Code de Commerce); • provide limited assurance that, on the whole, the CSR Information is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the adopted Reporting Criteria (Fairness report regarding CSR Information); • provide, at the request of the Company, a reasonable assurance as to whether the information identified by the symbol  in the Chapter 3 of the management report was prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the adopted Reporting Criteria. We requested the assistance of our CSR experts to conduct this verification work. Our work was carried out by a team of 6 people between November 2014 and January 2015. We conducted the work described below in accordance with the professional standards applicable in France and the legal order dated 13 May 2013 determining the methodology according to which the independent third party body conducts its mission and, on the reasoned opinion, in accordance with ISAE 3000(2). (1) Decree of 13 May 2013 establishing the methodology according to which the independent third party conducts its mission. (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information. 1. ATTESTATION OF COMPLETENESS OF THE CSR INFORMATION We got acquainted with the direction that the Group is taking, in terms of sustainability, with regard to the social and environmental, consequences of the company’s business and its societal commitments and, where appropriate, the actions or programs that stemmed from it. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report to the list set forth in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. In the event of omission of some consolidated information, we checked that explanations were provided in accordance with the third paragraph of the article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce). We checked that the CSR Information covers the consolidated scope, which includes the company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Article L. 233-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and the companies that it controls within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), subject to the limits set forth in the methodological note presented in the management report (Part 3 of Saft Registration Document). Based on our work, and taking into account the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. 2. FAIRNESS REPORT WITH RESPECT TO CSR INFORMATION Nature and scope of procedures We conducted the interviews that we deemed necessary with thirty persons responsible for the preparation of CSR Information from the departments in charge of the process of gathering information and, where appropriate, responsible of the internal control and risk management to: • assess the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria in terms of relevance, completeness, neutrality, clarity and reliability, by taking into consideration, when relevant, the sector’s best practices; • verify the set-up within the Group of a process to collect, compile, process and check the CSR Information with regard to its completeness and consistency. We familiarized ourselves with the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the compilation of the CSR Information. We determined the nature and extent of tests and controls depending on the nature and importance of CSR Information in relation to the characteristics of the Company, the social and environmental issues of its operations, its strategic priorities in relation to sustainable development, and the Industry best practices. Concerning the CSR information that we considered to be most significant (1): • at Group level, we consulted source documents and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organization, policies, actions); we implemented analytical procedures on the quantitative and verified, on the basis of sampling techniques, the calculations and consolidation of the information and we verified its consistency with the other information contained in the management report; • at the level of a representative sample of entities(2) selected based on their activity, their contribution to consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify the proper application of procedures and conducted substantive tests, using sampling basis, to verify the calculations performed and reconciled data with supporting evidence. The selected sites contribution to Group data equals to 69% of headcount and between 25% to 100% of the quantitative environmental information tested. Regarding the other CSR consolidated Information, we assessed its fairness and consistency based on our knowledge of the Group Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations relating to, where necessary, the omission of certain information. We deem that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have learned by exercising our professional judgment allow us to formulate a conclusion providing limited assurance; a higher level of assurance would have required more extensive work. Because of the use of sampling techniques, (1) Global headcount and breakdown by gender and by geographical area, Pyramids by age and seniority, Number of recruitments, Number of economic Redundancies, Resignation, End of fixed-term contract, Turnover rate, Flow-in inter-site mobility, Flow-out inter-site mobility, Intra-site mobility, Absenteeism rate, Outcome of the collective agreements, Number of collective agreements signed, Number of employees trained in safety, Number of work accidents, Frequency rate, Severity rate, Number of training hours, Number of people trained, Percentage of people trained, Number of training actions, Quantity of cadmium in the air, Quantity of cadmium in the water, Quantity of hazardous wastes generated, Quantity of hazardous wastes recovered, Quantity of non-hazardous wastes generated, Quantity of non-hazardous wastes recovered, Total waste generated, Number of ISO 14 001 certified sites, Total water consumption, Electricity consumption, Gas consumption, Steam consumption, Total energy usage. (2) Social information: Bagnolet, Poitiers, Bordeaux, Oskarshamn, Raskovice, Tel Aviv, Büdingen, Friemann & Wolf Batterietechnik, South Shields, Nersac. Environmental information: Poitiers, Bordeaux, Oskarshamn, Tel Aviv, Ferak. Page 31 | 40 3 Sustainable Development 3.4 INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION PUBLISHED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT OF SAFT and because of other limits inherent to any information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR Information cannot be completely eliminated. Conclusion Based on our work, we did not identify any material misstatements that would lead us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, has not been fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. 3. REASONABLE ASSURANCE REPORT ON SELECTED CSR INFORMATION Nature and scope of procedures Regarding information selected by the Group and identified by the symbol , we conducted similar work as described in paragraph 2 above for CSR information that we consider to be most significant but of greater depth, especially regarding the number of tests. The selected sites contribution to Group data equals to 69% of headcount and between 54% to 100% of the quantitative environmental information identified by the symbol . We deem this work allows us to express a reasonable assurance on the information selected by the company and identified by the symbol . Conclusion In our opinion, the Information selected by the Group and identified by the symbol  was prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. La Défense, 17 February 2015 The Independent Third Party, Mazars SAS Emmanuelle Rigaudias Sustainable developement Partner 4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE BETWEEN ENVIRONNEMENTAL, SOCIAL AND CORPORATE INFORMATION AND THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT Articles R.225-102-1 and R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) crossed with United Nation Global Compact Information. Chapters/ UNCG Sections Environmental information 789 General environmental policy Company organization in order to take into account 1.4, 3 Méthodologie, environmental subject and, if necessary, process of assessment 3.1 or certification on environmental subject Training and information for employees about environmental 3.1.1 protection Resources allocated to environmental risk and pollution 3 Méthodologie, 3.1 prevention Reserves and guarantees for environmental risks, subject to this 3.1.9, 6 Notes 21 information could not be seriously prejudicial to company in a ongoing litigation 789 Pollution and waste management Prevention, reduction and correction of waste released into the 3.15 à 3.1.8 air, water and ground with severe environmental consequences Prevention of waste production, recycling and waste disposal 1.4, 3.1.3, 3.1.4, 3.1.5 Recognition of noise pollution and any pollution specific to an 3.1.5 activity Sustainable use of resources Water consumption and supply depending on local constraints 3.1.5, 3.1.7, 3.1.10 Raw material consumption and measures to improve efficiency in 3.1.5, 3.1.7, 3.1.10 use Energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy 3.1.5, 3.1.7, 3.1.10 efficiency and the use of renewable energy Land use n.a. 789 Global warming Greenhouse gas emissions 3.1.5, 3.1.7 Recognition of the impact of climate change 3.1.11 789 Biodiversity protection Measures taken to protect and develop biodiversity 3.1.12 Social responsibility 4-5 Employment Total and breakdown of employees by sex, age and geographical 3.2.1, 3.2.7 Chapters/ UNCG Sections area Hiring and firing 3.2.1 Remuneration and their evolution 3.2.4 4-5 Training Policies implemented training 3.2.3 Total number of training hours 3.2.3 3.2.3 1-2 Work organisation Work time organisation 3.2.3 Absenteeism 3.2.7 1-2 Occupational health and safety Conditions of health and safety at work 3.2.6 Review of agreements with trade unions or employee 3.2.5 representatives on health and safety at work Accidents, including their frequency and severity, and 3.2.6 occupational diseases 1-2-6 Equal treatment Measures for gender equality 3.2.2 Measures to promote employment of disabled people 3.2.2 Policy against discrimination 3.2.2 1-2-3 Industrial Relations Organization of industrial relations, including information 3.2.5 procedures and negotiation with staff Collective bargaining agreements 3.2.5 1-2-3-4-5 Promotion and respect of provisions of the ILO core conventions relating to: • freedom of association and the effective recognition of the 3.3.4 right to collective bargaining • elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 3.3.4 occupation • elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour 3.3.4 • effective abolition of child labour 3.3.4 Information about social commitments in favor of sustainable development 789 Territorial impact, economic and company’s social activities Employment and regional development 3.3.1 3.3.1 On local populations 10 Relationships with persons or organizations interested in the business of the Company, including associations, educational institutions, consumer associations and locals Conditions of dialogue with these people or organizations 3.3.1 3.3.1 Chapters/ UNCG Sections Share of partnership or sponsorship 10 Subcontractors and suppliers Taken into account in the procurement policy of social and 3.3.2 environmental issues Importance of outsourcing and taking into account relations with 3.3.2 suppliers and subcontractors for their social and environmental responsibility 10 Social and environmental responsibility in relationships with suppliers and subcontractors Fairness of practices 10 Measures to prevent corruption 3.3.4 Measure to prevent consumer health and safety 3.3.3 Other actions to promote Human Rights 3.3.1, 3.3.4 n.a. non applicable. Saft Groupe SA 12, rue Sadi Carnot 93170 Bagnolet France Tél. : + 33 (0)1 49 93 19 18 Société anonyme au capital de 26 605 032 € www.saftbatteries.com RCS Bobigny 481 480 465
