Statement of Continued Support Period Covered February 2014 – February 2015 In this our first annual Communication on Progress, I am pleased to confirm that Reltex Tarpaulins (Africa) EPZ Ltd (“Reltex”) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We are committed to sharing this information throughout the business and with both our customers and suppliers using our primary channels of communication. The Global Compact serves an important purpose in providing guiding principles for businesses to follow, which is demonstrated by the number of companies who have signed up. This is our first Communication on Progress in which we describe our actions to begin the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders as part of our annual CSR report. Yours faithfully Simon Lucas Chairman Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 Reltex is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of plastic sheeting and the first and only manufacturer in Africa. We use world leading plastics technology to create premium, high-quality products for our customers in the private and public sectors in Africa and internationally. Reltex is committed to high standards of ethics and conduct in all aspects of our operations. Our Code of Conduct provides an ethical and legal framework for all employees in the conduct of Reltex’s business. It is about how we relate to our customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and the community. An ethical employer committed to achieving impact, Reltex has created and sustained 220 jobs at its factory in Athi River, many of which are occupied by unskilled workers from the local area. We support St Paul’s Children’s Home in Osingili, which receives no government funding as to provide for itself. We have formed a partnership with the school which provides much needed finance as well as employment opportunities for the older children once they reach the age of 18. We currently have 3 of them working at the factory. In 2013 Reltex Africa was awarded 5* for social impact (the highest possible rating) by international impact assessment body GIIRs (Global Impact Investment Rating System) Reltex considerably outperformed other companies in East Africa, particularly in terms of the company’s impact on the local community (5*), treatment of workers (4*), governance (3*) and environmental impact (3*). We want Reltex to be a place where our customers enjoy doing business and come back to us and a place where people like to work. We want to be respected and welcome in the communities where we do business. With our code of conduct are main goals are: The provision of a safe workplace where human and civil rights are respected  Minimal impact on the environment  Maintaining high ethical standards VISION AND MISSION STATEMENT OUR VISION We believe that success comes from cooperation. We put all of our company resources at the service of our customers and partners, from our production facilities, to our experience and network of experts, to our knowledge, energy and the innovative spirit of our people. Our vision is to be a true partner to our clients, providing the highest quality products and services to provide relief to disaster victims all over the world. OUR MISSION Our mission is to be the most trusted provider of international quality humanitarian relief goods whose indepth understanding of our clients’ needs and technical expertise allows us to deliver innovative products quickly and efficiently to wherever they are needed most. HUMAN RIGHTS: Assessment, Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principles & internationally proclaimed human rights. Goals Reltex’s approach to respecting human rights consists of several core elements, including adherence to corporate policies, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, regular dialogue and engagement with our stakeholders and contributing, directly or indirectly, to the general wellbeing of the communities within which we work. Reltex believes that employers should always listen to their employees and should defend their rights by providing appropriate working conditions. Priniciple 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Reltex strongly believes that all employees deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. There is to be no harsh and inhumane treatment, including any sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse of workers, nor is there to be any threat of any such treatment. Implementation All of our employees are provided with free uniforms, free hot lunches, health insurance, childcare and paid training programmes. We pay our staff 8% over the Kenyan minimum wage. It is Reltex’s policy to provide a safe working environment for all its employees. To this end, risk management systems are regularly reviewed by our Health & Safety Manager to properly identify, control and prevent accidents in the workplace. When accidents happen, employees should be treated fairly during the subsequent investigation. Safety procedures should never be compromised to meet operational targets. All serious incidents will need to be explained to the Executive Leadership Team.  Health & Safety Manuals are available to all staff and copies are kept in the staff canteen and in the staff changing rooms.  First aid training now provided by representatives of the Kenyan Red Cross, who visit the factory on a quarterly basis.  Fire drilling and training now provided by G4, who visit the factory on a quarterly basis.  Implementation of an Anti-Harassment Policy. Measurement  Regular review of risk management systems. Outcomes  Regular staff reviews to highlight any areas for improvement.  The factory has been inspected and certified by the Kenyan Ministry of Labour.  All production sites are visited and regularly assessed by Reltex management to ensure that our required standards are adhered to.  Appropriate action is taken to assist suppliers in making any necessary improvements.  Audits are also carried out by our framework partners. LABOUR: Assessment, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principles & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Goals Reltex respects the individual’s right to freedom of association and their choice of whether or not to join a trade union. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Reltex is opposed to forced labour and the occupational health and safety of our employees are among our priorities. Reltex complies with all applicable working hour requirements as established by The Kenyan Ministry of Labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. It is a company policy that Reltex does not employ anyone under the age of 18. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunities to our employees and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment based on religion, race, colour, gender, age, sexual orientation, political orientation, birth right or other status. Reltex employees should be particularly sensitive to actions or behaviours that may be acceptable in one culture but not in another Implementation As detailed in our Employee Code of Conduct, Reltex does not tolerate harassment or any behaviour which creates a hostile, offensive or intimidating environment for its employees. The Code has been made available to all our employees and makes clear our approach to breaches of policy, which will lead to a process of investigation and, when appropriate, dismissal. Reltex employees are not required to work overtime, but can voluntarily undertake overtime at times of international emergencies. As per the Kenyan Employment Act, section 8, every employee is entitled to at least one rest day in every period of seven days. Overtime rates are paid in accordance with Kenyan statutory regulations. Our suppliers are required to adhere to the same principles as Reltex as detailed in our Policy Statement on the Sourcing of Goods & Services. Measurement  All production sites are visited and regularly assessed by Reltex Outcomes management to ensure that our required standards are adhered to.  Appropriate action is taken to assist suppliers in making any necessary improvements.  Audits are also carried out by our framework partners. ENVIRONMENT: Assessment, Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principles & environmental challenges Goals Reltex has an effective environmental policy and also complies with existing legislation and regulations regarding the protection of the environment. Reltex supports a precautionary approach to environmental matters, undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourages the diffusion of environmentally technologies implementing sound life-cycle practices. We have been audited by the Kenyan National Environmental Management Agency (“NEMA”) and have been awarded a 5 star rating for social impact by the International body “GIIRS” based on our significant impact on the local community, treatment of workers, governance and environmental impact. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Chemical and other materials posing a hazard if released to the environment are identified and managed to ensure that there is safe handling, storage, recycling or reuse and disposal. Wastewater and solid waste generated from operators, industrial processes and sanitation facilities are monitored, controlled and treated as required prior to discharge or disposal. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Reltex is committed to minimising waste and maximising recycling. Waste of all types, including water and energy, are to be reduced or eliminated at the source of any practices such as modifying production, maintenance and facility processes, materials substitution, conservation, recycling and re-using materials. Implementation We are working to reduce our greenhouse gas emission related to our operations and products and to implement innovative solutions that expand our portfolio to meet the demands of our customers for affordable, reliable and clean supplies of energy. We are constantly testing new raw materials with lower carbon emissions and increasing our energy efficiency, investing in research and development and improved technology, pursuing business opportunities in promising, innovative energy technologies; and supporting flexible and economically sound policies and mechanisms that protect the environment. In addition: We have invested in a water recycling plant  We now have zero plastic waste as all of our plastic is recycled for use in the local market.  Staff are advised on updates to our environmental policy and encouraged to actively participate in recycling. Measurement  The Kenyan National Environmental Management Agency (“NEMA”) visits Outcomes the factory on a quarterly basis to carry out inspections of our water recycling plant.  The Kenyan National Environmental Management Agency (“NEMA”) visits the factory on a quarterly basis to carry out inspections of the emissions from our machines.  Regular environmental audits are carried out by a qualified audit expert who advises the management team on future strategies and new technologies.  We perform risk based environmental, social and health impact assessments (ESHIA) on all major capital projects to minimize negative impacts to surrounding communities, natural resources, air quality, land use, waste management, noise and public health.  We have been awarded a 5 star rating for social impact by the International Body “GIIRS” based on our significant impact on the local community, treatment of workers, governance and environmental impact. ANTI CORRUPTION: Assessment, Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principles & including extortion and bribery. Goals We are committed to conducting our businesses in a fair, honest and ethical manner, and in accordance with the laws and regulations of Kenya. Reltex does not engage in bribery or any form of unethical inducement or payment including facilitation payments or kickbacks. All employees are required to avoid any activities that might lead to, or suggest, a conflict of interest with the business of the Company. Corrupt practices are, therefore, unacceptable. We have a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. Reltex strongly believes in transparency and would disclose any situation that may appear as a conflict of interest and disclose to the UN if any UN official or professional under contract with the UN may have an interest of any kind in the supplier’s business or any kind of economic ties with the supplier. Reltex respects the fact that the UN has a zero tolerance policy and does not accept any kind of gift or any offers of hospitality Implementation  Reltex has a Code of Conduct which covers its anti bribery and corruption policies.   Whisteblowing procedures are in place to ensure any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be voiced. Reltex conducts comprehensive training of new employees and annually reconfirms that all employees are familiar with Reltex’s whistleblowing policy.   All employees are systematically made aware of the Code of Conduct and reminded of the whistleblowing procedures annually. The internal guidance sets out examples of the types of wrongdoing which should be raised by employees, including non-compliance with legal obligations or a breach of human rights. Measurement  All concerns raised during the year were addressed in line with Reltex’s Outcomes Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure.  Reltex has established feedback mechanisms in order to maintain accurate records which properly and fairly document all financial transactions. Internal control systems are subject to regular audits to provide assurance that they are effective in countering bribery and corruption.  Reltex prepares audited annual accounts which are verified by external auditors and would allow for the identification of any suspicious payments. January 2015
