UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Bacher Work Wear reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit us to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The Communication on Progress encompasses Bacher Work Wear A/S and the subsidiaries Bacher A/S, Kompaniet ApS and Webmore Uniforms A/S. Kind regards, Peter Vallentin CEO, Bacher Work Wear Our mission is to provide clothing of high quality, tailored to fit the customer's needs, efficiently and at a competitive price. At Bacher Work Wear, we see ourselves as a driver for future trends in the industry and we believe sustainability to be a pivotal factor. It is important to Bacher Work Wear to respond to our customers' needs. We find it necessary to invest in long-term sustainable solutions that will ensure that we, in the future also will be able to live up to our core values. We believe that sustainability simply is good business, as we lower our costs and utilize our resources better. We have been engaged in ethical principles and fair and responsible business conduct since the beginning, and so, our way of doing business is not only an attempt to meet future demand and expectations. We believe that through a structured approach to managing sustainability we will gain more as a business. As a leading supplier of work wear, uniforms and safety shoes, we believe that we carry a responsibility to drive the industry towards common goals for sustainability and through our business conduct set an example to follow. We are always looking to develop our business socially, economically and environmentally and in recent years Bacher Work Wear has evolved radically, which has resulted in increased market shares and thereby greater responsibilities. In collaboration with our suppliers, customers and other relevant stakeholders, Bacher Work Wear will determine how we most efficiently and with the greatest impact can make a difference.  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit in huHUMAN RIGHTS man rights abuses. Aim Bacher Work Wear support internationally proclaimed human rights, and we ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. It is our policy, at all levels of processes and activities of the company that the defined rights are guaranteed for everyone. We want to remain our focus on diversity at Bacher Work Wear and we are working continuously to create an inclusive workplace with room for everyone. Not only do we want to include all members of the organization – we also want to promote a culture with respect for the law and good practice with our suppliers. Our vision for the future is that we only do business with suppliers who have the same high standard of human rights as Bacher Work Wear. We believe that ongoing dialogue and close cooperation is one of the key elements in achieving the best results. Our aim is that our current and future suppliers not only respect international human rights, but also actively support them. Progress Compliance with the principles of UN Global Compact is a core value to our organization. In 2014, we shaped our Code of Conduct, which we require, as a minimum, all important partners and suppliers to sign. It is prepared in accordance with the UN Global Compact's ten principles. This Code of Conduct should have been available on our website in 2014, but unfortunately, we have not made this publicly available online as we are to launch a brand new web page which has been delayed. Results We are proud that we managed to get all important suppliers to sign our Code of Conduct in 2014. In order to promote transparency, and to reflect our serious approach to social responsibility, we will insure that our Code of Conduct will be on online. This will be visible at our website in 2015.  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; LABOUR  PRINCIPLE 4: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Aim  PRINCIPLE 5: the elimination of all forms of forced and We are aware that many elements must be optimized when undertaking the processes needed compulsory labor; to run a socially responsible company. As mentioned in previous communication on progress,  PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. this is still (and will continue to be) an on-going process. We want to focus on the process of production of the goods we sell and motivate all our suppliers to promote social responsibility within areas of concern. We still try to compel our suppliers to be responsible in ensuring that their production methods takes decent working conditions, respect to workers, trade unions and NGOs in producer countries into account. Moreover, Bacher Work Wear do not accept any kind of child labour, unreasonably long working hours or wages that do not meet appropriate industry standard in the country of production. Progress We want to take part in the improvement of labour conditions and promote a more ethical industry with a safer working environment. When we promote this to our suppliers, we are aware that we must take our own company in consideration and focus on our employee’s wellbeing. We believe in ensuring a healthy and safe working environment for all our employees is of great importance in the daily life of the individual and for the company in general. This is why we conducted the required workplace assessment with special regards to our employee’s well-being and general satisfaction at the work place. This has been conducted in collaboration with our working environment committee and CSR Consult as external consultant. We have used an external consultant with the aim to ensure the confidentiality of employees' responses and thus hoped for genuine and honest answers. Results Bacher Work Wear support the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and we work in accordance with Danish law. So far, no reports of violations, by either our own employees or suppliers, have come to our attention. Should it come to our attention that any violations take place, we claim the right to terminate the relationship immediately. It is the first time we have comparable data in regards to our own employee’s general well-being. Hence, we are not able to compare to previous years. From 2015 an on we will conduct this survey yearly, and the result will be evident in future COP.  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater ENVIRONMENT environmental responsibility; and  PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffuAim sion of environmentally friendly technologies. At Bacher Work Wear, we acknowledge that we have an impact on the environment – directly and indirectly. We continue to grow as an organization; hence, we find great responsibility to lead by example in ethical and sustainable business practise. It has encouraged us to strive for the vision of creating a balance between the needs of customers, and a systematic approach to environmentally friendly solutions. We believe that our focus on improving the environment – at Bacher Work Wear as well as our suppliers will benefit our investors, customers, suppliers and the environment. We are of cause obligated to comply with applicable Danish environmental laws and regulations, etc., and will impose on our suppliers, through our Code of Conduct, to follow the environmental principles of the UN Global Compact. Responsibility towards the environment is considered a key element to how Bacher Work Wear conduct business. It is quite simple. We find solutions to recycling, elimination of harmful substances and more sustainable transportation as good investments – another reason is that we believe the future consumer to be more concerned with our planet, general health and sustainable solutions. Progress We take great responsibility in defining environmental criteria within our line of products and along our supply chain. The prevailing aspect of Bacher Work Wear is still the elimination of harmful substances from our products. We aim to create awareness and transparency to ease the choice for our customers through our sustainable work wear line. We wish to make the responsible choice easier and therefore we continue to promote our Sustainable Work Wear line that will promote our suppliers’ most sustainable products. Results In 2014, we conducted a thorough analysis of our suppliers and found that no production of shoes could meet our required standard in relation to our Sustainable Work Wear line. In 2015 we are pleased to inform that SIKA Footwear is in the process of certifying a line of shoes with the well know Eco-label. Further, we now promote JALAS sustainable footwear, which is the first collection of safety footwear to be awarded EU's Ecolabel. On next two pages, you can read about the different certifications and labels our Sustainable Work Wear encompasses. CERTIFICATIONS & SUPPLIER INITIATIVES ÖEKO-TEX The Öeko-Tex® Standard 100 is an independent GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) testing and certification system for textile raw materials, Only textile products that contain a minimum of 70% organic intermediate and end products at all stages of production. fibers can become GOTS certified. All chemical inputs must meet Öeko-Tex is a health care label, which predominantly ensures the endspecific environmental and toxicological criteria ensuring your skin user against toxic fumes. is less exposed when in contact with the material. The Standard is recognized as the world's leading processing standard for textiles made from organic fibers. It defines high-level environmental criteria along the RECYCLED MATERIALS entire organic textiles supply chain and requires compliance with social criAs part of our environmental strategy to minimizing teria as well. In addition to Organic Exchange we wish to support this initiawaste we promote the conservation of natural resources. tive. NORDIC ECO LABEL ORGANIC EXCHANGE The Nordic Eco label is a voluntary eco-labeling scheme The Organic Exchange is a non-profit business organization that evaluates a product's impact on the environment focused on creating environmental and social benefits throughout the whole life cycle. The label guarantees, among through the expansion of organic agriculture. The first projects other things that climate requirements are taken into account, focuses on transitioning 10% of the world’s supply and demand of cotand that CO2 emission (and other harmful gasses) are limited where it is ton to organic cotton within 10 years. The Organic Exchange also works most relevant. The European Eco-label scheme enables European consumers, to help increase consumer awareness and Bacher Work Wear want to including public and private purchasers, to identify officially approved green participate and help this development. products across the European Union. New Wave produces this brand and Besides the prestigious Eco-label certiColumbia Sportswear has undergone ID has the following certifications: they relate specifically to employee refication one of Jalas shoe lines has everything from transportation, lightWRAP, Oeko-tex and BSCI all showlations by their suppliers their Code of achieved the company follows ISO ing, waste to package their products. casing socially responsible business Conduct comly to the UN Global Com14001 and focuses on everything from They also have philanthropic projects operations. In addition, ID has formupact principles. recycleing and transport to minimiza( HER-project & Medical Terms etc.). lated a Code of Conduct based on the tion of chemicals in productiontion. UN Global Compact principles http://www.columbia.com/hishttp://www.newwave.dk/miljoeetik.html http://www.ejendals.com/about-us/our-retory/About_Us_History,default,pg.html www.id.dk/code-of-conduct.aspx sponsibility/ Lloyd conduct responsible business beThey expect all suppliers to sign their Large parts of F-Engels work wear is They keep an eye on the vendors in the haviour in everything from suppliers, Code of Conduct and thus comply with certified according to the EU Eco-label form of visits to the factories, and exthe community to the environment for REACH & Global Compact. In addition, and öeko-Tex. In addition, they focus pect them to live up to international reemployees. Like us, they believe that they are working continuously on certion labour, energy consumption and restrictions regarding working environsustainability should be seen as a comfication of all their products to become cyclable packaging. ment & conditions. They have initiated petitive factor. Oeko-Tex certified. studies of chemical content after dyehttp://www.lloyd-hoes.com/en/lloyd-comhttp://www.fristadskansas.dk/en/aboutwww.f-engel.com/index.php/en/proing. pany-ervice/company/corporate-social-refristads-kansas/sustainability/ file/code-of-conduct No infofrmation available online sponsibility/ For three years, they have supported Specifically Uvex relate to their direct MASCOT Vietnam has obtained SA Snickers follows ISO 14000:2004, an enthe UN Global Compact. Their COP is and indirect impact on the environment 8000 cert., ensuring employees' rights vironmental management system testimonial to the approach to CSR. throughout the value chain. In addition, and an effective management system based on the company, its processes They perform self-audits and examines they abide to the UN Global Compact that controls their suppliers employee and activities. It allocates responsibility, not only the quality but also working principles on labour rights. relations. competences and describes the enviconditions. See their COP: ronmental tasks of everyday life. www.youprofile.com/dk/?page=download http://www.uvex.de/en/about-uvex/ http://www.snickersworkwear.com/aboutwww.mascot.dk/en/About/CSR us/standards/  PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and ANTI-CORRUPTION bribery Aim Bacher Work Wear follows a policy of zero tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery. We will not accept any kind of corruption related to our business and we expect all our employees and partners in the supply chain to embrace this. Progress Our Code of Conduct will address this issue and require that our suppliers have the same position as us – willingness to fight corruption. At present, 10 out of 18 of our suppliers are transparent in terms of their approach to anti-corruption. The goal for the next COP is that 100 percent of our suppliers (purchasing volume exceeding 1.5%) sign our Code of Conduct. Results We have not registered or been made aware of any cases from our suppliers in relation to corruption. If this should happen, we will take it seriously and act immediately. If the violations is to comprehensive we will cease cooperation with the accused party.
