2014 Annual and CSR Report PROFILE A network of over 100 companies TABLE OF CONTENTS The Chairman’s letter ..................................................... 2 Corporate governance bodies ............................ 4 MILESTONES Summary of financial information ............. 10 AS AN INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING Summary of non-financial indicators ...... 12 GROUP, Fives designs and supplies Africa / The Middle East € 167M Highlights .................................................................................. 14 machines, process equipment and Highlights and territories ........................................ 16 SALES production lines for the world’s OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS Our expertise ...................................................................... 20 largest industrial players in the aerospace and special machining, 11% Innovation ................................................................................... 22 Service ......................................................................................... 24 aluminium, automotive and Aerospace and special machining .................. 26 manufacturing industries, cement The Americas € 450M Aluminium .................................................................................... 28 and minerals, energy, glass, logistics Automotive and manufacturing industries ..... 30 SALES and steel sectors. 29% Cement and minerals ..................................................... 32 Energy .............................................................................................. 34 Glass ................................................................................................... 38 Logistics ..........................................................................................40 Steel .................................................................................................... 42 Asia / Oceania € 396M OUR COMMITMENTS In brief .............................................................................................46 SALES 25% Ethics ................................................................................................. 48 With our team ......................................................................... 50 With our partners ................................................................ 52 Health, Safety and Environment ........................ 54 General public ......................................................................... 56 Europe € 547M INDICATORS Financial indicators ............................................................60 SALES Non-financial indicators UN Global Compact .............................................. 62 .......................................................... 68 35% and representative offices in about 30 countries 1,560 M of sales Located in nearly 30 countries and with almost 8,000 employees, Fives is recognized for its technological expertise and competence in executing international projects. 1,865 M Fives’ multisector expertise gives it a global vision of the industry which provides a continuous source of innovation. The effectiveness of its R&D programs enables Fives to design forwardthinking industrial solutions that anticipate clients’ needs in terms of profitability, performance, 135 MEBITDA of order intake safety and compliance with environmental standards. The Group's strategy is also based on a human resources policy that is focused on initiative and technical excellence. of Close to 8,000 employees The ability to listen, strong dedication and pioneering spirit make Fives a partnering group for its clients with the capability to anticipate their needs and propose the most efficient, relevant and forward-thinking solutions. THE PRINCIPAL SECTORS OF ACTIVITY AEROSPACE AND SPECIAL MACHINING • ALUMINIUM • AUTOMOTIVE AND MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES • CEMENT AND MINERALS • ENERGY • GLASS • LOGISTICS • STEEL Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report Optimism THE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER THE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER The global economic climate in 2014 was less steel sheet production lines for Wisco and Baotou in Fostering a new competitive industry margin at 8.7%, up from 8.2% in 2013, growth in favorable than expected at the beginning of the China; a number of orders taken for automated As projected, Fives and copilot company Dassault service activities (12% constant scope and exchange year. Over the course of a few months, it became parcel sorting in Japan for Yamato Transport, Systèmes presented the French government in May rates), record net profits (€75.4 million as of late increasingly uncertain and volatile, primarily due to Sagawa Express and Fukuyama, in Europe for TNT 2014 with a roadmap centered around the Factory of 2014 versus €44.6 million the year before), a strong recurring geopolitical crises in Eastern Europe, the Express, DHL and Mango, in Australia for Toll Ipec the future plan, promoting the emergence of a balance sheet, and solid cash flow are all undeniable Middle East and some emerging countries, health and TNT, and in the United States for FedEx; the sale competitive French industry as part of the “ Nouvelle assets which give Fives an optimistic and ambitious epidemics in Western Africa, and economic of many composite fiber placement machine tools France Industrielle ” initiative. Fives has been assigned outlook for the future. downturns in the European Union and Japan. This for Boeing and Airbus; several large orders in the US an active role in the creation of pilot production lines, a 02 course of events finally took a toll on the Group’s automotive sector (primarily for Ford), in China and truly emblematic showcase of tomorrow’s cutting-edge Fives will resume its expected level of growth activity financial performance. Europe (mainly for Nissan and Jaguar Land Rover); technology. The Group will actively participate in in 2015 by capitalizing on its assets, controlling its 03 and finally, several renewed industrial maintenance implementing ambitious research and development costs and risks, elevating its agility and more quickly A new record of order intake in 2014 contracts for Snecma and successfully winning new programs in the fields of robotics, connected machine reacting to change, continuing to prioritize innovation This caused Fives’ revenue to decline from 2013 customers like DCNS, Nexter and Dispeo. tools, additive manufacturing, non-destructive testing, and international development, and finding ways to (€1,560 million versus €1,626 million in 2013), despite as well as new materials, most notably composites. attract and nurture new talent to enhance the the full-year contribution of the three latest — Second, on the production side, the successful Group’s diversity. acquisitions (Fives Machining Systems, Fives OTO commissioning of the world’s largest aluminum FivesWAY is moving all the growth drivers and Fives ITAS). This drop in activity did not stop plant for Ma’aden in Saudi Arabia and a pot gas into action Fives from achieving slightly higher gross operating treatment center to equip the new Rio Tinto Alcan Launched in 2013, the FivesWAY global company income, up from €133 million in 2013 to €135 million plant in Canada using high amperage AP 60 project continued and intensified in 2014. This project in 2014. By diversifying its end markets and having technology; a successful startup last summer of the reflects Fives’ ambition to keep growing through its a presence in some 30 countries, in 2014 the Group final assembly shop for two high-end Range Rover business model based on decentralization and team took in a record number of orders totaling almost models at the Jaguar Land Rover plant in Solihull, in accountability, the driving forces behind the €1,9 million. The year 2014 appears to have been a the UK; the acceptance of several line and reheating entrepreneurial mindset and the Group’s signature transitional year, before an expected rebound in furnaces for the Chinese and American steel pioneering spirit. It also aims to influence all the 2016 and beyond, reflecting a replenished backlog. industry; and finally, the delivery of several sorting growth drivers by shifting them into higher gear FIVES has undeniable centers in Japan, Korea and Australia. (Customer, Operational excellence, Innovation, People) and encouraging transparency and fairness assets that enable it to A number of commercial or production successes Fives also continued its research and development in the Group’s relationships with all its internal and face the future with marked the year 2014: efforts in 2014 with more spending increases from one external stakeholders. year to another totaling €33.1 million, up 18% from optimism and ambition. — First, on the commercial side, two turnkey cement 2013 and new patented inventions (53 in 2014, well Optimism and ambition for the future Frédéric Sanchez, plants in Algeria and Qatar and a grinding workshop above the Group’s annual objective) that brought the With a record-setting order volume and a replenished Chairman of the Executive Board for Lafarge in the Philippines; several new carbon number of active patents worldwide to nearly 1,900. order backlog (€1.5 billion), an improved EBITDA Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BODIES GOVERNANCE THE FIVES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE is comprised of decision-making Daniel Brunelli-Brondex Benoît Caratgé Country Director, India Head of the Steel/Glass Division and supervisory bodies (Executive Board and Supervisory Board) that include expert and advisory committees (Executive Committee, Jean-Marie Caroff Alain Cordonnier Michel Dancette Steering Committee and Coordination Committee). Frédéric Sanchez Head of the International Development Department Head of the Cement Division Head of Innovation and Corporate Insight ittee The Group’s international dimension led Fives to create four country e Comm Chairman of the Executive Board The Executiv divisions (North America, China, India and Italy) and three Steering 04 Committees in China, France and North America. These bodies provide 05 support coordinating the Group’s major geographic territories and foster relations between the functional and operational units. Frédéric Renaud Country Director, Italy Sylvain Dulude Jean-Paul Sauteraud The Executive Country Director, North America Group General Counsel Lucile Ribot Martin Duverne Jean-Camille Uring Board Member of the Executive Board Member of the Executive Board Member of the Executive Board Group Chief Financial Officer Paule Viallon Hugues Vincent Michelle XY Shan Head of the Human Resources Department Head of the Aluminium Division Country Director, China Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BODIES The Steering Committees The Executive Board is forming a series of regional Steering Committees whose prime purpose is to act as a creative melting pot for the Group. GOVERNANCE In each major region, their membership includes Group company CEOs and functional departmental heads from within headquarter and/or the region concerned. They promote regional cross-disciplinary and ensure that the Group’s management bodies are fully in touch with operational needs. First introduced in 2012 in France, North America and China, then later set up in India, similar committees The Executive Board The Supervisory Board will be formed at a future date in other countries. The Executive Board currently has four members The Supervisory Board exercises permanent and is responsible for the management of the control over the management of the company The Coordination Committee Group. It has the most extensive powers to act on by the Executive Board. It meets to consider the The Executive Board is forming the Coordination Committee with the intention of boosting crossbehalf of Fives under all circumstances, only limited quarterly report to be submitted by the Executive functional interaction. This new body is being formed specifically to: 06 by the sole purpose of the company and powers Board, and inspects and verifies the documents ‒ provide overall development support and assistance to Group companies, 07 expressly vested by the Supervisory Board and associated with the corporate and consolidated ‒ act as a channel for informal communication, shareholder meetings. financial statements of the Group. ‒ ensure consistency between the policies and the recommended measures. Every member of the Executive Board also have As of December 31, 2014, the 7 Supervisory Board personal responsibility for supervising one or more members are: Philippe Reichstul (Chairman), of the Group’s operational divisions and one or Jacques Lefèvre (Honorary Chairman), Dominique several functional Fives departments. Gaillard (Vice-Chairman), Lise Fauconnier, Antonio THE FRANCE STEERING Marcegaglia, Jean-Georges Malcor and Laurence THE COORDINATION COMMITTEE The Executive Committee Parisot. COMMITTEE is where we To support it in its decision-making, the Executive provides the opportunity to share ideas The Country Heads come together to map out Board has introduced an Executive Committee on a regular basis on a variety of whose members include the Group’s key The Country Directors act simultaneously as a substantive matters such operational and functional managers. leader, coordinator and representative for Group programs at Fives, collectively reflect on IN CHINA, WE HAVE FORMALIZED as the service offer, R&D As the body responsible for consultation, initiatives at the national level. They also manage common issues and coordinate a Steering Committee of general managers recommendation and implementation, the Fives’ relationships with local stakeholders, and strategy and networking. Executive Committee meets to consider issues coordinate the relationship between these subsidiary-related actions as much as and functional managers in the country Our objective is to submit submitted to it, and to support the Executive Board stakeholders and national Group companies. possible. It is an invaluable space to from departments such as finance, in reaching those decisions that fall within its scope recommendations to of competence. exchange and improves our efficiency! human resources and marketing It also examines the proposals for improvement put the Executive Board to Estelle Fontenay, Director of CSR and communications. forward by the Steering and Coordination implement at the Group Committees. Its tasks include coordinating and This body enables us to properly align monitoring the implementation of Group policies. level that are also helpful our priorities and implement local action and adapted for all plans that are coherent with the Group’s subsidiaries. commitments. Bruno Carbonaro, Director of Manufacturing Technologies Michelle XY Shan, Country Director, China Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report MILESTONES MILESTONES 10 SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION 08 12 SUMMARY OF NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS 09 14 HIGHLIGHTS 16 HIGHLIGHTS AND TERRITORIES Re s i l i e n t MULTISECTOR EXPERTISE AND INTERNATIONAL DIMENSION make Fives a resilient group. SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION BREAKDOWN OF SALES BREAKDOWN OF SALES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY END MARKET 11% 14% MILESTONES 29% 33% 12% € 1,560M of sales 35% 25% 19% 22% 10 11 1,865M Aerospace and Cement Africa / The Middle East Asia and Oceania special machining Energy The Americas Europe Automotive / Logistics Metals € Driven by two turnkey cement plant contracts signed during the year, the Group’s 2014 order intake reached a record €1,865 million, a 52% of order intake ORDER INTAKE AND increase after a disappointing 2013 (€1,227 million). SALES AND EBITDA CLOSING ORDER BOOK SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY 376M 1,224 However, the economic slowdown in emerging Resilience 1,049 86.3 1,117 225.3 countries, coupled with the emergence of regional 2010 2010 2010 geopolitical tensions and industrial growth below € 1,674 expectations in the United States, did affect small 1,268 99.0 1,552 245.6 and medium order volumes that saw a modest 2011 2011 2011 1,324 uptick despite higher service activity. shareholder’s equity 115.1 1,508 1,379 247.2 2012 2012 2012 This state of affairs had a direct effect on the year’s 164M 1,227 turnover. With the two large cement plant contracts 1,626 133.0 1,125 291.7 only in the early stages, amounted to €1,560 million, 2013 2013 2013 down 4% compared to 2013 (€1,626 million). FIVES HAS ONCE AGAIN DEMONSTRATED RESILIENCE of its business model 1,865 € based on multisector activity and worldwide presence, even in a trying EBITDA remained buoyant at €135.1 million and 2014 1,560 135.1 2014 1,494 2014 376.4 was up slightly compared to 2013 (€133.0 million). economic and geopolitical climate. of cash flow € million € million € million At the close of the fiscal year, the order book was Lucile Ribot, Member of the Executive Board, Group Chief Financial Officer Sales Order intake Closing shareholder’s equity €1,494 million, or 33% higher than when the year EBITDA Closing order book opened (€1,125 million) and provides clear visibility for the Group on its level of activity for 2015. Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report SUMMARY OF NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS Human resources BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA Environment Safety MILESTONES 16% 84% men and 16% women 50% 36 Among women ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION OF INDUSTRIAL SITES WORK ACCIDENTS 82 23% % are engineers 12 and managers 2010 8.20 11% 13 0.208 10 81 Africa, Asia and Oceania 2011 7.57 The Americas 0.165 Europe (excl. France) France 74 89 2 2012 6.63 7.49 25 0.135 Innovation 6 62 72 2013 5.34 products earned the Engineered Sustainability® brand: 5.86 45% Sites certified in 2014 0.184 R&D BUDGET Since 2012, R&D spending has The new chamber-type washer, CentriSpray™; the reheating furnace, increased by Certification objectives carried over to 2015 0.182 Certification objectives planned for 2016-2018 19.8 Stein Digit@l Furnace®; a module to process gases released during 2010 68 aluminum production, Ozeos™; the electromagnetic mixing and 4.90 77 more than pumping system for the Genios™ aluminum furnaces; the Pillard 2014 21.2 NovaFlam® cement plant burner; and the GENI-belt™ baggage 5.36 2011 0.208 conveyor and sorting system 0.207 22.7 2012 MORE DETAILS Lost-time accidents Employees + temporary employees lost-time accidents Accident frequency rate Employees + temporary employees accident frequency rate Accident severity rate 2013 2014 28.1 33.1 532 patent families in force INDICATORS section p. 62 Employees + temporary employees accident severity rate www.fivesgroup.com R&D budget in € million At the heart of Fives Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report HIGHLIGHTS Operational Performance Department This department aims to help the subsidiaries strengthen their performance in implementation, particularly in safety, purchasing, project execution and manufacturing. It is chiefly tasked with providing and sharing Élysée signing expertise, establishing standards and implementing best practices. ceremony MILESTONES Intellectual Fives and steelmaker Wisco signed a cooperation agreement to create a manufacturing joint venture in Wuhan, China. The contract was signed in March property Factory of the future at the Élysée during the official visit of Chinese president Xi Jinping. An active policy Fives patented 53 new inventions in 2014, Safety Award Fives continues to plan and work on the factory of the future and the industry March Alcoa awards Fives Acquisition bringing the total number of active patents to of tomorrow. The Group opened a ”Great Debate” on the role of people in the 1,859 for the Group (divided into 532 patent For the fourth month in a row, Fives was awarded factory of the future through the Fives Plants of the Future Observatory. Fives 14 In January, Fives completes its combustion offer with the acquisition families). These developments were the result for its excellent safety performance on the Alcoa is also co-coordinating the French government’s “ Nouvelle France Industrielle ” 15 of Italian company ITAS, which has been renamed Fives ITAS. For of concerted internal efforts (global innovation Tennessee Automotive Project. initiative for the Factory of the future plan and has worked with partners to close to 40 years, ITAS has been supplying equipment mostly in the competition) and an R&D budget that has been establish 43 drivers of competitiveness. gas and oil sectors and for environmental applications. steadily increasing for many years. December January May September China On the web Automotive Research partnership A very eventful 2014 Find everything Fives has to offer! Startup of the new line for Fives signed a framework agreement with CEA Tech that will give the Group As part of the France-China Committee’s Under the Fives brand, the Group’s multisector offer is presented by business Jaguar Land Rover access to laboratory resources for their technology development programs. “ So French, So Innovative ” campaign to promote line: Aluminium Automation Cement | Minerals Chemtec Combustion Jaguar Land Rover started up its production French innovation in China, Fives won an award Cryogenics | Energy Cutting Tools | Abrasives Filling | Sealing Glass line for the Range Rover Sport L494 and CX17 in the Innovative Product category for its Grinding | Ultra Precision Induction Intralogistics Maintenance SUV at its Solihull plant. For this project, Fives AdvanTek® WRT 2.0 combustion system for Manufacturing Metal Cutting | Composites Piping Solutions Steel built the final assembly shop and supplied continuous flat steel production lines. Sugar | Bioenergy. The offer is showcased in a new Web platform. fluid filling equipment. The Group expanded its organization in China with a new Marketing & Communications Manager and Service Manager, who have been tasked with helping increase brand recognition Cement and minerals and tailoring the Group’s initiatives for the Chinese market. A new research center MORE ON In 2014, the Group installed its new R&D Test Facility for the cement and mineral grinding industries. The center www.fivesgroup.com will contribute to the research and development of new equipment and processes mainly focusing on energy and environmental performance. Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report HIGHLIGHTS AND TERRITORIES Africa and the The Americas MILESTONES Guatemala their investments in large-scale automated sorting sorting system. The equipment supplied by Fives Middle East Sugar and bioenergies: equipment for centers. Steel belt, cross-belt and slide sorter will comprise 2 cross-belt loops for a total length of The United States optimizing the plant technologies have been selected by Sagawa 1.4 km, 22 induction lines and 8 Linear Parcel Boeing’s trust The Pantaleon Group selected Fives to design, Express, Yamato Transport and Fukuyama Singulators. Algeria and Qatar In the aerospace sector, Boeing S.C. renewed its manufacture and assemble onsite a vertical Transport. Fives was awarded two new cement contracts trust in Fives for a fifth automated composite fiber crystallizer, massecuite reheater and Cail & Fletcher France Fives booked an order with Entreprise des Ciments placement machine for manufacturing fuselage SUMO pumps for process optimization at its main The Philippines Combustion: A project for the city of Paris et Dérivés d’El Chellif (ECDE), a subsidiary of sections for its airliners. plant in Guatemala. Cement: A new contract with Lafarge As part of the second phase of the gas Groupe Industriel des Ciments d’Algérie (GICA), Fives has put an order in place to supply a turnkey conversion project for the city of Paris network 16 17 Asia and Oceania for the supply of its third production line. cement grinding workshop for Lafarge Republic Inc. heating district, Fives and the Pillard LoNOxFlam G2 The contract covers the turnkey construction of technology were again selected by the French Nuclear maintenance: Fives signed a framework Europe a new line with a daily capacity of 6,000 tons boilermaker CNIM. In 2013, the Belgian agreement with EDF of clinker, scheduled to be operating at the end Australia company CMI chose Fives for the first phase As part of the multi-year maintenance programs of 2016. Logistics: Toll IPEC and TNT renewed their trust in Fives of this major project. and upgrades for the French nuclear fleet, EDF has Qatar National Cement Co. chose Fives for Australia’s top two express shipping companies Belgium and Germany awarded Fives a four-year renewable framework the realization of its fifth clinker production line opted for Fives’ cross-belt technology to automate DHL and TNT chose Fives Industrial maintenance: Safran renews its agreement for the “Caux Manche” section for the with a daily capacity of 5,000 tons of clinker, their Melbourne facilities. Fives will execute the retrofit of the sorting system confidence sites of Gravelines, Flamanville and Penly. MORE DETAILS which follows their three previous lines that it had previously built as well as automating a The Safran Group renewed maintenance contracts MARKETS section p. 26-43 were supplied by the Group. China new 35,000 m2 building for DHL site extension with Fives for the Snecma plants in Gennevilliers Italy www.fivesgroup.com Business way Steel: A confirmed leading position in Leipzig. and Corbeil which design and manufacture Steel tube segment: Ilta Inox trusts in Fives In the steel tube segment: A new contract for Fives for process lines Fives was chosen by TNT to revamp its main air subassemblies for aircraft engines. Ilta Inox (Arvedi Group), which already operates The Korean tube manufacturer Nexteel chose Fives In the flat steel segment, the Group was awarded hub in Liège airport and supply a new automated two lines supplied by Fives, has asked the Group to for the supply of a complete line, including key four complete lines – three continuous galvanizing supply a new mill that offers high production equipment for welded tube manufacturing (ERW), lines and one continuous annealing line – as well flexibility thanks to an innovative design. and tube finishing equipment for its new site as a contract for one vertical line furnace for Inner in Houston. Mongolia Baotou Steel Union Co. and Guangxi Iron United Kingdom and Spain A strong & Steel Group Co. (Wisco group). Automotive: Two new projects for Nissan Renowned high environmental performance In the automated production systems segment, technologies Grinding: Recognized technologies international network Nissan placed an order with Fives to extend its final In combustion, Fives was awarded a contract Fuda, a tier 2 Chinese subcontractor, chose Fives Fives supports its customers with more than 100 locations in about 30 countries. assembly line for SUVs as well as the design and by Albemarle Corp. for the retrofit of hot gas for the supply of six Landis LT2e grinders. This international network is based on companies which have associated commercial, industrial, R&D and supply of a new zone in its Sunderland plant, in the generators installed in Texas refineries to Service structures. Nine representative offices and three operational subsidiaries help the Group companies UK. The carmaker also awarded Fives an order for produce catalysts. Japan in local markets by providing country expertise (knowledge of the industrial structure, regulatory watch, refurbishing existing lines at its site in Barcelona, Logistics: A renewed confidence relations with institutions, sourcing, local supply, etc.). Spain, to produce a new model of pickup trucks. The Group’s legacy Japanese customers have once Representative offices: Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, the Middle East, Russia, Thailand and again put their faith in the Group’s technologies for Turkey. Operational subsidiaries: Brazil, China and India. Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report OUR EXPERTISE, OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS OUR MARKETS 20 OUR EXPERTISE 18 22 INNOVATION 19 24 SERVICE 26 AEROSPACE AND SPECIAL MACHINING 28 ALUMINIUM 30 AUTOMOTIVE AND MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES h o w 32 w CEMENT AND MINERALS Kno 34 ENERGY 38 GLASS 40 LOGISTICS 42 STEEL ANTICIPATING the customers’ needs and proposing leading technologies and associated services. a n d e x p e r t i s e OUR EXPERTISE Metallurgy: A unique expertise Support OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS Breakthrough technologies and Fives offers unparalleled metallurgy expertise with a focus on applications for flat carbon steels. It derives from extensive knowledge of the steel process and industry experts working to improve proprietary software for steel process management and steel coil production management. Thus, Fives offers its customers upstream advisory services to define their requirements, during the installation startup phase, and provide operational assistance. customer operational performance With its multisector and international expertise, Fives possesses the assets and resources to offer 20 its customers high-performance solutions and services based on innovative and sustainable 21 proprietary technologies. Fives: Designer and integrator Innovative and sustainable proprietary group, Fives has been a trailblazer in many machining and assembly shops. For many years, achieve maximum efficiency for production A large part of Fives’ activity is specializing in the technologies industrial sectors since its inception. Even today, it has extended this network to the Europeanprocesses with the Optimization Services range. design and supply of equipment, systems and Fives develops its own equipment. the Group continues to plan the factory of the American industrial platforms that have also been Lastly, Fives can align production equipment and services, and integrating equipment into operating Backed by a portfolio of nearly 1,900 active future to foresee the promising technologies of adopted in India and China, allowing it to address processes with new uses through its revamping, production lines to maximize the value of complete patents, Fives now has a huge range of proprietary tomorrow. local and export markets. The Group also built retrofitting and rebuilding services in the Evolution processes. technologies at its disposal. Since 2012, a growing supervision and engineering systems local to its Services range. number of these technologies is offering improved Expertise in manufacturing key subcontractors. Another chapter of the Group’s activity is energy and environmental performance to help Fives made the strategic choice to maintain full Fives has continued to structure and strengthen SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS after the tradition of large-scale projects based on its customers meet their sustainable development control over the production and assembly of key A global service offer its entities’ teams to improve customer satisfaction. MORE DETAILS proprietary equipment. In this case, the challenge objectives. elements of the supply chain and to outsource In service, Fives provides its customers with support The Group also grew its presence in China commissioning our equipment is INNOVATION section p. 22 COMMITMENTS section p. 46-57 lies not only in the ability to design and deliver The technologies developed by Fives continuously a large part of manufacturing. for the entire lifecycle of their installed equipment. and Brazil. fundamental. To strengthen our high-performance equipment, but also to integrate strive to provide the best operational performance The Group is structured to accommodate these At startup and in the operating phase, Fives keeps www.fivesgroup.com Business way them into a line or a complete plant, as and to be at the forefront of innovations in every approaches. Fives relies on an international equipment running like new through its Operation presence and ensure a relevant and an integrator and project manager. market where they are applied. As a pioneering network of highly skilled and accomplished Services range. The Group also helps its customers reactive response, we have redesigned our organization and Service structure to offer clarity and flexibility. As an industrial engineering Group, Fives designs and supplies machines, process equipment Didier Schieber, CEO of Fives Stein and production lines for the world’s industrial players in the aerospace and special machining, aluminium, automotive and manufacturing industries, cement and minerals, energy, glass, logistics and steel sectors. Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report INNOVATION Partnership OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS Inventing the factory of tomorrow In September 2014, Fives signed a framework agreement with CEA Tech. The solutions and resources this distinguished French research institution provides will help develop new technologies for processes and improve equipment in sectors like new materials, additive manufacturing, mobile robotics, heat loss recovery and heat storage. For 200 years, Fives has placed innovation at the heart of its development strategy. The solutions and equipment developed by the Group enable its industrial customers to meet their own current and future performance challenges, including energy and environmental performance. 22 23 An active innovation approach Technologies for more eco-friendly plants Inventing smart factories This led Fives to develop the Cail Fletcher Smart Fives designs pioneering innovations recognized by ‒ The annual in-house Fives Innovation Fives has a proactive policy for developing new, The factory of tomorrow will need to meet new Control, an application that uses a range of direct its customers for their breakthrough technology. In Awards competition cultivates the development more environmentally friendly technologies, economic challenges by quickly and accurately and remote devices (desktop computer, tablet or the interest of protecting its proprietary equipment, and application of new ideas. primarily through the Engineered Sustainability® adjusting production to new requirements and smartphone) to view run parameters for sugar the Group established an active patent filing policy. brand. Engineered Sustainability® embodies the shifting market conditions. centrifugals and give sugar plants options for ‒ Cross-functional R&D initiatives across the Fives Fives commitment to offer technologies that The undeniable drivers of a more agile and maintenance and to analyze performance. To further advance these innovations, Fives decided subsidiaries are on the rise, exploring topics like combine operational excellence and high effective plant are digital solutions, robotics and to open up its R&D and implement internal sensors, combustion... environmental performance. It is a mark of the cobotics. Fives has consolidated its position in these visionary programs. most advanced equipment in the industry that has areas and is developing solutions for its customers MORE DETAILS passed a rigorous inspection program. The Group that simplify operator tasks and allow for example, EXPERTISE section p. 20 ‒ Fives has partnered with stakeholders in the is also continuing its efforts to develop energy process optimization, maintenance and even MARKETS section p. 26-43 www.fivesgroup.com research community (research laboratories and recovery and storage solutions. energy consumption. At the heart of Fives institutions like CEA Tech and IRT Jules Verne in France, American and European universities, etc.) to gain access to the latest resources and accelerate new product development. R&D spending has increased 45 4Engineered 32% of patents In 2014, more products earned by more than % from 2012 to 2014. €33.1 M of R&D budget in 2014 407 ideas the Sustainability® are related to energy and 1,859 patents in force in 2014 submitted for the Fives Innovation Awards brand in 2014 environmental performance Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report SERVICE Local presence OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS Moving closer to our customers OUR CUSTOMERS TRUST US for the quality and performance of our technology as well as our ability to support them throughout the lifecycle In line with the Fives objective to always offer its customers the most flexible, responsive and tailored solutions, it continues to expand its range of services and add to its local teams working as of their equipment. We are an essential partner close to their production sites as possible. in our customers’ performance! Denis Bouteille, Service Director 24 25 A value-added Service offering Connected services are the future Renowned expertise in industrial maintenance The e-commerce company Dispeo also contracted Over the past few years, Fives has reinforced and Meanwhile, Fives continued to develop innovative and renewed customer confidence Fives for preventive and corrective maintenance at restructured its teams to rethink a full service services that merge its process expertise with the The Fives service line also includes industrial its two sites in the northern region of France. offering that accounts for the day-to-day constraints power of algorithms for analyzing production data. maintenance for complex production systems that is and increasingly specific objectives of its customers. The connected services allow remote connectivity known for its expertise and operational performance. Moreover, defense contractor Nexter Munitions Backed by its highly-skilled teams and thorough inside production units and thus anticipate and chose Fives to provide machine maintenance at knowledge of customer processes, the Group has prevent potential risks to provide optimum support. In 2014, the Safran Group turned once again to its La Chapelle Saint Ursin (Cher France). developed unparalleled and flexible tools that The applications range from remote repairs and Fives by renewing the Group’s contracts for enable manufacturers to optimize their installations. predictive maintenance to performance analysis Snecma plants in Gennevilliers and Corbeil that MORE DETAILS and optimization. They can optimize sugar plant design and manufacture sub-assemblies for aircraft IN CHINA, OUR MACHINE INSTALLATION The offering covers everything from operational income, certify a mill’s steel quality and perform engine makers. At the Gennevilliers site, the EXPERTISE section p. 20 support to retrofitting and upgrading equipment predictive maintenance by pre-empting mechanical Group’s scope of work was expanded in 2007 to BASE is large and spans a number of MARKETS section p. 26-43 COMMITMENTS section p. 46-57 and systems. At its foundation lies the Group’s equipment issues. include the plant’s entire machine fleet, which industrial sectors. In order to provide expertise, guidance and models that enable subcontracts its maintenance. At the Corbeil site, www.fivesgroup.com At the heart of Fives customers to maximize their production tool and which opened in 2011, the contract was extended optimum customer satisfaction, we have get the most from their equipment. and includes more areas of activity. strengthened our local teams. Frank Zhu, China Service and After Sales Vice President 22% Service of order intake is related to Between 2013 and 2014, Service order intake increased by 26% Service, a comprehensive and flexible offer Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report AEROSPACE In 2014, sales activity was impacted by the postponement THE eADU® is an automated drilling unit that meets the current FIVES OFFER High-precision machines and highAND SPECIAL OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS of a number of projects. On one hand, the two major performance composite processing systems: Large vertical gantry mills, highglobal manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, once again requirements of the aerospace industry in terms of cost, flexibility speed machining centers, profilers, stack pushed back their investment programs related to the and energy consumption. Its integrated electric motors and embedded routing machines, fiber placement and tape MACHINING “ second wave ” of their new long-haul aircraft. On the layer systems, boring mills and vertical turning other hand, bids going out to Russia were frozen. A few control and power electronics make it much more user friendly, with lathes, grinders, extrusion machining cells, broaching machines, automated drilling units opportunities did emerge from China but volumes were still energy consumption around 10 to 20 times less than that of traditional and portable milling machines. limited. pneumatic models. Services Evolution of new production lines, refurbishment and/or retrofit of machine tools and services: Upgrading, repair, industrial 26 transfer, production support, after-sales, 27 technical assistance and customer support. Corrective, preventive and enhanced maintenance with contracts with performance MAIN CUSTOMERS objectives and maintenance engineering support services. In aerospace, despite a flat market environment, Fives received several orders of a new integrated contouring head (HBM) cutting machine at one of its AEROLIA AIDC AIRCELLE AIRBUS GROUP ALENIA from the major customers in the sector due to the Group’s leading reputation in longstanding customers, which confirmed an order of four machines of this type. AEROMACCHI ASCO ASTRIUM ATK AVIC BACO this market in both machine tool and composite sectors. The machine incorporates a multi-function head capable of turning, milling, BAESYSTEMS BELL HELICOPTER BOEING Boeing S.C. entrusted the Group to provide a fifth automated composite fiber boring and drilling operations with increased quality and precision, while BOMBARDIER AEROSPACE BREK MANUFACTURING placement machine (VIPER® range) for its facility in Charleston specializing in requiring less tooling. Furthermore, the new “ VTC Y-Axis ” head attachment for CESSNA COMAC DASSAULT AVIATION EMBRAER manufacturing and assembling fuselage sections for its aircrafts. vertical turning centers has generated a strong interest and enabled the Group EXELIS FIGEAC AERO FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GENERAL c e Airbus Illescas, in Spain, also ordered its fourth Viper® 6000. This machine will to win numerous orders for new machines and retrofits of existing machines. a n DYNAMICS GENERAL ELECTRIC GKN AEROSPACEH ig h p e r f o r m equip the A350 production line, it will be the second machine while one machine GOODRICH HAL HAWKER BEECHCRAFT HÉROUX MORE ON is already running in the plant for the A380, and another one in the research In terms of service, the teams’ expertise in rebuilds, modernization and upgrade DEVTEK HITCO CARBON COMPOSITES HONEYWELLwww.fivesgroup.com unit. The Viper® 6000 AFP technology, which has already been supplied for a enabled the Group to retain a large number of projects both in the aerospace HORSBURGH & SCOTT IAI INDONESIAN AEROSPACE — Metal Cutting | Composites number of other aerostructure programs as well as civil, military and space sector as well as industrial equipment with Triumph, GKN, National Oilwell Varco (IAE) IPT KAMAN AEROSPACE KAWASAKI KIA — Automation programs in the last 10 years, will have another opportunity to demonstrate its and Siemens Energy in the United States. Thanks to the efficiency of its spare KnAAZ KONGSBERG KOREAN AIR LOCKHEED — Cutting Tools | Abrasives high-quality performance in terms of composite application and productivity. parts and auxiliary products delivery system, the Group also continued to MARTIN MAGELLAN AEROSPACE MESSIER & — Grinding | Ultra Precision expand its customer portfolio. DOWTY MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES MTU AERO — Maintenance With regard to industrial equipment for the mining and oil and gas sectors, ENGINES NASA NORTHROP GRUMMAN NRC-CNRCthe Group’s business was impacted by the difficulties affecting these two end PREMIUM AEROTEC RAYTHEON ROLLS ROYCE markets, especially in the United States: Potential customers, already hit by cost SAAB SABCA SAFRAN SAMSUNG TECHWIN TAI overruns and delays on their current projects have been faced with falling oil TECHNOCAMPUS EMC TRIUMPH AEROSTRUCTURES prices, slowing all new investment. Bolstered by its range of high added-value UAC VOLVO AERO PCC XIAN AIRCRAFT ZODIAC technologies, Fives continued to develop its equipment, including the installation AEROSPACE… Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report ALUMINIUM 2014 began by confirming the 2013 trend. Despite a strong OZEOS™, the electrolysis pot gas treatment system, FIVES OFFER Raw materials OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS production deficit experienced by the market in the first Coal tar distillation. Liquid pitch marine terminal. half of the year, the recent increase of installations that in comparison to other solutions, can reduce polluting were put into operation and high inventory levels reduced emissions (hydrogen fluoride) by 20% and electricity Carbon Green anode plants, fume treatment centers, the impact on market prices, which did not inflate enough to justify new investments in more plants. Only isolated consumption by 5%, while still delivering a longer lifespan Firing and Control Systems (FCS) for anode baking furnaces and carbon pieces of equipment and services benefited from bids and reduced maintenance. butts recycling units. during the year. Electrolysis Gas treatment centers and bath processing units. 28 Casthouse 29 Holding and melting furnaces, heat treatment furnaces, and casthouse water cooling In spite of this environment, Fives was able to exploit the recognized expertise of Genios™, the electromagnetic liquid metal moving system for its casthouse systems. its teams and its technologies’ performance, working on existing lines and furnaces, while in Abu Dhabi the Fives teams commissioned the furnaces for the supplying isolated pieces of equipment and spare parts as well as carrying out new Emal phase 2 casthouse. maintenance for its established customers. With regard to secondary aluminium and special alloys, the Group’s teams also Thus, the aluminium producer Alba in Bahrain, tasked the Group with turnkey supplied or rebuilt nearly fifteen foundry furnaces for customers such as Alcoa modifications to its number 3 & 4 gas treatment centers, enabling it to up and Carpenter Technology, in North America. amperage and production on its number 5 line. In Saudi Arabia, Ma’aden Aluminium, to which Fives has supplied several pieces of process equipment, A year confirming the development of new technologies called on the Group’s technical support throughout the year to run and maintain In 2014, Fives finalized the design of several innovative technologies and systems its green anode plants and pot gas treatment centers. in partnership with its customers. At Alba in Bahrain, Fives commissioned and The Cascade alumina feed system for pot gas treatment centers, designed to tested a heat exchanger for cooling gas from electrolysis pots. At Century MORE ON improve the performance of capturing fluorine, has been chosen by Rio Tinto Alcan-Alma, in Quebec, while the Scottish arm of the same group selected Fives Aluminium-Vlissingen in Holland, the Group validated the Low NOx performance of its new injectors for the HeliosRT firing and control systems. At Ma’aden MAIN CUSTOMERS www.fivesgroup.com — Aluminium for two GeniosTM electromagnetic liquid metal moving and transfer systems for Aluminium in Saudi Arabia, the teams perfected a new system for catalytic ALBA ALCOA ALRO ANGANG STEEL ANYANG BAOSHUO — Chemtec its casthouse furnaces. removal of pitch fumes. With this technology, the fumes emitted by the liquid TAR CHEMICAL BHP BILLITON CENTURY ALUMINIUM pitch terminals can be treated while minimizing energy consumption and carbon CHALCO EGA HINDALCO HYDRO MA’ADEN ALUMINIUM Numerous commissioned all over the world footprint. RIO TINTO ALCAN RUSAL SHANXI COKING GROUP SOHAR In Canada, Fives commissioned the pot gas treatment center for the new Rio ALUMINIUM VEDANTA… Tinto Alcan plant in Jonquières, using very high amperage AP 60 technology. In Expertise India, the Group also commissioned the pot gas treatment centers for Balco’s first line (Vedanta Group) at the Korba site. Additionally, the Group commissioned the green anode plant and the firing and control systems on anode baking furnaces for Hindalco's new plant in Aditya. In Iceland, Nordural took delivery of Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report AUTOMOTIVE AND The pace of investment slowed in 2014 after the peak of FIVES OFFER Equipment and automated systems with MANUFACTURING THE CENTRISPRAY™ RANGE is dedicated to washing and OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS 2011-2013. In China, production capacity has now caught high production rates for machining, foundry, automation, assembly, integration of industrial up with demand. In the United States, the cycle of drying automotive parts. It delivers excellent environmental processes and production of composite panels rationalizing production methods and refurbishing plants performance, reducing energy consumption in comparison to and components. INDUSTRIES that began following the 2009 crisis is drawing to a close. In Brazil, India and Russia, activity was virtually at a standard equipment by a third, cutting down used air waste Corrective, preventive and enhanced maintenance with contracts with performance standstill in 2014, while in Europe the market, led by the by 65% thanks to controlled air output, while its operating objectives and maintenance engineering United Kingdom and Spain in particular, has returned to noise levels do not exceed 77 dB. support services. slow growth. 30 31 In the field of machining systems, the technologies developed by the Group, The Group confirmed its positioning on current vehicle final assembly programs, particularly for grinding, are recognized by major manufacturers both locally chiefly in Europe, where the programs launched in 2013 continued. Nissan made and internationally. Fuda, a tier 2 Chinese subcontractor operating in car and several orders with Fives, for extending their final assembly line for SUVs in the truck vehicle construction, chose Fives to support its growth strategy and UK, as well as adapting existing lines at its Barcelona site in Spain. A prototype diversification toward larger sub-assemblies for boat and locomotive engines. is scheduled to go through the new line in late May 2015 and mass production This partnership began in 2008 with orders the Group received to supply is set for the fall of 2015. In the UK, Jaguar Land Rover started up its new grinding systems for truck parts and has since seen major advances in 2014 with production line for the Range Rover Sport L494 and CX17 SUV at its Solihull plant. an order for six Landis LT2e grinders, four of which will be used to grind car engine crankshafts. It also opens new doors for the Group in grinding components For this project, the Group built the final assembly shop and supplied fluid filling equipment. In Russia, Fives obtained approval for the assembly shop built for the MAIN CUSTOMERS for larger engines in the shipbuilding sector. PSA production site in Kaluga. ALFING KESSLER ALSTOM ATLANTIC AUDI BAJAJ MORE ON MOTORS BAOSTEEL BMW BOSCH BOMBARDIER www.fivesgroup.com In the automated production systems segment, the CentriSprayTM range of With regard to sealing and filling systems, the Group has strengthened its CATERPILLAR CHANG’AN CHRYSLER CLAAS COPELAND — Automation robot solutions for part washing that was eco-designed by Fives has been a position in China by becoming key partner to numerous customers, including COSKUNOZ CUMMINS DAIMLER DALIAN DIESEL DELPHI — Cutting Tools | Abrasives great success. In the United States in particular it was chosen by Ford for the SGM, FAW Volkswagen, GE, DPCA and Ford Changan, and maintained its EADS EMERSON FIAT POWERTRAIN FAW FORD FUDA — Filling |Sealing launch of its new assembly line programs for automatic transmissions development in North America. At the same time it also contined to benefit from GENERAL MOTORS GOODRICH HONDA INGERSOLL — Grinding | Ultra Precision (10-speed/9-speed transmissions, 6F15 transmissions, D35 engines). Initial orders the programs launched in 2013 in Europe and by Japanese manufacturers in RAND JAGUAR LAND ROVER JOHN DEERE LEXMARK — Maintenance — Metal Cutting | Composites have also come in from China and South Africa. In 2014, Fives also started Southeast Asia. MAHLE MERCEDEX-BENZ MERCEDES-BENZ TECHNOLOGY g ie s production on two 9-speed automatic transmission assembly lines supplied to o lo MITSUBISHI OPEL PACCAR POLYNORM PSA PEUGEOT Pionee r in g t e c h n Chrysler for their Tipton plant in Indiana. CITROËN RENAULT-NISSAN RKS ROLLVIS SAAB SALM SANDEN SATEBA SAULNIER DUVAL SCANIA SEAT SGM With regard to service, the Fives teams also worked at Fiat Chrysler Automotive SIEBENWURST SKODA SVW TATA THALES THYSENKRUPP to modernize the control system for the Tigershark engine assembly line. TOYOTA VALLOUREC VOLKSWAGEN VOLVO WHB ZENHDER… Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report CEMENT AND The steady growth of global consumption (3.5 % excluding FIVES OFFER Complete turnkey cement plants MINERALS WITH THE PILLARD NOVAFLAM® BURNER, cement OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS China in 2014) has still not translated into a significant Process equipment for the cement industry recovery in investments. South America, with the exception manufacturers can use a wide range of fuels (including and mineral grinding of Mexico and Columbia, is dealing with weakened “ alternative ” fuels), increase production by 7%, and reduce (FCB Kiln, FCB Zero-NOx Preca, FCB Preheater, FCB By-pass system, FCB Horomill®, FCB B-mill, demand, while in Southeast Asia where consumer growth is high, local cement plants are struggling to find financial NOx emissions by up to 11%, all while offering increased FCB Rhodax®, FCB TSV™ Classifier, FCB Flash dryer, FCB Aerodecantor). backing. Driven by a strong demand for infrastructure, flexibility to respond to changing operating conditions and Africa and the Middle East are emerging as the most improving the consistency and grindability of the clinker. Engineering and clean combustion systems for rotary kilns, calcination and drying processes dynamic regions. Additionally, several countries such (Pillard NovaFlam®, Pillard RotaFlam®, etc.). as Algeria have released numerous call for bids over the past two years. Gas treament equipment 32 (TGT®, Sonair™ filters and EAD™ dry33 scrubbers) for kilns, coolers and mills. Associated services In 2014, Fives was awarded a significant number of sales orders, which of 6,000 tons of clinker with production due to begin at the end of 2016. For confirms the preference of its historic customers for its technologies and Fives, this is an opportunity to continue and strengthen collaboration through a team expertise. longtime partnership with the Algerian cement industry. Fives was awarded an order to supply a turnkey cement grinding workshop by To comply with changes in their environmental standards, American manufacturers Lafarge Republic Inc. for its Norzagaray site in the Bulacan province of the Armstrong Cement, CDM-Clean Harbor, Saint Gobain Bryant have chosen Philippines. This workshop is nearly identical to the one ordered in 2013 for the emissions filtration or purification systems developed by the Group. Teresa site. It will produce 850,000 tons of cement annually and will incorporate several proprietary process equipment developed by the Group, including a FCB With regard to commissioning, the Group completed the revamping and Horomill® grinding mill to reduce power consumption at the cement plants, thirdcapacity augmentation from 700 to 1,000 tons of clinker per day of the white generation FCB TSV™ separator, TGT® filter and Pillard HeatGen hot gas generator. cement line at Saudi White Cement Co. Although there were quality issues with MORE ON Qatar National Cement Co. chose Fives to build its fifth clinker production line, after having entrusted the Group in the past to build three previous lines. With a the quarry, the Group delivered equipment that now enables the plant to achieve expected performance levels after previously never reaching nominal capacity. MAIN CUSTOMERS www.fivesgroup.com — Cement | Minerals daily capacity of 5,000 tons, the new line incorporates all of Fives’ proprietary In Brazil, the slag cement grinding workshop Fives supplied was accepted by ARMSTRONG CEMENT ARGOS BUZZI-UNICEM CDM-CLEAN — Combustion Energy and equipment from raw material preparation to cement shipping (grinding FCB B-mills, Cimar, a joint venture between the Queiroz Galvão & Cornelio Brennand groups. HARBOR CEMENTIR CEMENTOS MOCTEZUMA CEMEX FCB TSV™ classifiers, an FCB Zero-NOx precalciner, a three-pier FCB kiln, Pillard In Niger, for Dangote, the Group’s teams commissioned combustion equipment CIMPOR CONCH DANGOTE HEIDELBERG HOLCIMNovaflam® burners, and TGT® process filters). It is designed to meet the extremely on two production lines, including fuel preparation systems, hot gas generators ITALCEMENTI LAFARGE NGHE AN CEMENT CO QATAR environmental high demand for cement created by an extensive list of infrastructure projects feeding the grinders and Pillard NovaFlam® nozzles which use fuel oil, natural NATIONAL CEMENT COMPANY SACCI SAINT GOBAIN planned in Qatar, including those related to the 2022 World Cup. gas and coal for the rotary furnaces as well as the precalciner burners. In BRYANT TITAN VICAT VINACONEX VINAINCON In 2014, Fives also obtained an order from Entreprise des Ciments et Dérivés Macedonia, Fives put two ferronickel production lines into operation, with a VOTORANTIM… d’El Chellif (ECDE), a subsidiary of Groupe Industriel des Ciments d’Algérie (GICA), rotary burner, a hot gas generator and Lepol type calcination kiln burners for performance for its third production line at its cement plant in Chlef, about 200 km west of each line. Algiers. The contract is for a turnkey delivery of a new line with a daily capacity Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report ENERGY CRYOGENICS INDUSTRIAL PIPING FIVES OFFER Industrial equipment primarily used OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS in energy production: ‒brazed aluminium plate-fin heat exchangers The global economic slowdown had a significant impact on The French market was stimulated by the ongoing Flamanville EPR site. With regard (for air separation units, ethylene production the global market of air gases, in particular in Asia, where to maintenance, the cost-cutting measures announced by EDF caused delays in the or liquidfied natural gas); major players put potential investments for air separation first major orders that were expected for France’s Major Retrofit ( Grand Carénage ) ‒ cryogenic piston and centrifugal pumps (for air separation units, hydrocarbon production units on hold. and post-Fukushima programs. However, Fives continues to expand its work for and distribution of any liquified gas); The hydrocarbon treatment market slowed down, but this customer on recurring maintenance framework agreements for French nuclear ‒ engineering, supply, manufacturing and investments continued, in particular in North America. The power plants. assembly of highly technical piping (new construction or refurbishing). strength of the euro had an adverse effect on exports. Combustion systems designed for electric and thermal energy production and for 34 industrial processes. 35 Equipment and complete plants primarily used in sugar and bioethanol production. Fives pursued designing and supplying heat exchangers (commissioned EDF signed a four-year renewable framework agreement with Contracted by Areva, Fives will also carry out work on auxiliary alone or assembled in cold boxes) and pumps for cryogenic applications, Fives for its multi-year maintenance programs and piping during the replacement of the steam generators at both for its legacy customers like Air Liquide, Air Products and Praxair as well as upgrades to the French nuclear fleet, for the Caux-Manche Blayais and other sites. Still with nuclear, Fives was chosen for for companies in the hydrocarbon sector such as OPD, Lyondell, S&B, etc. Most section. This contract is for maintenance services on pipework, the ITER fusion program, alongside the THALES group, to supply notably, Fives boosted its presence in North America, which has become its welding and associated non-destructive checks, at the an assembly of metal pipework for the demonstration power largest market. Gravelines, Flamanville and Penly sites, delivered both during plant. unit shutdowns and while operational. It ties in with the ongoing In 2014, projects with short deadlines were completed and this was an outstanding nuclear maintenance work carried out over several decades for Apart from nuclear, Fives obtained an order from Snecma to achievement for the production teams. A cold box ordered by the South Korean the established French nuclear operator, to which Fives has adapt an engine test bed for the new Ariane 6 launcher, as well MORE ON company LG for an ethylene production unit was commissioned in a record ten already been able to demonstrate its expertise in pipework and as an onsite pipework consultancy for the Vietnamese Mekong www.fivesgroup.com — Combustion months. At the same time, a customer in India, Reliance, also received an mounting, as well as its agility and ability to mobilize teams all Energy Company. — Cryogenics | Energy exchanger for the ethylene market in just eight weeks. over France. — Piping Solutions — Sugar | Bioenergy Another significant accomplishment for the Fives teams was in order-taking and EDF has also awarded a contract to the Group for modifications the completion of high value-added projects such as exchangers for the PDH to the heat barriers for the primary motor pump units, with polyethylene production process and cold boxes for Wärtsilä’s LNG reliquefaction work extending to 2022. sector. Know-how Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report MAIN CUSTOMERS ENERGY Cryogenics ADNOC AIR LIQUIDE AIR PRODUCTS ARAMCO CB&I COMBUSTION SUGAR AND BIOENERGY LUMMUS CRYOGENMASH DAELIM DOW CHEMICAL OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS ENTERPRISE EXXONMOBIL GAIL GS E&C HANGYANG HYUNDAI INEOS JGC KAIFENG KBR LG LYONDELL In 2014, industrial leaders began focusing on the energy and In 2014, prices leveled off in the sugar and bioenergy sector. Even though OPD PETROCHINA POSCO PRAXAIR QATARGAS environmental efficiency of their installations amid stricter consumption is still growing, stocks continue to increase partly due to the great RELIANCE S&B SABIC SAIPEM SAMSUNG SASOL regulations and a desire to optimize costs. A spurt of new success of the last three campaigns (especially in Brazil) and partly to lower oil SHELL SIAD M.I. SK E&C TECHNIP TOTAL TOYO E.C. WARTSILA… revamping projects began in the United States prompted by prices that have prompted ethanol producers to shift some of their production over manufacturers looking to improve their equipment’s to sugar. The market was characterized by the low volume of new equipment High-performance industrial piping efficiency. But in the rest of the world, the conflicts in the projects. Meanwhile, the wave of investments from 2011-2012 gave manufacturers ALSTOM POWER AREVA ARKEMA BOREALIS CNPEC DRT EDF GRT GAZ MICHELIN MEKONG ENERGY Middle East, North Africa and Ukraine/Russia hindered any a chance to upgrade their production resources, which provided fewer short-term COMPANY STX TEMBEC TIGF TOTAL WESTINGHOUSE… possibility of realizing the projected growth potential. opportunities in maintenance and services. Industrial combustion systems 36 ADGAS ADM AIR LIQUIDE AK STEEL ALBEMARLE 37 ALERIS ALFA NAVAL ALSTOM ALUMINUM ALSTOM POWER AREVA ARKEMA ARCELORMITTAL BAOSTEEL BREMBANA CERREY CHEVRON TEXACO COFELY CMI CNIM DALKIA ELECTRICITE DE FRANCE ELWOOD TEXAS Fortunately, Fives was able to attract some large deals around the world Despite these circumstances, Fives profited by relying on the proven FORGE ENFAB ERAMET ESSAR ESYS GDF/SUEZ because of its offer featuring technologies like the Pillard LowNOxFlam G2 performance of its technologies and expert teams. HYUNDAI HEAVY INDUSTRIES JACOBS ENGINEERING and the new North American Tempest DMC System, recognized as one of KOBESTEEL KWB MANPNA GROUP MICHELIN NATIONAL the systems with the highest performance levels in energy and In South America, the Pantaleon Group placed an order to design, manufacture GYPSUM NEMAK ALUMINIUM NEREFCO NOVELIS environmental efficiency. and assemble onsite a Cail & Fletcher vertical crystallizer, a Cail & Fletcher OUTOTEC OWENS CORNING PROSERNAT SAMARCO massecuite reheater and Cail & Fletcher SUMO pumps for process optimization SAMSUNG SNECMA MOTORS SOLVAY RENAULT TATA In the United States, chemical group Albemarle Corp. selected Fives for its ultraat its main plant in Guatemala. This project was a great example of operational TECHNIP TESORO TOTAL VALE US STEEL… low NOx technologies and placed an order to retrofit the hot gas generators at performance by the Fives teams, which started up the installations in less than its Texas refineries for the production of catalysts. Mexican boiler maker Cerrey six months. Sugar and bioenergy equipment contracted the Group again for its Pillard LowNOxFlam G2 technology to equip AB SUGAR ABENGOA BUNGE COSUMAR EID PARRY three new boilers at the Lake Charles petrochemical facility. In Thailand, Mitr Phol, the fifth largest producer in the world, commissioned Fives ERAWAN ETHIOPIAN SUGAR CORP. GRUPO GLORIA to supply two Cail & Fletcher continuous vacuum pans and vertical crystallizers GUARANI INCAUCA KAYSERI ŞEKER FABRIKASI In Denmark, Alfa Laval Aalborg has chosen the Group to supply combustion for two of its sites. After already having ordered this equipment for other LEDESMA LOUIS DREYFUS COMODITIES MITR PHOL systems for a fleet of 14 new LNG units. Russian equipment manufacturer production lines, the customer selected it again for its operational performance PANTALEON PRODIMEX PT SUNGAI BUDI RAIZEN Prosernat chose the Pillard Sulflam® technology for two new projects to build and easy maintenance. SAINT-LOUIS SUCRE / SÜDZUCKER SIPH SOMDIAA Energy and sulfur recovery units at the Lukhoil Perm gas field and the TAIF Nizhnekamsk SUCDEN TEREOS WILMAR… refinery. The Group created a service and consulting offer called Fives Sugar Consulting based on CAMEIO, a software platform developed completely by its own teams MORE ON ie n c y www.fivesgroup.com e f fic In France, boiler maker CNIM chose Fives to equip the second phase of the that simulates operations in sugar plants. These services can generate environ m e n t a l — Combustion project to convert the Paris urban heating network over to gas. The contract recommendations for customers on operations and maintenance progress plans, — Cryogenics | Energy follows the successfully completed jobs with Belgian company CMI for the first production line optimization scenarios and equipment replacement simulations. — Piping Solutions phase of this major project. — Sugar | Bioenergy Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report GLASS Capacity investments in the flat glass market were scarce THE NEW HOT AIR COOLER TIN BATH COOLING SYSTEM FIVES OFFER Thermal equipment and production OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS in response to a sluggish European market and TM lines for ‒ flat glass (melting furnaces, tin baths, overcapacity in China. There were notable early signs of offers two key advantages: Better control of process annealing lehrs and air pollution control a recovery in Southeast Asia and the United States at the systems); improvement for the quality of the glass as well as a number ‒ hollow glass and special glasses (melting end of the year, where Fives’ technology is well positioned. of possibilities for waste heat recovery (including electricity furnaces, conditioning equipment and ancillary equipment). production), thus increasing the overall energy efficiency of the flat glass production line. 38 39 In the hollow glass segment, the world’s leading producer of bottles for the In August, Brazilian glass producer Vivix (CBVP) also reached expected production pharmaceutical industry, SGD, commissioned Fives to build two new bottling capacity of 800 tons/day on the line supplied by Fives. The glass production unit lines for its new plant under construction in Picardy, France. The Group will also features L.E.M.® technology, a combustion air float glass technology (Low be providing an electric furnace with a capacity of 70 tons/day and a borosilicate Energy Melter®) that uses 10-15% less energy than standard melters by acting furnace processing 55 tons/day that will be equipped with the Group’s exclusive on the three glass melting stages. MORE ON design called HRA technology that reduces the temperature of oxy-fuel www.fivesgroup.com combustion flue and improves energy consumption by up to 10% compared to In the service segment, in 2014 Fives restructured its dedicated team of experts — Glass conventional furnaces. These two furnaces are scheduled for commissioning in for industrial glass and strengthened the teams in China, France and the United mid-2015. In the Czech Republic, PCRR hired Fives to supply a turnkey float glass Kingdom. This new Service offer is clearer and has helped the Group bring in a unit to manufacture foam glass and Valmieras in Latvia has contracted the Group variety of contracts for spare parts, support and feasibility studies for Vivix and MAIN CUSTOMERS to design and build a fiberglass production line. Solvay in Brazil, Saint-Gobain in Mexico and India, and SGD and AGC Boussois ASAHI GLASS COMPANY CHINA SOUTHERN GLASS CHINA in France. YAOHUA GLASS GROUP DÜZCE CAM EUROGLAS JIANGMEN In the flat glass segment, the Group’s expertise and industry know-how made FARUN GLASS FUYAO GROUP GUARDIAN INDUSTRIES n e d e x p e r t is e it a natural choice to supply annealing lehr equipment for high-capacity lines w LG CHEM NIPPON SHEET GLASS OBËIKAN GLASS CO. Ren o (1,200 tons/day) most notably for KCC in Korea and Xinyi in China. In 2014, Fives PITTSBURGH CORNING EUROPE SALAVATSTEKLO SAINTalso continued building the second float glass line producing 800 tons/day for GOBAIN SGD SWAROVSKI TAIWAN GLASS VALMIERAS Düzce Cam in Turkey. VIVIX… Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report LOGISTICS The market was supported by higher volumes of THE GENI-BELT™ HIGH-SPEED SORTING SYSTEM provides gentle FIVES OFFER Design and installation of tailor-made OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS transported goods linked to the expansion of e-commerce, logistics solutions based on proprietary technologies, such as high-speed cross-belt where handling and throughput management constraints handling for items weighing up to 80 kg (175 lbs) with a 99.99% sorters, shoe sorters, flat belt sorters, parcel are demanding automated sorting centers. In response, accuracy rate at speeds of 20,000 items/hour. This new version features singulators, pushers and diverters, as well as computerized order fulfillment and robotics postal operators shifted their focus to technologies more specifically designed for parcel sorting while courier and an eco-design tailored for airport applications for which most of the solutions. distribution companies restructured their legacy B2B system components were revised and had a new eco-mode function Design customized software solutions networks and moving toward a model that also offers added. This has provided energy savings of 23% compared to the (real-time, destination servers, WCS, SCADA, etc.). efficient B2C management. previous version and improved the equipment’s reliability, flexibility and environmental impact. Customer service, such as system maintenance, 24/7 Hot line support, preventive 40 maintenance, full maintenance, as well as 41 retrofit and system upgrades. In the postal and express courier segment, Fives completed the startup of In Germany, DHL selected the group to expand its site in Leipzig. Fives will be several significant installations and continued to be contracted by industry retrofitting the sorting system it had supplied and automating a new 35,000 m² leaders for its technologies and expert teams. building where it will supply two cross-belt sorters with 42 injection lines. After In Japan, three steel belt sorters that can process 20,000 parcels/hour were the expansion, this hub will be the largest in Europe and one of the biggest in supplied to Fukuyama for its Sakai terminals while Sagawa opened its hub in the world with a sorting capacity of over 100,000 parcels/hour. In Belgium, TNT Wangan whose sorting center (built by Fives) can process up to 17,000 items/ has asked Fives to expand and automate its largest European platform. hour to 108 destinations. These two Japanese giants also turned to the Group again with two new contracts, one to retrofit the Sagawa Express Osaka distribution center and the other to supply a cross-belt sorter for Fukuyama In distribution, Fives was awarded several contracts to automate order picking MORE ON Transport as part of the retrofit of its Hiroshima terminal. Yamato Transport also centers like the one it built for Tempo One in Marseilles, France. It is a “ reversible ” www.fivesgroup.com MAIN CUSTOMERS commissioned Fives to automate its new Mikawa sorting center. This order solution that can accept and prepare orders on the same installation at speeds — Intralogistics follows those awarded to the Group in 2013 for sites in Haneda and Atsugi. The of up to 2,000 parcels/hour. The Group also automated order preparation lines installation to be supplied for the Mikawa site will include two cross-belt sorters for Stihl (France’s leading motorized gardening equipment maker), Sonepar (the AEROPORTS DE PARIS ARATA BENETTON BCS CANADA and two slide sorters. It will be operational in September 2016 and provide world’s top distributor to electricity professionals), and OCP (a company POST CORPORATION CANPAR CHRONOPOST C-LOG Yamato with the sorting capacity of 30,000 items/hour for parcels and specializing in pharmaceutical distribution in France). CORREOS COLIPOSTE DEUTSCHE POST DHL EURODEP 5,400 items/hour for objects with more complex shapes. High throughput FEDEX FEDEX GROUND FUKUYAMA GEODIS INTERMARCHÉ JP SERVICEKOREAN EXPRESS LA POSTE In Australia, top two courier companies that have already experienced the LDLC LECLERC MANGO MICHELIN MNG KARGO NIPPON performance and reliability of the Group’s cross-belt sorters opted for this EXPRESS OCP PIXMANIA POCZTA POLSKA POSTNORD technology to automate their Melbourne facilities. Through a partnership with PUROLATOR SAGAWA SAMMY SCACHAP SEA MALPENSA BCS, Fives received an order in August for two sorters with a sorting capacity of AIRPORT SEINO SNATT LOGISTICA SODIS SOMFY 32,000 parcels/hour for Toll Ipec and another one in September for a sorter with SONEPAR STIHL SYSTEM LOGISTICS TOLL IPEC TEMPO sorting capacity of 20,000 parcels/hour for TNT. These installations are ONE TNT EXPRESS UNITED AIRLINES UPS USPS scheduled for acceptance in late 2015. YAMATO… Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report STEEL The market for the flat steel segment is still being impacted THE STEIN DIGIT@L FURNACE® ADVANTEK 2.0 reheating furnace FIVES OFFER OUR EXPERTISE, OUR MARKETS by structural overcapacity. In China, investments overall Full processing lines decreased. However, some new projects were confirmed, provides exceptional overall heating efficiency, thanks to its especially in the southern regions supplying the flexibility, compact design and integrated energy recovery system. Thermal equipment Reheating furnaces – Processing line furnaces automotive sector for which the country continues to import steels with higher added-value. For the tube It also delivers high performance in reducing NOx emissions Heat treatment furnaces High flux induction heating AdvanTek® combustion systems segment, chiefly supplying the oil and gas sector, (-10 to -20%) and energy consumption (-5%) in comparison to Cooling solutions Virtuo™ level 2 optimization investment has slowed, in the United States as well as alternative solutions. systems. Europe and Russia, given the economic and geopolitical Mechanical equipment for flat products context. Cold rolling: Reducing rolling mills and Skin-pass rolling mills Strip processing 42 Shearing Strip & tool handling equipment – 43 Strip transport. MAIN CUSTOMERS Tube, pipe & long products solutions ACERINOX GROUP ALCOA ARCELORMITTAL ERW mills & related equipment Finishing In the flat steel market, Fives has confirmed its position as a principal supplier With regard to service, the Fives teams have also carried out several ASCOMETAL ATI ALLEGHENY BAOJI PETROLEUM equipment Long product straightening. of process lines. Fives succeeded in securing five orders for carbon steel plate modernizations of stainless steel mills, involving an automation component, for STEEL PIPE CO. BAOSTEEL BAOTOU IRON & production lines for the only two significant projects out of seven lines that were Outokumpu, in Germany and in France, and Aperam in Brazil. STEEL BENXI IRON & STEEL BLUESCOPE STEELSurface treatment authorized in China in 2014. The Group was awarded four complete lines three BOKARO STEEL PLANT CELSA GROUP CNOOC Pickling Degreasing. continuous galvanizing lines, each with a capacity exceeding 400,000 tons, and CNPC ÇOLAKOGLU CORUS ERDEMIR ESSAR a 930,000 ton capacity continuous annealing line, as well as a contract for a In the field of tubular steel, Fives offers a full range of processing equipment, STEEL EVRAZ FUNDIA GERDAU GRUPO Integration of sections and vertical furnace line. These sales achievements, awarded by Wisco and Inner mills and finishing equipment for welded tubes, as well as finishing equipment CONDESA GURPPO ARVEDI HANDAN IRON & complete processing lines Mongolia Baoutou Steel Union Co., are the result of a comprehensive offer that for seamless tubes and pipes through their Bronx, Taylor-Wilson, Abbey and OTO STEEL HYUNDAI HEAVY INDUSTRIES ISDEMIR JINDAL integrates both advanced Fives technologies (Stein Digiflex® vertical furnaces, legacy names. In 2014 the Group was awarded a contract by Korean tube STEEL JMC STEEL GROUP KINGLAND MACSTEEL Coke oven by-product recovery DMS 4Hi and 6Hi Skin-pass mills, Stein Flash Cooling® cooling systems, manufacturer Nexteel for its latest investment project in Houston. The Group will MAGNITOGORSK IRON & STEEL MARCEGAGLIA Coal tar distillation Stein AdvanTek® WRT 2.0 combustion systems) and the Group’s well regarded be supplying a complete line, including core equipment for welded tube GROUP MARUICHI STEEL TUBE NANJING IRON & know-how in process expertise and operational support. This offer will enable manufacturing (ERW), tube finishing equipment and other peripherals. Italian STEEL NORTHWEST PIPE COMPANY NOVAMERICAN Services the Group’s customers to manufacture a wide range of high added-value manufacturer Ilta Inox (Arvedi Group), which already operates two lines supplied STEEL INC. NOVOLIPETSK STEEL OMK PADANA Operator assistance systems automotive steels, in particular high strength steels (HSLA). by the Group, has asked Fives to build a new mill designed for laser welding and TUBI PANZHIHUA IRON & STEEL PEASA POSCO Metallurgical assistance Automation composed by an automatic entry equipment with loading carriage, a linear shear PROLAMSA PYTCO RIVA GROUP RUUKKI systems Support & expertise Maintenance With regard to reheating, the Group commissioned two furnaces supplied to end welder, and a roll-tower type accumulator with automatic strip centering SEVERSTAL SHOUGANG JINGTANG SICHUAN Spare parts. Allegheny Ludlum in the United States. These furnaces are remarkable for the adjustment. This line’s innovative design provides the flexibility to manufacture SOUTHWEST STAINLESS STEEL SISECAM AS STEEL High-tech wide range of products they can heat: stainless steels, non-stainless steels, “ High the full range of tubes (273-609 mm in diameter) without having to change DYNAMICS SUMITOMO TATA STEEL TENARIS Temperature Alloys ” (HTA), cobalt based products, alloys of chrome and titanium sizing tools. THYSSENKRUPP STAHL TMK TRIDENT STEEL MORE ON based products. In China, VAMA (Valin ArcelorMittal Automotive), a joint venture USIMINAS US STEEL USS VALLOUREC VIZAG www.fivesgroup.com — Steel between ArcelorMittal and Valin, started up its two lines equipped with vertical STEEL VOESTALPINE STAHL WELSPUN WUHAN IRON — Induction furnaces supplied by the Group. & STEEL XINYU STEEL… — Manufacturing Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report OUR COMMITMENTS OUR COMMITMENTS 46 IN BRIEF 44 48 ETHICS 45 50 WITH OUR TEAM 52 WITH OUR PARTNERS 54 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT 56 GENERAL PUBLIC Resp o n s i b l e EXTENDING a long-term partnership to our stakeholders. IN BRIEF Fives engages in fairness and sustainable policies OUR COMMITMENTS Seven years ago, Fives initiated a social responsibility program. A designated CSR framework This commitment reflects the Group’s determination to go beyond innovative ETHICS OUR TEAM In 2008, Fives created a department to structure and monitor its social and technologies and set itself apart with its best practices and performance. environmental responsibility policy. Part of the Operational Performance 54% This structured program is also a vehicle to share a cohesive common vision, DIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT Division, the CSR department is comprised of a core team of four people The Directives and Guidelines 16 with all the entities that form Fives, which is aligned with each of their and a network of 58 health, safety and environment representatives around situations and interests. Manual is intended to provide a framework for the world. managing Fives companies, whatever their business % women among which of employees were passed Fives provides ongoing support for the Group companies to apply its CSR 96% 36 Four CSR commitments and country location. In 2014, Fives reinforced its % are engineers and managers. career management through a commitments locally. In 2014, 38 subsidiaries received CSR coaching. Environment business ethics policy by issuing a new Directive. committee (CEDRE). A total of over 60% of the Group’s workforce has participated in this program. 84% Minimizing the environmental footprint of the Group and its customers In 2011, only a third of the workforce had The Fives Executive Board directly oversees the CSR program. 46 Economics 47 Promoting fair practices on the marketplace of executives attended a The Code of conduct, distributed to all Fives men gone through the program and in the last five years this figure has increased by over business ethics employees, exists in 13 languages. It contains and codifies the Social Providing a safe and motivating working environment training course. rules all employees must follow, reflecting Fives’ fundamental 60% . 70% Governance values. DIALOGUE Incorporating CSR priorities into the organization of all Fives entities In 2014, of total staff have had a job evaluation. A public commitment OUR PARTNERS Since the Fives eco-design program was launched, GENERAL PUBLIC Fives continues its efforts to devise the factory of HEALTH SAFETY ENVIRONMENT 89% Top 10% of the EcoVadis panel 6 by signing the United Nations Global Compact of its target sites Fives underwent a voluntary EcoVadis assessment and received a the future and industry of pieces of equipment earned tomorrow through events had been ISO 14001-certified score of 68 out of 100, which is up three points and puts the Group Engineered 5.36 the Fives joined the Global Compact in 2011. The goal of this UN initiative Sustainability® brand. Fives Plants of held by the To date,68 % of Fives’ industrial sites in the top 10% of companies rated by the independent agency. is to promote the 10 principles of human rights, workplace standards, the environment and anti-corruption. the Future Observatory are ISO 14001 certified. This CSR performance assessment has four sections: environment, labor practices, business ethics and sustainable procurement. 60 and co-coordinating with the French government’s “Nouvelle France Factory The2014 accident Industrielle” initiative for its frequency rate has steadily Close to Group HSE MORE DETAILS EXPERTISE section p. 20 of the future plan. declined in the past 6 years. representatives. INNOVATION section p. 22 INDICATORS section p. 60-73 www.fivesgroup.com At the heart of Fives Careers www.plantsofthefuture.com Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report ETHICS UN Global Compact Longevity Trust and responsibility Since Fives joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2011, it has been openly OUR COMMITMENTS committed to making the principles underpinning its business an integral part of its operations and practices, particularly the principles of human rights, workplace standards and anti-corruption. Fives has always acted responsibly and transparently out of respect for people and its stakeholders. In 2014, Fives reinforced its initiative by consolidating its business ethics policy. 48 49 Respecting values and rules regardless of the subsidiary’s country, activity Business ethics Nearly 200 people attended the five-session The Group’s values of transparency, responsability or history. Fives is a major exporter, so it has to work with course that primarily focused on anti-corruption, and respect are embodied by the men and women commercial intermediaries as it expands. A key anti-competition practices and money laundering. who contribute to its development. In addition to The Code of conduct contains Fives’ fundamental component of mitigating business ethics risks is this personal commitment, there are two documents values for all its employees. It is published how these intermediaries are supervised and At the same time, the Group bolstered its business containing formalized rules: the Directives and in 13 languages so every employee can read it monitored. With over 100 locations worldwide, the ethics policy by issuing a new directive to formalize Guidelines Manual and the Code of conduct. in their native language. Group must also make an ongoing effort to explain the topics discussed in the training. The directive and clarify its expectations and position with its was sent out to the subsidiaries and will gradually The Directives and Guidelines Manual sets the subsidiaries and their executives. To address these be rolled out in conjunction with training for MORE DETAILS framework for how Fives conducts business and treats its customers, suppliers, subcontractors, two interests, in 2014 Fives launched a training program on business ethics for all its company the different business lines. MAJOR EXPORTERS LIKE FIVES must, INDICATORS section p. 60-73 www.fivesgroup.com agents, consultants and distributors. It provides executives. with determination, fight corruption and At the heart of Fives a clear foundation for Fives’ management teams, learn how to withstand the solicitation. These commitments are a guarantee to secure resilience and performance 96% over time. 15 years The Directives and The Code of Conduct of executives attended a Frédéric Sanchez, Chairman of the Executive Board 10 years Guidelines Manual has been in place for business ethics training course has been in place for the past Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report WITH OUR TEAM Social benefits In 2014, Fives conducted an audit on the social benefits offered in the countries which the Group operates. The goal was to determine a uniform policy by the Trust Career guidance based on end of 2015 that encompasses the Group’s values, practices and local differences. OUR COMMITMENTS The effort to harmonize social benefits policies is under way in the United States and has already begun in China and India. listening and trust As part of fostering a safe and motivating work environment that focuses on listening and dialogue, Fives has introduced a policy that promotes commitment, development and excellence. 50 51 Listening, dialogue and mobility working conditions. An analysis of how these Skills development Diversity Health and safety Fives provides employees with several indicators change will help gage the Group In its effort to develop skills and careers, Fives The Fives human resources policy is founded on One of the Group’s core strategies is to protect opportunities to meet and discuss with progress and the effectiveness of action plans focuses on the employability of its employees. equal opportunity and anti-discrimination. With the health and safety of the men and women management and human resources. Starter devised after the previous survey. Every year, each company convenes a career 53 nationalities, the Group has found ways to build advancing their careers in Fives. All the companies meetings are assimilation reports done 6 to management committee called CEDRE comprised common practices while observing cultural are held to the same standards, regardless of the 18 months after new hires arrive. Career booster Listening to and dialogue with employees also of the Group Human Resources Department, the differences. Since 2006, Fives has also had an industry or country. Fives has set an objective to interviews are between employees and a provide a chance to find candidates who may want relevant management committees and front-line active policy to foster diversity. The Group has build a stronger safety culture in the Group via a representative from the Group Human Resources to transfer to a new location or a different managers. This committee’s role is to design introduced further actions to better integrate special awareness program deployed throughout Department (scheduled by either party to discuss subsidiary within the Group. Fives is building initiatives that support and develop employees in its disabled employees and expand hiring 2014 for management, the health, safety and MORE DETAILS career advancement options) and can be held any pathways and synergies across its business lines, line with their outlooks for advancement and the opportunities for disabled staff. Employee environment community and the teams. HSE section p. 54 time or at annual reviews. mainly by pooling resources and skills that offer operational needs expressed by the companies. awareness, manager training and new local GENERAL PUBLIC section p. 56 employees temporary or permanent opportunities partnerships with specialized organizations have THE RELATIONSHIPS WE MAINTAIN INDICATORS section p. 60-73 An international satisfaction survey is conducted to advance toward other local or global career enabled Fives to double its employment rate www.fivesgroup.com every three years, the next one in June 2015, that moves. for this group of workers. WITH OUR PEOPLE are based on Careers measures the quality of workplace relations and respect and trust through consideration of the cultural diversity at Fives. This 90 54% 49% 73% A growth of nearly environment will allow employees to fully unleash their skills and expertise. % among 300 employees who underwent CEDRE of the workforce Paule Viallon, Head of Group Human Resources Department Starter meetings were assessed during a career management of people have attended a of employees have received Career booster training in 2014 said they were satisfied committee in 2014. interview from 2013 to 2014. in 2014. Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report WITH OUR PARTNERS Safety As a key driver of the performance improvements that Fives provides its customers, safety has been focused on in several audits at the Group’s industrial Excellence A sustainable approach sites and customer work sites as has the guidance it gives subcontractors and OUR COMMITMENTS vendors. In 2014, one the Group’s American subsidiaries won four awards in a row from with loyal relationships Alcoa for its best practices and performance. From customers and suppliers to subcontractors and other stakeholders, Fives builds long-term lasting relationships with its partners based on cooperative accountability. 52 53 Fives is dedicated to its customers Fives has developed a number of solutions through Suppliers and subcontractors: Developing different kinds of subcontracting like the Manual, a directive that governs procurement Fives contributes to the CSR objectives set by its its special eco-design program called Engineered standard practices without losing local manufacture of key equipment that requires a practices for all Group subsidiaries. The general customers. The Group does this by analyzing their Sustainability®. initiative very high investment in quality and reliability. purchasing terms and conditions were also revised, interests in the very early stages and provides On the procurement side, Fives has developed Or the assembly and commissioning required primarily to strengthen the Group anti-corruption solutions, particularly with regard to safety and In terms of customer support, Fives is true to its tools that all its subsidiaries can use to selfalongside Fives teams at the customers’ work sites, policy. energy and environmental performance. sustainable partnership principles, and has evaluate their purchasing practices and determine reinforcement needed to meet the demands MORE DETAILS expanded its service offering for the lifecycle of if there is any room for improvement. The Group in subsidiary workshops and more conventional Fives’ ambition is to stimulate the service potential OUR EXPERTISE section p. 20 In 2014, Fives continued efforts to help its equipment it supplies. New applications have been also heads an actual purchasing community procurement functions like motors and of its suppliers and subcontractors as part of the INNOVATION section p. 22 customers reach their goals in social and developed that improve how its customers monitor divided into regional coordination groups like in compressors that are integrated and measures introduced to strengthen the Group’s MARKETS section p. 26-43 HSE section p. 54 environmental responsibility. The Group develops eco-designed technologies to support its customers the performance of their machinery and production lines. The Group also meets their needs the United States and Europe. This community addresses a diverse range of situations. These assembled by Fives. capacity for innovation. Some of them are very large groups that Fives has been working with for THE PHILOSOPHY of Fives www.fivesgroup.com At the heart of Fives in reducing their environmental footprint. by restructuring and strengthening its dedicated can be spot purchases for major projects located The year 2014 was marked by the Purchasing a number of years. is built on the long-term trusting Business way teams. anywhere in the world. It can also pertain to Directives update in the Directives and Guidelines relationships it has with its partners to meet its objective 4Engineered Sustainability® for operational excellence. Xavier Becquey, Director of Operational Performance Eco-Design: In 2014, Service products have received the an innovation program and a brand for high A offer brand: environmental performance products with high added-value. Stein Digit@l Furnace®, Ozeos™, GeniosTM and GENI-belt™ Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT Pillars of our operational excellence OUR COMMITMENTS FIVES’ OBJECTIVE is to achieve a workrelated accident frequency rate under 4, Health, safety and the environment form the foundation of the Fives social responsibility policy. in 2016. They are among the core drivers of operational excellence for all the Group’s activities. Pascal Mercier, Health, Safety and Environment Coordinator 54 55 Ongoing consolidation of the safety process Fives also continued its cross-functional audit The fight against accident severity Environment management system (ISO 14001) at each industrial Fives continues its efforts to achieve the objective it program for its own sites as well as its customers’ Fives has decided to significantly strengthen its As an industrial engineering company that has site. At the end of 2014, 89% of its target sites had set in 2013 to reach an accident frequency rate work sites. So far, 80% of the Group’s companies efforts to prevent serious accidents. The majority of assembly plants and sometimes manufacturing been ISO 14001-certified. The Group also under 4 in 2016 for its employees and temporary have been audited. the Group HSE representatives network, or nearly plants Fives deals with two sorts of environmental monitored and analyzed energy and water staff. At the end of 2014, the rate was 5.36 for the At the same time, the safety certification approach 49 employees in Europe and North America, were issues. It helps its customers reduce their consumption at all of its sites to detect any entire Group and 4.67 within a constant scope (not continues and is expanding geographically. Until trained in accident analysis so they could pinpoint environmental footprint and sustainably manages abnormalities and resolve them by sharing best including the companies Fives acquired in 2013 and now, only French and Italian companies were the root causes. Additional sessions are scheduled its own sites worldwide to control their impact on practices. 2014). Efforts under way are focused on two OHSAS 18001* certified. In 2014, a Chinese in 2015 for the Chinese, Indian and Japanese the environment. approaches: Reinforcing the safety culture for all company, English company and American teams. Fives met the challenge of designing and offering Group managers and improving control of the key company earned this certification. Unlike for the Fives also formalized its tools and processes to its customers industrial equipment with the best risks to which the Group is exposed. environment, certification is left to the discretion of increase awareness of incident reporting. balance of efficiency and energy/environmental MORE DETAILS Training initiatives continued in 2014 with a concerted the subsidiaries. Progress on this front is a strong performance by developing a proprietary eco-design OUR TEAM section p. 50 effort on accountability for leadership teams and indication that the Group’s culture is evolving. program called Engineered Sustainability®. OUR PARTNERS section p. 52 a stronger safety culture. Internal communication With close to forty industrial sites worldwide, INDICATORS section p. 60-73 www.fivesgroup.com campaigns were accelerated in the area of HSE including the United States, Italy and France, At the heart of Fives with active participation from managers. Fives focused on establishing an environment * OHSAS 18001 is a recognized certification and benchmark in terms of safety management. A28 % frequency rate accident decrease of the from 2012 to 2014 22 industrial sites with safety certification among which 16 in France, 2 in Italy, 1 in China, 1 in the Netherlands, are ISO 14001 25 37 industrial sites among which certified 58 1 in the United Kingdom and 1 in the USA. Group HSE representatives (from 7.47 in 2012 to 5.36 in 2014) Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report GENERAL PUBLIC What is the factory Respect of the future? For a more sustainable industry OUR COMMITMENTS The results of the two outlook initiatives that Fives is part of coincide with each other (Factory of the future plan and the Fives Plants of the Future Observatory). To guarantee its competitiveness and become more attractive, the factory of the future must incorporate new challenges, new technologies and production For over 200 years, Fives has been at the heart of industrial and technical history and supports its methods. This will allow for more flexibility and efficiency as well as incorporating partners to design production lines and equipment that are more user and eco-friendly. True to its safer and more user and environmentally friendly technologies. values, in 2014 the Group continued efforts to foster sustainable industrial activity for its stakeholders 56 57 The factory of the future: Reflecting ‒ in May 2014, Fives presented a roadmap for Advancing innovation through sharing Training the younger generation to innovate group of interns and work-study students at its on the progress the Factory of the future plan for the French Fives attended several conferences in 2014 tomorrow’s industry subsidiaries around the world. In 2014, Fives continued to reflect and conduct governmental “Nouvelle France Industrielle” with a wide range of audiences, from trade In 2012, Fives conducted a survey on the image initiatives for the factory of the future, based on initiative it is co-directing with Dassault Systèmes. organizations and members of parliament to of industrial factories that revealed that the younger Further to this goal and by recommending topics two projects: In the end, more than 120 experts from the public industry leaders, to share its expertise with them generation is not attracted to industry. In 2014, for research projects, in 2014 Fives continued to ‒ the mission of the Fives Plants of the Future and private sectors came together to help on the factory of the future and the results of Fives continued to promote its trades to lay the partner with the French engineering school Observatory, founded in 2012, is to stimulate determine the key factors of success for industrial this undertaking. groundwork for developing the innovations of Centrale Paris to work with students pursuing debate on the topic of the industry of tomorrow. segments. The project is ongoing and the future and play an active part in training concentrations and majors closely aligned with To this end, a dozen people from different fields is concentrating on installing pilot production On a more general level, the Group is looking to the younger generation. its core business: Energy, international project FIVES CONTRIBUTED to the MORE DETAILS (industry, economic and mathematical research, lines, which Fives has already been working on. collaborate with the research community to expand management and innovative product design. development of an industry that strategy planning and military air force, etc.) its open R&D approach and accelerate new Fives is invested in efforts to give students career INNOVATION section p. 22 attended three events in 2014 to share their vision product development. In September 2014, Fives guidance by offering internships and work-study Another key pillar of this objective is training respects its environment and its OUR TEAM section p. 50 www.fivesgroup.com of a more sustainable industry which also signed a new framework agreement with CEA Tech contracts. This has led the Group to attend a the younger generation: Fives is collaborating stakeholders. Our efforts on the topic focused on the topic of the place of people in that will give Group’ subsidiaries access to number of events organized by France’s with institutions to develop training programs At the heart of Fives www.plantsofthefuture.com factories that are becoming increasingly more laboratory resources for their technology engineering schools (Centrale Paris, Supélec, in its specialized areas of business. of the factory of the future has allowed automated; development programs. Arts & Métiers ParisTech). Fives also hosts a large us to further define the framework and predict the key drivers of innovation. 3 43 drivers for competitiveness Michel Dancette, Head of Group Innovation & Corporate Insight, sherpa for the Factory of the Future Plan No. 34 projects currently under assessment A multidisciplinary steering committee for with CEA Tech. Fives Plants of the the Future Observatory. identified for the Factory of the future, including initiatives already launched at Fives (embedded sensors, workflow-robotics-cobotics, recycling and energy storage, composite materials, emissions reduction). Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report INDICATORS INDICATORS 60 FINANCIAL INDICATORS 58 62 NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS 59 68 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORTING ON OUR TRENDS and our advancements. FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS INDICATORS 1. FINANCIAL INDICATORS ORDER INTAKE SALES BY ORDER BOOK BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED FIGURES 60 (€ million) 2012 2013 2014 (€ million) 2012 2013 2014 (€ million) 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.14 (€ million) 2012 2013 2014 61 Americas 367.0 305.2 408.7 Americas 421.3 531.2 450.4 Americas 392.2 269.3 255.3 Sales 1,507.9 1,626.2 1,560.5 Asia & Oceania 422.6 330.2 360.3 Asia & Oceania 373.4 457.9 396.4 Asia & Oceania 478.7 368.4 344.2 Europe 419.3 486.1 539.3 Europe 445.0 458.3 547.0 Europe 312.7 364.8 366.2 EBITDA (*) 115.1 133.0 135.1 Middle East & Africa 114.9 105.8 556.7 Middle East & Africa 268.2 178.8 166.7 Middle East & Africa 195.3 122.7 527.9 7.6 % 8.2 % 8.7 % EBITA (*) 97.3 113.3 112.6 Total 1,323.8 1,227.3 1,865.0 Total 1,507.9 1,626.2 1,560.5 Total 1,378.9 1,125.2 1,493.6 Net profit 52.3 44.6 75.4 Contribution from mature economies 50% 64% 51% Contribution from mature economies 46% 53% 60% Contribution from mature economies 33% 48% 40% Contribution from emerging countries 50% 36% 49% Contribution from emerging countries 54% 47% 40% Contribution from emerging countries 67% 52% 60% (*)The Group defines EBITDA and EBITA as follows: ‒ EBITDA is current operating profit before amortization and depreciation of tangible and intangible assets, restated for any effects on the gross margin of purchase price allocation accounting entries. ‒ EBITA is current operating profit before amortization of intangible assets related to acquisitions, BY END MARKET BY END MARKET BY END MARKET restated for any effects on the gross margin of purchase price allocation accounting entries. As a reminder, purchase price allocation accounting entries negatively impacted the gross margin (€ million) 2012 2013 2014 (€ million) 2012 2013 2014 (€ million) 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.14 by €0.3 million in 2013 and €0.4 million in 2014. Automotive/Logistics 479.8 542.9 478.0 Automotive/Logistics 541.1 564.3 521.8 Automotive/Logistics 406.1 365.6 320.4 Metals (aluminium and steel) 404.8 227.8 294.9 Metals (aluminium and steel) 527.3 461.5 339.6 Metals (aluminium and steel) 555.7 353.6 318.9 Energy 355.2 276.3 288.0 Energy 317.3 326.2 298.7 Energy 249.9 199.1 193.5 Cement 84.0 102.3 616.1 Cement 122.2 170.0 183.2 Cement 167.2 98.9 555.3 Aerospace and special machining 78.0 188.0 Aerospace and special machining 104.2 217.2 Aerospace and special machining 108.0 105.5 Total 1,323.8 1,227.3 1,865.0 Total 1,507.9 1,626.2 1,560.5 Total 1,378.9 1,125.2 1,493.6 Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report 2. NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS SOCIAL INDICATORS Europe While there were fewer new hires compared to 2013, the volume remained high in The Asia and 2012 2013 2014 France excl. 2012 2013 2014 The data provided are collected on an annual or Americas Africa 2014 at the Group companies thereby enabling them to acquire more skills, particularly France quarterly basis with the reporting tool set up by the in key functions associated with department growth objectives, ongoing innovation Finance Department. The consolidated scope for HR Employees 6,521 7,825 7,745 1,746 3,909 1,245 845 Employees by region concerns and new market acquisitions. Workforce at the end of the year from acquisitions completed in the year 1,304 65 The Americas 18% 24% 22% and innovation data is the same as the consolidated France 56% 50% 51% Workforce at the end of the year in companies entering the consolidated scope 1 INDICATORS financial scope, but due to eligibility criteria implemented Number of new hires (all types of contracts) 1,262 1,150 966 Europe (excl. France) 15% 16% 16% More than 300 employees also underwent Starter meetings after an initial for this type of report (one full year in the Group), CSR Asia and Africa 11% 10% 11% orientation period. Among the employees surveyed, 90% said they were reporting does not include the acquisitions completed Workforce by gender satisfied with the orientation process within the Group. Employees by business sector in 2014 (Fives ITAS). This report includes all companies Percentage of men 84% 84% 84% 87% 83% 86% 77% Aluminium 6% 4% 4% with 10 people or more. Percentage of women 16% 16% 16% 13% 17% 14% 23% It is notable that the inter-subsidiary resource pooling process in France continued Steel/Glass 16% 16% 16% Percentage of engineers and managers among women 32% 30% 36% 28% 47% 18% 27% Cement 9% 7% 9% this year, resulting in the provision of 85 staffers by subsidiaries experiencing lower Energy 32% 28% 28% than average workloads. The staff and operations helped meet requirements at other Share of women in management total 14% Logistics and maintenance 9% 8% 8% Share of women among CEOs 2% Group companies, especially in project and engineering functions for periods that Automotive and transformation industries 24% 20% 19% Share of women in Management Committees 13% Aerospace and special machines 13% 12% ranged between a few weeks to several months. In addition to the immediate benefit 62 Share of women managers who report directly to a Management Committee member 16% Others 3% 3% 4% of pooling resources, in the medium term these exchanges are helping significantly 63 increase knowledge on both sides and the development of synergies between Skills and mobility management Number of nationalities 49 46 53 % of employees reviewed by the CEDRE career management committee 52% 47% 54% subsidiaries. % of employees receiving regular appraisal interview 69% 70% 68% Employees by category Number of people having attended Career booster interviews 133 90 134 Some entities also took advantage of workload lulls to bolster training efforts, Engineers and managers 39% 36% 41% 38% 43% 33% 54% % of employees having attended at least one training course 69% 70% 73% evidenced by the higher rate of trained employees that reached 73% in 2014. Technicians, designers and supervisors 24% 25% 24% 19% 27% 26% 16% Number of employees shared between the companies 53 84 85 Staff 14% 15% 11% 11% 8% 17% 15% Number of people who underwent a Starter meeting** 337 Operators 24% 24% 22% 30% 19% 24% 15% Alongside these measures, career management programs Alternates 2% 1% 2% 0% 0% *CEDRE: Career management committee (Human Resources Evaluation and Development Committee) continue to be implemented with 54% of the workforce going Employees by age range ** Starter meetings: Assimilation reports completed 6 to 18 months after new hires arrive before a CEDRE career management committee and over 54% Less than 20 1% 1% 0% 0% 0% 1% 0% 130 employees undergoing Career booster interviews. From 20 to 29 16% 14% 14% 9% 15% 13% 22% The Fives Group had 7,745 employees at the end of 2014. Headcount was down slightly this year, mainly in the From 30 to 39 24% 23% 25% 13% 27% 20% 41% United States and the United Kingdom in the Automotive/Transformation Industries and Aerospace/Special Machines From 40 to 49 26% 25% 25% 20% 27% 28% 23% divisions. This decrease was partially offset by the integration of Fives ITAS in Italy and by additional human From 50 to 59 28% 29% 28% 38% 27% 30% 10% resources at entities within the Cement division. 60 and more 6% 8% 8% 20% 4% 9% 3% Employees by length of service Less than 5 41% 36% 37% 31% 36% 32% 58% From 5 to 10 20% 23% 22% 14% 25% 21% 23% From 11 to 15 9% 9% 9% 5% 11% 12% 7% From 16 to 20 7% 8% 8% 9% 8% 11% 5% From 21 to 25 7% 8% 7% 9% 6% 10% 3% From 26 to 30 4% 5% 5% 8% 4% 7% 2% From 31 to 35 5% 5% 5% 8% 4% 3% 1% From 36 to 40 5% 6% 5% 10% 5% 3% 0% 41 and more 1% 2% 2% 5% 1% 0% 0% Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report INNOVATION INDICATORS INTRODUCTION TO THE DATA BY SITE AND THE STATISTICS ON Following a record year in 2013, there were 53 filings in 2014 and the number of new ENVIRONMENT/HEALTH & SAFETY/ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE. These sites were included in a variety of ongoing programs. A concerted effort was 2012 2013 2014 patented inventions remained at a sustained pace surpassing our annual objective of made in health and safety. R&D expenditure in € million 22.7 28.1 33.1 40 filings. A third of these patents were associated with improving the energy and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting covered all sites with an average workforce of 10 or more in 2014 and Since 2009, Fives has been expanding a cross-referenced HSE audit program among Breakdown of R&D expenditure environmental performance of Fives products. The new entities that joined the Group all sites with an industrial activity. As such, nine companies were included in the CSR reporting in 2014 either because the Group’s subsidiaries. These audits provide significant leverage for improvement Costs of patents and trademarks 6% 7% 9% in 2013 contributed little to this outcome with only two filings. The Group’s 532 they had arrived in the Group in 2013 or because their business had changed. in the companies because they help build or supplement their safety action plans. A Standard design and formalization of know-how 14% 8% 8% patent-protected inventions give it operational exclusivity over a vast array of particular focus was put on new sites that had joined the Group in 2013 in an effort INDICATORS Continuous improvement of products and processes 41% 32% 27% proprietary technologies. As a reminder, unlike HR and Finance reporting, this reporting excludes companies that have not conducted their to determine which actions to prioritize to bring them in line with Fives standards. The Development of new products and processes 32% 42% 43% business in the Fives Group for the full year 2014. Thus, Fives ITAS was not included in the CSR reporting scope because Group HSE team of auditors is comprised of the Group HSE central team and subsidiary Research and radical innovation activities 8% 11% 12% With Fives FCB and Fives Nordon participating in the 2014 Innovation Competition, an it was acquired in the first quarter of 2014. HSE representatives who were selected and trained in these practices by the Group Patents and trademarks impressive 82% of the Group’s workforce were invited to compete for the Fives HSE Coordinator. Some new auditors from North American subsidiaries will be joining Number of patents and patent applications in force 1,447 1,784 1,859 Innovation Award. The number of ideas collected remains very high. With 407 new CSR CROSS-SECTIONAL INDICATORS the team in 2015. Number of patent families in force 371 504 532 Number of first patent applications (new patented inventions) 18 61 53 suggestions, we now have a large pool of ideas on further developing our products Europe In addition to continuing ongoing programs in safety and the environment, a Group The Asia and Number of first patent applications relating to energy and environmental performance 8 16 17 and making our bids more competitive. 2012 2013 2014 France excl. action is also being deployed in business ethics. As such, less development took place Americas Africa Percentage of patents relating to energy and environmental performance 44% 26% 32% France in the HSE coaching program in 2014 compared to 2013 and 2012. Number of “ product ” trademarks registered 93 98 113 The Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program is an Number of subsidiaries included 64 in the scope of the CSR policy 51 53 62 12 22 17 11 The eco-design program innovation approach to optimize the energy performance and Subsidiaries acquired in n-1 that entered BUSINESS ETHICS INDICATORS 65 Number of products carrying the Engineered Sustainability® mark 1 2 6 environmental impacts of Fives’ equipment and it continued to be the CSR scope in n 1 1 7 2 2 2 1 2012 2013 2014 Number of products currently being analyzed 7 12 10 deployed in 2014. As a reminder, EY awarded this program an Subsidiaries newly included in the CSR scope 2 1 2 1 1 Number of subsidiaries participating in the program 7 12 14 insurance certificate in October 2013. Total number of sites 79 79 92 18 38 20 16 Percentage of CEOs and Financial Directors who attended 96% Percentage of eligible subsidiaries participating in the program 21% 29% 33% Industrial sites 30 30 37 11 16 7 3 business ethics training (staff on payroll in Q4 2014) Number of people trained in eco-design in 2014 47 48 54 Offices 27 26 29 4 11 6 8 After undergoing a stringent process, four more products earned the internal Code of conduct Combined sites, test centers Fives Innovation Awards Engineered Sustainability® brand: Ozeos™, a module to process gases released Number of languages into which the Code of conduct has and regional facilities 22 23 26 3 12 6 5 Number of subsidiaries taking part in the Group Innovation Award contest 26 44 45 been translated 13 13 13 during aluminium production; the electromagnetic mixing and pumping system for Percentage of Group employees invited to compete for the Group Innovation Award 40% 62% 82% CSR coaching % of companies in which the Code of conduct Number of ideas submitted for the Group Innovation Award 252 443 407 Genios™ aluminum furnaces; the Pillard NovaFlam® cement plant burner; and the Number of subsidiaries already has been distributed 94% 98% 87% GENI-belt™ baggage handling and sorting system. embarked on a CSR coaching plan 25 35 38 11 18 3 6 % of employees accounted for by these companies 91% 94% 76% Research and test centers Number of research and test centers (*) 20 27 27 Percentage of employees accounted for As part of the Engineered Sustainability® program, 54 people received eco-design by these subsidiaries (total and by region) 56% 68% 63% 44% 91% 18% 53% % of subsidiaries that hold an annual presentation of the France: 16, the Americas: 6, Europe (excl. France): 4, Asia: 1 ND 13% 16% Code of conduct involving at least 25% of the workforce training in 2014, bringing the total number of people trained in the Group close to 150. Management system (*) All of the subsidiaries conducting their own R&D product testing in designated locations are counted. Number of sites with ISO 9001 certification 51 49 56 9 29 12 6 Number of sites engaged in ISO 9001 In 2014, Fives launched a widespread business ethics program focused on The Group R&D program saw a renewed emphasis in 2014 with 18% spending increase on R&D. This outcome was certification 2 3 7 3 3 0 1 preventing corruption, anti-competition practices and money laundering. An also the result of a full year of contributions from entities that joined the Group in 2013 (not counting acquisitions Health, Safety and intense effort was made to train all Group executives in this area, totaling 182 in 2013, R&D spending would have been €26.3 million in 2013 and €28.4 million in 2014, or up 8%). Environment community people over five sessions. The relative shares for new product and process development continue to climb in 2014, as did radical research Number of Group HSE representatives 47 48 58 10 27 14 7 Work was also done to devise and distribute a new Group Directive on business ethics. Number of Group HSE auditors 11 15 15 13 2 and innovation activities, which is consolidating the Group’s positioning in innovative high-performance technical There will be a special focus in 2015 and 2016 on deploying this new Directive in all the Number of Group HSE audits conducted 25 22 21 3 12 4 3 solutions. There was a notable uptick in the cost of patents and trademarks in 2014, partly due to a larger patent Percentage of companies audited subsidiaries to ensure that the appropriate structures are put in place to address the risks portfolio and a considerable number of international extensions conducted in 2014 to improve our market coverage. (cumulative) 67% 75% 79% facing subsidiaries. With regard to the Code of conduct, the main objective was to distribute it in the entities The Group took on seven industrial sites with the acquisition of part of the MAG Group in 2013 and OTO Mills. Two that had joined the Group in 2013. So far, 44% of these new subsidiaries have deployed of these new sites are among the five largest workshops in the Group. it internally, bringing the Group-wide distribution rate to 87%. Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report HEALTH & SAFETY INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2014 The Group’s safety performance continued to improve in 2014 with an accident frequency rate (employees and temp Europe 89% of the target sites were ISO 14001 certified; three subsidiaries have 2014 The Asia and 2012 2013 2014 historic workers combined) of 5.36 (versus 5.86 in 2013). In a departure from 2013, this time the trend greatly improved at 2012 2013 2014 historic France excl. postponed their certification to 2015. Of these three subsidiaries, the US scope* scope* Americas Africa the end of the year with an excellent fourth quarter. The majority of accidents still occur in the workshops and the France subsidiary was certified in February 2015 and the two others have scheduled Number of industrial sites 30 30 37 30 proportion is up compared with 2013. Accidents on project sites remain proportionately stable. Number of sites with ISO 14001 certification 18 21 31 31 7 13 5 6 it for some time during the year. The target scope shifted to include 28 Number of sites with safety certification** 18 18 22 22 However, the increase of serious accidents that began in 2012 continued in 2014 with the severity rate going from 0.18 subsidiaries since one site, in the French company, Fives Nordon, earned Objective of ISO 14001 certification for industrial sites in 2013 to 0.21 in 2014. There were several severe accidents, particularly in the recently acquired companies. In an its certification a year early. The second phase of the project will include INDICATORS Number of sites engaged in safety certification 9 6 5 1 effort to quickly stem this progression, the following actions were implemented in 2014 and will continue to be rolled Number of industrial sites 30 30 37 30 11 16 7 3 the industrial sites and entities that joined the Group after 2012, which will Percentage of industrial sites with safety certification 17% 23% 30% 37% out in 2015: Scope of the ISO 14001 certification be certified by 2016. % of subsidiaries having written and distributed objectives for the end of 2014 (in number a Health & Safety Policy 76% 77% 79% ‒ improve the accident analyses to address the root causes of accidents, of industrial sites) 27 27 28 28 8 13 5 2 Number of FTE(1) Health & Safety staff in the Group 35.2 46.0 50.7 ‒ communicate more widely accident feedback to systematize preventive actions across all Group companies, Number of industrial sites The companies that entered the Group in 2013 significantly impacted ‒ devise mandatory rules and apply them for all high-risk operations such as lifting or working at heights, with ISO 14001 certification 14 16 25 25 7 11 5 2 environment-related matters in the sense that they alone generate Accident statistics Percentage of progress toward the 2014 ‒ continue to step up CEO implication as well as hands-on involvement from Group management in safety, notably 30% of the Group’s energy consumption but account for a little under Employees accident frequency rate ISO 14001 certification (at the end of 2014) 52% 59% 89% 89 % 88% 85% 100% 100% 6.63 5.34 4.90 4.16 by bringing them into all the accident and communications treatment processes, 15% of the sites. Most of these new sites are industrial, and admittedly (Number of lost-time accidents (≥1 day) x 1,000,000 / Number of hours worked) ‒ isolate severe or potentially severe accidents in the safety statistics. Environmental management system assembly sites, but they are large: two of these new sites are among Percentage of sites that have written the top five workshops in the Group. 66 Employees accident severity rate (Number of lost-time accidents (≥1 day) 0.135 0.184 0.208 0.160 This uptick in severity needs to be qualified because if it were based on the 2013 scope not counting acquisitions, the and distributed an Environment policy 59% 62% 61% 50% 68% 60% 56% 67 accident severity rate is lower at 0.16 (versus 0.18) and the lower frequency rate would be more noticeable at 4.67 Number of FTE(1) Environment staff Not counting the impact of these companies, the Group’s energy x 1.000 / Number of hours worked) in the Group 15.3 19.5 20.8 3.9 11.12 4.1 1.7 (versus 5.86). consumption dropped by 15% in 2014. The impact of this decrease was felt Employees + temporary employees accident Energy consumption in GWh 7.49 5.86 5.36 4.67 much more in natural gas and heating oil consumption, which fell by 20%. frequency rate This is evidence of the success of actions subsidiaries have been implementing over the last several years and crossElectricity consumption in GWh 48.6 48.7 65.2 45.0 29.1 22.4 7.6 6.1 Virtually all of the Group’s subsidiaries are seeing lower consumption rates % of lost-time accidents occurring on customer/ functional measures taken by the Group. As an example, Fives Nordon should be commended for its outstanding Natural gas and heating oil consumption due to a combination of warmer weather and lower volumes, with the subcontractor sites*** 20% 34% 31% in GWh 57.2 56.8 61.6 44.8 33.5 19.6 7.8 0.7 performance with a frequency rate of 2.3 in nearly 1.8 million hours worked, an outcome that is a testament to the exception of the logistics division. China was the only place where the trend % of lost-time accidents occurring in workshops*** 62% 53% 64% Total energy consumption in GWh 105.9 105.5 126.8 89.8 62.6 41.9 15.4 6.8 % of lost-time accidents occurring in offices*** 7% 5% 5% significant effort that company has been making over the last few years to spread its safety culture. reversed due to the operational ramp-up of a second production line at Energy consumption in €000 Fives Cryo Suzhou. % of lost-time accidents occurring on business trips** 11% 7% 0% Fives’ goal is still to achieve a frequency rate of under 4 in 2016 through policy work on the Group safety culture Electricity consumption in €000 4,430 4,604 5,857 4 441 2 062 2 200 916 678 at every level: Group senior management, subsidiary executives and management, employees. Some practical Natural gas and heating oil consumption Furthermore, the energy mix is changing this year, with or without Employees + temporary employees severity examples of this include the working seminars for CEOs that have been organized since 2013, the biannual in €000 2,141 2,018 2,140 1 522 729 969 401 41 acquisition, and electricity is becoming the primary energy source. Natural rate (Number of lost-time accidents (≥1 day) ND 0.182 0.207 0.16 Total energy consumption in €000 6,571 6,622 7,997 5,963 2,791 3,169 1,317 720 x 1.000 / Number of hours worked) mobilization of all the Group safety representatives and the targeted actions to increase accountability among gas accounts for 49% of the Group’s energy consumption (in GWh). Half of all involved if there is a resurgence of accidents. Water consumption the Group heated facilities use natural gas for heat and almost half of the (1) FTE: Full-Time Equivalent Water consumption (industrial sites) in m3 87,644 84,739 83,816 70 986 32,345 26,087 9,193 16,191 industrial sites use natural gas for the production process or to conduct * 2014 historic scope: Excluding acquisitions completed in 2013, which had not been included in 2013, even on a partial basis In addition, the safety certification approach continues and is expanding across geographies. Water consumption (industrial sites) tests. Moreover, the cost differential continues to widen between electricity ** OHSAS 18001 or MASE certifications (Corporate Safety Improvement Manual), French safety Until now, only French and Italian companies were OHSAS 18001 certified. In 2014, a Chinese company, in €000 175 190 178 150 83 66 22 7 and gas due to the effect of large regional differences in energy prices. management system an English company, a French company and an American company earned this certification. As a *** Employees figures in 2012/Employees and temporary employees figures in 2013 and 2014 reminder, these entities opted to take this initiative themselves and it is a good indicator that the Group (1) FTE: Full-Time Equivalent For the first year, water consumption seems to represent the Group’s actual culture is evolving. * 2014 historic scope: excluding acquisitions completed in 2013, which had not been included in 2013, even on a partial basis consumption. Leaks were controlled on all sites. Water prices also remained relatively stable. As a reminder, while half of the industrial sites use water There were two environment-related highlights in 2014: the completion of the first phase of the ISO 14001 program and the in their processes, this water is mostly used for relatively low-consumption integration of companies acquired in 2013. activities like cooling, hydraulic testing, part washing, etc. Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report UN GLOBAL COMPACT FIVES ADOPTED GOOD PRACTICES ON ALL KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMS WELL ON SEVERAL LESS MATERIAL STAKES Fives’ ESG performances* PROGRESS ON DEPLOYMENT OF THE GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM 2. CSR strategy and risk management A yearly assessment of the progress done by the Group in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility is being carried out since 2012. In addition to developments from 2014 and 2013, the 2015 objectives Fives set for itself were integrated this year. + 5. Diversity and equal opportunities 14. Relations with communities 1. Governing bodies 3. Social policy and strategy 7. Social dialogue 4. 6. 8. Human resources management Health and safety Environmental policy and EMS INDICATORS For the second year in a row, Exfi-Partners has conducted an evaluation of the Group’s social responsibility program. As a result of this evaluation, a materiality matrix was Good 13. Responsibility towards clients put together (see matrix on the opposite page). practices Their findings are informing Group talks about priorities and determinations to make across the whole social responsibility program. The following table (see p.69) details the overall progress made by the corporate social responsibility program of the Group and how that progress relates to the commitment made by Fives to respect and promote the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. ≈ Average 9. 10. 11. Energy and emissions Water Waste 12. Purchasing process and responsibility All 10 principles have been incorporated fully into the Group corporate social responsibility policy and several programs contribute directly to Fives’ progress towards full practices towards suppliers compliance with the commitments set out in the UN Global Compact. of sector Their correlation with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact is indicated by “ GC1 ” (Global Compact 1) for the program that corresponds to Principle 1 of the UN Global 68 Source : Exfi-Partners 69 Compact, and so on, as detailed below: Human rights Environment No formalization GC 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed GC 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; / weak practices human rights; and GC 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and GC 2. ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. GC 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labor Anti-corruption Materiality level** GC 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition GC 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Low Medium High of the right to collective bargaining; and bribery. ENVIRONMENTAL STAKES ARE MANAGED IN LINE * Governance, social and environmental performance GC 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; WITH THE PRACTICES OF THE SECTOR ** Materiality level: Material topics for an organization should include those topics that have a direct or GC 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large (source Global Reporting Initiative GRI) GC 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. External evaluation by Exfi-Partners For the second year in a row, Exfi-Partners has conducted an evaluation of the Group’s social responsibility program. The evaluation was based on documents, questionnaires and interviews that were used to balance out the evaluation guidelines Fives applies and to measure Fives’ performance against these guidelines. The materiality matrix above provides an overview of these two working strategies: on the x-axis, materiality reflects the significance of each topic in relation to Fives’ business (according to the Global Reporting Initiative*, these are “ topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode [...] value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large ”) THE FIVES PLEDGE to follow the United Nations Global Compact on the y-axis, Environmental and Social performance and Governance (ESG) pertains to Fives’ ability to understand these topics. The findings are informing Group talks about priorities and determinations to make across the whole social responsibility program. commitments is not just an internal motivator, it serves as a talking point with our external stakeholders and particularly with our customers. According to Exfi-Partners, the key areas of social responsibility for Fives are part of the following Fives programs (detailed on pages 70-73): Sharing this commitment with them is helping us determine the best way 2. CSR strategy and risk management: Good practices / Embed the CSR priorities into the organization of each Fives Entity (CSR coaching and Fives Directives and Guidelines Manual) 4. Human resources management and 6. Health and safety: Good practices / Provide a safe and motivating workplace to achieve our common objectives on social and environmental issues 8. Environmental policy and EMS: Good practices / Environmental certification program and business ethics. 13. Responsibility towards clients: Good practices / Engineered Sustainability® Frédéric Sanchez, Chairman of the Executive Board *The Global Reporting Initiative is an organization that advocates for the standardization of sustainable development reporting practices to encourage the use of best practices and comparisons of organizations. Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report Co Level of Co Level of mm m itm Program Achievements at end-2013 Achievements at end-2014 2015 goals maturity at mitm Program Achievements at end-2013 Achievements at end-2014 2015 goals maturity at en end 2014 en end 2014 t t Engineered Sustainability® One branded product: Stein Digit@l Furnace® This program is widening its scope with about 20 Continue at the same pace of deployment in Responsible purchasing In addition to the initiatives already in place: Update the Group General Terms of Purchase to Formalize mutual CSR commitments between Promoting fair practices on the marketplace Internal eco-design program which meets AT 2.0 by Fives Stein, a total of 2 branded projects across all industrial sectors: 2015. Incorporate our social responsibility goals Drafting of a full CSR clause (including human more specifically incorporate corruption Fives and its suppliers/subcontractor. (and exceeds) the requirements of the products. 4 branded products in 2014, bringing the total to Renew the brand for the CentriSprayTM chamberinto our relations with subcontractors and rights and corruption prevention) for the United prevention after the new Group Business Ethics ISO 14062 standard. 12 products being analyzed. 6 products, type washer, the first product to complete the suppliers. States. Directive is published. Minimizing the environmental footprint It’s an innovation process that can lead to the 29% of the eligible subsidiaries involved 10 products being analyzed, brand’s three-year validity period. GC 1 – GC 2 – GC 3 – GC 4 – GC 5 INDICATORS award of a brand identifying best-in-class in this program. 7 potential projects, Promote social responsibility Distribution of the 2012 results of the Group’s Distribution of the 2013 results of the Group’s Step up internal communications on CSR and products in terms of environmental and Certificate of insurance issued by Ernst & 33% of the eligible subsidiaries involved in our commercial offer CSR approach to the sales community CSR approach to the sales community. provide key figures for sales people. safety performance. Young. in this program. Figure out how to make social and Development of the Engineered Sustainability® Continue deployment of the Engineered Increase contacts with customer CSR EY awarded this program an insurance environmental impacts part of the offer brand Sustainability® brand. departments, especially in talks about the CSR certificate in 2013. and the CSR performance levels for Fives One meeting with customers’ CSR management Continue contacting the CSR departments of charters. of the Group and its customers GC 8 GC 9 and every subsidiary part of the sales teams (industry sector) Fives customers. Mandatory environmental certification 16 industrial sites certified as meeting 25 industrial sites certified as meeting Finalize ISO 14001 certification for sites in pitch. EcoVadis rating: Confirmed (Gold), 63/100. EcoVadis rating: Confirmed (Gold), 68/100, program for all Group industrial sites ISO 14001. ISO 14001. the original scope. GC 9 top 10% of the 20,000 companies rated by EcoVadis as of the end of 2014. based on the date they joined the Group (the first phase ended in 2014 for sites 59% of sites concerned by the 2014 goal are certified. 89% of sites concerned by the 2014 goal are certified, 93% at the end of February 2015. Launch the support program for sites that recently joined the Group 70 there prior to 2012). Guide the European companies through 71 GC 7 GC 8 the energy audit program. Safety roadmap for 2016 Frequency rate for employees and temporary Employees + temporary staff accident Continue efforts to build a stronger safety Move the Group towards a safety culture staff = 5.87 frequency rate = 5.36, or 4.67 within a culture by: shared by all. 63% of companies have achieved their safety constant scope. holding manager trainings Fives Code of conduct Distribution of the Code of conduct to 94% Training project for the whole Code of conduct Begin rolling out the Code of conduct to In three years, halve the accident goal. 75% of companies have achieved their setting up safety dialogue observation practices Adoption of the Code of conduct by all of employees. postponed until 2016. companies that recently joined the Group. frequency rate for employees and 92% of Group top managers (Members of the safety goal. implementing a new procedure on analyzing employees by: 13% of subsidiaries organize an annual Code of Conduct distributed to 87% of Provide talking points to help introduce the temporary staff, with the ultimate goal Fives Executive Board, Executive Committee, Create a stronger procedure for analyzing and communicating about accidents. Providing a safe and motivating working environment Distributing it to all employees presentation of the Code attended by at least employees. Code of conduct at each company. remaining zero severe accidents. Managing Directors and Site Managers) have and communicating internally about workplace Better control of major risks by: Writing a reading guide for the Code of 25% of staff. 16% of subsidiaries organize an annual Our aim is to reach a maximum accident taken part in one day-long safety leadership accidents. writing and deploying “unbreakable” rules. Promoting fair practices on the marketplace conduct, and practical examples to train presentation of the Code of conduct attended frequency rate of 4 in 2016 for employees awareness session. Bring companies acquired in 2013 into the Support the inclusion of newly acquired all Group managers, to feed into by at least 25% of staff. and temporary staff. processes that the Group set up for health companies. an annual discussion of the Code and safety management. in each team. GC 10 Promoting diversity and raising awareness Gender equality: Gender equality: Continue awareness campaigns about diversity. of non-discrimination 16% of employees are women 16% of employees are women Gender equality: tracking of the % of 30% of women are engineers or managers. 36% of women are engineers or managers. Targeted actions on disability will be held at Business ethics Directive in place since 2004 on managing Focus on business ethics in 2014: Two key objectives: women hired, access to training and Older people: Older people: subsidiaries that are moving more slowly. Intensify the program on corruption sales representation contracts (agents), New special Group Directive. Provide support for the new Business Ethics promotion; awareness raised of 37% of employees are 50 or over. 36% of employees are 50 or over. prevention and anti-competition practices updated in 2010. Training sessions for 96% of CEOs Directive deployment with trainings at each discriminatory practices. 43% of employees have been with the Group 41% of employees have been with the Group through special training sessions, rollout Training course for English subsidiaries and new and Finance Directors. company. Employment of older people: tracking for over 10 years (17% for over 25 years). for over 10 years (18% for over 25 years). of the new Group Directive on these action plans pertaining to the UK Bribery Act in Rewrite the agent management procedures. of the agreement on older people signed Disability awareness campaign: Disability awareness campaign: issues and enhance the Group agent 2011. in France. However, the over-50s The communication tools are still in place in the A full report was done in 2014. management toolbox. employment rate is high, and the subsidiaries. The communication tools are still in place in the GC 10 challenge for Fives in many of its Numerous initiatives were put in place locally in subsidiaries. subsidiaries is to transfer know-how. 2013, and will be compiled in a brochure in An internal campaign was conducted in 2014 in Employment of disabled people: 2014. the internal magazine that highlighted initiatives awareness-raising campaign since 2012 being taken at subsidiaries. and sharing of best practices. GC 6 Topic not identified Emergent In construction Defined, with deployment in progress Fully and satisfactorily deployed Topic not identified Emergent In construction Defined, with deployment in progress Fully and satisfactorily deployed Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report Co Level of Co Level of mm m itm Program Achievements at end-2013 Achievements at end-2014 2015 goals maturity at mitm Program Achievements at end-2013 Achievements at end-2014 2015 goals maturity at en end 2014 en end 2014 t t Harmonization of the employee welfare Harmonized in China. A Compensation & Benefits Manager was hired After the 2014 progress report, set up countryMaintenance of know-how within the Group 84 sharing initiatives in France. There was the same number of pooling actions The program will not change in 2015 while being Providing a safe and motivating working environment protection regime Project launched in the United States. at the beginning of the year. specific action plans. Process existing in France since 2009. Initiatives are proliferating in the Group, in 2014. 85 people were staffed out to other expanded to other geographic areas. Harmonize and challenge the employee A global audit of the current benefit plans was Newly acquired subsidiaries added to existing Sharing meetings held two or three times a depending on the workloads/under-loads Group subsidiaries, mostly in jobsite-related welfare protection regime in the main carried out in order to determine an action plans. year, to review the workloads/under-loads for the cycles in the different markets where and design office functions. domains where the Group has a presence. and make staff allocation decisions, ranging the Group has a presence. INDICATORS plan. Healthcare networks and risk benefit providers from several weeks to several months. were harmonized in the United States. Identification and management of 47% of employees are assessed in a CEDRE 54% of employees are assessed in a CEDRE The Fives objectives is to review managers every World employee opinion survey 90% of French subsidiaries have finalized the Finalize action plans that began in 2013. Launch a new opinion survey. employees with potential (CEDRE) career management committee meeting, career management committee. year and non-managers every two years. An opinion survey conducted among action plan resulting from the satisfaction survey, Prepare update for internal opinion survey. Providing a safe and motivating working environment Annual career management committee in including at least one member of Fives Executive Steering indicators will be put into place to track all Group employees every three years, and are implementing it. each subsidiary, attended by the Committee. this objective more closely. designed to measure satisfaction levels management team and a Human and any organizational malfunctions, Resources representative, to: and which gives rises to the Determine which measures need to be implementation of action plans proposed by employee bodies. 72 taken to improve employee performance. 73 Approve personal career plans. Distribute best practices and Group Distribution to all management committees Distribute fully completed Manual of Directives, Start updating specific directives to include directives of companies acquired by 2012. including to companies acquired in 2013. changes in the Group. Develop an anticipatory strategy on jobs 94% of French subsidiaries have launched Launch a project to completely overhaul Continue this project and, most importantly, list Compilation of Directives and Distribution in progress to companies acquired All the subsidiaries that were required completed Incorporating CSR priorities into and organizations at each company. a GPEC program (jobs and skills forecast the program to remove the French regulatory the subsidiaries that already have this kind of Recommendations covering all Group in 2013. the CEO report on the Manual of Directives. Develop this strategy with a 5-step management). framework. program. jobs, linked to internal control rules. 100% of subsidiaries, except those acquired program: It covers 99% of French employees. GC1 to GC10 in 2013, have produced the Managing Director’s Define the company strategy. report on the Directives Manual. Determine the business goals and the operational goals. CSR coaching 35 companies are involved in this program, 38 companies are involved in this program, Continue the program, especially with companies the organization of all Fives entities Identify the skills required to achieve One-day working meeting with each accounting for 68% of staff. accounting for 63% of staff (including new that changed general management or have these goals. subsidiary’s management committee, to subsidiaries). joined the Group since 2013. Qualify the existing positions in the identify the key CSR challenges and company and the associated required priority improvement areas. skills. Annual tracking of the action plan. Analyse the shortfall and build action GC1 to GC10 plans. Topic not identified Emergent In construction Defined, with deployment in progress Fully and satisfactorily deployed Topic not identified Emergent In construction Defined, with deployment in progress Fully and satisfactorily deployed Fives | 2014 Annual and CSR Report Fives French limited company (Société Anonyme) with Executive Board and Supervisory Board Share capital €102,723,764 Registered office: 27-29 rue de Provence, 75009 Paris (France) 542 023 841 R.C.S. PARIS – APE 7010Z Phone: +33 (0)1 45 23 75 75 Fax: +33 (0)1 45 23 75 71 E-mail: contact@fivesgroup.com www.fivesgroup.com Edited by the Communications Department of Fives This document is printed on Condat Silk, certified FSC Created by Le Square: +33 (0)1 45 06 56 44 (Forest Stewardship Council) paper, guaranteeing Photography: Fives the long-lasting management of forests. Inks used are Copyright © 2015 Fives All rights reserved plant-based, with an alcohol-free dampening solution. Fives 27/29 rue de Provence 75009 Paris FRANCE www.fivesgroup.com
