Strategic review Johan van Zyl Group Chief Executive 2014 presented us with one of the more challenging operating environments since the ﬁnancial crisis. Operating conditions during 2014 are covered Currency exchange rates: Although the weak in detail in the Economic and Operating average rand exchange rate worked in our Environment Review, but I would like to single favour in some instances, investing offshore with out the following events, which had substantial a volatile currency is difﬁcult. In addition, weak impacts on the Group and its businesses. currencies in some of the regions where we operate depressed the translated rand results of Economic growth: The pressure on economic these operations. The biggest impact came from growth, both in South Africa and in the other the signiﬁcant depreciation of the Ghanaian cedi. major regions where Sanlam operates, put a Regulatory change: The raft of regulatory damper on the Group’s growth potential. changes imposed on the savings and investment Industrial action in South Africa: Around industry in South Africa as well as in a number of 10% of Sanlam Sky Solutions’ new business other countries in which we operate, most originates from the platinum belt. In addition notably, India and the UK, has placed cost Sanlam Employee Beneﬁts administers a large pressures on all of the Group’s businesses. portion of the employee beneﬁts for the platinum The uncertainty created by some of these mining companies. The ﬁve month platinum reforms has resulted in signiﬁcant opportunity mining strike in the ﬁrst half of 2014 therefore costs. A great deal of capacity has been had a signiﬁcant impact on these businesses. invested in preparing for the implementation of More details can be found in the Operational these reforms at the expense of product Cluster Review. development and other important projects. 62 Sanlam Annual Report 2014 1 Integrated report Given the difﬁcult operating environment of 2014, Sanlam is one of South Africa’s 50 Most Valuable I am particularly pleased to be able to report that the Brands as measured by independent brand Group achieved solid overall operating results in valuation company, Brand Africa, and we intend 2014. keeping it that way. One of the characteristics of 2 truly iconic brands is the ability to adapt and remain The diversiﬁed nature of the Group’s operations, relevant while always staying authentic and true to 3 together with the strength of the Sanlam brand and its core. We therefore opted to refresh, rather than the brands of our international partners, contributed change, our brand identity in 2014 to better align 4 to our total new business volumes that grew by our brand with our strategic drive to grow a more 18%, the combination of 24% growth in new diversiﬁed client base. 5 insurance business and 15% growth in new 6 investment mandates received. Net result from This Integrated Report provides a holistic and ﬁnancial services (net operating proﬁt) grew by transparent overview of Sanlam’s performance in 27% (26% on a per share basis). We consider this a 2014, both from a ﬁnancial point of view as well very satisfactory achievement in an environment as in terms of our consideration of environmental, where the South African economy is growing by less social and governance (ESG) issues. than 2%. In 2014 all the major businesses contributed to this growth. Delivering sustainable value The Group continued to deliver in line with its The following are some of our other salient results: strategic objectives in 2014 as outlined in our Net value of new covered business up 21% ﬁve-pillar strategy, which has remained ﬁrmly in place Net VNB margin of 2,92% compared to for the past 11 years. Our strong commitment to this 3,06% in 2013 strategy has made it possible for the Group to Dividend per share increased by 13% to transform into the proﬁtable and well-diversiﬁed 225 cents world-class business that Sanlam is today. Sanlam Personal Finance, our South African Towards the end of 2014 the Sanlam Board business cluster operating in the retail space, conﬁrmed that the same ﬁve strategic pillars will performed exceptionally well within an environment continue to underpin the Sanlam Group business where particularly the retail consumer is under model for 2015. The ﬁve pillars are: increasing ﬁnancial pressure. Our general insurance Improving performance through earnings business, Santam, also performed substantially growth; better in 2014 with underwriting margins that Improved operational efficiencies, including exceeded the high end of the target range. Our costs and quality; ﬁnancial performance is covered in more detail in the Improving returns through optimal capital Financial Review. utilisation; Diversification of the base (including I believe it is the Sanlam Group’s proven ability geographical presence, products, market to deliver consistently on long-term promises segments and distribution platforms); and that qualiﬁes us to refer to ourselves as Embracing and accelerating transformation “Wealthsmiths™”. We introduced the of the Group. “Wealthsmiths™” brand positioning in 2014, together with our refreshed brand identity, because it encapsulates best how the Group does business: making the most of our clients’ money in a straightforward, honest and hardworking way. Sanlam Annual Report 2014 63 Strategic review continued Focusing on these strategic pillars alone will yield Below is a brief overview of our achievements for results over the short term, but will not in isolation 2014 against our ﬁve strategic pillars. create sustainable value for our shareholders over the long term. For this reason the following strategic Earnings growth enablers are embedded together with the ﬁve Given the tough conditions that plagued 2014, we strategic pillars in the overall Sanlam strategy for consider the Group’s operating earnings growth of long-term sustainable value creation: 27% an exceptional achievement. Managing all our activities within a framework of sound governance and risk management; Our established core operations performed very well Placing continuous focus on human capital, our and delivered the required organic growth. We are key resource, through our people particularly pleased with Santam’s contribution, development; which more than doubled in 2014. Providing responsible products and services to our clients. Only by providing clients with Operational efficiencies relevant products and services at a fair price will Maintaining cost efﬁciency across the Group remains we be able to balance the value proposition of a key focus. All businesses are experiencing cost our clients and shareholders sustainably over the pressures, which is aggravated by additional costs long term within a TCF framework; associated with regulatory changes and new Ensuring a sustainable client base by investing in compliance requirements as well as relatively low a more just and prosperous society; and growth rates in certain key areas, in part due to Contributing to a sustainable environment to already signiﬁcant existing market shares. The areas operate in by managing our environmental experiencing most of the cost pressures are our footprint. more mature businesses – Sanlam Investments (SI), Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) and Santam. In 2014 we made substantial progress in implementing the strategy. The results achieved These businesses are therefore continuously show the positive effects of both the diversiﬁcation exploring ways to increase cost-efﬁciencies. Santam and internationalisation drives coming through on introduced a project in 2014 aimed at reducing the bottom line. management costs, while SPF focused on driving down acquisition costs. SI implemented a new Our primary performance target for measuring distribution structure in 2014 that should reduce shareholder value creation is Return on Group Equity client acquisition costs through an improvement in Value (RoGEV). Given the nature of the Group’s client retention. diversiﬁed business we consider this measure of performance the most appropriate since it In addition, the two long-term Group-wide initiatives incorporates the result of all the major value drivers introduced in recent years to foster efﬁciency remain in the business. ﬁrmly in place. The RoGEV per share for 2014 of 18,5% exceeded The Sanlam for Sanlam programme, which has been the target of 12,2% by a healthy margin. The in place for four years, encourages effective adjusted RoGEV per share, which excludes the collaboration between clusters with the goal of impact of investment market return deviations from achieving greater growth and proﬁtability. long-term assumptions, tax changes and other factors outside of management’s control during the The Blueprint for Success initiative, launched in period, amounted to 18,0%, also well in excess of 2012, is aimed at enhancing the Sanlam for Sanlam the target. programme by helping employees embrace the critical enabling factors that will help Sanlam achieve accelerated growth. The success of this initiative is 64 Sanlam Annual Report 2014 1 Integrated report measured annually and the 2014 results show that in SPF to further diversify its product offering to include the two years since launch the engagement levels of medical aid solutions for retail clients, but it also our employees have improved from 45% to 75%, provides the cluster with an opportunity to offer which is bordering on a world-class score. other products and services to the broader 2 Medscheme client base. These two initiatives are certainly achieving the 3 desired results for the Group. In addition to diversifying our reach and product offering, we have also taken a long hard look at how 4 Managing an efﬁcient business also requires we reach our clients. While we remain a stringent risk, compliance and corporate governance predominantly intermediated business, we are also 5 systems. In 2014 we spent more than R150 million focusing on developing viable alternative distribution 6 on various initiatives aimed at ensuring that we models enabled by innovative technology. Our remain a responsible corporate citizen, including investment in MicroEnsure, for example, will enable internal and external audits, reporting of results and us to sell insurance products via mobile phones. Board activities. This presents a potentially signiﬁcant growth opportunity across all our markets, but especially in Diversification the Rest of Africa. SPF will also launch one of its Our successful strategy of diversiﬁcation across three new Tax Free Savings products, to be geographies, market segments and products once introduced early in 2015, via intermediaries as well again enabled the Group to deliver overall solid as online. Life insurance products will also be added growth and value to our stakeholders in a more to MiWay’s direct distribution platform. sustainable manner. In just 10 years this strategy has helped us transform the proﬁle of the Group from a Currently South Africa still contributes around traditional insurer to a well-diversiﬁed ﬁnancial 74% of the Group’s proﬁts and our international services provider with a direct footprint on four businesses around 26%. We are conﬁdent that the continents and able to offer extensive solutions international contribution will increase over time as across all market segments in South Africa. our emerging market investments continue to grow. In 2014 we continued to aggressively pursue this Optimal capital utilisation strategy with the aim of further diversifying revenue The Group’s strategic approach is to use surplus streams. We concluded several transactions in capital for further diversiﬁcation and the 2014, including some 10 acquisitions and the internationalisation of our business. disposal of our stake in Intrinsic in the UK. These transactions utilised a net R1,9 billion of surplus Over the past seven years we redeployed R30 billion capital. As a result, we now have a direct footprint in of surplus capital. With R13 billion we bought back 10 African countries, as well as Europe, India and our own shares when they were still signiﬁcantly Malaysia. The Financial Review includes more undervalued and we used R1 billion for a special information on these transactions. dividend in 2013. A total of R16 billion was used to give effect to our diversiﬁcation strategy. This In addition to the above transactions, SPF identiﬁed substantial investment fundamentally changed the a need for a credible investment in a medical structure of the Group. scheme administrator and entered into a deal of some R700 million with Afrocentric Healthcare Only 10 years ago this business mainly consisted of Assets. The transaction is still subject to conditions a large capital base and a relatively small life precedent. If concluded, it will result in the Group business. Through the efﬁcient use of capital, we holding a 28,7% stake in Medscheme, South Africa’s have succeeded in largely de-risking the business largest health risk management services provider and transforming it into a proﬁtable world-class and the country’s third largest medical scheme business that is far less capital intensive. This has administrator. Not only will this transaction enable signiﬁcantly increased the return on capital. Sanlam Annual Report 2014 65 Strategic review continued In combination with our relentless focus on quality Both parties will jointly explore and pursue business and client retention, our strategy has opportunities of common interest while Sanlam created signiﬁcant value for our shareholders. It is will assist Ubuntu-Botho in its strategy to not surprising therefore that the Sanlam share has establish an independent ﬁnancial services rerated over the past few years. business. The Sanlam Ubuntu-Botho Community The Group started the year with discretionary Development Trust that beneﬁted from the value capital of R4 billion. An additional R1,2 billion was created in the transaction over the past 10 years added to this war chest during the year, generated will now actively contribute to the initiatives of from investment returns, capital releases and both Sanlam and Ubuntu-Botho Investments excess dividend cover. This provided us with aimed at supporting poor and disadvantaged capital of R5,2 billion available for strategic communities. deployment in 2014. With the Ubuntu-Botho transaction we transformed Investment opportunities of signiﬁcant scale are our ownership in the most meaningful way possible, generally scarce in ﬁnancial services. Our focus has namely by involving a representative spectrum of therefore been on smaller bolt-on deals across the South African community groups in Sanlam’s future. spectrum of ﬁnancial services in partnership with established businesses in a number of countries in In 2014 the focus of our transformation goals in the emerging markets. As outlined earlier under the South Africa shifted from ownership towards diversiﬁcation section, we were able to apply a total employment equity as well as training and of R1,9 billion of the available surplus capital in development. At the end of 2014, our black staff respect of a number of growth opportunities in percentage stood at 67%. It must be pointed out 2014, leaving available discretionary capital of some that 10 years ago only 30% of our employees were R3,3 billion at 31 December 2014. All of this is black. earmarked for further expansion and diversiﬁcation of the Group. While we have made signiﬁcant progress in some areas in terms of improving our employment equity Transformation scorecard, we acknowledge that more must be At the end of 2013, the 10-year term of what has done. The empowerment targets at the middle and been described as one of the most successful black senior management levels are particularly tough to economic empowerment transactions in South meet. To accelerate our progress we are in the Africa with Ubuntu-Botho Investments came to an process of implementing a number of innovative end. The Group’s continued alignment with projects. Ubuntu-Botho post the original 10-year deal is a key part of our sustainability and future strategy. Both The Group requires all businesses in South Africa to parties agreed in 2014 to continue with the measure their employment equity achievements and partnership and to develop a new strategic submit these statistics on a quarterly basis. A relationship. complete report is then submitted to the Sanlam Board’s Human Resources committee four times a The Group is therefore exceptionally pleased that a year. This ongoing measuring of our progress is new formal relationship was concluded with critically important to help us achieve our targets. Ubuntu-Botho Investments. In terms of this agreement: At the end of 2014 we completed two full years of Ubuntu-Botho Investments has agreed to retain working within a clear framework of how the a core shareholding in Sanlam for a further empowerment efforts of the ﬁnancial sector are 10 years, thereby ensuring a sustained measured in terms of the South African Financial empowerment shareholding for the Group. Sector Code (FSC) for Black Economic Sanlam will also continue to beneﬁt from the Empowerment. valued involvement of the Ubuntu-Botho representatives on the Sanlam Board. 66 Sanlam Annual Report 2014 1 Integrated report The Group again achieved a level 2 BEE status in business development support. The aim is to 2014 when measured against the FSC. This is in line double the number of participating enterprises with our target and an achievement that we are very in 2015. proud of. The creation of 37 new jobs for these businesses 2 and an average growth in revenue of 20%. Responsible corporate Procurement spend of around R2,1 million was 3 citizenship channelled to these SMEs in 2014. 4 Underpinning our growth strategy is a commitment Following the success of the ﬁrst phase the second by the Group to invest in long-term sustainable 5 phase was launched towards the end of 2014. development and not just where proﬁts are to be made. 6 This important ﬂagship programme added greatly to Sanlam’s overall enterprise development initiatives, This starts with the investments in our own staff, as which in 2014: covered elsewhere in this Integrated Report and the Supported 107 businesses with 7 600 hours of Sustainability Report. Through growing our enterprise development and mentorship, thereby operations and businesses and those of our agents creating 137 new jobs; and and distributors, we actively participate in job Helped these enterprises achieve a 22% growth creation in all the regions where we operate. in turnover. Sanlam also remains committed to the 10 principles Equally important for sustainable economic of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), development is helping consumers better which have been integrated into Sanlam’s understand the long-term implications of their sustainability framework. The UNGC is a strategic ﬁnancial decisions as well as the products available policy initiative aimed at encouraging businesses from the savings and investment industry. In 2014 around the world to ensure that markets, commerce, Sanlam was able to inﬂuence the ﬁnancial futures technology and ﬁnance advance in ways that beneﬁt and attitudes of more than 20 000 South Africans economies and societies everywhere. across the country at LSM 1 – 8 levels through the Group’s consumer ﬁnancial education interventions. The Sanlam enterprise development (ED) programme, launched in 2013 and managed by the While a comprehensive overview of all our efforts as Association for Savings and Investment SA (ASISA), a responsible corporate citizen is contained in the is one example of our commitment to contribute to Sustainability Report published on our website, the economic transformation of South Africa and its I would like to also highlight the following: people. It recognises that some of the critical hurdles Sanlam was included in the JSE’s Socially to sustainable growth for many entrepreneurs is Responsible Investment (SRI) Index for the ninth access to quality business development support, consecutive year. mentorship and markets. The focus of the In 2014 Sanlam participated in the Carbon programme is therefore on incubating and Disclosure Project for the ﬁrst time and was developing small and medium businesses that show included in the top performance list of the potential for future growth, rather than simply Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). This supplying grant money and expecting business makes Sanlam one of nine South African listed owners to achieve growth on their own. companies to qualify for the index, and one of four ﬁnancial sector companies. The Sanlam ED programme successfully completed Sanlam’s biggest resource use in South Africa the ﬁrst phase of this enterprise and supplier is that of purchased electricity, which makes up development project in 2014, resulting in the 73% of the Group’s total carbon footprint. In following achievements: 2014 the Group managed to reduce electricity Five small and medium enterprises (SMEs) were consumption by 15% (per m2), on top of handpicked from Sanlam’s supply chain and 11% in 2013. provided with more than 1 500 hours of focused Sanlam Annual Report 2014 67 Strategic review continued Although Sanlam is not a water-intensive As mentioned earlier all our businesses are business, as one of South Africa’s leading experiencing cost pressures, mainly due to ﬁnancial services groups we recognise our regulatory changes and new compliance responsibility as a corporate citizen to address requirements. the challenges of water scarcity. In 2014 we therefore participated in the Global Water In the UK, the RDR and other reforms also impacted Disclosure Project, enabling society to substantially on the ﬁnancial services industry. interrogate how its corporate citizens use this However, we still believe that businesses like scarce resource. The Group aims to become Nucleus and Sanlam UK are well positioned to take water neutral in 2015 by investing in the Water advantage of regulatory change in the UK. Balance programme of the World Wide Fund for Furthermore, there has been valuable learning from Nature South Africa (WWF-SA). the regulatory reform process in the UK, which can Sanlam’s responsible investment policy commits be applied across the Group as South Africa moves the Group to undertake research into towards its own RDR. investment-related environmental risks and opportunities. In 2014 Sanlam developed a In India, Shriram’s credit businesses are also model that includes an environmental element to exposed to potential regulatory changes as company valuations, allowing us to deliver on non-bank institutions are increasingly being our commitment to monitor companies on their regulated as if they were banks. Finally, the life material environmental issues. We will develop insurance operations in India are still struggling to thresholds, procedures and channels for achieve past growth numbers due to the regulatory engaging with companies. reforms making it difﬁcult to sell Unit Linked Insurance Plans (ULIPs). Key risks for 2015 The South African ﬁnancial services industry A second major risk for the Group is the sluggish continues to face substantial regulatory changes, economy and the absence of strong growth in the which come with unintended consequences and foreseeable future. Overall, South Africa’s GDP uncertainty. We consider this a major threat to a growth is expected to continue to be under pressure sustainable environment conducive to doing for some time. While the growth rates in subbusiness. A sustainable environment is one where Saharan Africa, India and Malaysia are expected to appropriate policies and regulations enable the be at least double that of South Africa, these ﬁnancial services sector to continue to operate, economies are also performing at sub-optimal levels. compete, innovate and deliver solutions for the country and its citizens. Priorities for the Sanlam Group in 2015 The decision by government, for example, to delay The Group as a whole has identiﬁed four key focus the implementation of the retirement tax reforms, areas in 2015. The underlying priorities of the which were meant to come into effect on 1 March individual businesses are outlined in detail in the 2015, has had a major impact on SPF as well as Operational Cluster Review section. Sanlam Employee Beneﬁts (SEB). Driving diversification and efficiencies Furthermore, the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) The key focus in 2015 will be on driving proposals released for discussion by the Financial diversiﬁcation and efﬁciencies in the more mature Services Board (FSB) late in 2014 come with South African market, while simultaneously far-reaching consequences for intermediated bolstering our expansion efforts in the emerging businesses such as SPF. markets (Africa, India and South-East Asia) and the developed markets so that the international component forms a meaningful and growing proportion of our total business. 68 Sanlam Annual Report 2014 1 Integrated report Client centricity the Sanlam Group with effect from 1 January 2015. Key to the success of Sanlam has been our The position of Deputy Group Chief Executive is part unwavering commitment to putting the needs of our of Sanlam’s succession planning strategy and clients ﬁrst. Our client-centric approach forms an implementation of a smooth leadership transition 2 integral part of our business philosophy and will in 2015. continue to constitute the foundation of our business 3 model. In closing Although 2014 was a tough year, the Group once 4 I am pleased to report that the Treating Customers again delivered on its promises to all stakeholders 5 Fairly (TCF) implementation across the SPF and SI and this is something I am exceptionally proud of. clusters is complete, in line with the current In 2013, I said that we had raised the bar, but in 6 principles and guidelines as provided by the 2014 we managed to deliver against that bar despite Financial Services Board. In September 2014 SPF strong headwinds. and SI started providing the Sanlam Customer Interest committee with a TCF management I believe strongly that our promises are only as good information dashboard, which provides insight into as the people who make them, namely the Sanlam the clusters’ progress and measurement against the staff. I would therefore like to thank each and every proposed fairness outcomes. Sanlam employee who faced adversity in 2014 and helped us break records. It is this culture that has Transformation made Sanlam the successful and sustainable Transformation in the South African context ﬁnancial services group that it is today. refers to a company’s willingness to adapt the composition of its staff complement and its I would also like to express my gratitude to our shareholding to more accurately reﬂect the clients and shareholders for choosing us as your demographics of the country. We demonstrated “Wealthsmiths™”. A very big thank you also goes to Sanlam’s commitment to transforming into a truly my management team for their unwavering support South African business 10 years ago when we and to the members of the Sanlam Board for their announced the Ubuntu-Botho Investments black expert guidance and long-term vision. economic empowerment (BEE) transaction. We remain as committed to transformation today as we I am looking forward to the energy that the new were then and will continue to work with Ubuntuleadership will bring to the Sanlam Executive Botho as our strategic partners. structure in 2015 and am excited about the prospects that the transition will unlock for the As outlined earlier, employment equity and training Sanlam Group and its stakeholders. and development at middle and senior management levels will be our focus for 2015. Achieving a smooth transition Consistency and predictability are two of the Group’s main characteristics. In keeping with these character traits, which have served the Group well over the past 96 years, the Sanlam leadership succession planning was announced more than a year in advance. We understand that there is enough change in the external environment, which our business needs to absorb. Therefore, to facilitate a smooth transition in the Group’s leadership, Ian Kirk was appointed as Deputy Group Chief Executive of Sanlam Annual Report 2014 69
