2014 CSR Section of the management report SOMMAIRE 06 METHODOLOGY 11 EMPLOYEES 12 Workforce breakdown and analysis 19 Encouraging innovation 14 Welcoming new talent 21 Sharing in the company’s success 15 Labour dialogue as a lever for social 23 Diversity and equal opportunity, a corporate progress concern 16 Employee health, safety and working 23 Gender equality conditions 24 Fostering and supporting the integration of 18 Combating insecurity people with disabilities 19 Contributing to the individual development of eachemployee 25 PARTNERS 26 Monitoring labour conditions in 32 Reducing the impact of goods tranport manufacturing 33 Fostering local sourcing 31 Fighting against corruption 34 Rational mobility for residents 32 Developing sustainable partnerships with SMEs 35 CUSTOMERS 36 Safe and controlled food 40 Supporting customers in sorting their waste 36 Offering products that do not threaten 40 Reducing packaging and eco-designing biodiversity own-brand products 37 A diverse, suitable, accessible and visible offer 41 Listening to our customers in stores 38 Contributing to consumer health and well-being with a suitable food offer 43 ENVIRONMENT 44 Governance of environmental and social 52 Developing environmental site management policies 52 Measuring the carbon footprint of the retail 44 Sorting and recovering waste produced sites 47 Reducing the environmental impact of plastic 54 Limiting air, water and spoil pollution related bags to the company’s activity and adapting to the 47 Optimising and reducing our energy consequences of climate change consumption 54 Minimising noise pollution from activities 50 Applying sustainable water management 55 Contributing to biodiversity protection 56 SOLIDARITY 57 Implementing local solidarity initiatives 58 The foundations 68 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY FOREWORD Groupe Auchan, as a federation of companies united around a shared vision and values, recognises that the autonomy and progress of people and regions are keys to its development. Its decentralised operations are based on: an organisation by core business; the fact that each country / core business has its own General Management structure and a Board of Directors; the desire by the Executive Committee to apply subsidiarity to the maximum extent at each level of the company hierarchy. Groupe Auchan aims to be an ethical company that addresses the needs and evolving concerns of society and its stakeholders by “improving the purchasing power and quality of life of as many customers as possible, with responsible, professional, dedicated and respected employees.” To achieve this goal effectively and harmoniously in all countries in which it is present, sustainable development policies have been drafted, implemented and monitored within the framework of an international synergy since the end of 2008. This international synergy meets once a month to promote shared policies, share best practices in the form of fact sheets accessible to all, and contribute to its members’ education and awareness with regard to CSR topics. Starting in 2009, policies were organised into major project areas (energy, waste, socially responsible product ranges), and indicators were developed to measure the change in results from year to year. Over time these project areas have been consolidated and expanded. The Group has reported on them since 2011 via an annual corporate and social responsibility report, which is now merged with the annual business and financial report. In alignment with its business plan and corporate image, Groupe Auchan also reconfirmed its commitment to corporate responsibility in 2011 by joining the Global Compact. Since that date, the Group has been committed to complying with the 10 principles of the Global Compact, relating to human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption, and their promotion among its stakeholders, for example via the code of business conduct signed by its suppliers, initiatives with students and its internal communication. With the recent application of article 225 of the Grenelle This is the purpose of the Groupe Auchan Vision. It 2 Act, Groupe Auchan is required to communicate was first drafted in 1994 and has been updated since certified qualitative and/or quantitative data for its then, every 5 years on average, to follow changes in entire scope with regard to 42 issues relating to CSR. the major economic and social paradigms; the Group’s Groupe Auchan has approached this obligation as an values have remained the same, but its commitment opportunity to inventory, analyse and remedy any to society has been better explained and enhanced, weaknesses in its reporting as previously practised. expressing its desire “to be a responsible agent for Initial work on harmonising the definitions of primary sustainable economic and human development”. indicators, via a dedicated protocol, was completed “Contribution to local economic and social prosperity, last year. While room for improvement remained, this development of responsible consumption, reduced nonetheless formed a first basis for properly monitoring environmental impact and contribution to solidarity and managing performance. via the action of the foundations” are now written into the commitments in the Group’s Vision and must be The conclusions for the first certified financial year pursued at every level of its business. (2013) indicated a reservation with regard to the Group HR procedures, which did not provide sufficiently A major project was begun in 2013 in consultation precise definitions, calculation methodologies or with the executive committees of all countries and internal control instructions to monitor the workforce core businesses. In 2014, the Groupe Auchan Vision, and its breakdown by age group, but nonetheless updated following this cooperative approach, revealed “a significant anomaly which could call into was communicated throughout the Group for all question whether the CSR data taken as a whole is employees to appropriate. This new iteration can be presented fairly.” summed up in a brief tagline: “We are audacious store keepers.” Seeking innovative solutions and improved Observations were also formulated concerning the rate performance for the Group’s companies promotes this of coverage of certain environmental indicators and audacity which creates both tangible and intangible compliance with internal control instructions, which value. was still too haphazard. To correct this first review, the Groupe Auchan Human Resources Department assigned a project manager to clarify the reporting protocol for applicability to every country/core business. During 2014, Group HR coordination explained the deliverables to the HRD of each entity, responsible for the data escalated for consolidation. Reporting, as presented in this document, must not be seen as merely the work of experts and a few contributors. For CSR policies to thrive in a complex economic context, it is essential that the purpose and fundamental values that have driven the company for 54 years be shared and expressed on a daily basis by all employees, to guide the future strategic choices of all the Group entities. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 5 REPORT REPORTING STRUCTURE 1/ Social and environmental section In every country/core business, a sustainable development manager, preferably a member of General Mana#1 gement, is in charge of distributing environmental and social reporting instructions to all sites and departments within their scope. Every SD manager is responsible for tracking the indicators and coordinating data submission from the employees who are in charge of it within the entity. They have simple computer tools available for this task which are necessary to consolidation. METHODOLOGY To render the data communicated homogeneous and certifiable, the steering committee of the international sustainable development synergy developed a reporting protocol in 2013 that was made available to all individuals who might contribute to the process directly or REPORTING STRUCTURE indirectly. The aim here is to gradually address the issues that have been encountered so as to better define and 1/ Social and environmental section.............. 6 track clear and uniform procedures across all sites. 2/ Labour sectionl................................................. 6 SOCIAL DATA 2/ Labour section 1/ Scope.................................................................... 7 The process for escalating and verifying information is 2/ Collection methods......................................... 7 essentially the same. A Group unit was commissioned to establish an exhaustive protocol taking account of 3/ Data verification............................................... 7 all country specificities to the extent possible. Once this 4/ Data comparability protocol was approved, a presentation was sent to each and representativeness.................................. 8 entity’s HRD. They were then responsible for ensuring better communication to and training for the operational managers. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA These 2 complementary organisations work together 1/ Scope.................................................................... 8 closely to organise the reporting process, check the information they receive and then produce the present 2/ Collection methods......................................... 9 document. 3/ Data verification............................................... 9 4/ Clarifications concerning the indicators.. 9 5/ Data comparability and representativeness.................................. 9 CSR REPORTING Environmental and social Labour section section SD synergy coordination International HR coordination Country/core business Country/core business SD managers HRD Operational contacts Operational contacts SOCIAL DATA 1/ Scope 3/ Data verification The quantitative and qualitative data in this document Each validating manager is responsible for checking the summarises the data communicated to Groupe Auchan data entered by the various contributors for the calcuby all its subsidiaries as defined in article L.233-1 and of lation of the indicators. They use a software tool that the companies it controls within the meaning of article includes alerts: L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code, except RT-Mart China. • First, when large discrepancies (greater than 15%) appear from one year to the next, and with required Environmental data for RT-Mart China is currently being commentaries for some predefined indicators. integrated into the Group data and will be consolidated for the next financial year. • A second level of control is then applied at Group Unless otherwise specified for each indicator, the data is level. Inconsistencies and errors are reviewed with calculated at 30 September 2014. the countries/core businesses and corrected before consolidation. 2/ Collection methods Qualitative information about policies and actions implemented in the countries and core businesses is provided via email response to a detailed questionnaire. Numerical data is entered into a specific software tool. To ensure the homogeneity of indicators across the entire scope, a reporting methodology guide was drafted in French, then translated into English and distributed after feedback to all employees involved in collecting the data presented in this document. It details the methodologies to be used in collecting and checking the indicators: definitions, methodology principles, roles and responsibilities of internal stakeholders, measurement units, calculation formulas, FAQ, etc. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 7 REPORT 4/ Data comparability and representativeness Since last year, Groupe Auchan has been impro• for labour relations, the number of meetings ving the reliability of its labour data reporting by: held during the period replaces the number of • implementing new actions to raise awareness labour agreements signed; of CSR issues; • the total number of hours worked during • designing dedicated reporting software; the year instead of the total number of days worked for all indicators concerning working • creating a precise methodology shared by the conditions; different countries/core businesses. • for wages, replacement of the indicator of aveThese methodology adaptations have brought rage salary by that of a personnel costs ratio; about significant change for some indicators, which limits comparability of some data from • the proportion of female managers instead one year to another. of that of female executives within the total workforce; Notable modifications in methodology between 2013 and 2014 include: • Poland’s exclusion of absences due to maternity in determining overall absenteeism. • a definition of total workforce that now excludes temporary workers, interns, and em• The definitions for workforce entries and deployees under suspended contract; partures, workplace accidents and the corresponding number of days of absence were • a reduced number of categories for identifying explained and revised for each of the related worker age, from 7 to 4 categories; indicators. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 1/ Scope The quantitative and qualitative data in this Groupe Auchan’s other core businesses. It may document summarises the data communihowever be found in the CSR section of Banque cated by all subsidiaries to Groupe Auchan as Accord’s management report. defined in article L.233-1 and by the companies it controls within the meaning of article L.233-3 Concerning e-commerce, its environmental data of the French Commercial Code, except RTMart is currently negligible in terms of environmental China, Banque Accord and Auchan E-Commerce impacts, because AECI does not have its own International (AECI). logistics sites. Environmental data for RT-Mart China is Unless otherwise specified for each indicator, currently being integrated into the Group data the data is calculated from 1 October 2013 to 30 and will be consolidated for the next financial September 2014. year. Environmental data for Banque Accord is not published in this document due to the specificity of this business compared with METHODOLOGY 8 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2/ Collection methods For qualitative data, the policies and actions impleTwo coverage ratios are calculated for each indicator: mented in the countries are sent via email response to • a coverage ratio based on the number of sites covea detailed questionnaire supplied by the steering comred mittee of the international sustainable development synergy, based on legal obligations and indicators traditio• a coverage ratio based on the number of m² covered. nally tracked by the company. To best reflect the reality of the Group’s different core To ensure the homogeneity of indicators across the enbusinesses, it is this second ratio that is used in this dotire scope, a reporting methodology guide was drafted cument. in French, then translated into English and distributed to all employees involved in collecting the data presented in this management report. It details the methodologies to be used in collecting indicator data: definitions, 5/ Data comparability and representativeness scope, units, calculation formulas, etc. Numerical data is For a number of years, Groupe Auchan has been improreported via software that includes alert systems as preving the reliability of its sustainable development reporsented in the next section. ting by: • designing dedicated reporting software; • gradually improving its coverage ratio; • implementing a methodology shared by the diffe3/ Data verification rent countries/core businesses. Each validating manager is responsible for checking the These significant changes to methodology limit data data entered for the calculation of the indicators. They comparability from one year to another. use a software tool that includes 2 levels of alert: The major modifications in methodology between 2013 • when there are sizeable variations in consumption and 2014 include: from one year to the next; • inclusion of the Drive formats in the reporting scope • when consumption ratios are particularly low or high. (mainly impacting Auchan France data); The steering committee of the international sustainable • the rate of waste recycling is now calculated only for development synergy then carries out a second level of hypermarkets, shopping malls and Alinéa in order control. Inconsistencies and errors are reviewed with the to improve the reliability of these ratios. Unrecycled entities concerned, and wherever possible corrected or waste in small structures (Drives and supermarkets) removed before consolidation. is difficult to track as it is generally processed by the municipalities directly. Tonnage of recycled waste is calculated for all entities; • For greater transparency with regard to its energy 4/ Clarifications concerning the indicators footprint, energy consumption (electricity and gas) is now published. • Only the commercial sites are included in calculation of the indicators. Logistics sites, central services, affiliated stores, etc., are not included. • Only the shopping malls owned by Immochan are included in indicator calculations. Malls for which Immochan is the lessee or has an operating contract, as well as retail parks, are not integrated into the data calculations or those for coverage ratios. • Store surface area in square metres does not include storage, food preparation or shopping mall surfaces. coming up next 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 9 REPORT Observed variations could lead to extrapolations that are not consistent with actual changes in the different countries/core businesses. A note reviewing the 2013 data therefore indicates the 2013 figure under each indicator, then explains the variation factors. CHANGE IN THE 2013 AND 2014 ENVIRONMENT REPORTING SCOPE (EXCEPT RT MART CHINA), IN NUMBER OF SITES AND M² OF SURFACE AREA in 2013 in 2014 Change in % Number of sites 1,452 1,567 7.9% m² of surface area 6,656,711 7,232,121 + 8.6% METHODOLOGY 10 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT #2 EMPLOYEES WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN AND ANALYSIS............................................................. 12 FOCUS Workinghours in France ...... 14 WELCOMING NEW TALENTS ..........................14 FOCUS « Growing2gether » ............... 15 LABOUR DIALOGUE AS A LEVER FOR SOCIAL PROGRESS................................................... 15 EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY AND WORKING CONDITIONS...................................... 16 FOCUS Quality of life at work............ 17 COMBATING INSECURITY................................. 18 CONTRIBUTING TO THE INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT OF EACH EMPLOYEE .19 ENCOURAGING INNOVATION Creative Attitude............................................. 19 SHARING IN THE COMPANY’S SUCCESS ............................................................. 21 1/ Infuse new energy......................................... 21 2/ Personnel costs ratio..................................... 23 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, A CORPORATE CONCERN.................................. 23 GENDER EQUALITY Women holding a management position.............................................................. 23 FOSTERING AND SUPPORTING THE INTEGRATION OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES ..................................................................24 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 11 REPORT WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN AND ANALYSIS BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL WORKFORCE 223,995 employees 223,995 employees 27,009 32,720 12% 15% 8,326 4% 2,060 180,022 125,841 1% 80% 867 56% 72,145 0% 32% Hyper Bank Other Western Europe Central & Eastern Europe Super Immochan Asia (except RT Mart China) BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY M/W BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY PERMANENT/SHORT-TERM CONTRACT Total Groupe Auchan 37% 63% Total Groupe Auchan 88% 12% Asia (except RT Mart China) 37% 63% Asia (except RT Mart China) 59% 41% Central & Eastern Europe 28% 72% Central & Eastern Europe 93% 7% Western Europe 43% 57% Western Europe 91% 9% BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE FULL TIME/PART TIME* TURNOVER RATE**** Total Groupe Auchan 73% 27% Total Groupe Auchan 18% Asia (except RT Mart China) 85% 15% Asia (except RT Mart China) 26% Central & Eastern Europe 84% 16% Central & Eastern Europe 32% Western Europe 65% 35% Western Europe 10% NO. OF DISMISSALS PERMANENT CONTRACT*** NO. OF HIRES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACT** +3% -24% 0% +10% +5% -39% +1% -74% Total Groupe Asia (except RT Central & Eastern Western Total Groupe Asia (except RT Central & Eastern Western Auchan Mart China) Europe Europe Auchan Mart China) Europe Europe 2013 6,858 925 2,924 3,009 2013 40 078 5 522 22 690 11 866 2014 5,182 235 1,782 3,165 2014 41 433 5 579 22 777 13 077 Data calculated at 30/09/2014, except the number of hires and dismissals as well as the turnover rate, which are calculated from 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014. Excluded from calculation of this data: temporary workers, interns, and employees under suspended contract. * The notions of full-time and part-time are applied in accordance with the legal definition of each country. ** The number of permanent contract hires corresponds to the total number of permanent contract hires and the number of short-term contracts converted to permanent contracts during the reporting period. *** The number of dismissals corresponds to every contract terminated at the initiative of the employer. **** The turnover rate corresponds to the ratio of employees under permanent contract who left the company, to the average workforce. EMPLOYEES 12 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY AGE -25 25-35 35-50 +50 Total Groupe Auchan 15% 27% 42% 16% Asia (except RT Mart China) 24% 35% 36% 5% Central & Eastern Europe 13% 31% 38% 18% Western Europe 14% 23% 44% 18% Total workforce at 30/09/2014, including all types of contract (see art. 2) “breakdown of workforce by age” At 30 September 2014, Groupe Auchan had 223,995 The increased turnover rate (18% compared with 17% in employees in the 13 countries where it is present. This 2013) primarily involves Central & Eastern Europe. It more represents a 3% increase in total workforce compared particularly impacts the countries that organised the inwith 2013. tegration of new sites from other retailers (Réal, Cora) into the company. It reflects more or less significant workforce variations depending on the geographic region. This is the case in parEven when all conditions are implemented to enable and ticular of Central & Eastern Europe whose workforce grew foster employee integration (reception process, informa10% with the integration of the Réal stores (25) and sites tion about the company, its purpose, its social status, opened (3) during the period. Overall, the number of sites individual interviews, etc.), some employees choose to rose 7%, thus justifying the increased workforce observed. leave the company. This is the main reason for termination noted initially. For the Western Europe zone, the workforce shrank by 1.4%, primarily due to the continued transformations Even as it has remained stable, the proportion of emwithin certain countries and core businesses (except real ployees working part-time reveals significant gaps estate) aimed at streamlining organisations and improbetween countries and core businesses. They are tradiving their operating efficiency. tionally numerous in Italy and Spain, less common in the banking and real estate core businesses, while the Drive The gender breakdown remains identical to 2013 (63% business by its very nature makes extensive use of partwomen and 37% men). Differences between geographic time contracts (primarily students). regions are largely due to existing economic, cultural/social and regulatory disparities in the different countries (unemployment rate, inflation, government assistance, rate of tax and social security contributions). The 3% rise in the number of hires under permanent contract (41,433 compared with 40,078 in 2013) is worth noting. Despite sales difficulties, notably in the Western Europe region, and in particular for hypermarkets (except in Spain and Luxembourg), certain countries chose to expand some activities in their business recovery plan. The goal is to enhance customer service by increasing the number of sales staff present in all departments and sectors of the stores. Contract terminations continued to decrease, by 24% compared with 2013 (5,182 versus 6,858 in 2013). This drop is concentrated in Central & Eastern Europe and Asia. It primarily concerns the hypermarkets. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 13 REPORT FOCUS WORKING HOURS IN FRANCE Groupe Auchan complies with national legislation on working hours and promotes discussion between management and staff to reconcile the needs of the company and of employees. In France, night-time, Sunday and holiday work are subject to specific regulation. Work on Sundays or bank holidays is only on a voluntary basis and gives rise, at the employee’s choice, to recovery of time or payment at 150%. Night work, with a maximum number of 3 nights per week for employees of Auchan France, applied to slightly more than 16% of employees in 2013. French hypermarkets apply a variety of systems with regard to working hours (full-time, part-time, variable, clustered, multi-position, package of days, package specific to supervisors), based on legal definitions or improved via specific company-wide agreements, most having been arranged and negotiated with labour union partners. The “Voluntary full-time” approach launched at the end of 2007 lets part-time staff benefit from the weekly hourly package that they wish. The possibility of converting to full-time work meets employees’ growing needs in terms of purchasing power, and develops the skills and employability of those who take advantage of this system. This often involves combining jobs (via an amendment to the employment contract) for the employee to achieve a 35-hour working week. The system has been utilised by more than 3,000 employees since its start. WELCOMING NEW TALENTS Groupe Auchan companies develop Lastly, in the Western Europe region, support relationships with schools and universities in the from tutors, apprenticeship instructors and countries where they are present. Employees experienced trainee tutors, following a very present the banner’s core businesses and key precise calendar and approach, promotes features at partner establishments. These events better integration and better training for new promote the integration of many students and employees. young graduates via trainee positions, workstudy contracts or their first jobs after compleIn France, Auchan works with Pôle Emploi and ting their studies. its local employment agencies with the aim of integrating young job seekers with highly In addition to management positions, there are diverse profiles (unsatisfactory schooling, no many core businesses in which Auchan has a degree, long-term unemployed, no experience, strong need for qualified workers. This is true in etc.). For these profiles, recruitment without CVs particular for the meat and bakery departments. was notably introduced starting in 2010. Luxembourg is expanding relationships with local establishments (education organisations). The aim is to allow employees to take courses (personal, professional, business line) in nearby establishments, which is less burdensome organisationally and allows them to be more present, diligent, focused and motivated. 1 Data from the Auchan France 2013 labour review. EMPLOYEES 14 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT FOCUS «GROWING2GETHER» Portugal has launched its new “Growing2gether” programme. This initiative aims to recruit students graduating with a master’s degree. When they start, they receive training via support from recently hired, high-potential employees who joined the company just a few months previously. The results of this programme are very encouraging, as 90% of the young hires who participated are now working for the company. LABOUR DIALOGUE AS A LEVER FOR SOCIAL PROGRESS Labour relations are supported by sustained discussion NO. OF MEETINGS WITH EMPLOYEE in various forms in the different bodies in place in the REPRESENTATIVES company’s countries and core businesses. There were 11,885 meetings devoted to labour 30/09/2014 relations held with employees and labour partners Western Europe 11,321 over the period. These meetings are primarily concentrated in Western Europe, although there are strong Central & Eastern Europe 346 signs of a desire on the part of management in other regions to develop these opportunities for discussion Asia (except RT-Mart China) 218 within their entities. TOTAL GROUPE AUCHAN 11,885 They address, in part or in full depending on the entity, all employment aspects that have given rise to agreements in the areas of health, working stores. As in Western Europe, these preventive actions conditions, employment contracts, gender equality, help to raise the awareness of employees and outside working time organisation, etc. service providers and professionalise their understanding of the risks of the business. These meetings are organised regularly and frequently in Western Europe, where there is a strong tradition and These consultations and discussions can also take culture of labour dialogue. In this region, employees place at the overall company level (Group works are chosen locally by labour unions, whose represencouncil and European works council comprising tatives are elected by employees to promote strong representatives from all countries and core businesses messages and formulate specific demands to site in the European Community). They can take various management. At the national level, members are forms at the level of the individual establishment, elected and sit on the representative bodies of their from simple information-sharing to consultation and entities. This is where topics of major interest to negotiation, depending on the topic at hand. employees with regard to the social and economic environment are discussed, and collective bargaining At Auchan France, for example, discussion with agreements are reached. labour partners has led to the signature of 10 collective bargaining agreements and amendments. These In Central & Eastern Europe and Asia, although concern in particular remote working, inclusion of labour relation models are less developed, some workers with disabilities, and the introduction of a countries have created committees addressing life in the programme to adapt skills to the transformation of the company. Thus, even in the absence of a legal company which includes a complete early retirement requirement to organise labour dialogue, Auchan system for management. China took the initiative of creating the Employee Employer Committees (EECs), in which employee Groupe Auchan seeks to maintain and develop representatives meet quarterly with their managers consistent, constructive and trusting relations to systematically address issues related to safety, with its employees and labour partners, based on workplace accidents, working conditions and store modalities that may differ depending on the context of activities. The EEC reports and the actions to be each country and the applicable laws and regulations. carried out are posted in complete transparency in the 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 15 REPORT EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY AND WORKING CONDITIONS RATE OF ABSENTEEISM* SEVERITY RATE OF ACCIDENTS** (per million hours worked) Total Groupe Auchan 3.1% Total Groupe Auchan 0.74 Asia (except RT Mart China) 1.0% Asia (except RT Mart China) 0.13 Central & Eastern Europe 2.4% Central & Eastern Europe 0.0 Western Europe 4.1% Western Europe 1.33 FREQUENCY RATE OF ACCIDENTS*** NO. OF OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES******* (per million hours worked) Total Groupe Auchan 3 30/09/2013 30/09/2014 change% Asia (except RT Mart China) 6.51 Western Europe 463 435 -6% Central & Eastern Europe 5.30 Central & Eastern Europe 5 5 0% Western Europe 52.8 Asia (except RT Mart China) Total Groupe Auchan 468 440 -6% Notes to the tables above: Workforce calculated at 30/09/2014, other data calculated from 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014 Only included as accidents for the severity and frequency rates: accidents leading to medical leave of one calendar day or more, not counting the day of the accident. * The rate of absenteeism for illness corresponds to all hours not worked by employees due (only) to illness. ** The severity rate relates to the number of days of medical leave due to a workplace accident. *** The frequency rate corresponds to the number of workplace accidents with medical leave recorded for the period. **** Number of diseases recognised by an official organisation. For the Groupe Auchan businesses in France, data is calculated for the entire year 2013. Because the figures are hard to compare (only workplace accidents giving rise to medical leave of more than one day are counted), the number of workplace accidents varies considerably from one country or core business to another. The indicator’s definition having changed between 2013 and 2014 (last year’s indicator included commuting accidents for certain entities, which is no longer the case this year), data is difficult to compare between the 2 years. It should be noted however that the number of accidents rose very slightly (10,270 in 2014 versus 10,172 in 2013), representing an increase of 1% at the scale of the company. The severity rate is stable at 0.74. A slight increase in severity rate is observed in Western Europe, in part due to the integration of workers under short-term contract, with their higher accident rate, into the indicator this year. Nonetheless, in the other regions a notable decrease in the severity rate was observed due to risk prevention policies rolled out via training and investment in new equipment. Absenteeism due to illness at Group level dropped significantly in 2014, from 3.9% in 2013 to 3.1% last year. All regions and core businesses contributed to this decrease. This is due in particular, first, to policies implemented in terms of working conditions (e-learning training, classes in handling loads, work equipment, etc.) and organisation of work (better distribution of loads and working hours), and second, to the modified definition of absenteeism in which absences for maternity leave are now excluded (specific to Poland, where absenteeism for hypermarkets thus dropped from 7.3% in 2013 to 3.4% in 2014, a 54% decrease). The number of occupational diseases dropped a significant 6%, from 468 in 2013 to 440 in 2014. Ergonomics training in France and Spain for employees in positions requiring a high level of physical effort and repetitive movements (cash registers, shelving) is bearing fruit. This decrease is driven in particular by the hypermarket business in these countries. EMPLOYEES 16 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT For 13 years, 17 entities have been assessing • primary (to eliminate the risk at its source): employee perceptions of human resource and integration of ergonomic criteria and risk management policies, via internal opinion surveys prevention in the design of new work preadministered anonymously across their entire scope mises and purchase of new work equipment; at regular intervals. The results are shared locally by managers with their employees, for every department • secondary (to reduce the occurrence and imor service, as well as nationally, so that any necessary pact of risks): in particular by expanding the corrective action can be taken to respond to employee fleet of electric pallet trucks with powered jacks; satisfaction with their work, in particular their perception of being informed and their training needs. • tertiary (to respond to and remedy emergent situations): with analyses of occupational disease Improved comfort at work contributes to better daily by multidisciplinary work groups, often in collaachievement. This is why the Group’s various entities boration with government organisations (penimplement risk prevention systems designed to comsion and occupational health agencies in France). bat workplace accidents and occupational diseases. Technical and standards-based audits were compleSome of the main causes include: road and handling ted at the sites once again in Western Europe in 2014. accidents often related to excessive physical activity, In Italy, for example, a technical audit was completed neglecting to wear safety equipment (boots, gloves), for all hypermarkets to check that all safety features or turning off or improperly operating machines. Muscomplied with applicable laws and regulations. The culoskeletal disorders are by far the most prevalent different work stations in the stores were carefuloccupational diseases due to repetitive movements ly reviewed in order to take the necessary corrective performed incorrectly at some work stations, such as measures and plan systems capable of preventing the goods handling or badly positioned cash register work. dangers related to activities in the workplace and site configurations. For example, all Auchan France direcTo limit the impact of work on their employees’ tors and HR managers receive risk prevention training. health more generally, the entities, primarily in the Western Europe and Central & Eastern Europe regions, promote prevention at its various levels: FOCUS «QUALITY OF LIFE AT WORK» OR QLW A Quality of Life at Work department was created in France as part of an overall multidisciplinary approach (very large target audience including staff and executives; both personal and professional initiatives; involving all areas of health and safety), with the aim of fostering better quality of life at work for employees. The department promotes very concrete actions and initiatives in particular in the area of risk prevention (professionalisation training in risk prevention for members of the workplace health and safety committee [CHSCT]; exercise classes; training of safety trainers). These initiatives are rolled out and defined by the store directors and HR managers. Auchan France is the first major retailer to have developed a training course for load handling and physical positioning, 2 years ago with the support of the Security School, that is recognised by organisations specialised in risk prevention. The course was developed with the assistance of the INRS (French national institute for health and safety research) and CARSAT (pension and workplace health fund). It has been recognised as a quality training course for the sector by the FCD. Thus, at 30/08/2014, Auchan France had 3 lead instructors who trained 200 trainers in risk prevention in one year. These trainers then dispensed a safety module to more than 4,000 employees. Similarly, 90% of directors and HR managers took training in the issues of risk prevention and for chairing their workplace health and safety committee. The aim of the Quality of Life at Work department for 2014-2018 was defined as the desire to offer every employee motivating work and continuously improving working conditions. 2 Fédération du Commerce et de la distribution 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 17 REPORT At the same time, the desire to assist and support every employee who might encounter a difficulty, whatever its nature, took the form of the creation of the HumaniA service. Open 12 hours a day, 6 days a week, this phone service aims to help people find suitable solutions to the problems they encounter. It offers both psychological support in case of stress at work or at home, and social support (clarification, information, referral) to resolve family, financial or housing problems. The 400 social workers and psychologists at the HumaniA service received nearly 1,600 calls from employees in less than a year. COMBATING INSECURITY Respect for every individual is a core value of the In 2014 Auchan France made significant proAuchan Vision, which places People at the centre gress in the area of social protection. First in of its priorities. The company can only ensure its healthcare, with greatly improved cover under own health by proactively supporting the wellthe mandatory basic policy. For provident covebeing and quality of life of its employees. rage as well, with the harmonisation of policies no matter the employee’s professional status. This is why healthcare and supplemental social Furthermore, full-time employees above the security coverage have been introduced in nearage of 55 now have the possibility of switching ly every country where such benefits are not to part-time while receiving compensatory payalready generalised. ment to gradually offset their loss of income, In the face of the recurring withdrawal of some without impacting their future pension. Lastly, governments from coverage of certain healthfor management, Auchan France decided to incare costs, a number of entities have organised troduce measures more suited to the pensions to offer quality services (healthcare/provident) structure with a supplemental pay-as-you-go at competitive rates, so as to protect employee pension fund. purchasing power. In many French hypermarkets (primarily in the Paris region) with sufficient space, cafeterias provide staff with balanced meals at low cost. Additional subsidies are granted by the management of some sites and by works committees. This particularly concerns employees who are not able to return home at meal times (due to transportation constraints). 3 Except Luxembourg EMPLOYEES 18 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTRIBUTING TO THE INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT OF EACH EMPLOYEE Policies are based on the knowledge already mastered by the company’s workers, and the shared TOTAL TRAINING HOURS* 4,362,933 hrs. +5% desire to build a career path via interactions, training and experiences that develop skills. Meeting employees, acknowledging them, reco20% gnising their talents and progress, are key acts in building a development pathway together with 36% them to foster their employability. Training is an essential aspect, but not the only 4,36 M hours one. Collaborative work, support, coaching and mentoring as practised in some units also help every +5% individual to progress. Almost 4.4 million hours of training were dispensed 44% within the Group in 2014. These courses met the needs of the different core businesses, and were developed and dispensed Western Europe Central & Eastern Europe primarily in the areas of: the company’s values, the business and management plan, support for evolAsia (except RT Mart China) ving professions, improving operational efficiency, etc. NO. OF HOURS OF TRAINING* +5 % 5% 16% -11% 35% Total Asia (except Central & EasWestern Groupe Auchan RT-Mart China) tern Europe Europe 2012 4,165,141 641,112 1,361,631 2,162,398 ENCOURAGING INNOVATION 2013 4,362,933 867,020 1,573,073 1,922,840 prog% 5% 35% 16% -11% (1) Creative Attitude: from participatory innovation to collaborative innovation For Groupe Auchan, the company’s success cannot edition of the Group Innovation Trophies was an be envisioned without the talents, individual opportunity for an exhaustive inventory of the initiative and innovative capacity of every employee. approach. To date more than 3,000 ideas have The company has traditionally given every individual emerged from a population of 120,000 employees the chance to suggest ideas, try them out and (the number of employees under contract in the develop them if successful. In 2011, this approach countries where Creative Attitude has been adopted), led to the launch of a global participatory innovation and more than 200 have been chosen for trial runs programme, “Creative Attitude”, currently in place in before deployment. Every project brings new added the euro zone countries (all core businesses in France, value, whether for the Group’s sales, operational Spain, Italy, Portugal and Luxembourg). efficiency, development or CSR policies. Since then, Creative Attitude has become a core strategic focus for the Group. In particular, the first (1) Data calculated for calendar year 2013 compared with calendar year 2012 (see methodology) * Total number of training hours recorded. ** Estimated data because uncertainties remain concerning the non-recognition of service providers trained by Auchan China. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 19 REPORT SOME SUCCESSFUL EXAMPLES The winners of the Group Innovation Trophies: • “Sales, products and offer” Innovation Trophy Security Boutique – Auchan France: Security-related products are arranged at the entrance to the store. Customers can thus receive advice from a real specialist, the security guard posted nearby. • “New customer services and customer relationship” Innovation Trophy Client Box – Oney Banque Accord Portugal: Previously, customer information, sales and marketing campaigns were scattered across different media. Now everything is united on a single platform, making it easier to contact target customers more quickly and to better analyse the effectiveness of promotional operations. • “Operational efficiency and profitability” Innovation Trophy Info Badge – Auchan France: So that staff do not lose time checking for returns at every cash register, fluorescent badges now indicate their presence at the register, streamlining their collection and saving time and improving the comfort of register staff. • “Growth ideas and audacious development” Innovation Trophy Automatric – Alcampo Espagne: Automatric is an automated payment system at petrol station pumps based on identification of customer licence plate numbers, which reduces queues at the station and saves time for customers. • “Innovative management practices and CSR” Innovation Trophy Art Everywhere – Immochan Portugal: For the pre-opening of the Alegro Setúbal shopping centre in Portugal, construction zones in the mall were transformed into an artistic and cultural space, highlighting the shopping centre and improving its visibility. The first innovations are starting to be rolled out to customers, such as Flash’N Pay, the mobile payment solution developed by Oney Banque Accord that includes customer loyalty management, shopping lists, coupons, electronic receipts, etc., and will be deployed in Auchan hypermarkets in France. In order to find more ideas that create value or new services to attract customers, the goal today is to speed up the process. This should result in the participation of more employees, with more suggested ideas and a better rate of transformation of ideas into innovations. To expand Creative Attitude into all the Group’s countries and core businesses, a genuine change of mindset is needed in all its companies. Mid-level management must be made more aware of the issues surrounding innovation, to adapt their management style and leave more scope for initiative, and operate the shift from participatory innovation to collaborative innovation. EMPLOYEES 20 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT SHARING IN THE COMPANY’S SUCCESS Since their launch in 1977, Groupe Auchan’s profit-sharing policies have made it a pioneer in the field. The Group is well aware of the key role played by its teams in winning the sales battle and the trust of its customers. For its constantly evolving companies, it is therefore essential that employees be closely associated with this shared ambition. This enables every individual to expand the scope of their professional expertise and aim to rise to new responsibilities. Ultimately, this policy is in line with Groupe Auchan’s traditional triple aim of “sharing knowledge, power and assets”. 1/ Infuse new energy Sharing is thus both effective, because it contributes REVIEW FOR THE PERIOD to the performance of the company, and equitable, because it allows employees to benefit from the fruits Près de €200M distributed via employee of their efforts. However, in an increasingly difficult ownership policies 163,000 employee economic environment, it had become important shareholders; 90.6% of those eligible are to precisely reframe these profit-sharing policies shareholders in the Group; 9 funds, 9 to guide all countries in their implementation and countries (France, Italy, Luxembourg, Spain, evolution, in order to bring new energy to the system. Portugal, Hungary, Poland, Russia, China) and all the Group’s core businesses (except This is why Groupe Auchan developed a shared e-commerce). benchmark in 2014 to ensure consistency and equity between the entities practising employee shareholding. The countries will be able to start from this foundation to adapt their employee ownership policies in 2015. Such processes are local, close to employee concerns, to take account as much as possible of the specificities of each country and core business, while best highlighting and rewarding individual and collective performance. N.O OF GROUP AUCHAN SHAREHOLDER EMPLOYEES 163.066 +2% % SHAREHOLDERS/ELIGIBLE 13,295 100% 100% 8% 93% 93% 91% 91% 109,739 67% 89% 86% 163,066 sharholder employees +2% 40,032 25% Total Asia (except RTCentral & EasWestern Groupe Auchan Mart China) tern Europe Europe 2013 93% 100% 89% 93% Western Europe Central & Eastern Europe 2014 91% 100% 86% 91% Asia (except RT Mart China) 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 21 REPORT Number of shareholders % no. of shareholders / no. eligible 30/09/2013 30/09/2014 change % 30/09/2013 30/09/2014 change% HYPER France 52,841 52,474 -1% 94% 89% -5% China 11,896 13,295 12% 100% 100% 0% Spain 12,038 11,836 -2% 99% 99% 0% Hungary 6,355 5,655 -11% 94% 87% -7% Italy 12,027 11,621 -3% 96% 96% 0% Luxembourg 499 473 -5% 81% 80% -2% Poland 9,512 10,495 10% 98% 100% 2% Portugal 7,696 7,598 -1% 99% 100% 1% Russia 21,082 23,882 13% 84% 81% -4% Total HYPER 133,946 137,329 3% 94% 91% -3% SUPER France 11,983 11,858 -1% 93% 99% 7% Spain 4,817 4,639 -4% 93% 94% 1% Italy 7,210 7,161 -1% 83% 84% 1% Total SUPER 24,010 23,658 -1% 90% 93% 4% BANK France 800 829 4% 85% 88% 3% Portugal 258 262 2% 97% 94% -3% Total BANK 1,058 1,091 3% 88% 90% 0% OTHER Alinéa 1,139 988 -13% 47% 40% -15% Total OTHER 1,139 988 -13% 47% 40% -15% Western GROUP 111,308 109,739 -1% 93% 91% -2% Europe Central & Eas36,949 40,032 8% 89% 86% -3% tern Europe Asia (except 11,896 13,295 12% 100% 100% 0% RT-Mart China) Total GROUP 160,153 163,066 2% 93% 91% -2% Number and percentage of employee shareholders, by entity in which employee shareholding has been implemented, over the total number of employees fulfilling the eligibility conditions for employee shareholding (at the closing date of the entity’s 2014 annual subscription period). The change in the number of shareholders is related to the growth of the workforce in the countries where shareholding exists. The share of shareholders among those eligible has decreased slightly. This is due in part to the economic context experienced by some countries and entities, and in part to methodology changes. EMPLOYEES 22 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2/ Personnel costs ratio RATIO OF REVENUE BEFORE TAX (exc. fuel) / PERSONNEL COSTS INC. TEMPS Groupe Auchan’s personnel costs ratio over the period was 11%. 14% Every company in the Group is responsible for 11% applying its remuneration policy within its own 10% economic, legislative and regulatory context, but in the framework of a shared commitment and values. 7% In particular, overall remuneration aims to be attractive, with a fixed portion following market practices and an individual variable portion dependent on the employee’s performance as well as a collective facet. The remuneration systems also include various benefits adapted to the local context, which in Western Europe Central & Eastern Europe particular address healthcare and provident benefits Asia (except RT Mart China) Groupe Auchan for employees and their families. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL GENDER EQUALITY OPPORTUNITY, In France and Spain, equality agreements or plans A CORPORATE CONCERN have been concluded with the various labour partners. These agreements confirm the company’s The company boasts a diverse range of professions commitment to develop a series of measures and seeks to open up a large number of its career with regard to hiring equality, work/life balance, pathways to men and women from every background promotion, training and communication, to avoid and with all types of qualification. Hiring policies any direct or indirect gender discrimination. prohibit any form of discrimination, whether for In Portugal, Jumbo signed an agreement to gender, age, disability, religion, sexual orientation or promote gender equality with 20 other companies other reasons. in the country in 2013. Between 2013 and 2014, the The company views diversity as a key performance proportion of women managers at the retailer rose lever. It is its multiplicity of profiles and perspectives from 45% to 46%. that gives the company the capability of adapting and responding quickly. The diversity of the teams reflects that of the core businesses, customers, countries and societies in which Groupe Auchan is located. Some entities develop and devote large policy sections to the fight against all forms of discrimination. All these principles and rules are defined in the framework of rules of procedure, codes of business conduct, training courses and company agreements. For example, Jumbo Portugal obtained SA 8000 certification for its social responsibility. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 23 REPORT Women holding a management position BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE MEN/WOMEN BREAKDOWN OF MEN / WOMEN AMONG MANAGERS Total Groupe Auchan 37% 63% Total Groupe Auchan 53% 47% Asia (except RT Mart China) 37% 63% Asia (except RT Mart China) 50% 50% Central & Eastern Europe 28% 72% Central & Eastern Europe 37% 63% Western Europe 43% 57% Western Europe 64% 36% Woman account for some 2/3 of the Group workforce. Increasing parity and promoting women to management positions is a shared goal throughout the company. Over the period, the proportion of women holding a management position remained almost stable (47% in 2014 and 48% in 2013). FOSTERING AND SUPPORTING THE INTEGRATION OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES The Group’s retail stores apply a policy aimed at integrating individuals with disabilities, in particular by raising awareness of employees and customers. A total of 7,828 employees were identified as having a disability in 2013, 9% more than in 2012. They represent 3.5% of the total workforce, an increase of 0.2 points compared with 2012. This is due in particular to awareness campaigns, such as the “handi basket” sports events held in France in 2013, which are held each year in the various entities to combat stereotypes and false assumptions that RATIO OF EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES (except RT-Mart China) may still be held with regard to disabilities. Locally, some entities join together with labour and 4.3% 4.0% institutional partners and sign agreements to better 3.5% integrate these employees. For this purpose, and 3.3% to facilitate their integration, commitments have 2.7% 2.7% 2.4% been made with regard to adapting work stations, 2.1% training and awareness of all employees, and trainee integration. In addition, certain companies are increasingly turning to outsourcing for various services; thus, Total Groupe Auchan Asia (except RTMart China) Central & Eastern Europe Western Europe green areas are maintained and cleaned, trolleys 2012 4.0% 2.1% 2.7% 3.3% are repaired, and satchels sold are manufactured 2013 4.3% 2.4% 2.7% 3.5% by employees with disabilities working for these suppliers. Data calculated at 31/12/2013 (see methodology) Disability recognised by an official agency. In some sales locations, to improve customer awareness of employees with disabilities, the presence of cash register attendants who are hard of hearing is indicated with specific signage at the registers. EMPLOYEES 24 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT #3 PARTNERS MONITORING LABOUR CONDITIONS IN MANUFACTURING.......................................... 26 1/ General principles and compliance with ILO standards.........................................26 2 / Auchan’s participation in the Global Social Compliance Programme................. 26 3/ Supplier listing process................................... 26 4/ Auchan, founding member of the Social Clause Initiative ................................. 26 5/ Groupe Auchan adherence to the Accord ...................................................................... 26 DOSSIER Plan to combat opaque outsourcing.................................................28 FIGHTING AGAINST CORRUPTION......... 31 DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE PARTNERSHIPS WITH SMEs............................ 32 ZOOM Export SME’s.............................. 32 REDUCING THE IMPACT OF GOODS TRANSPORT .................................................................... 32 FOSTERING LOCAL SOURCING .................. 33 RATIONAL MOBILITY FOR RESIDENTS ........................................................... 34 Progress is a process that cannot be viewed or experienced in isolation. This is why the Group’s companies seek to maintain balanced and sustainable commercial relationships with their partners, and involve them in achieving the progress sought in the area of CSR. Groupe Auchan retail stores also actively participate in initiatives carried out by community and professional associations or with representatives of civil society, and form numerous partnerships around a variety of themes. MONITORING LABOUR CONDITIONS IN MANUFACTURING 1/ General principles and compliance with ILO standards The company’s policy and action complies with conduct which was first published in 1997. the principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration The Group seeks to promote respect for these of Human Rights, the 1988 ILO Declaration on principles among its suppliers by developing Fundamental Principles and Rights, and the fair and transparent business practices. OECD guiding principles. These texts form a corpus of civil, political, economic, social and The code of business conduct is included in cultural rights that Auchan applies to itself and sales contracts and signed by both parties. It its partners. requires that suppliers respect the principles stated above, as well as the local laws in effect in In a context of increasingly globalised trade, the countries in which they manufacture. in 2014 Groupe Auchan chose to reiterate its attachment to core, universally recognised principles by revising its code of business 2/ Auchan’s participation in the Glo3/ Supplier listing process bal Social Compliance Programme Before listing a supplier for own-brand (GSCP) product(s), a listing audit must be performed. Auchan’s participation in the GSCP since 2009, This audit verifies labour and quality criteria for and its involvement in the work carried out the production sites. The full listing process is within this programme, help promote respect presented in the diagram below. for labour rights at international level. The Group policy is to work collaboratively on social and environmental issues. It seeks to support a shared, global and sustainable approach via this programme Labour Purchasing Sourcing Supplier Supplier Call for Supplier quality policy plan identification approval tender listing audits PARTNERS 26 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 4/ Auchan, founding member of the Social Clause Initiative (ICS) To support a global improvement approach for labour and safety conditions in factories, Auchan has also taken part since 1999 in the work of the Social Clause Initiative, of which the Group is a founding member, under the umbrella of the Fédération du Commerce et de la Distribution. This discussion platform enables member retailers to work from a shared audit methodology and shared labour audit benchmarks, accessible to all members. Sharing best practices and information is a core component of the initiative. In addition, support for suppliers can be offered jointly from among the 20 members. 5/ Groupe Auchan adherence to the Accord The tragedy of Rana Plaza revealed that labour who wished to launch a new textile manufacturing conditions in manufacturing were not the only issue to enterprise in their village. be considered. In May 2013, Groupe Auchan therefore decided to join the Accord on Fire and Building Safety Lastly, Auchan trains all its quality engineers in the and thus contribute to the financing of building safety audit methodologies for carrying out technical audits, shared by all the 180 signatory retailers. and labour evaluations of manufacturing sites. Having locally trained teams is a major advantage To date, 57 of the 67 factories with which Auchan for implementing the corrective action plans works in Bangladesh, employing more than 100,000 recommended during these audits and providing workers, have been inspected. Auchan accepted the end-to-end support for suppliers. role of lead brand for 24 of these factories. One of these factories, which the contractor did not own, was non-compliant with the defined safety measures and was shut down; the machines were given to workers ICS AUDIT FIGURES IN 2014 – FROM 01/01/2014 TO 31/12/2014 Audits completed and commissioned by Auchan in 2014 175 of which initial audits 138 of which follow-up audits 37 Factories shared with Auchan, audited by other members of ICS in 2014 183 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 27 REPORT SPECIAL FILE PLAN TO COMBAT OPAQUE OUTSOURCING: REVIEW TO DATE In July 2013, to strengthen the control process implemented by Auchan for several years, the International Product Sourcing and Purchasing Department (DOAPI) voluntarily committed to a plan to combat opaque outsourcing, with 8 action areas. The last of these commitments involves regular communication on the plan’s progress. Group internal audit was commissioned to ensure proper tracking. A first trip to Dhaka was completed in February 2014, followed by a press release dated 3 April 2014. In accordance with the commitment made, a new audit assignment was completed from 1 to 12 December 2014 in China and India, 2 other southern manufacturing countries in which Auchan has a sourcing office. The main conclusions of this last audit report as well as the results of random auditor checks of production sites are presented in complete transparency in the summary below: 1. STRENGTHEN THE FORMAL COMMITMENTS OBSERVATION The new code of labour and business conduct that presents the fundamentals of responsible procurement was published in March 2014 in the form of a booklet, the “DOAPI Code of Business Conduct”, in 2 sections – the supplier code of business conduct and the employee code of conduct – distributed against signature to all employees. Recommendations: • These signed documents have not to date been tracked in personnel files. • Add to the Group’s Directors and Managers job descriptions their responsibility to promote and advocate the code of business conduct. 2015 commitments: • In accordance with the recommendations of Group audit, these documents will now be archived in each employee’s file. • The Group’s Directors and Managers are responsible for information and implementation with regard to the code of business conduct. 2. IMPROVE AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS OBSERVATIONS In China, random traceability audits by the local teams have been operational since the end of February 2014. These teams have been supported by an external service provider since August 2014. At end-2014, 135 random audits had been completed for 123 of the 301 factories involved in production for Auchan. • Number of cases of opaque outsourcing: 0. In India: these random audits have been in place since June 2014 and are carried out by the local teams. • At end-2014, 54 random audits had been completed for 52 of the 61 factories involved in production for Auchan. • Number of cases of opaque outsourcing: 1. The supplier was de-listed. Recommendations: • Draft a wide-ranging definition of what is considered a significant variance against expectations, and generate statistics on the variances identified. • At the start of an assignment, share the assignment sheet with the supplier, then fill it out in complete transparency with regards to the supplier. PARTNERS 28 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT Point to watch: • Suppliers declare production periods that are too broad. This leads to ineffective random audits because they take place before or after production. 2015 commitments: • The approach will be systematically explained at the start of the assignment and results will be presented to suppliers during a concluding meeting for each audit. • Specific communication will be carried out with suppliers so that they commit to strictly defined and actually applied production periods. 3. STRENGTHEN PLANNED SANCTIONS OBSERVATION In June 2013, new sanctions applicable to suppliers using undeclared outsourcing were communicated via email to suppliers in Bangladesh. These sanctions stipulate “cancellation of the current order and immediate termination of business with Auchan, which includes orders begun whether manufactured or not, and not inspected at the date of the report”. On 28 January 2014 this information was communicated once again to suppliers to the Bangladesh, India and China offices. Recommendations: • Draft a detailed “Crisis management”-type procedure for managing cases of opaque outsourcing. Point to watch: • No terms and conditions are currently defined for possible resumption of the business relationship. 2015 commitments: • The recommended detailed procedure and terms and conditions for possible resumption of the business relationship with a de-listed supplier will be defined and documented. 4. INTENSIFY AND GENERALISE TRAINING OBSERVATION Training in responsible sourcing (human rights, ethics, quality and environment) has been developed. The training module was tested on 10 and 11 September 2014. A new test will be run on 10 and 11 February 2015. Recommendations: • Include in the training merchandiser information on cost breakdown by type of family and product. Point to watch: • Communicate and explain Groupe Auchan’s CSR policies to the office teams. 2015 commitments: • Expansion of existing training will integrate case studies of the cost breakdown for products. • To address the point to watch, the Group CSR manager will visit all offices to present Groupe Auchan’s CSR policies. A formal, detailed list of commitments will be provided to employees at the sourcing offices. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 29 REPORT 5. OPEN UP THE SYSTEM BY DEVELOPING AN INTERNET PORTAL OBSERVATION A “Traceability” web portal was created in December 2013. All listed suppliers declare their various production sites on this portal. Suppliers are then required, at the latest 24 hours before the start of production, to assign each order to a factory. The tool does not yet allow suppliers to declare the production start and end dates. Recommendations: • It is crucial to develop this feature and require greater reliability of data from suppliers via regular updating of these dates. 2015 commitments: • The specifications for this functionality are currently being drafted by the IT Department. It will be implemented starting from second-half 2015. 6. DEVELOP A PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY WITH STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS OBSERVATION The goal for 2017 is to develop partnerships with suppliers and to work with only 100 strategic suppliers covering 80% of textile revenues. • Ungenuine supplier strategy was implemented to achieve this goal. • This policy is explained to the strategic suppliers by the sourcing offices; among other things, large-scale meetings were held: • in Bangladesh in February 2014. • in Shanghai, China on 5 December 2014; • in India, in Tirupur on 8 December 2014 and in Delhi on 11 December 2014; Recommendations: • During supplier awareness meetings organised in the offices, require signature of an attendance sheet. Point to watch: • Some suppliers are in a relationship of strong economic dependency with regard to Auchan. 2015 commitments: • The recommendation concerning signature of an attendance sheet by suppliers during awareness meetings will be applied in 2015. • As for the point to watch, this is a marginal issue which is problematic for both parties. For the supplier, dependency leads to a risk in the case of termination of orders. For Auchan, terminating a business relationship with such a supplier, under the laws of these countries, leads to a financial responsibility in the form of compensation for loss of business. • By the end of 2015, all suppliers in a situation of economic dependency with regard to the DOAPI will be identified. Dialogue will then be opened with these suppliers to support them towards increased autonomy via the development of business relations with new clients. 7. AUDIT FOLLOW-UP OBSERVATION A second review of actions completed should be performed based on this summary report drafted by Group internal audit, in particular in China and India where the audit teams made specific visits, to confirm that the 8 actions requested are well under way and showing progress. PARTNERS 30 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2015 commitments: • Follow-up in 2015 will ensure that the mobilisation noted during the initial audits continues and that results are on the horizon. 8. REGULARLY COMMUNICATE ON THE PROGRESS OF THIS POLICY OBSERVATION The communication department is in charge of sustainable development and responsible for communicating progress on the action plan via the groupe-auchan.com website as well as in the CSR section of the management report. This commitment was met in 2014. 2015 commitments: • A new audit of the policy will provide an update of the situation presented here by the end of the year. It will be communicated in full transparency in the 2015 CSR section of the Groupe Auchan management report. FIGHTING AGAINST CORRUPTION A member of the Global Compact, Groupe Auchan These country business conduct committees, comcontinued its work against corruption in 2014. prising around a dozen members including HR and SD managers, Audit and Legal Directors, as well as faAfter updating the code of business conduct (see page mily shareholders and qualified outside experts, will XX) in February 2014, a work group piloted by the CSR either be formed from scratch or by modifying the and legal teams defined a programme over 2 years: country hypermarket business conduct committees, • For 2014 : finalise the benchmark for the systems in during first-half 2015. place in the Group, draft the Groupe Auchan code of business conduct, design governance based on The France business conduct committee will conticountry business conduct committees in which all nue to serve as the benchmark committee. activities are represented (hypermarkets, supermarkets, Immochan, Banque Accord). • In 2015 : finalise business conduct training for the most at-risk managers and employees as well as incident escalation procedures. The code of business conduct mentioned above, as well as the principle of creating a network of business conduct committees, for all core businesses in each of the 12 groups in which the Group is located, were approved at the Group Executive Committee meeting of 20 October 2014. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 31 REPORT DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE PARTNERSHIPS WITH SMEs SMEs are partners that enable us to offer a very In this area, the company introduced the “SME broad selection of products. Groupe Auchan path” in 2013, a single information channel banners seek to maintain sustainable business to facilitate communication between these relationships with their SME partners. An companies and their store contacts. Thus, the increasing number of national and/or regional SME relations department in charge of local, forums are organised with this purpose. These regional and French-origin product receives all make it possible to list new producers and to questions, comments, reactions or complaints expand the range of local products. For example via a single email address, in order to offer rapid Auchan China organises a biannual conference and personalised responses and/or solutions attended by 600 suppliers on average, (maximum 8 days). and performs monthly monitoring of data concerning products sold from partner SMEs. According to Nielsen figures for the Federation of French Businesses and Entrepreneurs (FEEF), Auchan France remained the mass retailer with the largest share of revenue generated via SMEs (18.5%) in 2014. FOCUS EXPORT SMEs In every country where Groupe Auchan is present, the categories of French-origin products for which a need has been identified in the Group’s other countries are systematically assessed. Tours are organised to facilitate meetings between select French SMEs and international buyers. Similar efforts are in place for products of Italian origin. Since 2009, a dedicated export office provides 360° service to listed SMEs, including administrative support, logistics, payment security, product labelling, and market research in the listing countries. Revenues rose to €13 million in 2014 from €800,000 in 2010, thanks to the 130 partner SMEs supplying more than 1,000 products listed for export. REDUCING THE IMPACT OF GOODS TRANSPORT Because goods transport is primarily outsourced, Preparation workshops for the food departments Auchan’s scope for action and measurement (cutting, packaging, labelling) help reduce is slightly more complex than if the company external packaging volumes. maintained its own fleets. Groupe Auchan companies encourage their Logistics supply nonetheless represents a service providers to modernise their road fleets significant share of the carbon footprint in and/or adopt eco-driving approaches. the mass retail sector, for which action levers do exist. This share is of greater or lesser size For example, in the specifications for its latest depending on the country and core business, in call for tender for carriers, Auchan Hungary particular based on the national energy mix and voluntarily required delivery of products in the types of refrigerants used by the stores. lorries meeting the Euro 5 standard (carbon monoxide, hydrocarbon, nitrogen oxide and Groupe Auchan’s various entities apply policies particulate emissions below strictly defined to streamline goods transport and warehouse thresholds). management. PARTNERS 32 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT Some of the Group’s companies are developing Auchan Romania uses rail transport for all containers transport via dual or even triple temperature lorries of products imported from China, from the port of and double-deck lorries (ingenious system enabling Constanta to the intermodal platform where the optimal loading of pallets on 2 levels). import warehouse is located. This minimises the distance to be covered by road. Reducing the impact of transport also requires streamlining of routes. Auchan France has been For its deliveries of high-volume goods, Alinéa using a “multipick” approach for upstream transport studied a multimodal transport project favouring of goods to warehouses for more than 5 years. With river transport between the port and warehouses. this technique a single lorry is used to collect and Transport from these warehouses to the stores is transport products from small suppliers within the by rail for 52% of these goods and by road for the same geographic region, optimising the routes remaining 48%. between these suppliers and ensuring full-load trips. The company also succeeded in increasing the While some entities have developed tracking average load ratio by more than 1.5 m3 per lorry. indicators to encourage the policies presented above, no Group-level indicator has been defined to In China and Russia, given the size of the geographic date. At issue are the lack of coordination between zones, coordination by major region using various the logistics functions of the different Group entities, techniques enables better product dispatch via and outsourcing by some to service providers from dedicated platforms and managers. whom it is sometimes difficult to obtain statistical information. The transport mix developed in Spain, Portugal, France, Hungary and Romania involves road pretransport to a rail or river terminal. Under this system, the largest section of the route is via these latter transport methods, before the trailers are transferred by road to the delivery terminal. FOSTERING LOCAL SOURCING The hypermarkets and supermarkets in all the Group which targets seasonal fruits chosen from the countries build an offer of local products, grown producers’ lands and transported directly to the and/or manufactured near the stores, via direct hypermarkets. From January to December 2014, partnerships with small producers. These policies 1,033,000 kg of fruit was sourced in this way, more respond to strong demand from local residents who than double the 2013 volume (402,000 kg). want to consume products from their own region. This is a win-win relationship in that it ensures a In Portugal, Jumbo continues to expand its offer of satisfactory level of visibility and profitability for the local products under the “Sabores de Portugal” 5 label. producers, and lets both parties reduce intermediary More than 400 varieties of cheese, cured meats, fruits costs and margins. and vegetables, sweets, breads and wines form a range comparable to that offered in the traditional In Spain, Alcampo continued to develop various markets. programmes to support the agricultural sector, in particular the “Del arbol a tu mesa”4 programme, 4 From tree to table coming up next 5 Flavours of Portugal 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 33 REPORT Some banners have developed specific dedicated signage to highlight the range of local products, thus contributing to the economic reputation of their regions. This approach is often supplemented by the organisation of sales operations and events aimed at showcasing local products. RATIONAL MOBILITY FOR RESIDENTS A majority of shopping centres owned by journeys, suitable service frequency, and routes Immochan were located until recently outside that are clear, safe and accessible to people the city proper. With growing urbanisation, with reduced mobility, all the way to the store most of these centres are today located on the entrance. city borders, or even in some cases near the city centre. A significant portion of their customers In Central & Eastern Europe and Asia, some (varying by site) now use public transport to Auchan hypermarkets and Immochan shopping reach these shopping centres. Thus, all of the malls also make buses available to transport their Hungarian, Polish, Romanian and Ukrainian sites customers from city centre to the store free of are served by public transportation located near charge. Where this is not possible, new sites are a shopping mall entrance. planned to be served by public transportation and receive consumers travelling by bicycle, in In the countries mentioned above and many order to limit the number of customers using other sites in the countries where it is present, motor vehicles. Immochan seeks to work together with public transportation agencies to offer visitors pleasant FOCUS ELECTRIC TOUR DE FRANCE The Mantes la Jolie hypermarket installed the first fast-charge station for electric cars in April 2014, capable of charging a vehicle in the store car park in less than 30 minutes. These stations, the result of a partnership between Auchan France and Nissan, are manufactured in France and currently being deployed to all Auchan sites. At end-2014, they had been installed in 36 hypermarkets. By second-half 2015, 96 of the 119 sites will be equipped. PARTNERS 34 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT #4 CUSTOMERS SAFE AND CONTROLLED FOOD.............. 36 OFFERING PRODUCTS THAT DO NOT THREATEN BIODIVERSITY ........................ 36 A DIVERSE, SUITABLE, ACCESSIBLE AND VISIBLE OFFER IN STORES.......................................................... 37 CONTRIBUTING TO CONSUMER HEALTH AND WELL-BEING WITH A SUITABLE FOOD OFFER.......................... 38 SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS IN SORTING THEIR WASTE................................................... 40 REDUCING PACKAGING AND ECO-DESIGNING OWN-BRAND PRODUCTS......................................................... 40 LISTENING TO OUR CUSTOMERS........... 41 Groupe Auchan seeks to rise above the traditional consumer model by committing to its corporate responsibility without losing sight of its original business model. To do so, the banner offers a range of products and services that is accessible, respectful of the environment and society, and contributes to good nutrition. SAFE AND CONTROLLED FOOD Risk mapping, the primary mission of the quality In addition, bans on substances such as department, is a scientific watch, an essential bisphenols and phtalates sometimes give rise to tool for decision-making and crisis planning. It substitutes that must be monitored. integrates customer feedback, crises at Auchan or its competitors and scientific meetings Groupe Auchan takes 100,000 samples for organised regularly around current topics. Since bacteriological or compliance analyses each 2012, this mapping has been divided into 3 year and complies with HACCP standards. In geographic zones to align more closely to the this framework, all Auchan and Simply Market specific realities in the field. stores are audited by independent agencies. These audits cover compliance with hygiene Auchan has also developed a uniform benchmark procedures, the cold chain and date controls. All shared across all the Group countries for prior the teams concerned receive regular training via accreditation of suppliers. multiple training tools. A major concern for all governments, denounced Lastly, the issue of GMOs is addressed by NGOs and consumer organisations, pesticides transparently with the food chain as a whole. are the focus of a specific work group that spun A non-GMO policy applies to all own-brand off from the international quality synergy, which everyday consumer products, from discount shares methods and requirements between to premium range. In France the approach is all the Group banners to improve operational extended into the meat and fish sectors, with control plans. the guarantee that products have been fed with non-GMO products. Microbiological risks are closely monitored due to the elimination of certain preservatives. In verifying substance safety, Auchan is committed to not performing tests on animals in its contracts with all its suppliers. OFFERING PRODUCTS THAT DO NOT THREATEN BIODIVERSITY Wherever possible, Auchan is eliminating palm protection of forests with high conservation oil from its brand-name products. The goal is to value and high carbon concentration; free prior improve product quality and the traceability of consent by local populations; protection of all the supply chain. Since 2005, 280 own-brand peatlands. product recipes have been reformulated. To date, only 44 products remain for which substitution A survey is currently being completed to enable is impossible. preferential sourcing from suppliers who commit to these aims. A similar approach will Auchan and Simply Market are expanding be launched to guide purchasing in the other this process in France. Where substitution is countries. impossible, suppliers are asked to use palm oil in their products that respects 4 key commitments: To sustainably preserve fishery resources, the compliance with laws and regulations; Group’s French hypermarkets and supermarkets 6 Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point CUSTOMERS 36 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT have committed since 2006 to not sell wild bass In 2013, in response to the controversy around deep during its reproductive period (December to March) water fishing, Auchan and Simply Market examined and to prefer farming with reduced environmental all the paradigms useful to taking an informed impact. These banners also committed in 2009 to sell decision. After analysing the positions and measures only non-threatened species of shark and tuna. All of taken by European institutions, expert scientific these decisions, though costly, were taken because studies published on the topic (Ifremer and the they responded to a consensus in the scientific International Council for the Exploration of the Sea), community. as well as the possible impact of measures on all players in the sector, the banners decided to suspend Although these commitments have not yet been sales of species requiring deep sea trawling (most formally defined or communicated throughout the notably black scabbardfish, blue ling and grenadier). Group, they are shared and applied in all countries This decision remains in effect today, while awaiting where the Group is present. possible advances in alternative fishing methods. The discontinuation of sales of Mediterranean bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) by Auchan and other retailers thus contributed to the upward revision of fishing quotas for this species. Given this new situation, over the course of 2015 Auchan France will evaluate the possibility of relaunching sales of this species in some stores in the south of France. A DIVERSE, SUITABLE, ACCESSIBLE AND VISIBLE OFFER IN STORES Auchan is gradually developing a vast offer of more To foster autonomy for people with impaired vision responsible products. To better inform its customers, and help them locate the products they want in the banner has developed signage to identify organic stores, Auchan is to its knowledge the only major products in the majority of its hypermarkets. mass retailer in the world to provide Braille labelling of its own-brand products. In 2014, 3,457 such products Throughout the year, the Group’s different banners were inventoried in the Auchan hypermarkets in organise information and sales events to promote an France, Spain and Portugal. Individuals with vision accessible and responsible offer: organic products, impairment regularly perform in-store checks to natural cleaning products, fair trade products, check the quality of the information provided in products with low energy consumption, products Braille. fostering a circular economy, etc.). The “Better Living” portal, launched in November 2012 As one example, Jumbo Portugal launched a and dedicated to good nutrition, meets a variety of campaign for LED light bulbs in 2014 with a 30% needs. It presents products sold by Auchan and offers reduction in sale price, enabling consumers to save advice with regard to certain diets. It also contains money while contributing to protecting nature information, advice and recipes from specialists and due to the low energy consumption of these bulbs. interested users. This initiative was accompanied by instructional communication and was co-financed by the Authority for Energy Services Regulation (ERSE). 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 37 REPORT NUMBER OF OWN-BRAND PRODUCTS LABELLED IN BRAILLE Hypermarkets Supermarkets France 2,200 1,488 Espagne 639 286 Portugal 618 TOTAL 3,457 1,776 CONTRIBUTING TO CONSUMER HEALTH AND WELL-BEING WITH A SUITABLE FOOD OFFER The development of “sustainable consumption” The restructuring of the Auchan Production is based on health concerns: consumers are teams in 2014 via the “Let’s reinvent Auchan increasingly aware of the impact of food on their Prod” project temporarily suspended this own health and that of their children. programme. The goal of the project is to be proactive in proposing products and faster in Programmes for good nutrition have been creating them, and to provide better service to implemented in 5 countries since 2006. They clients. Employees devoted 6,000 work hours encourage the development of healthy eating to this project. and lifestyle habits starting at a very young age, along with regular exercise. In addition, the application of the INCO standard (European regulation for better Good nutrition is one of the leading concerns consumer information) to all own-brand for most consumers today, and is at the heart products required the revision of 45,000 of Groupe Auchan’s “responsible discount” offer; packages. This packaging must include, by it was declared a priority for the international 31 December 2015: new minimum font sizes, sustainable development synergy in 2014 and is a new nutritional value presentation and now included in the Group’s strategic decisionaccounting methodology, and indication of making. allergens. These requirements therefore led to the updating of specifications and translation Similar to what had been already achieved of packaging for products distributed in the by certain Group entities, the hypermarket EU. and supermarket businesses in all countries where the Group is present must establish a In Spain, Simply Market launched a blog comprehensive “Good nutrition plan”, focusing dedicated to good nutrition in 2011 (www. in particular on a series of areas that include simplysano.es), in partnership with the training, reformulation of own-brand recipes, University of Saragossa. Customers can use offer of fresh and local products, and store this platform, developed in collaboration with events. students and professors specialised in health, to ask a nutritionist a question, share healthy Since 2005, Auchan Food Production has recipes with other users or explore the range worked on the recipes for products sold under of organic and health products in a virtual own brand to target better nutritional qualities. store visit. Savings achieved on a comparable basis over the past 9 years amount to: 90 tonnes of salt, 800 tonnes of sugar and 810 tonnes of fat. CUSTOMERS 38 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT Throughout the year, Jumbo Portugal continued Awareness of the various sustainable development to promote nutrition awareness and advice to its issues among the younger generations contributes customers. Practical information on daily nutrition to the behavioural changes that will be needed to is proposed in a guide with a focus on common move towards a more eco-responsible future. The consumer goods (milk, cheese, yogurt, eggs, Rik & Rok clubs for children age 4 to 10 in the French, legumes, tinned foods, rice, biscuits, cereals, dried Spanish and Portuguese hypermarkets are positioned fruits and grains), in connection with the retailer’s around themes related to sustainable development, sales operations. with a particular focus on good nutrition. In these 3 countries, the club has almost a million members who In China, traceability is a key challenge to ensure regularly receive an illustrated magazine containing safe food that poses no threat to consumer health. educational games and simple recipes. For pork, the most prevalent meat in Chinese cuisine, customers are able to obtain primary information To respond to consumers’ needs and expectations, about the origin of their meat (farm location, date Auchan encourages and measures the development and location of slaughter) from the code on the of its range sourced from sustainable production. product packaging at a dedicated website. In the same spirit, RT-Mart Taiwan has introduced testing rooms in 7 of its stores. Customers can measure the level of pesticides in fruits and vegetables and certain FMCG products from the shelves, including oil, which was subject to various crises in 2012. All the RT-Mart hypermarkets in the country will be equipped with these rooms by 2016. NUMBER OF ORGANIC PRODUCTS LISTED ACCORDING TO THE EUROPEAN UNION DEFINITION Hypermarkets Supermarkets France 5,165 548 Spain 997 131 Portugal 486 Italy 125 138 Hungary 0 Poland 0 0 Russia 160 0 Romania 0 Ukrain 127 China 0 Taïwan 0 TOTAL 7,060* 817 *Auchan Luxembourg and Auchan France have a joint organic offer. The number of organic products listed by Auchan Luxembourg was excluded from the total to avoid double accounting. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 39 REPORT In France and Italy, Auchan and Simply offer in particular a range of everyday organic products (pasta, rice, biscuits, etc.) for under €1. To encourage consumption of fruits and vegetables, Auchan France also offers an island of 14 fruits and vegetables available throughout the year at the price of €1. For customers with dietary restrictions, specific own-brand salt-, sugar-, lactoseand gluten-free product ranges have been developed and are offered today in all countries where the Group is present. SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS IN SORTING THEIR WASTE Batteries, light bulbs, plastic bags, household used cartridge receive a coupon for €1 off the appliances and recyclable packaging should purchase of a new one. not be disposed of with household waste. To prevent such mixing, which is detrimental Immochan places multi-compartment waste to recycling quality, Auchan, Immochan receptacles for customers to sort their waste in and some supermarkets have installed most of its shopping malls in Hungary, France, “environment” stands in the store entrances to Poland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Stores in the collect certain waste. Materials such as bulbs, malls also have access to spaces where waste batteries, ink cartridges and even household can be sorted. oils are collected there. In 2014, Auchan France launched a permanent sales operation aimed at promoting the return of ink cartridges. Customers who bring in their REDUCING PACKAGING AND ECO-DESIGNING OWN-BRAND PRODUCTS In the framework of a 3-way relationship between NUMBER OF INTEGRATED HYPERMARKETS product suppliers, packaging suppliers and Auchan WITH A SELF-SERVICE DISCOUNT SECTION Production’s quality engineers, the banner is reducing France 119 consumption of virgin raw materials for packaging of its products. These savings are achieved either Spain 50 by reducing packaging weight or by introducing Portugal 20 recycled materials into their composition. Italy 48 This approach has been rolled out in many Groupe Hungary 19 Auchan countries since 2004 and is reaching maturity Russia 84 today, although marginal savings are still achieved. In 10 years, more than 12,200 tonnes of virgin materials Romania 19 have been spared. New pathways are therefore being Ukrain 10 explored today, such as eco-design using more China 54 environmentally-friendly materials. In 2014, food TOTAL 423 CUSTOMERS 40 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT cartons (milk, fruit juices, soups) under private label introduced in the hypermarkets of 9 countries by were FSC certified. end-2014. In France, around 50 stores offer organic products in bulk (legumes, pasta, coffee, etc.) in this Lastly, to enable customers to buy what they need at section. the right price, 423 self-service discount aisles were LISTENING TO OUR CUSTOMERS Customer satisfaction research is generalised at Participants particularly stressed the need for: Group level prior to every commercial project. Every • structuring by area of need within a rich and year, an international survey examines every site diversified spectrum; under some 200 criteria to identify their strengths • colourful, natural décor in harmony with the and weaknesses, and launch any corrective action surroundings; needed. • a friendly and comfortable atmosphere; In 2014, Immochan France organised qualitative • respect for the environment; opinion panels for 18 of its sites. A total of 720 • the presence of regular entertainment and event residents took part in customer meetings. These spaces. panels met on site, and their work took the form of shared discussion facilitated by a moderator, By listening to residents, Immochan aims to develop generating expectations expressed spontaneously or the best possible responses to their expressed desires. resulting from exercises and suggested scenarios. The expectations highlighted during this work related to 4 success levers for a shopping centre: dimensioning; flows; concept; offer and events at the centre. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 41 REPORT #5 ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL POLICIES........................... 44 SORTING AND RECOVERING WASTE PRODUCED ................................................. 44 ZOOM Zero waste goal ....................... 45 REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PLASTIC BAGS................... 47 OPTIMISING AND REDUCING OUR ENERGY CONSUMPTION................. 47 FOCUS Energy plan, from diagnosis to road map and deployment...............49 APPLYING SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT ........................................... 50 DEVELOPING ENVIRONMENTAL SITE MANAGEMENT............................................ 52 MEASURING THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF THE RETAIL SITES.... 52 LIMITING AIR, WATER AND SOIL POLLUTION RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S ACTIVITY AND ADAPTING TO THE CONSEQUENCES OF CLIMATE CHANGE.............................. 54 MINIMISING NOISE POLLUTION FROM ACTIVITIES..................................... 54 ZOOM SUPER SILENT............................ 55 CONTRIBUTING TO BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION..................................................... 55 FOCUS Co-developing a forest policy ...................................................... 55 GOVERNANCE OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL POLICIES Since end-2008, sustainable development These committees comprise 5 to 10 employees policies have been written, piloted and tracked of all levels, who apply the company’s strategic by an international synergy. Monthly telephone priorities within their store and, via their meetings give rise to a very detailed report, innovations, contribute to enriching these and an in-person seminar is held every year for policies overall. some 30 managers representing countries, core businesses and certain of the Group’s major For Groupe Auchan, sustainable development functions. policies will be anchored over the long run if and only if all its employees have bought Every participating entity is in charge of into them. The Group’s companies therefore rolling out the work priorities defined by the place great importance on employee sustainable development synergy within their training and accountability. Thus, all Group own scope. SD managers from every country/ entities offer training specifically focused on core business are in charge of this coordination sustainable development or on the underlying with operational contacts and report regularly environmental levers (energy savings, waste on their actions to their respective General sorting, eco-design, circular economy, organic Management. Depending on their resources, product range, combating food waste, maturity level and business type, Groupe environmental management, etc.). Auchan companies adopt different types of organisation to promote SD on a daily basis. In In addition, various internal media for each a difficult economic context, it is important that entity (posters, leaflets, newsletters, intranet) policies and actions carried out be perceived not share and spread initiatives and best practices as additional constraints, but as opportunities to as widely as possible. create value. In addition, some Group companies also adopt more decentralised management at the local level, in particular via SD store committees such as in Auchan France and Auchan Russia. SORTING AND RECOVERING WASTE PRODUCED Operating the sites (hypermarkets, supermarkets, Sorting waste requires logistics resources that shopping malls and logistics sites) generates are not well suited to the format of certain various types of waste. The main waste produced businesses or sites, in particular for the smaller by the stores is secondary packaging (shipping locations. Finally, municipal waste management, boxes and plastic wrappings), organic waste primarily for the supermarket business, does not from expired food products and, to a lesser always enable collection of data on how waste is extent, scrap metal and wood (crates). further processed. Depending on the country, sorting and recovery Cardboard is the primary waste generated rates as well as the reliability of escalated by stores, and is sorted and recovered by the information vary significantly. This is due to hypermarkets in all Groupe Auchan countries. local regulations, the existence or lack of official In China, cardboard is the only category of recovery circuits and the nature of the business. waste with a market value that is processed via organised structures. ENVIRONMENT 44 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT For other materials, in particular plastic and organic Some countries have implemented detailed waste, sorting is organised based on local collection tracking of waste sorting and recovery rates in the systems. Waste recovery is expanding each year, as hypermarkets business. Dedicated software tools, the stores and logistics sites find the appropriate which in some cases have room for improvement, systems. The main form of waste recovery by far also enable regular performance measurement in is recycling, which accounts for between 60% and order to target the progress that could still be made 100% of recovered tonnage. This is followed by and the related potential savings or even profits. recovery for energy production and methanisation. This latter method continued to expand in France in 2014. There are now 111 stores that transform their food products no longer suitable for sale or donation into biogas or compost. ZOOM OR ZERO WASTE GOAL In Spain, Alcampo has set the long-term goal of achieving “zero waste”. In other words, the aim is for none of the waste generated by the company’s businesses to end up in landfill and thus as a pollutant. The first phase of this project involved improving the sorting process by introducing various innovations. In particular, the heavy metal containers for transporting waste to storage were replaced by solid and reusable cardboard containers. Following this initial phase, more extensive recovery methods aimed at transforming the waste into secondary raw materials or fuel were tested in 2014. Fourteen hypermarkets in Madrid are thus sorting their inert waste which is then transformed into SRF7. In all countries where it is present, Immochan In addition, Immochan is developing an approach for implements waste sorting for the retailers in its all its new development projects in its environment shopping malls. Sorted waste is either processed by charter which includes a BREEAM certification an outside service provider, or by the hypermarket, process. This approach makes it possible to establish depending on the country and the size of the mall. In a waste management procedure that details the 2014, 94 malls processed their waste independently fate of the resulting waste. Sorting is streamlined by of the hypermarket. In collaboration with its service organising pre-sorting of construction waste. providers, the banner works to improve the ease and organisation of waste sorting to ensure a better fill rate for the bins and thus reduce the number of rotations. 7 Solid recovered fuel. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 45 REPORT WASTE VALUATION RATE FROM OPERATIONS (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) Taux de valorisation des déchets d’exploitation par métiers Waste valuation rate from hypermarket TONNES OF WASTE RECOVERED BY Coverage GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONby operations AND geographical BY CORE BUSINESS region Average ratio (based recovery on m² of rate surface area) Western Europe 80.3 CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICITY PER M² OF SURFACE AREA Hypermarkets 66.9% (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) 91.8% Central & Eastern 49.5 Immochan 30.9% 78.0% Europe CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY PER M² OF SURFACE AREA Alinéa 48.0% 100% (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHIC Asia REGION) 52.5 Les Halles d’Auchan 52.0% 100% TOTAL 66.9 WATER CONSUMPTION PER M² OF SURFACE AREA (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) Note on the scope: the data covers the majority of sites. Supermarkets and Chronodrives are not included. When waste from an Immochan shopping mall is processed directly by the Auchan hypermarket, the surface area of the shopping mall is included in the coverage ratio. CO2 EMISSIONS ARISING FROM ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION AND REFRIGERANT LEAKS BY BUSINESS As a reminder, the average waste valuation rate for hypermarket waste in 2013 was 71.0% with a coverage ratio of 55.1%. The coverage ratio rose strongly for the hypermarkets (+36.7 points) and shopping malls (+20 points). This tends to indicate better tracking of waste data by the stores. The recovery rate is slightly down for shopping malls (-1.3 points) and hypermarkets (-4 points). This is due to the increased coverage ratio: sites with a weaker performance have been included in reporting. For reliability reasons, the waste recovery rate is no longer monitored by supermarkets. Indeed, in many cases it is the municipalities that process this waste, without informing the stores of the details of waste processing. Groupe AuchanWASTE therefore decided toRATE VALUATION publish FROMthe tonnage OPERATIONS of waste recovered rather than a recovery rate for its smaller formats. (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) TONNES OF WASTE RECOVERED BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGION AND BY CORE BUSINESS Tonnes of waste produced by the Tonnes of recovered waste from CONSUMPTION hypermarkets, OF ELECTRICITY PER operations, M² OF SURFACE core business by AREA (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) by geographical region Tonnes of As a % of waste Tonnes of As the total CONSUMPTION OFaENERGY % PER M² OF SURFACE recovered AREA waste (BY CORE ofBUSINESS the AND GEOGRAPHIC REGION) recovered total Hypermarkets 310,647 89.4% Western WATER 205,919CONSUMPTION66.3% PER M² Immochan OF SURFACE AREA 7,152 2.1% Europe (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) Central & Supermarkets 26,137 7.5% 73,594 23.7% Eastern Europe CO2 EMISSIONS ARISING FROM ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION AlinéaAND REFRIGERANT 2,061 LEAKS BY 0.6% BUSINESS Asia 31,134 10.0% Les Halles 1,529 0.4% TOTAL 310,647 d’Auchan TOTAL 347,526 Methodology notes: at the sites where data reliability appears to be an issue, the tonnage of waste recovered was not included in calculation of these figures, as agreed with the SD managers. The tonnage of waste actually recovered by all the sales locations is therefore greater than that indicated in these tables. ENVIRONMENT 46 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PLASTIC BAGS Groupe Auchan limits the use of disposable bags and from its product packaging supplied to stores in the offers customers solutions that are more respectful of North region. the environment, such as biodegradable or reusable bags, or bags made of recycled materials. For example: Except for Russia, Poland and Ukraine, hypermarkets the plastic bags sold at the register by Auchan and supermarkets no longer supply free bags at the China are made of a material derived from calcium registers. The rare entities that still distribute them carbonate. In Portugal, Jumbo offers a reusable bag free of charge recover the bags, in specific bins for developed in partnership with APED8 and made of Chronodrive, and via trial “green registers” in certain materials sourced from plastic bottles. Since 2012, pilot stores. Auchan France has also sold a 100% recyclable and 100% recycled bag made of the flexible plastic films OPTIMISING AND REDUCING OUR ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy consumption (electricity, fuel oil, gas) Energy savings are achieved via training, employee represents a major environmental and financial issue awareness and the introduction of monthly tables to for Groupe Auchan as it costs several hundreds of ensure better consumption tracking and thus analyse millions of euros. Reducing energy consumption variations observed for the same calendar period. was the first joint priority focus of the sustainable development synergy. Significant progress, measured Daily maintenance of Immochan malls is directly annually, has been made by all entities since 2008. managed by the hypermarket technical teams. For new operations, a bioclimate design approach favours The 3 primary energy consumption categories for natural lighting and passive energy consumption stores are food refrigeration, lighting and heat/air reduction systems, among other things by enhancing conditioning. Classification of these items varies from building insulation and recovering the calories one site and country to another, but everywhere generated wherever possible via the installation of accounts for some 80% of stores’ final consumption. dual-flow heat recovery ventilation systems. For food refrigeration, the hypermarkets and supermarkets in 4 countries (France, Spain, Italy, Hungary) are gradually replacing the refrigerants that use the most electricity with R744 (CO2). The majority of hypermarkets and supermarkets are equipped with closed sub-zero freezers and many sites use “screens” to better insulate standard freezers when the stores are closed. 8 Portuguese association of distribution companies 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 47 REPORT TONNES OF WASTE RECOVERED BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGION AND BY CORE BUSINESS CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICITY PER M² OF SURFACE AREA (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) Consumption of electricity, in CONSUMPTION OFkWh ENERGY PER Consumption M² OF SURFACE electricity, in kW of AREA per m² of surface(BYarea per m² CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHIC REGION) of surface area Coverage Average ratio (based Hyper Super Immo WATER ratio CONSUMPTION on m² of PER M² OF SURFACE AREA Western (BY CORE area)AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) 435 BUSINESS surface 647 239 Europe Hypermarkets 464 97.3% Central & CO2 EMISSIONS ARISING FROM ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION Eastern AND REFRIGERANT 538 683 BY BUSINESS LEAKS 247 Immochan 258 97.3% Europe Supermarkets 652 92.1% Asia 425 340 Alinéa 183 100% TOTAL 464 652 258 Chronodrive 240 92.4% Les Halles 619 100% d’Auchan Notes on the scopes considered: For Chronodrive, m² of net usable floor area are used to calculate the ratio. French hypermarkets now include the consumption and surface area of attached Drives. The average total ratio for 2014 is 457 kWh per m² of surface area. As a reminder, average electricity consumption in 2013 was 495 kWh per m² of surface area. The main downward variations of the ratios are largely explained by: • better breakdown of consumption between the shopping mall and the hypermarket for Auchan China (-35.5%); • inclusion of the surface area of attached Drives for Auchan France (-13.6%); • better monitoring of consumption that sometimes enabled identification of invoicing errors for the Russian supermarkets (-38.3%). In contrast, the average ratio for shopping malls rose by almost 13 points due to the integration of the Chinese malls into calculation of the ratio. The coverage ratio for Immochan malls has therefore strongly increased (more than 20 points). More detailed auditing of data consistency during consolidation at Group level also impacted the ratios of certain countries/core businesses (both upwards and downwards) between 2013 and 2014, but to a far lesser extent. The coverage ratio rose by slightly more than 4 points from 2013 to 2014, to reach 96.4%. LED lighting developed significantly in 2014 in the French, Spanish and Russian supermarkets and the Italian, Russian, Chinese and Taiwanese hypermarkets. In 2013, the Caluire store was the first hypermarket in France to be fully equipped with LED. One year later, these installations have reduced energy consumption for electricity by 56%. ENVIRONMENT 48 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT In China, 61 of the 62 Auchan hypermarkets are now equipped with new LED-based lighting systems that automatically regulate lighting intensity based on the level of outside light. These installations are part of a more global environmental management approach called PEMS9, which issue alerts for each site in real time with regard to energy losses across all consumption items. Similar BMS10 are also in place in some hypermarkets in France, Russia and Hungary. These reduce energy consumption by 20% on average. Auchan France has set the goal of deploying BMS in 70 stores by the end of 2015. FOCUS ENERGY PLAN, FROM DIAGNOSIS TO ROAD MAP AND DEPLOYMENT The energy bill today amounts to around 1% of Groupe Auchan’s revenue. Given the volatility of energy prices, this expense has risen significantly in recent years. This is true in spite of the policies and actions implemented by each entity to reduce consumption. In this situation, Groupe Auchan chose to engage in a proactive approach in 2013. An “Energy Plan” was built around key priorities and addressed step-by-step: reduce consumption more quickly at each site, professionalise energy purchasing, define standards for the new sites. To test a methodology that could be reproduced in other countries, Groupe Auchan sought the support of a specialised consulting firm (Schneider Electric) to carry out an experimental trial on a large scale across all its core businesses in Spain. A comprehensive energy diagnostis was launched at 6 Spanish pilot sites covering all formats in November of the same year. Three levels of action for potential gains were identified: • Optimising settings and management of existing equipment, i.e. the “quick wins” related to behaviours and settings, and which must be applied at all sites. • Modifying technical installations that require equipment and performance improvements. These changes will generate costs which can be amortised in the short or medium term. • Disruptive changes involving the customer experience and product display in the stores, to be considered cautiously as they could impact sales. Audits performed at the 6 Spanish pilot sites revealed average potential gains of 25%. Given the encouraging results obtained at these sites, in accordance with the objectives set, a full diagnostic of the country was then established to identify the real savings potential and the necessary investments. These will be carried out having regard to their respective ROI. A similar first analytical phase was launched for 5 pilot sites in Italy in the summer of 2014, based on this first Spanish experience. At end-2014 a road map was proposed for the definition and then actual implementation of the project during 2015. Some sites owned by Auchan or Immochan are equipped with photovoltaic panels to cover some of the electricity or heating needs of the buildings. However, these installations are only efficient below a certain geographic latitude. The significant drop in purchase price of green electricity, together with decreasing fiscal incentives, have slowed down these investments since 2010. 9 Proactive Energy Management System 10 Building Management Systems 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 49 REPORT (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY PER M² OF SURFACE AREA (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHIC REGION) Consumption of energy in kWh per m² ofWATER surface CONSUMPTION area OF SURFACE AREA PER M² Consumption of energy in kWh (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) Coverage per m² of surface area Average ratio (based CO2 EMISSIONS ARISING FROM ratio ELECTRICITY on M² of surCONSUMPTION AND REFRIGERANT LEAKS BYImmo BUSINESS face area) Hyper Super Hypermarkets 534 91.6% Western 498 692 294 Europe Immochan 295 78% Central & Eastern 641 696 297 Supermarkets* 692 93.9% Europe Alinéa 187 100% Asia 448 Chronodrive 277 93.8% TOTAL 536 691 295 Les Halles 619 100% d’Auchan Notes on the scopes considered: For Chronodrive, m² of net usable floor area are used to calculate the ratio. French hypermarkets include the consumption and surface area of attached Drives. *Except Simply Market Poland The average total ratio for 2014 is 519 kWh per m² of surface area. In 2013 this ratio (not published at the time) was 578 kWh, indicating a decrease of more than 10%. The same reasons behind the decrease in electricity consumption (see above) apply to energy consumption. Indeed, electricity consumption accounts for more than 70% of total energy consumption. It should be noted that the Europe region, across all countries, and Eastern Europe in particular, benefited from more favourable weather conditions than in 2013 (milder winter and cooler summer), which contributed to reduced consumption of natural gas, often used to heat the stores. The energy consumption indicator includes electricity and natural gas consumption. Replacing the “natural gas consumption” indicator with the “energy consumption” indicator allows for better verification of data and improved reliability, and makes it easier to compare energy consumption between sites and identify possible inconsistencies. APPLYING SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT As with energy, the main water consumption The water thus recovered can be used for drivers vary depending on site surface area and cleaning floors, lavatories and watering plants. type of business. The workshops (meat, fish and bakery), floor cleaning, equipment cleaning, Water-efficient equipment is systematically lavatories and watering of green spaces are the installed in new projects. Immochan is gradually activities that consume the most water. installing so-called “smart meters” to provide consumption data automatically and in real While the vast majority of water used by the time. These serve to alert technical crews to stores, logistics sites and shopping malls comes any possible anomalies. They also help improve from municipal waterworks, some sites have invoicing reliability by eliminating human error rainwater catchment tanks and basins. in meter readings. ENVIRONMENT 50 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT TONNES OF WASTE RECOVERED BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGION AND BY CORE BUSINESS Concerning wastewater, the car parks managed Limited consumption and weak economic impact by Immochan andCONSUMPTIONAuchan are equippedOF ELECTRICITY with PER M² create SURFACE OFincentive little AREA to implement specific policies (BY CORE BUSINESS hydrocarbon separators to treat water runoff before AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) in this area and continue to limit the reliability of data it reaches the public networks. collected. CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY PER M² OF SURFACE AREA (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHIC REGION) WATER CONSUMPTION PER M² OF SURFACE AREA (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) Water consumption in M3 per M² of CO2 EMISSIONS ARISING surfaceFROMareaELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION AND REFRIGERANT3LEAKS BY BUSINESS Water consumption in M per M² of surCoverage face area Average ratio (based ratio on M² of surface area) Hyper Super Immo Hypermarkets 1.45 89.5% Western 0.91 0.84* Europe Immochan 1.89 47.7% Central & Eastern 1.45 0.73 0.88 Supermarkets* 0.82 62.2% Europe Alinéa 0.18 80.0% Asia 3.4 3.06 Les Halles TOTAL 1.45 0.82 1.89 0.64 57.0% d’Auchan Notes on the scopes considered: For Chronodrive, m² of net usable floor area are used to calculate the ratio. French hypermarkets include the consumption and surface area of attached Drives.* Except Simply Market Italy The average total ratio for 2014 is 1.37 m3 per m² of surface area. In 2013 this ratio was 1.65 m3, indicating a decrease of more than 15%. This is explained in general by better tracking of consumption which leads, for most countries/ core businesses, to a reduction in the ratios. The coverage ratio rose 4 points, indicating this improved tracking, although it remains relatively weak. The global coverage ratio is 66.8%. It should be noted that: • for Auchan China, a better breakdown of consumption between the shopping mall and hypermarket is largely responsible for the decreased ratio (-32.7%); • including the surface area of the attached Drives for Auchan France also reduces the average ratio (-18%) due to the lack of food preparation areas in the Drives; • the type of contracts applied by the Italian supermarkets prevents reliable data collection for this entity. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 51 REPORT DEVELOPING ENVIRONMENTAL SITE MANAGEMENT In line with its very decentralised organisation, This approach serves to increase the skill level of Groupe Auchan leaves its subsidiaries plenty the employees involved in the projects, from site of room to adopt the management systems acquisition to construction. and certification methods they feel are most appropriate. In Western Europe, Hungary Immochan also applies its own environmental and China, 29 hypermarkets are ISO 14001 quality charter in all European countries for certified. The French, Spanish and Portuguese expansions or renovations of existing sites and hypermarkets also implement internal or for new projects. Aimed at all the Auchan and external audit systems for their stores. Immochan technical teams as well as all their external partners, it defines the architectural and Since 2011, Immochan has been committed landscape requirements and recommendations to systematically launching an environmental but also integrates the BREEAM requirements. certification approach for its major development projects. The internationally recognised BREEAM certification process ensures the projects that apply it a very ambitious environmental performance, enabling low energy intensity, limited greenhouse gas emissions and increased mobility. MEASURING THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF THE RETAIL SITES While some of the Group’s European countries For new food refrigeration systems in EU have already published one or more carbon countries, the installation of technologies based footprints report (France, Spain, Italy), a Group on R744 (CO2) is preferred wherever possible. footprint has not yet been completed. Given the specificities of service contracts Despite the Group’s delay in reporting on this with French providers, Groupe Auchan is not topic, all Auchan companies have the goal of currently able to calculate emissions arising actively reducing their emissions with regard to from refrigerant leaks over a sliding 12-month the main emission items: refrigerant leaks and period for its entire scope. This situation, specific energy consumption. to France, causes a calendar shift in which the year Y-1 is taken as the reference. This problem Accounting for more than half of the should however be resolved in 2015. hypermarkets’ CO2 emissions, these nonetheless vary significantly from one site to another Lastly, no joint indicator has been defined to date depending on the type of refrigerant used. concerning CO2 emissions related to logistics The Group’s sites are gradually replacing the supply. The difficulty involved in tracking them refrigerants that contribute the most to climate is the primary reason. change with natural refrigerants. ENVIRONMENT 52 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT WATER CONSUMPTION PER M² OF SURFACE AREA (BY CORE BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION) CO2 EMISSIONS ARISING FROM ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION AND REFRIGERANT LEAKS BY BUSINESS Core businesses’ CO² emissions in kg per M² of surface area Arising from electricity Arising from refrigerant consumption leaks (2013 data) Hypermarkets 98.3 128.3* Western Europe Hypermarkets Central 209.5 84.9** & Eastern Europe Hypermarkets Asia 319.3 80.8*** Supermarkets 179.6 129.7**** Immochan 108.1 -***** Notes on the scopes considered: For Chronodrive, m² of net usable floor area are used to calculate the ratio. French hypermarkets include the consumption and surface area of attached Drives. Data on refrigerant leaks is calculated for the entire calendar year 2013. * Except Auchan Luxembourg and Les Halles d’Auchan (specific format) ** Except Auchan Ukraine *** Only Auchan China **** Only Western Europe ***** Because refrigerants are primarily used for food refrigeration, leaks of refrigerant for the shopping malls are not significant and are not specifically tracked. The refrigerants used for shopping mall and hypermarket air conditioning are reported by the store. To better indicate their real impacts, Groupe Auchan has updated the emission factors for electricity consumption and refrigerants. The emission factors for the 2 refrigerants most commonly used by Groupe Auchan (R404A and R507A) were adjusted downward. Therefore, comparing the 2013 and 2014 data is of very limited interest. It is worth noting, however, that refills of refrigerants R717 and R744, which have a very low GWP (global warming potential), are increasing rapidly. They rose from 60 to 440 kg and from 4,018 to 7,127 kg, respectively. These changes indicate the introduction of equipment with a lower impact on global warming. The emission factors related to electricity consumption vary significantly by country due to the different energy mixes. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 53 REPORT LIMITING AIR, WATER AND SOIL POLLUTION RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S ACTIVITY AND ADAPTING TO THE CONSEQUENCES OF CLIMATE CHANGE Except for greenhouse gas emissions, Groupe To check site compliance, internal audits are Auchan’s commercial activities do not produce carried out regularly, either by internal teams or much air, water or soil pollution with a strong by accredited third-party agencies. impact on the environment. The proprietary service stations are subject to ongoing, rigorous In September 2014, a risk evaluation tool was controls. tested by Immochan France to assess the risks at each of the sites, taking account of their location, Auchan and Immochan aim to limit any harm the hydrology and the businesses in place. caused to natural environments. A particular This tool should be validated in 2015 so that effort is made to keeping their buildings preventive actions for reducing or eliminating environmentally friendly. Environmental impact risks can be systematically implemented. studies are carried out on the projects involved in a BREEAM certification approach, in particular Flood risk is the primary threat to the company concerning the ecological value of the land and with regard to climate change. Immochan and soil pollution. Auchan are working in particular on managing rainwater runoff, with the aim of reducing The major investments made in 2014 to prevent drainage to the public networks, or even environmental risks addressed: refrigerants achieving zero drainage where the soil allows. (replacement of cooling plants with solutions less damaging for global warming), renovation Lastly, Groupe Auchan does not make financial of waste processing areas, the construction provisions for environmental risks and leaves it of a dam to protect residents from flooding to its companies to freely decide whether or not (Hungary), and improved management of to do so themselves. wastewater. MINIMISING NOISE POLLUTION FROM ACTIVITIES Noise pollution caused by deliveries is a For every new Immochan mall project subject to significant issue for supermarkets, located in a BREEAM certification process, when sensitive the city centres, and to a lesser degree for the zones are detected at less than 800 metres, an hypermarkets located around the metropolitan evaluation is systematically carried out to decide areas. whether or not the project should continue. An acoustics engineer determines the provisions Minimising noise pollution requires the necessary to keep noise pollution below 5 dB adaptation of delivery schedules. Where from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. and 3 dB at night. applicable, infrastructure modifications are made for the most vulnerable sites: floor coverings; sound insulation of ceilings for stores on the ground floor of a building; noise-reduction walls to protect neighbouring residences. ENVIRONMENT 54 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT ZOOM OR SUPER SILENT To improve the environmental impact of its deliveries to stores in the city centre, Simply Market Spain launched its “Sustainable Urban Distribution” project in 2013. Supermarkets in Madrid and Saragossa are supplied by vehicles that run on liquefied natural gas, whose CO2 emissions are 20 points lower and noise pollution half that of conventional vehicles. This fleet was expanded from 2 to 4 lorries in 2014. In France, 2 latest-generation hybrid lorries are also used for deliveries to supermarkets in the Paris region. CONTRIBUTING TO BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION The Group’s entities are launching a number of In Portugal, Jumbo completed a film project with the initiatives to protect biodiversity both within and University of Aveiro, showcasing the diverse ways outside its commercial sites. that the hypermarket can contribute to preserving biodiversity. A blend of science and humour, the 10 In 2014, Alcampo renewed its partnership with episodes were viewed by 800,000 people in all. WWF to carry out a forest restoration initiative in the municipality of Tembleque, near Toledo, where 3,000 For their part, the French supermarkets and native trees and bushes have been planted since the hypermarkets continued to install beehives on and start of the programme. around some 60 stores. Auchan Italy did the same with its partnership for At Immochan, an ecology expert is included in all adoption of 13 WWF Oases, funded by the sale of the design teams for new projects subject to an reusable WWF bags and school supplies in its stores. environmental certification approach. This expert guides the selection of the species most appropriate In China, Auchan continued to plant trees in Inner to the local habitat and studies their ability to Mongolia, assigning 5 employees to this task for a generate a positive environmental impact, while also week. To date, the “Auchan forest” contains 8,000 seeking to preserve local animal and plant life. trees, 50% of them pines and local species. FOCUS CO-DEVELOPING A FOREST POLICY Groupe Auchan began defining its forest policy in 2011 based on the expertise of an international non-profit organisation, The Forest Trust (TFT). Its mission is to support the Group’s companies in implementing their policy by analysing the supply chains for products with an impact on forests, and co-developing action plans. A review of the hypermarket and supermarket businesses was carried out in 2014 to evaluate the quantity of products consumed in-house (handouts, papers, store displays). A similar approach was applied to the products sold in stores in the following priority categories: charcoal and indoor and outdoor furniture. Additional information is currently being gathered for each of these products. This will enable a full mapping of supplies, and a risk analysis by supplier for the product, based on origin and type of wood. Lastly, recommendations to reduce these risks will be formulated for each product and supplier. Given the large share of wood in its products, Alinéa began working with TFT more than 6 years ago. The 2 entities formed a partnership in 2008 for the sensitive sector of outdoor furniture. The goal, which has been achieved, was to guarantee responsible sourcing for the exotic woods used, such as teak and balau, by verifying their traceability with the TFT teams in the field, in particular in Indonesia. At the time, very few certified woods of these types existed and Alinéa, with the assistance of TFT, began exploring responsible alternatives for its outdoor furniture ranges. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 55 REPORT #6 SOLIDARITY IMPLEMENTING LOCAL SOLIDARITY INITIATIVES................................................... 57 SUSTAINED AND EXCEPTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS............................................57 FOCUS Groupe auchan contributes $1.5 million to the Rana plaza donor’s trust fund ..................................................... 58 THE FOUNDATIONS ..........................58 1/ Auchan youth foundation......................58 FOCUS Sos children’s villages, international partnership for local social integration................................. 59 2/ Simply foundation «a taste for sharing »....................................... 60 3/ Auchan generations foundation........ 60 4/ Immochan foundation for social entrepreneurship...................................... 61 ZOOM Creenso Award........................... 61 FOCUS creation of the weave our future (wof ) foundation, under the The Group is located in 12 countries, which leads to aegis of the fondation de france.......... 62 great diversity in cultural references, economic and social contexts and sales policies in each of the regions where it exercises its various businesses. Nonetheless, design and implementation of its solidarity policies is a uniform and shared process across its entire scope. Integrated into the business plan and rolled out at several action levels, solidarity is expressed via solid partnerships and several foundations, applying a local action approach. IMPLEMENTING LOCAL SOLIDARITY INITIATIVES Every site is a place for encounters, sharing and To foster the circular economy and donation of nonexchange with the community, creating social food products to residents in need, many collection connection by consulting with and involving local operations are carried out in France, Spain and stakeholders. Hungary for products such as clothing, school supplies, computer equipment and toys. A total of 160,000 In France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Poland and now in school bags, 100,000 toys and 45,000 clothing items Hungary and Ukraine, the Auchan banners are in were thus collected by the stores of the banners that direct relationship with organisations that work locally organised these operations. to organise food donations and thus contribute to combating food waste. More targeted operations are For the ninth consecutive year, Simply Market France also implemented, such as in Spain where Alcampo, set up the Energy Quarter in its stores. During the Simply Market, Immochan and Oney Banque Accord month of October 2014, these supermarkets offer took part in the second edition of the “Breakfasts and a platform to raise public awareness of the work of snacks” hearth campaign, during which 392 tonnes of local organisations that participate in the project. food were collected for 1.3 million meals distributed to Donations are derived from the sale of solidarity cards more than 8,000 children. for €1, as well as of solidarity products dedicated to the operation. In countries where national legislation is too restrictive, the lack of structured organisations or of assurances This latest edition showcased 420 associations and concerning the use of donated items makes this type collected €335,000 to contribute to their project. of approach less certain. Initial trials are nonetheless being cautiously carried out by Russian hypermarkets in this area. SUSTAINED AND EXCEPTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS To enable the development of sustainable solidarity This project is carried out by the employees who are its actions, partnerships have been formed with certain main ambassadors via the organisation of more than non-profit organisations. In case of an emergency near 400 events near the stores (theatres, sports arenas, or connected to its businesses, Groupe Auchan may municipal squares) throughout the year, in synergy also exceptionally support short-term initiatives that with other active solidarity organisations. In 12 years offer a well-organised response to the situation. of partnership, €13 million has been collected. Auchan and Simply Italy have had a long-term partnership with the telethon since 2002. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 57 REPORT FOCUS GROUPE AUCHAN CONTRIBUTES $1.5 MILLION TO THE RANA PLAZA DONOR’S TRUST FUND In August 2014, Groupe Auchan demonstrated its solidarity with the victims of the collapse of the Rana Plaza by contributing $1.5 million to the Rana Plaza Donor’s Trust Fund created under the sponsorship of the ILO. Although it had never placed orders with the 4 workshops housed in this building, the company wished to make this gesture of the Group’s solidarity with the country and its workers. This exceptional decision was taken after the publication of an 8-part plan to strengthen the security of its textile supply, and after joining the Arrangement designed to check the strength of the infrastructures housing factories and workshops in Bangladesh; it was followed by the creation of the WOF foundation (see page 62) dedicated to improving the living conditions of workers in the countries of the south. THE FOUNDATIONS In addition to the initiatives implemented locally, foundations and solidarity programmes initiated by several Group entities offer a framework for action for a policy of carefully thought-out sponsorship that is rolled out and monitored over time. AUCHAN YOUTH FOUNDATION Created in 1996, chaired by Vianney Mulliez, Chairman of Groupe Auchan, and placed under the umbrella of the Fondation de France, the Auchan Youth Foundation provides support to young people living in the neighbourhoods and cities near Auchan hypermarkets, in 11 of the countries where it is present. The Auchan Youth Foundation seeks to: • support community projects that aim to help young people achieve their goals and succeed in life (reading; writing; sporting activities; integration via training and employment; awareness of good nutrition and respect for the environment); • sustainably encourage and support employees involved in the association. The Auchan Youth Foundation enables each country to benefit from expertise and financial resources to enhance their social responsibility with regard to specific, locally expressed needs. A PRAGMATIC APPROACH Every country involves its employees at each key phase: • The store teams choose and investigate the projects to be supported. Following pre-selection, each country sustainable development manager expands on or approves the project(s) chosen with the foundation managers. • The project selection committee meets approximately every 2 months. A panel comprising 4 of the 12 sustainable development managers of the countries where Auchan is present, SOLIDARITY 58 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT the Executive Officer of the foundation, and at least one member of the Group Executive Committee, meets via videoconference to examine the projects presented by the Project Director and the association’s managers. Discussion takes place to better understand the social difficulties encountered and the nature of the expressed needs, before deciding whether or not to provide the foundation’s financial support. • Once the project is approved, the Store Directors and their employees become involved and support the project over the long term. EXAMPLES OF ACHIEVEMENTS The Auchan Youth Foundation supported the French association LFM, a community radio station that offers introduction to journalism training to 500 pre-teens in Mantes la Jolie who are experiencing difficulties at school. A total of €15,000 was allotted to fund the purchase of a mobile recording studio for use in the city’s secondary schools. The Buchelay store participates in the project by opening its doors to the “apprentice journalists” to carry out interviews and reports. Children of the staff also take part in workshops at the store. In Hungary, 500 children from the eastern part of the country were offered activities to support reading instruction. This fruitful cooperation combines a community publishing company, local teachers, the municipal library and the human and financial contributions (€12,000) needed to run the programme over one school year. In 2014, a total of 58 projects received average funding of €7,480. FOCUS SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGES, INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIP FOR LOCAL SOCIAL INTEGRATION For the fourth consecutive year, Groupe Auchan sent its 2015 New Year’s greetings cards to the benefit of SOS Children’s Villages. This international operation sponsored by the Auchan Youth Foundation helps support the association’s local programmes in each of the countries involved, for an overall total of €100,000. SOS Children’s Villages enable children who are siblings without parental support to grow up together in a new family. It aims to ensure that they thrive by offering a stable and warm family life. More than a third of the projects supported around the world by the Auchan Youth Foundation in 2013-2014 involved the integration of youth. This strong need, identified by SOS Children’s Villages, led it to focus the action of this partnership on the social and professional integration of young people, in order to assist them achieving an autonomous adult life. Twelve of the association’s local projects are supported every year. For example, in Poland, 100 youths in school in the village of Bilgoraj will gain access to the Internet thanks to the purchase of computer equipment and school supplies. In Italy, foreign minors in the SOS Villages of Mantova and Ostuni will receive specialised training in baking, agriculture and tourism. In Taiwan, young people will be trained in the cleaning and maintenance profession and learn about hypermarket jobs. Since the start of the partnership with SOS Children’s Villages, €400,000 has gone into funding these project. 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 59 REPORT SIMPLY FOUNDATION “A TASTE FOR SHARING” (SUPERMARKETS FRANCE) Created in 2009, the Simply Foundation “A • Access to employment: Enable professional taste for sharing” supports solidarity and reintegration of people in difficulty; receive job social integration projects related to food and seekers for training in restaurants, community nutrition. This commitment is based on skills cafés and social solidarity caterers. sharing to provide the professional expertise The foundation has had a partnership with the needed by the projects supported, as well as on A.N.D.E.S. social solidarity grocers for 4 years. additional financial and/or equipment support. This national association for the development Areas of intervention: of solidarity grocers was born in 2000 and today unites 280 shops that allow people struggling • Health and nutrition: Discover or rediscover the financially to purchase quality food supplies pleasure of eating fresh and balanced meals; at low cost. The network promotes social provide effective information and teaching on integration and innovation and is based on balanced nutrition and healthy eating. skills donation from supermarket employees • Social connection: Create or recreate social located near the grocers. This support goes connection in the neighbourhoods between beyond mere financial contribution, leading people of different cultures, ages and to a genuine transfer of expertise. Volunteer backgrounds; share recipes and tips, share a employees support the grocers during their meal prepared together. work hours to help them professionalise their operations. • Access to food: Support better nutrition for those in most need; organise cooking In 2014, the Simply Foundation supported 22 workshops and food distribution; support projects for a total of €133,800 in all. contributing grocers. AUCHAN GENERATIONS FOUNDATION (HYPERMARKETS RUSSIA) In 2011, Auchan Russia created its own structure For example, the foundation’s support for for social responsibility. The Auchan Generations the “Choose sport instead of drugs” project Foundation supports projects aimed at helping enabled the purchase of athletic equipment youths and children in 3 areas: training in the for 30 children age 10 to 16, participating in sales professions, support for children who a race in symbolic stages over a distance of are orphaned, sick or have disabilities, and 1,150 kilometres. incentives to practice sports. • 15 projects to support the development In 2014 the Auchan Generations Foundation of teaching and the most dedicated supported 89 projects, including: disadvantaged students. A competition for young fashion designers was in particular • 44 projects to support children and youths proposed in Russian schools. The best creative in difficult situations, including via 2 annual projects for children’s textiles are now sold in actions: “School for all!” and “Give children a Auchan Russia hypermarkets. New Year”. More than 7,000 children received stationery items and New Year’s gifts in the Overall, more than a million euros was allocated framework of these actions. to the supported projects, which benefited some 20,000 children. • 30 projects to support the development of sports. SOLIDARITY 60 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT IMMOCHAN FOUNDATION FOR SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP (FRANCE) The Immochan France Foundation for Social • Open, participatory and responsible management, Entrepreneurship works to support social with limited return on investment and remuneration entrepreneurs in more than 90 cities around France. of managers. From 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2014, the Social entrepreneurs from a variety of backgrounds foundation supported 15 projects for a total of and profiles develop business projects that can take €188,000. These projects primarily involve green diverse legal forms: spaces, the transformation of agricultural produce, • The company’s defined business purpose has a social, infrastructure restoration, training and mobility for environmental or regional aim (combating exclusion, better professional integration. unemployment, poverty, disability; promoting a region via a public interest project). • An economic project that aligns with the market and responds to a demand to create jobs, social connection and wealth. FOCUS CREENSO AWARD IESEG business school and the Immochan Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship organised the fourth edition of the CréEnSo (Creation of Social Enterprise) awards in 2014. More than 350 students on the “Innovation and Management” seminary first met with the entrepreneurs from winning projects of the previous years. In 2014, CréEnSo received a record of 60 very innovative projects. 50 Master’s-level students committed to supporting the 15 social entrepreneurs chosen. Entrepreneurs and students then met to define the mission on which they would work together for the coming year. The company “Drôle de Pain”, a bakery and training workshop for people in need and without employment, was the winning project in 2014. This firm received a grant of €10,000 and expert support from a student. 2014 Foundations Overview Number of projects Amount allocated in euros supported Auchan Youth Foundation 60 608,900 Auchan Generations 89 980,100 Foundation Simply Foundation 22 133,800 “A Taste For Sharing” Immochan Foundation for 15 188,600 Social Entrepreneurship TOTAL 186 1,911,400 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT 61 REPORT FOCUS CREATION OF THE WEAVE OUR FUTURE (WOF) FOUNDATION, UNDER THE AEGIS OF THE FONDATION DE FRANCE The Rana Plaza catastrophe highlighted a situation that no buyers can ignore, whether they work with Bangladesh or with neighbouring countries. The Groupe Auchan purchasing and sustainable development teams reached the conclusion that despite everything that has been done for more than 15 years, more concrete and handson effort is needed to improve the living conditions of workers in the countries of the south. Based on the Auchan Youth Foundation’s successful 20 years of experience, it was decided to create a similar tool, the “Weave our Future” Foundation, under the auspices of the Fondation de France, on 30 April 2014. Open to all retailers that wish to join the project, this foundation aims to foster or support social, medical or educational initiatives to benefit workers in the textile and general merchandise industries in the least advanced countries and their families, goals the factory managers are unable to meet by themselves. The Foundation has a budget of $7.5 million for the 5 years to come and will financially support associations and NGOs with contributions in order to: • provide coverage for workplace risks, starting with the textile sector in Bangladesh, via, for example, access to micro health insurance for workers and their families; • contribute to improving the work environment, create a cafeteria, build dormitories, install an infirmary, clinic or medical centre; finance professional company training, whether for Auchan suppliers or others. SOLIDARITY 62 2014 CRS SECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT GRENELLE 2 ARTICLE 225 CORRESPONDANCE TABLE LABOUR SECTION Corresponding section Table of corresponding Themes (pages) indicators EMPLOYMENT Employment structure by business. Total workforce Workforce breakdown and analysis (p.12) Employment structure by geographic region. Breakdown of employees Workforce breakdown and analysis (p.12) No specific indicator. Breakdown of workforce by geograby age Workforce breakdown and analysis (p.12) phic region and age group. Breakdown of workforce by gender by gender Workforce breakdown and analysis (p.12) and geographic region. Breakdown of workforce by core business and age group. by geographic region Workforce breakdown and analysis (p.12) Breakdown of workforce by geographic region and age group. Number of permanent contract Workforce breakdown and analysis (p. 12) hires, by core business. Hires Welcoming new talents (p. 14) Number of permanent contract hires, by geographic region. Employment structure by business. Dismissals Workforce breakdown and analysis (p.12) Employment structure by geographic region. Number and percentage of employee shareholders by core business and country. Remuneration Sharing in the company’s success (p. 21) Number and percentage of employee shareholders by geographic region. Personnel costs ratio by geographic Trends in remuneration Sharing in the company’s success (p. 21) region. ORGANISATION OF WORK Organisation of working time Employee health, safety and working No specific indicator. conditions (p. 16) Absenteeism Employee health, safety and working Rate of absenteeism, by core conditions (p. 16) business Rate of absenteeism, by geographic region LABOUR RELATIONS Number of meetings held with perLabour dialogue as a lever for social Organisation of labour dialogue sonnel representatives, by geograprogress (p. 15) phic region. Labour dialogue as a lever for social Overview of collective agreements No specific indicator. progress (p. 15) HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK Employee health, safety and working Health and safety conditions at work No specific indicator. conditions (p. 16) Rate of frequency of workplace acciEmployee health, safety and working dents, by core business. Frequency of workplace accidents conditions (p. 16) Rate of frequency of workplace accidents, by geographic region. Rate of frequency of workplace acciEmployee health, safety and working dents, by core business. Severity of workplace accidents conditions (p. 16) Rate of frequency of workplace accidents, by geographic region. Employee health, safety and working Number of occupational diseases by Occupational diseases conditions (p. 16) geographic region. TRAINING Contributing to the individual deveTraining policy implemented No specific indicator retained. lopment of each employee (p. 19) Contributing to the individual deveHours of training dispensed by geoTotal number of training hours lopment of each employee (p. 19) graphic region. EQUALITY OF TREATMENT Proportion of women in the Measures taken in favour of gender workforce by geographic region Gender equality (p. 23) equality Proportion of women among managers by geographic region. Measures taken in favour of Fostering and supporting the integraRatio of employees with disabilities integrating people with disabilities tion of people with disabilities (p. 24) by geographic region. Diversity and equal opportunity, a Anti-discrimination policy No specific indicator retained. corporate affair (p. 24) PROMOTION AND RESPECT FOR THE PROVISIONS OF THE ILO CONVENTIONS Supporting labour dialogue (p. 15) General principles and compliance Respect for freedom of association with ILO standards (p. 26) No specific indicator retained. and the right to collective bargaining Monitoring labour conditions in manufacturing (p. 26) Labour dialogue as a lever for social progress (p. 15) Elimination of employment and General principles and compliance No specific indicator retained. professional discrimination with ILO standards (p. 26) Monitoring labour conditions in manufacturing (p. 26) General principles and compliance Elimination of forced or compulsory with ILO standards (p. 26) No specific indicator retained. labour Monitoring labour conditions in manufacturing (p. 26) General principles and compliance with ILO standards (p. 25) Abolition of child labour No specific indicator retained. Monitoring labour conditions in manufacturing (p. 25) ENVIRONMENTAL SECTION Corresponding section Table of corresponding Themes (pages) indicators GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Governance of environmental and social Organisation of the company No specific indicator retained. policies (p. 44) Developing environmental site Evaluation/certification approach No specific indicator retained. management (p. 52) Governance of environmental and social Employee training initiatives No specific indicator retained. policies (p. 44) Resources allocated to risk and Limiting air, water and soil pollution No specific indicator retained. pollution prevention related to the company's activity (p. 54) Amounts of provisions and Limiting air, water and soil pollution No specific indicator retained. guarantees for environmental risks related to the company's activity (p. 54) POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Measures to prevent, reduce and comLimiting air, water and soil pollution pensate for pollution that severely related to the company’s activity (p. No specific indicator retained. affects the environment 54) Sorting and recovering waste proRecovery rate for waste from operaMeasures to prevent, recycle and duced (p. 44) tions by core business. eliminate waste Supporting customers in sorting their Tonnes of recovered waste from waste (p. 40) operation, by core business. Reducing the impact of goods transSpecific measures for noise and other port (p. 32) No specific indicator retained. types of pollution Minimising noise pollution from activities (p. 54) SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES Water consumption per M² of surface Water consumption and water supply Applying sustainable water managearea, by business. based on local resources ment (p. 50) Water consumption per M² of surface area, by geographic region. Reducing packaging and eco-desiConsumption of raw materials and gning own-brand products (p. 40) measures taken to improve their No specific indicator retained. Supporting customers in sorting their efficient use waste (p. 40) Consumption of electricity per M² of surface area, by core business and Optimising and reducing our energy geographic region. Energy consumption consumption (p. 47) Consumption of energy per M² of surface area, by core business and geographic region. Optimising and reducing our energy Use of renewable energies No specific indicator retained. consumption (p. 47) Developing environmental site manaMeasures taken to improve energy gement (p. 52) No specific indicator retained. efficiency Optimising and reducing our energy consumption (p. 47) Limiting air, water and soil pollution related to the company’s activity and Land use adapting to the consequences of No specific indicator retained. climate change (p. 54) CLIMATE CHANGE Measuring the carbon footprint of the retail sites (p. 52) CO² emissions in kg per M² of surface Reducing the impact of goods transarea related to electricity consumpGreenhouse gas emissions port (p. 32) tion and refrigerant leaks, by core Reducing the environmental impact business and geographic region. of plastic bags (p. 47) Limiting air, water and soil pollution related to the company’s activity and Adaptation to the consequences of adapting to the consequences of No specific indicator retained. climate change climate change (p. 54) PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY Contributing to biodiversity protecMeasures taken to preserve and devetion (p. 55) No specific indicator retained. lop biodiversity Offering products that do not threaten biodiversity (p. 36) SOCIAL SECTION Corresponding section Table of corresponding Themes (pages) indicators REGIONAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE BUSINESS Forming sustainable partnerships with Impact in terms of employment and SMEs (p. 32) No specific indicator retained. regional development Fostering local sourcing (p. 33) Impact on neighbouring and local Rational mobility for residents (p. 34) No specific indicator retained. populations RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS Forming sustainable partnerships Conditions for dialogue with SMEs (p. 32) No specific indicator retained. Listening to our customers (p. 41) Partnership and sponsorship Solidarity chapter (p. 56) 2014 Foundations Overview. initiatives OUTSOURCING AND SUPPLIERS Integration of social and environmenMonitoring labour conditions in maNo specific indicator retained. tal issues in the purchasing policy nufacturing (p. 26) Number of ICS audits completed and Monitoring labour conditions in maImportance of outsourcing and commissioned by Auchan in 2014. nufacturing (p. 26) integration of CSR in relationships Number of factories shared with Special section: Plan to combat opawith suppliers and subcontractors Auchan, audited by other members que outsourcing (p. 28) of ICS in 2014. FAIR PRACTICES Initiatives taken to prevent corruption Fighting against corruption (p. 31) No specific indicator retained. Safe and controlled food (p. 36) Contributing to consumer health and Measures taken in favour of consumer well-being with a suitable food offer No specific indicator retained. health and safety (p. 38) A diverse, suitable, accessible and visible offer in stores (p. 37) HUMAN RIGHTS Actions undertaken in favour of huGeneral principles and compliance No specific indicator retained. man rights with ILO standards (p. 26) Groupe Auchan Financial year ended 30 September 2014 Report of the independent third-party body on the consolidated labour, environmental and social information presented in the management report To the Shareholders, In our capacity as an independent third-party body for Groupe Auchan accredited by the COFRAC1 under number 3-1050, we present to you our report on the consolidated labour, environmental and social information concerning the financial year ended on 30 September 2014, published in section 20 of the management report, hereafter “CSR Information”, in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. Responsibility of the company The Board of Directors is responsible for establishing a management report including the CSR Information stipulated under Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code, in accordance with the guidelines used by the company comprising the environmental and social reporting protocol and the HR reporting protocol in their versions of October 2014 (hereafter the “Guidelines”), of which a summary can be found in the introduction to the “Methodology” section of the present management report. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the code of ethics of the profession and the provisions of Article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code. Moreover, we have implemented a system of quality control that includes documented policies and procedures that aim to ensure compliance with applicable ethical rules, professional standards and laws and regulations. Responsibility of the independent third-party body Our responsibility, on the basis of our work, is to:  certify that the required CSR Information is present in the management report or, if omitted, that this omission is explained in accordance with the third paragraph of Article R. 225 105 of the French Commercial Code (Certification of presence of CSR Information);  express a measured assurance that the CSR Information, as a whole, is presented fairly in all significant aspects, in accordance with the Guidelines (Reasoned opinion of fair presentation of CSR Information). Our work was carried out by a team of 5 people between July 2014 and February 2015, over the course of around 16 weeks. We completed the work described below in accordance with applicable professional standards in France, the decree of 13 May 2013 determining the terms and conditions under which the independent third-party body shall conduct its mission and concerning the reasoned opinion of fair presentation, and with the ISAE 3000 international standard. 1 Accreditation scope available at www.cofrac.fr 2 ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information 1. CERTIFICATION OF PRESENCE OF CSR INFORMATION Based on interviews with the managers of the departments involved, we examined the presentation of policies in the area of sustainable development, the social and environmental consequences arising from the activity of the company and its social commitments and, where applicable, the resulting actions or programmes. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list stipulated in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. In the absence of certain consolidated information, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with the provisions of Article R. 225-105 paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covered the consolidated scope, i.e. the company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Article L. 233-1 of the French Commercial Code and the companies that it controls within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the same code, with the limitations stipulated in the methodology note presented in the “Methodology” section of the management report, in particular concerning the exclusion of RT Mart China (hypermarkets). On the basis of our work, and given the limitations noted above, we certify the presence of the required CSR Information in the management report. 2. REASONED OPINION ON THE FAIR PRESENTATION OF CSR INFORMATION Nature and extent of our work We completed interviews with a dozen individuals responsible for preparing the CSR Information within the Sustainable Development, HR, Purchasing, IS and Environment departments in charge of the data collection processes and, where applicable, responsible for the internal control and risk management procedures, so as to:  assess the appropriateness of the Guidelines with regard to their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and clarity, taking into consideration where applicable the best practices in the sector;  verify the implementation of a collection, compilation, processing and control process that aims to provide complete and consistent CSR Information, and examine the internal control and risk management procedures relative to preparation of the CSR Information We determined the nature and extent of our tests and controls based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with regard to the characteristics of the company, the social and environmental issues related to its activities, its policies in the area of sustainable development, and best practices in the sector. For the CSR Information which we viewed as most important3:  at the level of the consolidating entity, we consulted the documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions, etc.), we applied analytical procedures to the quantitative data and verified calculations and consolidation of data on the basis of samples, and we verified data consistency and agreement with the other information in the management report;  at the level of a representative sample of entities that we selected4 based on their business, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify proper application of the procedures and carried out detailed tests on the basis of samples, consisting in verifying the calculations made and comparing the data to its supporting documents. The sample selected represents on average 16% of the workforce and between 13% and 19% of the quantitative environmental data5. For the other consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency with regard to our knowledge of the company. Lastly, where applicable, we assessed the relevance of the explanations concerning the total or partial absence of certain information. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes that we chose based on our professional judgement allow us to formulate a conclusion of measured assurance; stronger assurance would have required more extensive verification work. Due to the use of sampling techniques as well as other limitations inherent to the operation of any information and internal control system, the risk of non-detection of a significant anomaly in the CSR Information cannot be entirely eliminated. Conclusion Based on our work, we did not identify any significant anomaly liable to call into question the fair presentation of the CSR Information, taken as a whole, in accordance with the Guidelines. Observations Without calling into question the above conclusion, we draw your attention to the following: • the Supermarket and Drive businesses were excluded from calculation of the waste recovery rate • modifications to the HR reporting protocol led to methodology changes that impact the comparability of 2014 data with that of the previous years. Paris-La Défense, France, 19 February 2015 The Independent Third-Party Body ERNST & YOUNG and Partners Eric Mugnier Bruno Perrin Sustainable development partner Partner 3 Environmental and social information: the overall environmental policy (organisation, employee training and information actions); pollution and waste management (measures to prevent, reduce or compensate for air, water and soil pollution; waste prevention, recycling and elimination measures); sustainable use of resources and climate change (energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy efficiency and the use of renewable energies, measures taken to improve efficient use of raw materials); regional economic and social impact; relations with stakeholders (conditions for dialogue, partnership and sponsorship actions); the importance of outsourcing and the inclusion of social and environmental issues in the purchasing policy and in relations with suppliers and subcontractors; fair practices (actions undertaken to prevent corruption, measures taken in favour of consumer health and safety). Labour informations: employment (total workforce and breakdowns, hires and dismissals), organisation of working time (in particular part-time work), absenteeism, labour relations, health conditions, safety at work, workplace accidents (in particular their frequency and severity), as well as occupational diseases, training policies, total number of training hours. 4 Hyper Spain and Auchan China 5 Energy consumption and waste produced Communications department in charge of sustainable development 92 rue Réaumur 75002 Paris www.groupe-auchan.com Printed on recycled paper FSC
