RICE A/S Social Accountability report For the UN Global Compact 1st April 2015 As managing director of RICE A/S I hereby confirm our continued support to the Global Compact. Our management manual is based on the principles of SA8000, and in addition to this we find the Global Compact a valuable tool in our social responsibility as well as environmental work. Odense, April 2015 Philippe Gueniau Managing Director RICE A/S Contents “People Care – We Care”................................................................... 3 Company facts ........................................................................................ 3 Management tools ............................................................................... 3 Suppliers ...................................................................................................... 4 Audit process suppliers ................................................................... 5 Audit process in Denmark .............................................................6 SA8000 recertification .......................................................................7 Communication ..................................................................................... 8 Anti-corruption ....................................................................................... 8 CSR-Collaborations .............................................................................9 Danish Hospital Clowns ................................................................10 “People Care – We Care” Company facts Founded: 1998 Head quarter in Denmark: 36 employees European sales offices: 14 employees Sourcing office Thailand: 7 employees Management tools RICE A/S supports the Global Compact and uses it as a In 2002 we obtained the certification as the first Scandinaguideline for doing business responsibly. The objective vian company, and we have used it as both a checklist as of the UN initiative, Global Compact, is to promote good well as a way of dealing with the developmental process of business behavior, and the management tool is centered on our suppliers ever since. the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. The central areas of SA8000 are: Back in 2001 RICE decided to formalize the different • Child Labor initiatives within social accountability in an overall manage• Forced or Compulsory Labor ment tool. We decided to use the standard SA8000 – the international standardized code of conduct for improving • Health & Safety working conditions around the world. The spirit of this • Freedom of Association standard is close to our core business values. & Right to Collective Bargaining Furthermore, there is an audit system connected to the tool • Discrimination just as the system is based on human as well as labor rights. • Disciplinary Practices • Working Hours Since 2006 RICE has committed to apply to the Global • Remuneration Compact principles as a management tool, and as it will appear in the principles, SA8000 and Global Compact are to • Management Systems some extend quite close. 3 Suppliers The nature of our business is to develop four new collecnected to our suppliers. The aim is to continuously work on tions every year. When developing these collections we are building a socially responsible business all over the world. working with a substantial number of permanent suppliers The fully operational sourcing office has the responsibility of with whom we engage in a long lasting cooperation. coordinating with our suppliers, the sampling and handling of purchased orders, the follow-up on production, quality Additional to this we have seasonal suppliers or one-time control process, shipping and finally but not least the audit suppliers who contribute only in the current collection. in connection with social compliance. To ensure a strong cooperation, we have opened our own The audit is mandatory for all suppliers, but the follow-up sourcing office in Thailand. The sourcing office is staffed focuses on permanent suppliers with whom we engage in a with RICE employees, which enables us to be very close con long lasting cooperation. IT PT CN IN TH VN MG 4 Suppliers Audit process suppliers The audit process with our suppliers is of great importance well as the first physical audit in the factory. The audit is to us. When we choose new suppliers, we make sure that conducted at least every other year in order to maintain the they uphold the ethical standards of RICE. Where improveobligations of the factory. We always strive to make the audit ments are needed, we engage in a long lasting cooperation process the most efficient, and therefore our audit in China with the supplier and use the SA8000 standard as a tool in is in some cases carried out by a third party. the developmental process. We have developed standard tools for our auditors to use We start by taking a commitment from the new supplier in during the audits. With a standard form the results are more relation to the SA8000 standard. The managing director of reliable, and it is easier for the RICE headquarter to streamthe supplier must sign this commitment, which relates to line the results from the audits around the world. SA8000 as well as environmental protection. When our auditor finds topics not meeting our expectations Once the production is initiated, and the first order is comin accordance to the SA8000 standard, we issue a non-conpleted from the supplier, we have our own staff visiting the formity report. During the next visit we will then follow up to supplier in order to make the quality control of products as control that the non-conformity has been solved. 5 Denmark Audit process in Denmark In order to make sure that we comply with our own standards we have made an agreement with Bureau Veritas Certification. Bureau Veritas Certification carries out an audit of RICE twice a year according to the SA8000 standard. One annual audit is announced and another one is unannounced. The auditor goes through the following program: • Opening meeting • Walk around in the premises • Personal interviews with the staff • Review of records • Control of suppliers • Internal monitoring • Outside communication • Management review • Closing meeting During the audit the auditor will check our audit reports from the factory visits as well. These reports will also contain a description of fields where there is room for improvement. Working environment at the headquarter week during working hours. Furthermore, the most recent The working environment in our Danish headquarter is addition is the voluntary yoga class which takes place after controlled by the APV – workplace assessment. The assessworking hours once a week. ment is updated at least every three years with inputs from the staff. At RICE we are aware of the importance of good We believe that taking good care of our employees is an inworking conditions among our employees, and we regularly vestment, which both pleases the individual employee and invite external consultants to go through the working enat the same time prevents physical problems and keeps abvironment at the headquarter. sence of employees due to illness at a low level. In 2014 we have had an external consultant go through the We also offer the staff free healthy lunch once a week. working stations at the headquarter warehouse. The focus was on the package area as well as an easy access to packing Finally, we have a health and safety committee to take care materials from the working stations. of any possible issues that might be brought up by the staff. The staff selects among themselves a representative and Another initiative that our employees at the headquarter aplikewise there is an appointed management representative preciate is the opportunity to join a fitness program once a in this group. 6 SA8000 SA8000 recertification In November 2014 RICE achieved a SA8000 recertification The recertification takes place every three years and conand was thereby found to be in accordance with the requiresists of two and a half days of audit at the RICE head-quarter. ments of the management system standard. In order to stay Our commitment of this standard is to guarantee that RICE on top of the standard the French consultant com-pany, Acta works continuously to improve on our CSR profile. Verba, guides us on the SA8000 certifications. 7 Communication Communication RICE participated once again in the campaign “World’s best social responsibility and to promote ethical growth in news” a Danish news campaign working to raise awareness Danish companies. Our job was to support, motivate and about the great progress taking place in the developing inspire Danish companies interested in working with CSR. countries, especially focusing on tracking and reporting the outcome of the UN Millennium Development Goals. The Anti-corruption campaign is based on a unique cooperation between the As stated earlier RICE has chosen to hire our own staff UN, the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ development in countries where we produce the major part of our proagency (Danida), over 100 Danish development organizaducts. This enables us to be close to our suppliers on a more tions and 100 corporate partners. frequent basis and thereby engage in a long lasting cooperation. With a strong cooperation the steps towards At the national campaign day RICE launched an event for avoiding corruption has become less challenging. all employees at the headquarter with the aim to raise awareAnti-corruption is of great importance to us, and we always ness about the campaign. Furthermore, RICE committed to consider the risks when engaging with new suppliers. raise awareness on social media and on the website. Obviously, we have a no-tolerance policy towards corrupOur Supply Chain Manager attended an advisory board at tion, and we believe that it raises transaction costs, undera Deloitte CSR pilot project in Denmark running from 2013 mines fair competition, distorts development and impedes 2015. The purpose of the project was to support corporate long lasting foreign and domestic investment. 8 CSR Collaborations RICE donations At RICE we firmly believe in the thesis: “No one can help The majority of our contributions are based on One-2-One everyone, but everyone can help someone”. Corporate Somindset, where we contribute with donations whenever we cial Responsibility is a part of the RICE DNA, and working sell a product connected to the project. These products are actively with corporate social responsibility is a big part of our RICE-up products and designed specifically for the our ethical values. purpose of donations. We believe that this way of donating charity raises people’s awareness of the issues we are dealWe engage in small donations such as donating money or ing with. RICE samples to charity projects around the world. For years we have supported various projects in third world On a larger scale we have cooperated with the Danish countries, and in 2014 we helped sponsoring the “Safe childRefugee Council since 2006. Among other initiatives we hood in Vietnam” project. have contributed with donations to the projects “Spoon full of hope” in Darfur and Mogadishu, “Cups full of hope” in The project which was held by The Danish Refugee Counrefugee camps in Africa, “Send me to school” in Myanmar cil resulted in an educational program that teaches children and “Every child has the right to play” focusing on a safe how to tackle and avoid explosives still remaining in the childhood in Vietnam. ground after the Vietnam War. 9 CSR Collaborations Danish Hospital Clowns Our recent project is based on the consumption that help is sometimes needed right where you are. In 2014 RICE started supporting the Danish Hospital Clowns by designing melamine cups and plates with big red dots to represent the clown nose. Together with our costumers we provide a financial contribution to the Danish Hospital Clowns whenever our dotted clown-tableware is sold. The purpose of the contribution to the Hospital Clowns is to make the hospitalization for long term hospitalized kids a little easier to get through. Humor and close personal presence makes room for happiness and allow the child to be just that: a child – in spite of serious illness. The donation contributes to ensure the presence of professional clowns on pediatric wards in Danish hospitals. 10
