CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION As the world’s leading catastrophe modeling ﬁrm, Risk Management Solu;ons has been commi=ed to making the world a safer and more resilient place for over 25 years. The science and technology that we have pioneered, our passionate employee base, as well as the holis;c cultural mo;va;on to make a posi;ve impact in the world around us, have led to the robust programming within our Corporate Social Responsibility department. In the following Communica;on on Progress, you will ﬁnd an overview of CSR@RMS, speciﬁcally program highlights and strategic aims during FY 2015. Rebecca Biestman Head of CSR, RMS CSR STRATEGY 4 Pillars of CSR@RMS PEOPLE PHILANTHROPY PLANET PERFORMANCE 2015 REVIEW HELPING HANDS DAY Program Descrip.on: Helping Hands Day is RMS annual employee volunteer day, where loca;ons around the globe give employees varied opportuni;es to get out of the oﬃce and into their local communi;es to make a posi;ve impact. RMS partnered with several non proﬁts this year, including the Hoboken Homeless Shelter, Swechha Youth Outreach, 21 Thames River Restora;on, and Tri City Food Bank. IMPACT TREK Program Descrip.on: Each year, RMS sends a team of global employees to work with our main philanthropic partner, Build Change, in Hai; on a 10-day skills-based service trip. The trekkers are able to advise on Build Change’s opera;ons which promote safer building prac;ces for homes and schools, a=end site visits to neighborhoods posi;vely impacted by Build Change’s work, and tour the countryside of Hai; to fully immerse themselves into the history and culture of the country. By transla;ng the skills employees leverage in their day jobs to ﬁeldwork that increases the resilience capacity of developing na;ons, RMSers experience ﬁrsthand the posi;ve impact that their exper;se can have on disaster risk reduc;on. IMPACT TREK Key Figures: • 15% program acceptance rate in FY 2015 • 300 hours volunteered by trekkers before, during, and aXer the trip • Pro bono projects included the crea;on of technical materials, training manuals, marke;ng campaigns, and fundraising programs CHAMPIONS NETWORK Program Descrip.on: RMS is commi=ed to facilita;ng engagement opportuni;es for employees passionate about CSR. As a result, RMS has both a CSR Champions network and oﬃce-speciﬁc employee CSR Commi=ees to provide structured paths for engagement. Par;cipa;on in these programs provide employees with the opportunity to create CSR programming for their loca;ons and allow for the chance to collaborate and network with employees from around the globe, take on oﬃce leadership roles that serve as development opportuni;es, and raise the proﬁle of CSR by ac;ng as advocates for the broader employee base. CHAMPIONS NETWORK Key Figures: • Monthly Champions mee;ngs with over 50 a=endees globally • Monthly CSR Newsle=er available to en;re employee base • Formal CSR Commi=ees in CA, NJ, UK, and India • Over 200 hours of programming organized by local CSR Commi=ees annually EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS Program Descrip.on: At RMS, we seek to make the world a safer and more resilient place, star;ng with our own employee base. RMS’ Emergency Preparedness Week provides employees with a full calendar of events for the week, including the Interna;onal Day of Disaster Risk Reduc;on, fundraisers for Build Change, and training courses for employees to ensure their safety both at the oﬃce and in their homes in the wake of a catastrophe. The event aims to ;e employees to the core of what we do as an organiza;on, thereby fostering engagement and reten;on through mission-driven organiza;onal ac;vi;es. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS Employee Quotes: • “Engaging and fun ac+vi+es” arranged by “a commi6ed, savvy and energized group of individuals” • “It was nice seeing us ge>ng together for something posi+ve” • “Ac+vi+es were really relevant and meaningful” CARBON FOOTPRINT REPORTING CARBON FOOTPRINT REPORTING GHG emissions by Scope (tCO2e) 9,000 8,100 8,000 7,700 7,000 6,100 6,000 6,100 5,000 4,400 t CO2e 4,000 3,900 3,8003,700 4,000 3,600 3,6003,700 3,500 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,200 2,000 1,000 500 600 400 400 2012 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total (scopes 1 + 2) Total (scopes 1 + 2 + 3) CARBON FOOTPRINT REPORTING Key Figures: • RMS decreased our total carbon footprint from 8,100 tCO2e in FY 2014 to 6,100 tCO2e in FY 2015 • This change represents 25% reduc;on in our carbon footprint over the past 12 months • In FY 2015, RMS implemented a new travel policy and expanded our video conferencing capabili;es, both of which led to a signiﬁcant reduc;on in air and road emissions • RMS also installed a new building management system which helped to signiﬁcantly reduce our energy footprint in our headquarter oﬃce loca;on GREEN TEAM Program Descrip.on: The RMS Green Team is an employee-driven grassroots organiza;on, which seeks to highlight sustainability issues by organizing oﬃce-wide eﬀorts to reduce RMS’ carbon footprint. The Green Team has been responsible for eﬀorts in reducing waste in oﬃces through the procurement of reusable kitchen materials, implemen;ng an employee shu=le service to public transport, installing solar shields on oﬃce windows, and ensuring that proper signage and communica;on exists for recycling and energy eﬃcient prac;ces throughout our oﬃces. In addi;on, the Green Team hosts many events throughout the year, including our annual “Green Week” held each summer. GREEN TEAM Key Figures: • Established Green Teams now exist in 5 RMS loca;ons • Implemented educa;onal programs, engagement events, and policy direc;ves all aimed to lower RMS carbon footprint • Employees spend almost 500 hours annually on Green Team projects GREEN WEEK Program Descrip.on: In partnership with our parent company, DGMT, RMS holds an annual week of sustainability events: “Green Week”. Green Week gives the boarder employee base an opportunity to engage with environmental sustainability through ac;vi;es like hos;ng “green fairs” in our oﬃces with local vendors, plan;ng trees and other green volunteer projects, as well as bringing in external speakers on issues related to everything from climate change to na;onal government sustainability policy. GREEN WEEK Key Figures: • Over 20 events held in ﬁve RMS oﬃces around the globe • Events available to almost 1,000 employees globally • Events included personal electronics recycling, educa;onal speakers, tree plan;ngs, and clothing dona;on drives CLIMATE CHANGE RMS engages with a wide range of scien;sts in the climate forecas;ng and climate change modeling communi;es to be=er understand the impact of natural climate variability and climate change on catastrophe risk. Engagement includes par;cipa;ng in conferences, workshops, commi=ees and advisory boards, as well as collabora;ng and inves;ng in research in this area. CLIMATE CHANGE Key Figures: • RMS presented at 17 external conferences and seminars on climate change impacts and was published in 9 journals • RMS has con;nued research on how to model the risk of alterna;ve forms of electricity genera;on to the impacts of wind, ﬂood and hail • RMS researches implica;ons of various features of the climate system, including in its two core climate risk models covering North Atlan;c Hurricane and European Windstorm • RMS were collaborators and co-authors of a very widely cited study, published in Nature, on the a=ribu;on to climate change of an increased poten;al for extreme Autumn rainfall events in the UK SUSTAINABILITY ACTION PLAN Program Descrip.on: RMS completed a REV Sustainability Circle®: a comprehensive 6-month peer-learning program that empowers businesses to improve the way they do business by helping embed sustainable prac;ces across the organiza;on. The outcome is an ac;onand results-driven customized Sustainability Ac;on Plan that makes the business case for implemen;ng both large and small-scale ini;a;ves. SUSTAINABILITY ACTION PLAN Key Goals: • Aim to reduce energy use by an addi;onal 10% annually for next 5 years at RMS headquarter loca;on • 15% reduc;on in waste at all US/UK sites in the next 3 years • Internal sustainability repor;ng • Reduc;on of carbon footprint emissions by 5% in the next 3 years • Create new communica;on mechanism for employee engagement in sustainability THOUGHT LEADERSHIP Program Descrip.on: The Overseas Development Ins;tute (ODI) was tasked by the UK Department for Interna;onal Development with wri;ng a report on disaster resilience. This report was used to inform the members of the Open Working Group on the Sustainable Development Goals in their delibera;ons and to assist member states in nego;a;ng the goals which are to be included. The ODI requested that RMS co-author the report based on our extensive knowledge in catastrophe modeling. The report Se>ng, Measuring, and Monitoring Targets for Reducing Disaster Risk was launched in FY 2015. THOUGHT LEADERSHIP Program Descrip.on: The Global Resilience Project (GRP) aims to shiX the focus of governments, NGOs, communi;es and businesses to inves;ng in upfront measures that reduce disaster risk, rather than post-disaster relief and recovery eﬀorts by deepening understanding of disaster risk reduc;on (DRR) ac;vi;es globally, iden;fying the economic and social costs of disasters, and assessing the eﬀec;veness of DRR measures. RMS has advised on the development of both global and country-speciﬁc natural disaster risk maps, highligh;ng the economic and social devasta;on caused by natural hazards. THOUGHT LEADERSHIP Program Descrip.on: RMS sends scien;ﬁc and technical experts around the world to educate the global community on the importance of measuring risk and disaster risk reduc;on methodology. In 2015, employees par;cipated in many conferences including the World Bank’s Understanding Risk Forum and the United Na;on’s World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduc;on. HEART OF THE CITY Program Descrip.on: Heart of the City is a 700-strong powerhouse of responsible business leaders, Corporate Responsibility prac;;oners and change agents commi=ed to sharing their experiences and their ;me with others in order to measurably improve our society. In FY 2015 RMS underwent a six month training program with Heart of the City, which included modules on repor;ng, programming, and communica;ons. RMS is also engages in consistent mentoring by one of the largest insurers in the world, Aviva, who provides industry-speciﬁc CR advising. MEMBERSHIP Program Descrip.on: Membership in NGOs speciﬁcally created to ensure the prolifera;on of CSR in the corporate landscape are an important element of improving RMS CSR performance and governance. These ins;tu;ons provide educa;onal opportuni;es, trainings, conferences and events, and well as robust networking opportuni;es so that RMS can manifest a “best in class” commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility. CLIENT ENGAGEMENT Program Descrip.on: The Client Support Services (CSS) Charity Program provides an impacqul incen;ve for our clients to ﬁll out product surveys: for every survey that is completed, RMS donates to Build Change, our main philanthropic partner. In FY 2015, RMS donated $11,760 to Build Change via survey responses and saw a 120% liX year over year in client response rates. Because of the CSS Charity Program, RMS received over 1,000 more client surveys over the past year, which have helped to generate impacqul insights about our products that will allow us to serve our customers more eﬀec;vely. CLIENT ENGAGEMENT Program Descrip.on: The Client Charity Support Program allows RMS to support the chari;es that are near and dear to our client’s hearts. In FY 2015, RMS donated $11,800 to a variety of causes including the Travelers Championship which raised over $1.5M for 140 non proﬁts and the Liberty Mutual Aspire Gala, which raised over $2.1M for au;sm awareness and programming. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Program Descrip.on: The ﬁrst foray into corporate philanthropy for RMS is centered on employee engagement, marked by employeedriven fundraising and our corporate dona;on-matching program. In addi;on to providing fundraising opportuni;es for employees in the wake of natural catastrophes and during emergency preparedness week, RMS also matches employee giXs 1-to-1 to their charity of choice up to $500USD per year per employee. BUSINESS ALIGNMENT Program Descrip.on: The next phase of corporate philanthropy is corporate grant making, whereby grants are allocated to strategic philanthropic partners whose missions are aligned with our core business of understanding risk and building resiliency. Recipients of RMS’ corporate grant making are disaster risk reduc;on (DRR) focused social enterprises including Build Change and Geohazards Interna;onal, who work with local builders and governments around the world to educate popula;ons and change local building prac;ces so that safer homes and schools can be erected or retroﬁ=ed in the most vulnerable geographies. RMS FOOTPRINT The ﬁnal level of corporate philanthropy involves giving that provides opportuni;es to increase RMS’ businesses footprint and facilitates the prospect of an expanded impact through the crea;on of shared value. This type of giving catalyzes RMS own “license to operate” and oXen involves in-kind giving, advising, and product dona;ons, which may in tern create business opportuni;es in new sectors and geographies. RMS’ long-term CSR goal is to incorporate philanthropy into broader business strategies, as we see the use of catastrophe modeling as vitally important to help ensure that governments, NGO’s and other stakeholders have access to our technology and exper;se to help increase their resiliency. RMS FOOTPRINT Key Figures: • RMS is a partner of Rockefeller Founda;on's 100 Resilient Ci;es, which is helping ci;es around the world become more resilient to the physical, social, and economic challenges that are a growing part of the 21st century. • RMS has donated products and services to date to help ci;es be=er understand their risk. Project examples include assis;ng: • San Francisco, CA to quan;fy their economic risk to sea level rise • Berkeley, CA to priori;ze seismic retroﬁts for evacua;on shelters For ques;ons regarding RMS Corporate Social Responsibility Programs, please contact Rebecca.Biestman@rms.com
