CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 COMMUNICATING ON PROGRESS Cover: Visualisation of the Chicago Lakeside project, intended to turn nearly 2.5 square kilometres of Chicago’s Southeast lakefront into an innovative model for green, 21st-century living, based on next-generation infrastructure, architecture and technology. Ramboll has developed concepts for district heating and cooling, waste and water. Our Commitment 3 Corporate Responsibility in Ramboll 4 Ambitions 5 People 6 Environment 12 Integrity 20 Policies and Processes 22 Value Creation 26 Dilemmas 30 Advocacy 32 Community Engagement 34 ­ Ramboll, including ENVIRON, is a leading engineering, design and consultancy company employing more than 12,300 experts globally in the Nordics, North America, the UK, Continental Europe, Middle East and India, Asia, Australia, South America and Sub-Saharan Africa. We constantly strive to achieve inspiring and exacting solutions that make a genuine difference to our customers, end-users and society as a whole. www.ramboll.com All reporting for 2014 is excluding ENVIRON. Read the report online here: www.ramboll.com/CRreport2014 Ramboll Group A/S Danish CVR No. 10160669 Editors: Stine Jeppesen, Merete Audrey Lasthein, Lars Rasmussen Art Director: Lone Olai Digital Image Maker: Per Rasmussen Photographers: Joyfull | Dreamstime.com, Scanpix, Dissing+Weitling, AP Jason DeCrow, Leif Tuxen, Polfoto, Morten Larsen, Kim Nilsson. Printers: Cool Gray A/S. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 3 OUR COMMITMENT Ramboll’s vision is committed to helping create inspirational and long-standing solutions that allow people and nature to flourish. 2014 was the year Ramboll moved, through acquisitions, into the global Top 10 among environment consultancies. Environment is now our second largest market. We now have a full range of environment, health and water services in our portfolio, enabling even more solutions for global challenges and supporting sustainable development. Operating responsibly By executing on our strategy, Ramboll expanded its global We launched a new Code of in the global climate debate. presence in 2014 from 200 offices Conduct to guide employees on In this report you will learn more in 21 countries to 300 offices how to meet the requirements about Ramboll’s approach to in 35 countries with more than for responsible business Corporate Responsibility, how 12,300 employees worldwide. behaviour as laid down by the we integrate opportunities and The rapid expansion also calls Global Commitment. The Code risks into our core strategies and for a strong focus on operating of Conduct was communicated business operations, including responsibly. We wish to continue to all employees supported by key actions for 2014, results, our efforts to keep the highest e-learning training. To embed our ambitions, and also some of the standards in place and ensure a commitment further, we reviewed central dilemmas of working common understanding of our all group policies across the HR, IT, as a global consultancy. responsibility across the company. Legal, Finance, Communications, Market, and Project Excellence Jens-Peter Saul Policy Commitment Corporate Functions. Group CEO, Ramboll In 2014, Ramboll introduced a Global Commitment. It is a policy Global climate agenda commitment that rests on our 2014 was also the year when values and fundamental principles Ramboll was given a great on humanand labour rights, opportunity to advocate the environment and anti-corruption, importance of corporate action on expressed by the UN Global climate change when I participated Compact and made operational in the UN Climate Summit in New by the UN Guiding Principles on York. As engineers and consultants, Business and Human Rights. we take a holistic approach to The Global Commitment finding innovative solutions to expresses our commitment to climate change. We contribute operate responsibly, informs our with solutions preventing and behaviour and sets expectations mitigating the adverse impacts to business partners directly linked of climate change. Therefore, it is to our operations and services. our responsibility to participate 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN RAMBOLL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN RAMBOLL Ramboll’s holistic approach to managing adverse CR impact in corporate responsibility at creating value for customers, projects are implemented in quality, group level. In each principal employees, society and tender, and project management business unit, a CR manager shareholders forms the basis of processes, including audit and and a CR coordinator have been our corporate responsibility (CR). management reviews to monitor appointed. Status and progress effectiveness and progress. on CR are reported to the UN Global Compact A global compliance programme Group Board of Directors, who Ramboll joined the UN Global establishes control mechanisms to once a year convey progress Compact in 2007 as a natural prevent and detect violations of to the Ramboll Foundation, the continuation of our values and applicable laws and internal policies majority owner of Ramboll. holistic approach to business. and processes by employees, subThe UN Global Compact provides consultants and business partners. Reporting us with a global framework for The Corporate Responsibility corporate responsibility, and Business strategy Report complements our annual the Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability is integrated into reporting. The report serves as Sustainability Leadership serves our business strategy ‘Stronger a ‘Communication on Progress’ as inspiration for advancing our Together’ and a clear market (COP) in compliance with the efforts. As an active member of driver for our services enabling UN Global Compact and the the UN Global Compact Nordic solutions for global challenges. reporting requirements of the Network, we share best practice Specifically, we want to develop Danish Financial Statements Act on for implementing and embedding and market our offerings within corporate responsibility and gender corporate responsibility with sustainable cities, environment and composition of management. other Nordic companies. water, and we have an ambition to become the leading sustainable Accountability Policies and Processes society consultant globally. In 2014, Ramboll participated in a Our Global Commitment serves Communication on Progress (COP) as the policy on Corporate Governance peer review, interacting with Responsibility. The Global CR is anchored with the Group other companies to discuss, Commitment is further embedded Executive Board. The corporate give feedback and learn from in our group policies and guidelines legal function has the daily each other to improve COP across corporate functions. responsibility for developing, reporting. We highly appreciate Processes for identifying and embedding and reporting on the feedback we have received. Ramboll works to continuously improve performance on corporate responsibility. On an annual basis, we are ASS IT ES guided by the UN Global Compact Management Model MM S O to support our efforts in integrating the ten principles C on human rights, environment and anti-corruption COMMUNIinto core strategies and business operations. DEFINE Source: UN Global Compact Management Model, CATE framework for implementation 2010. T M EA N E SU M RE LE IMP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 5 AMBITIONS FOCUS 2015 AND PROGRESS 2014 2015 2014 COMMIT Ramboll will continue to advance Global Commitment and Code of Conduct its efforts within Corporate Group Environmental Management Policy Responsibility (CR) and apply best practice and standards. We will persist in doing what we do well, ASSESS and aspire to become even better. Embedding of equal gender policy Environmental impacts of Ramboll’s operation Process for identifying, preventing and mitigating CR risks and opportunities in projects CO2 data collection process DEFINE Global Commitment embedded in Group policies Method for measuring water and waste consumption Revised anti-corruption guidelines Diversity initiative to enhance equal opportunities Process for identifying, preventing and mitigating CR risks and opportunities in projects Revised Suppliers’ Declaration and guidelines CR strategy in line with blueprint for sustainability leadership and Global Compact advanced level IMPLEMENT Global Commitment and Code of Conduct to all employees Code of Conduct training to all employees Targeted CR training to high risk areas Pilot project for revised process for identifying, preventing and mitigating CR risks and opportunities in projects Face-to-face leadership training based on business integrity guidelines Code of Conduct training package including dilemma tool box Screening tool for assessing business partners MEASURE CR Key Performance Indicators (CR reporting) Compliance with selected CR KPIs COMMUNICATE CR Report 2015 – Communicating on Progress Planned 2015 Implemented 2014 6 PEOPLE PEOPLE Ramboll fundamentally believes In 2014, in keeping with group policies. These activities also in supporting people’s inherent best practice, Ramboll serve as background for evaluating abilities. The inspirational adopted and introduced and embedding human rights due solutions we provide to our a new policy commitment – Global diligence into existing processes. customers across the globe Commitment – on human rights, are entirely dependent on our in line with the UN Guiding employees’ creativity, insight Principles on Business and Human 88% and integrity. It is our ambition Rights. The policy commitment to be the preferred employer was aligned with the Ramboll within our profession, and we Foundation’s long-term goals support measures promoting and priorities and adopted by the the quality of working life to Executive Board and the Board increase employee motivation, of Directors. It has been defined engagement and satisfaction. by relevant internal and external of all employees had expertise and it informs our a dialogue with their Human touch behaviour. It was communicated As laid down by our founders, to all employees as part of a new manager in line with the human dimension is evident Code of Conduct and e-learning the Performance and in all our activities and services. training and finally embedded in Development Process. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 7 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AND ENGAGEMENT (INDEX 1-5) By continued focus onthe TARGET > 4 competencies of our employees, we develop the company. Our BUSINESS UNIT 2012 2013 2014* ‘Performance and Development Denmark 4.0 4.0 4.0 Process’ (PDP) is an important Sweden 4.1 4.0 4.0 tool to ensure the ongoing Norway 3.9 3.9 3.9 development and motivation Finland 3.7 3.8 3.8 of our employees. The PDP United Kingdom 3.6 3.8 4.0 process consists of two managerNew Markets 4.0 4.1 4.0 employee dialogues over the Management Consulting 4.1 4.1 4.1 calendar year, setting expectations Oil & Gas 3.9 4.0 4.0 and development goals. Energy 3.9 3.9 3.9 Business Support & IT n/a n/a 4.1 Involving all employees Ramboll average 3.9 3.9 4.0 In 2014, 88% of all employees had a dialogue with their manager in On target Not on target line with the PDP process, which New index calculation for 2014 based on new survey questions. On comparable questions, is up from 76% in 2013. Ramboll score in 2014 is simliar to 2013. Capabilities were introduced as part of the PDP process in 2014. The Ramboll Capabilities apply to all employees and serve as a common framework for PDP performance assessment and goal setting, ensuring objective and transparent performance reviews of all employees across WORKS COUNCIL MEETINGS PER YEAR the company. The PDP process contributes with a positive impact PRINCIPAL BUSINESS UNIT 2012 2013 2014 on people’s right to enjoy just and favourable conditions at work. Denmark 4 4 12* Satisfaction and engagement Sweden 7 4 17 Norway 50 4 4 are important indicators of the Finland 4 4 4 retention and motivation United Kingdom 18 3 4 of employees. New Markets 4 14 1** In 2014, a response rate of 90% Management Consulting 4 4 4 across the company was achieved, Oil & Gas 20 20 24 which is the highest level since Energy 4*** 4*** 4*** the Employee Satisfaction and Business Support and IT n/a n/a 12 Engagement Survey (ESES) was Ramboll Group 1 1 1 initiated. The survey results are on a scale of 1-5 where 5 is the highest level of satisfaction. The Implemented overall result from 2014 shows * Four meetings were held in the main council, four were held in Eastern part of Denmark and four in Western part of Denmark. a satisfaction and engagement ** No works council meetings were held in India and Atelier Dreseitl part of Ramboll Group. index of 4.0, which is similar to Due to restructuring of the works councils in New Markets, only one meeting was held in 2014. 2013 on comparable questions. *** Energy is represented in the works councils in Denmark, Sweden, Norway and United Kingdom. Energy has its own formal works council in Germany. At the same time, voluntary employee turnover is stable, although it increased slightly to 11.6% in 2014 from 11.2 in 2013. 8 PEOPLE GENDER EQUALITY In 2014, we assessed how to embed Management continuity the equal gender policy introduced To have the right people in the in 2013, and established a diversity right place at the right time, initiative ‘Women in Ramboll’. A the succession planning and steering committee was formed high potential identification and a project plan was outlined process is designed to secure 68% 32% and approved. Firstly, a meta both management continuity Gender distribution data analysis is being conducted and the identification of high in total 2014. to clarify trends and challenges potential employees. Female regarding equal opportunities successors on B-level remained in the industry and specific to at 14% compared to 2013, C-level Ramboll. Based on the outcome, decreased from 23% to 16% in meeting at one of the forthcoming activities will be planned for 2015. 2014, but D-level increased to general meetings. Even though 26% (2013: 24%). The gender focus has been and continues Female representation increases distribution moved in a slightly to be on ensuring the equal In 2014, there has been a slight more balanced direction from representation of genders at the improvement in the equal gender 22% in 2013 to 24% in 2014 when Group Board of Directors, it has representation in general and looking at female high potentials. so far not been possible to find among managers. The total gender This year’s progress is a the necessary number of qualified representation in Ramboll Group step closer to the target of candidates with the required skills, was 32% female and 68% male proportional representation in experience and personality for (2013: 31% 69%). On a positive management positions, to reflect the position in question who also note, the increase is larger when the average gender proportion have been prepared to accept the looking solely at management in the industry, with 32% female appointment as Board member. levels. Female managers on B-level 68% male (from FRI, the In 2014, the gender distribution increased to 8% (2013: 7%), Danish Association of Consulting in the Group Board of Directors C-level increased to 15% (2013: 12%) Engineers, survey, May 2014). was 17% female 83% male. and D-level increased to 27% (2013: It is the target that each gender So there is still room 23%). See page 9 for definition. is represented in the Group Board for improvement, which will be of Directors by two members supported by our diversity to be elected at the general initiative in 2015. AGE DISTRIBUTION – GROUP TOTAL AVERAGE 2014 < 19 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 > 70 1% 18% 34% 24% 17% 7% 0% Rounded to nearest whole number. GENDER DISTRIBUTION 2014 MANAGEMENT BUSINESS FINLAND NORWAY DENMARK RAMBOLL CONSULTING SUPPORT AND IT AVERAGE 54% 57% 62% 65% 67% 68% 46% 43% 38% 35% 33% 32% Male Female 69% 69% 73% 79% 81% CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 9 GENDER DISTRIBUTION BY MANAGEMENT LEVEL AND IDENTIFIED SUCCESSORS (B-D LEVEL), FEMALE % 2013 2014 2013 2014 Management B-level 7% 8% Successor B-level 14% 14% Management C-level 12% 15% Successor C-level 23% 16% Management D-level 23% 27% Successor D-level 24% 26% All Ramboll employees are mapped into a global job family architecture. The architecture consists of a number of profiles reflecting job levels ranging from Ato H-level. 54% 57% 62% 65% 67% 68% UK SWEDEN OIL & GAS ENERGY NEW MARKETS 46% 43% 38% 35% 33% 32% 69% 69% 73% 79% 81% 31% 31% 27% 21% 19% 10 PEOPLE PARENT-FRIENDLY WORKPLACE Ramboll sees great value in being a parent-friendly workplace as it enables us to attract and retain the best and most committed employees. Respecting family life Respecting the right to family life and children’s rights, Ramboll Sweden has been dedicated to providing a parent-friendly atmosphere for many years. Ramboll Sweden looks favourably upon parental leave, supporting parents’ right to protection before and after childbirth. Also, flexible hours are used as motivational factors to support parents. For instance, there is an explicit policy instructing employees to schedule meetings during the most parent-friendly hours of the workday. Work environment honoured In Sweden, parents are called in for personal development and salary reviews during leaves of absence, and both men and women are equally encouraged to go on parental leave. This means that parents will be able to continue their career development even during their periods of absence. Ramboll received top honours in December 2014 when the trade union ‘Unionen’ awarded the 10th annual Guldnappen Award, to the most parentfriendly workplace in Sweden. Ramboll’s office in central Stockholm is one of 30 offices in Sweden, which was honoured with the Guldnappen Award. Ramboll received top honours in December 2014 when we were awarded the Guldnappen Award to the most parent-friendly workplace in Sweden. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 11 SOCIAL POLICY-MAKING Towards 2020, the Danish government has developed a social strategy in an attempt to strengthen PROCEDURES IN PLACE TO AVOID DISCRIMINATION social equality. Ramboll supports these efforts by developing theories of change and strategies OBJECTIVE Systematic procedure objectively ensuring that ability, for disseminating evidence-based RECRUITMENT competences, skills, experience and performance are always the basis for recruitment and promotion. approaches and best practices PROCESS among municipalities, to support DISABILITY Systematic procedure objectively ensuring awareness-raising the Government, the Ministry of disability issues.* of Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Affairs in AGE Systematic procedure that ensures age verification fulfilling the social 2020 goals, and VERIFICATION prior to employment. protecting human rights through effective policies and legislation. * The procedures are implemented in all principal business units, Only exception is ‘disability’ Among the primary goals in New Markets. are ensuring the well-being of vulnerable children and youth, preventing violence against women and children, assisting more drug abusers to complete treatment and reducing the number of homeless people. EMPLOYEE, VOLUNTARY TURNOVER, RAMBOLL TOTAL, % Documenting effects Through evidence-based 20 consultancy, Ramboll documents which social policies and initiatives have a positive effect on public welfare, enabling 10 decision makers to turn new knowledge into specific actions. As the Ministry’s partner throughout the entire process, we facilitate workshops and advise 0 2012 2013 2014 on how to design interventions to develop capabilities in the Ministry, in municipalities and among professionals working at shelters and residences for vulnerable citizens. 12 ENVIRONMENT The Nord Stream Pipeline in Norway. Ramboll performed an environmental assessment of the planned onshore and offshore activities. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 13 ENVIRONMENT Finding solutions to address as it becomes an increasingly Environmentally sound purchases the potential causes and global company. The major surge Ramboll ‘walks the talk’ when implications of climate change by 47% in the use of our global it comes to making its own is high on Ramboll’s agenda. video conference system and 114% purchases environmentally sound. in Lync video conferences shows Ramboll purchaser Helene Byskov Minimising carbon footprint that without these tools our carbon Christiansen was awarded Member In Ramboll, we are dedicated to emission per employee would have of the Year 2014 by Eco-labelling minimising our carbon footprint increased considerably more. Denmark (Miljømærkning Danmark) through our own behaviour. 2014 is for putting the environment on the the fourth year we have measured Environmental Management agenda in the purchasing process. our worldwide CO2 emission A key focus in 2014 was to Eco-labelling Denmark is the caused by energy consumption reduce adverse impacts on independent supervisory body, and work-related transport. In environment and climate by which manages a network and 2014, we measured Ramboll’s total endorsing a Group Environmental is responsible for the EU Flower CO2 emission as 21,614 tonnes Management Policy for all business and Nordic Swan eco-labels. The CO2 (2013: 20,067) equal to 2.25 units. This policy sets out the network was established to create tonnes per Full Time Employee framework for environmental incentives for Danish suppliers to Equivalent (FTEE) (2013: 2.16). management. The objectives offer more environmentally friendly This is an overall increase of 4% to be achieved by all principal products and make it easier for per FTEE compared to 2013 due business units in Ramboll include companies to make environmentally to more air travel and a slight measuring CO2 emissions from sound purchases. By holding increase in electricity consumption. energy consumption and worksuppliers to a higher standard related transport, implementing in the purchasing process, we Implications of growth environmental management work hard to ensure that more of Taking our growth in international system based on the ISO 14001 Ramboll’s suppliers are accredited activities into consideration, this is standard for environmental with the eco-label. In Denmark, a relatively small increase. However, management systems, and there are now over 20,000 Ramboll is actively taking steps to defining environmental targets. certified products available. reduce it’s carbon footprit even ISO 14001* CERTIFIED PRINCIPAL BUSINESS UNIT 2012 2013 2014 Denmark Sweden Norway Finland United Kingdom New Markets Management Consulting Oil & Gas Energy ** ** ** Implemented Partly implemented Not implemented *ISO 14001: International standard for environmental management system. **Energy in Sweden is ISO 14001 certified. 14 ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS TRAVEL The total 2014 CO2 emission from business travel is the equivalent of 3,376 trips around the globe when combining work-related transportation by car, airplane or public transport from all employees. The CO2 emission per employee (FTEE) from work-related travel was 1.44 tonnes per employee in 2014, which is an increase of 5.9% compared to last year (2013: 1.36). On Ramboll’s journey towards becoming a global company, our CO2 emission caused by business travel increased due to more and longer air travel, which amounts to almost 60% of the total CO2 emission. Technology reduces CO2 Ramboll is aware of the need to minimise business travel as much as possible and continues the effort to use technology with GLOBAL VIDEO CONFERENCES LYNC VIDEO CONFERENCES 2014 a view to reducing its carbon TOTAL NUMBER OF CALLS emission. An example is the increasing use of Microsoft Lync by Ramboll employees. With 53,408 effective communication tools, we are able to minimise the impact, e.g. from our air travel 18,146 needs, whilst improving our cross36,308 organisational collaboration. 28,196 Ramboll is part of ‘Transport Network Amager’ in Denmark whose purpose is to promote sustainable transport habits to 2012 2013 2014 employees from Copenhagenbased companies. Only 38% of Ramboll employees working at the head office take their car to work, while the use of bicycles or public transportation is The total of video conference Indicating the growing use of video increasing according to survey. calls increased from 36,306 conferencing at Ramboll, Lync video in 2013 to 53,408 in 2014. conferences rose from 8,476 in 2013 Initiatives such as company bike to 18,146 in 2014. loans, changing room facilities at the office, carpooling to 47% 114% meetings and public transport discounts are highly appreciated by employees and incentives for more sustainable travel habits. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 15 CO2 EMISSIONS FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND WORK-RELATED TRANSPORT IN 2014 PER PRINCIPAL BUSINESS UNIT 00 22 44 Sweden Sweden Norway Norway United Kingdom United Kingdom Middle MiddleEast East Finland Finland Ramboll RambollGroup Group average average Energy Energy Management Management Consulting Consulting OilOil & Gas & Gas Denmark Denmark India India Tonnes Tonnes CO2 CO2 per per employee employee (FTEE) (FTEE) in 2014 per year NOTE: United Kingdom: • The principal business unit New Markets • Reporting period is 1 July • Cars are not included in reporting. is split into two separate accounts, one 2013 to 30 June 2014 • Some offices lack figures for India and one for Middle East. • If the International Energy Agency for air travel and train. Management Consulting: factors (IEA statistics, “CO2 Emission • The travel figures for London • All business travel data for Norway from fuel combustion highlights”, and Southampton are estimated has been based on historical 2011 edition) are used instead of based on the accurately recorded data from 2009-2010. national factors, this is stated in figures of the Chester office. • Company managers’ cars are not the business unit notes below. • Data on business travel has been included for Sweden and Germany. • Full Time Employee Equivalent difficult to obtain, but with a new Oil & Gas: (FTEE) figures are average FTEE contract with the travel agency • Partly use of IEA factors. in the reporting period. Via Egencia, much more accurate • The figures of the Houston office data is expected next year. have been calculated based on • Figures for heating and electricity Ramboll Oil & Gas’ total CO2 Principal business unit specific notes: deviate much from last year’s emission compared to number of Denmark: reporting due to more reliable data employees in Houston (30 FTEE). • Number for fleet cars has been divided collection in this reporting period. Energy: among all business units in Denmark. • Use of IEA factors. • Ramboll Energy India (1 FTEE) and Sweden: New Markets: Ramboll Energy Indonesia • Deviation from last year’s reporting • Atelier Dreiseitl part of Ramboll (4 FTEE) have not been included is due to much more reliable data Group with (44 FTEE) is not in the reporting due to a defined collection and improved calculation included in the reporting. lower limit for reporting. methods in this reporting period. 16 ENVIRONMENT CO2 SAVINGS BY VIDEO CONFERENCE In the period 1 June 2013 to 30 This estimate has been 2014 June 2014, about 57,000 video calculated based on available conferences have been held with detailed data for about 28,000 12,712,491 a Ramboll conference meeting of the video conferences. facility in one or both end points. About 15% of the conferences 2013 Over this 12-month period, Ramboll have registered durations shorter 135,158 was estimated to achieve an than 15 minutes. These are overall CO2 emission reduction regarded as either erroneous of more than 4,000 tonnes calls or very short meetings that (or 16% of total Ramboll CO2 would never have been physical emissions) by replacing trips with trips. This leaves data behind for video conferencing. Estimated about 7,200 video conferences on LYNC INSTANT MESSAGES 2014 reductions associated with the which the estimates are made. five locations where the most Lync instant messaging in Ramboll increased by an significant progress was made are astronomical number to summarised in the table below. 12.7 million messages in 2014. Total estimated CO2 savings due to video conferences in 2013-2014 estimated to 4000 tonnes equivalent to 16% of total Ramboll CO2 emissions. LOCATIONS WITH LARGEST CO2 SAVINGS, TONNES From To CO2 Savings Abu Dhabi Copenhagen 73.3 Copenhagen Gurgaon 69.4 Esbjerg Texas 60.2 Aarhus Copenhagen 53.7 Chennai Esbjerg 42.8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 17 ENERGY CONSUMPTION The CO2 emissions caused by energy consumption (electricity, DEVELOPMENT IN CO2 EMISSION cooling and heating) were 0.82 tonnes per full time employee 2013 2014 equivalent (FTEE) in 2014; a slight increase compared to Denmark the previous year (2013: 0.80). Sweden Norway Looking back at the figures from Finland 2011 (0.83) and 2012 (0.84), the United Kingdom latest measure of CO2 emissions Middle East* indicates a stable level. Management Consulting A general increase has been Oil & Gas seen in CO2 emissions due to Energy electricity consumption. India* However, when considering Ramboll average Ramboll’s total emission, the share of CO2 emissions caused by electricity compared to Decrease Increase Development per employee compared with last year per business unit. 2013 remains the same (2013: *The principal business unit New Markets is split into two separate accounts, one for India and one 26.7% and 2014: 26.7%). for Middle East. A dedicated focus on optimising office space has resulted in a decrease in emissions per employee (FTEE) from heating, in seven of Ramboll’s Principal Business Units in 2014. CO2 EMISSIONS FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND WORK-RELATED TRANSPORT Tonnes of total C02 emission. Reporting period 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014. One dot equals 100 tonnes. 23 FERRY 1,444 PUBLIC TRANSPORT 4,097 ALL CARS 8,212 AIRPLANE 2,053 HEATING 5,785 ELECTRICITY CO2 EMISSIONS PER EMPLOYEE, (FTEE), TONNES ENERGY CONSUMPTION WORK-RELATED TRANSPORT TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS 4 4 4 2 2 2 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 18 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ACCREDITATION SCHEMES, NUMBER OF LICENSED ASSESSORS IN 2014 BREEAM Environmental assessment method and rating system 34 (24) for buildings LEED Leadership in energy and environmental design 16 (13) MILJÖBYGGNAD Environmental building certification in Sweden 10 (10) CERTIFIED ENERGY EXPERT Energy certifications of buildings in Sweden 8 (8) BUILDING CERTIFICATION DGNB Sustainability certification scheme under Green At Ramboll, we provide assessment building materials, mobility 5 (6) Council Denmark services within a variety of opportunities, pollution, waste environmental accreditation handling, energy consumption, schemes, covering different water, biodiversity, health, ESTIDAMA Pearl building rating themes in relation to buildings and safety, social value and financial system in Abu Dhabi 3 (5) communities. An environmental considerations within a variety of assessment of a project is a way to criteria. The number of licensed measure, document and compare assessors in Ramboll continues CEEQUAL The sustainability assessment and awards scheme the quality of sustainable buildings to increase year after year. 3 (5) for civil engineering and communities. Setting a target, As part of our consultancy in the form of a certified sustainable services, we advise customers building, defines a common in the choice of scheme and the EPC Energy performance objective and provides improved level of ambition in each project. certificate for properties 3 (1) long-term benefits for investors, As an example Doha Marina building owners and building users. Mall, Qatar. The project is aiming A sustainability assessment for 5 stars under QSAS, Qatar’s Figures in brackets from 2013. is a holistic evaluation of sustainability rating tool. 40% OPTIMISED DESIGN REDUCES CO2 The telecommunications industry accounts approximately 2-3% of total global CO2 emissions. The main contribution of a telecommunication tower to the carbon footprint comes from the construction of the steel tower and the reinforced concrete foundation. Ramboll engineers contribute to less CO2 emission. the reduction of emissions from the towers and their foundations with a special tower design where circular steel tubes are used in all elements. The establishment The special steel construction combined with a triangular crossof tubular Ramboll section reduces the wind resistance on the tower, and as tubes are towers will result in the optimal steel profile for the tower elements, the total steel weight 40% less CO2 emission, of the Ramboll tower is typically 40% lower than a traditional tower compared with built in angle bars. With the reduced wind load on the tower, the the traditional foundation also requires less material than traditional towers. Ramboll is heavily engaged in the establishment of new mobile angle bar towers. networks, and is ranked by Engineering News-Record as the no. 1 design firm in the world within telecommunication masts and towers. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 19 WATER SCARCITY The fundamental importance problems into strengths. MISTRA-funded project managed of water for humans and the Due to a proactive approach by the Royal Institute of Technology environment has made managing in investing in research and in Stockholm, Dhaka University, water a crucial challenge for initiatives, Singapore is now NGO Forum for Drinking Water governments and cities around the transformed into a model city on and Sanitation, Bangladesh. world. The basic human right to water management. As a result, have access to clean water is a the city has become much more major driver for the development resilient to weather variability 2.3 billion of urban areas and regions alike. and more independent regarding According to the UN, global water supply, contributing to a water usage is expected to be brighter outlook than in the 1970s. 30% higher by 2030, illustrating the necessity to tackle water Securing safe drinking Between 1990 and 2012, scarcity proactively. Through water in Bangladesh 2.3 billion people gained the application of science and In Bangladesh, a current issue is knowledge, Ramboll contributes the quality of drinking water, as access to improved with solutions that have a positive high levels of naturally occurring water sources. impact on water management. arsenic have been found in the Source: UN groundwater. To mitigate the Overcoming water risk of high levels of arsenic issues in Singapore exposure for 30-70 million people, Since 2011, Ramboll has played Ramboll is running predictive a key role in Singapore’s master groundwater simulations that planning on water. The city-state will be incorporated in water requires assistance to achieve safety plans by the local its ambitions and turn previous authorities. This project is being water shortage and pollution done in collaboration with a 20 INTEGRITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 21 Ramboll’s foundation ownership supports our integrity and ensures that our activities are absolutely independent of any external or personal interests. INTEGRITY Ramboll’s professional advice, Control mechanisms CORPORATE INCOME TAX 2014 judgements and decisions To ensure embedding of the are impartial. Our foundation integrity principles and to monitor COUNTRY DKK MILLION ownership supports our integrity the effectiveness of risk prevention Denmark 45.5 and ensures that our activities, and mitigation processes, Key Sweden 23.4 are absolutely independent of any Performance Indicators together Norway 19.1 external or personal interests with local assessment of integrity Finland 10.3 Ramboll is on a globalisation risks were integrated in the Group India 6.0 path and entering new countries Compliance Audit process and Germany 2.4 with different cultures, business applied for Ramboll in India, United Kingdom -3.8 behaviour and standards. This Middle East and Romania and Rest of world 1.8 is an exciting journey, but also are incorporated into the formal Ramboll total 104.7 challenging as a global company Group Compliance Report 2014. and entering sometimes more More detailed integrity guidelines demanding markets requires based on the newly introduced We will not engage in aggressive tax planning arrangements or use transfer a strong focus on operating integrity principles are under pricing as a means of avoiding tax responsibly. We apply a continued development and will be introduced payment in any country. We will strive to focus on having the highest in 2015, serving as basis for specific ensure that all transactions between our standards in place and ensuring face-to-face management training. group companies are priced on an arm’suniversal understanding of our length basis and prepare and maintain We engage with stakeholders transfer pricing documentation in the business integrity across the to learn and seek best practices. form prescribed by local tax legislation. company. We are committed For instance, Ramboll is a to being open and transparent member of the independent about our business activities and organisation Transparency will not participate in or support International that works to promote any form of bribery, corruption transparency, accountability or fraudulent practices. and integrity at all levels and across all sectors of society. 22 POLICIES AND PROCESSES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 23 Ramboll Leadership Conference 2014 with participation of over 1,000 leaders from Ramboll had the overall theme ‘Stronger Together’, which is our business strategy. POLICIES AND PROCESSES It is a fundamental objective principles on human and labour ensuring that we speak the same for Ramboll to develop as rights, environment and antilanguage as our customers, a responsible company by corruption expressed by the society and business partners. applying the highest standards UN Global Compact and made To embed our commitment for corporate responsibility. operational by the UN Guiding further in operational policies, all Principles on Business and Human group policies across the Corporate Global Commitment Rights. The Global Commitment Functions; HR, IT, Legal, Finance, In 2014, we stepped up our expresses Ramboll’s strong Communications, Market, and policy commitment on corporate commitment to operating Project Excellence were aligned responsibility to ensure continued responsibly, informs our behaviour with the Global Commitment. fulfilment of our objective and and sets expectations to business This was an opportunity to foster best practice fit for our position partners directly linked to our better coherence and a clearer as an international company, operations and services. The Global hierarchy of Ramboll’s underlying and our ambition to become Commitment has been aligned policies, making it easier to a leading sustainable society with the Ramboll Foundation’s operationalise our commitment. consultant. We want to ensure long-term goals and priorities and continued compliance with adopted by the Executive Board regulations and internationally and the Board of Directors. It is recognised principles, and to informed by internal and external meet future expectations from expertise and communicated customers and society globally. internally and externally. After an approval process The Global Commitment made securing anchoring and top it possible to create a stronger management commitment, Ramboll global language and understanding introduced the Global Commitment of our responsibility throughout – a policy commitment that rests Ramboll based on internationally on our values and fundamental recognised definitions, also 24 POLICIES AND PROCESSES COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME Ramboll’s Compliance Programme was initiated in 2014 in order to establish processes to prevent and detect violations of applicable laws and internal policies and processes by employees, subconsultants and business partners. One focus area in 2014 was to review all existing group policies and to develop a new intranet site to increase awareness and knowledge of the policies and guidelines among Ramboll employees. The overall framework for the monitoring and audit processes and reporting structure has also been in focus. A pilot compliance report will be prepared, based on three pilot audits that have been conducted in India, Middle East and Romania, respectively, showing an increased SUBJECT AND NUMBER need for knowledge of group OF WHISTLEBLOWER REPORTS policies and guidelines across Ramboll. A means for achieving this 2011 2012 2013 2014 goal in 2015 is the implementation Code of Conduct 1 2 1 of a Compliance System, which Critical supplier 1 among other features assures that Discrimination 2 all new and existing group policies People / Management 6 6 3 5 will be read and understood by the IT 1 relevant employees and functions. Values 1 In addition, Local Compliance Ramboll total 9 11 4 5 Managers have been appointed for each Principal Business Unit. CR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 2014 C em ode pl of oy C m on en dt c uc on t in Co in de tr trac ts od of uc Co tio nd CR n uc pr t og in orga ni ra m m sa tio e N o. of n re gi st ered CR N o. fil PRINCIPAL of CR es C re R m au di ts vi a BUSINESS UNIT ew n ag em en t Denmark 0 58 Sweden 2 3 Norway 0 3 Finland 1 0 United Kingdom 1 44 New Markets * 1* 25 * * Energy 0 14 Oil & Gas 0 >30** Management 0 0 Consulting The CR management system is composed of six indicators according to FIDIC industry guidelines. (FIDIC, On target Not implemented The International Federation * Only measured in Middle East. of Consulting Engineers) ** Integrated in HSEQ audits. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 25 CODE OF CONDUCT A new version of the Code of communication from top managers. to be finalised in 2015. Furthermore, Conduct for employees was More than 11,000 of Ramboll’s to make information more launched in 2014. The Code employees received a hard copy accessible, an intranet site “How we of Conduct was updated to of the Code of Conduct on their act” was created, giving employees meet internationally recognised desk across all offices worldwide. easy access to information about principles and guides employees Employees had the opportunity to Ramboll’s fundamental principles on how to act responsibly. see a video with Group CEO and values including the Code Prior to the launch, a survey Jens-Peter Saul conveying about of Conduct, e-learning training was conducted among 1,000 the importance of the Code and Whistleblower service. people managers with the of Conduct and encouraging purpose of gaining an overview employees to be open about the of the awareness of the Code dilemmas they meet in their daily of Conduct and to provide the work in order to create an open right information for people and transparent company culture. managers to answer pertinent Employees were also encouraged questions from employees. to initiate dialogue with top management on the executive blog. Implementing Code of Conduct To obtain a better understanding The new Code of Conduct was of the Code of Conduct, e-learning communicated to employees training was developed and by various means including provided to all employees. The intranet news and direct e-mail training is mandatory and expected 75.7% employees in the Nordics incl. Greenland 13.1% employees in Rest of Europe 0.3% 0.5% employees in North America employees in Asia 10.4% employees in India and Middle East Ramboll markets CODE OF CONDUCT The above map shows the number of Ramboll employees excluding ENVIRON as of November 2014 who received the Code of Conduct and e-learning training. 26 VALUE CREATION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 27 Left: Copenhagen’s elevated cycle lane, known as ‘Cykelslangen’, the bicycle tube. The cycle track is suspended five metres above street level. Image: Dissing+Weitling. Right: Bishan – Ang Mo Kio Park in Singapore, redesigned by Ramboll to include an ecologically restored river, open green spaces and playgrounds in the heartlands of the city. VALUE CREATION People have the fundamental right combine, for instance in the seek to develop and market our to enjoy the benefits of scientific areas of planning, analysis, offerings within sustainable cities, progress and its applications. evaluation, design, engineering environment and water, and we Ramboll’s contribution to value and facilitation, we use our skills to have an ambition to become creation is deeply rooted in the help our customers manage their the leading sustainable society technical and scientific approach we impacts and reach their business consultant globally. Through take as engineers and consultants. and sustainability goals. Each acquisitions, we moved into the It is our responsibility to consider customer’s need on sustainability global Top 10 among environmental how knowledge can benefit as varies a great deal depending on consultancies, making environment many people as possible without market, materiality, regulation, short our second largest Market in compromising legitimate business vs. long-term focus, stakeholder 2014. Furthermore, we now have interests. We make a positive and commercial objectives. In all a full range of environment, impact and enable sustainable cases, Ramboll aims at to deliver health and water services in our value creation by continuously balanced, holistic solutions that portfolio, enabling even more developing and applying fulfil customer expectations. solutions for global challenges innovative solutions that address – supporting sustainable the world’s global challenges, Integrating sustainability development and creating such as demographic changes, Ramboll seeks to promote and value for customers, employees, urbanisation, climate change, provide services and solutions society and stakeholders. resource scarcity, and globalisation. that contribute to sustainable development. Sustainability is Managing impacts deeply ingrained in our business Through technical and scientific strategy and a clear market driver disciplines that we innovatively for our services. In particular, we 28 VALUE CREATION CITIES FOR PEOPLE Cities have become the engines assembled a team of researchers water management and waste of economic development across to collaborate with experts management. They will reduce the world. According to the UN, from Zeppelin University, the use of fossil energy by 90%, 54% of the world’s population National University of Singapore, while potable water usage will be live in urban areas today. By Massachusetts Institute of reduced by 60%. About 90% of 2050, this proportion is expected Technology (MIT) and Harvard storm water will be infiltrated and to rise to 66%. This prospect Graduate School of Design directed to Lake Michigan, and makes it necessary for cities to conducting a research project efficient systems to sort waste will take a holistic and long-term on the future effects of ‘bluereduce landfill to 1% of total waste. approach to urban development. green infrastructure’ in urban The Chicago Lakeside project has Ramboll helps cities become environments. Research results earned international recognition more ‘liveable’ and improve their will be published in 2015. and was given the Sustainia competitive edge through a full Community Award, which suite of competencies necessary to Chicago Lakeside project honours solutions that help build provide integrated and sustainable A recent example of Ramboll’s a more sustainable future. city conditions to the people living work is the effort to bring green in the area. Our services on urban solutions to a lakeside area in planning are multi-disciplinary, Chicago, USA. In the future, combining design and engineering residents of Chicago will be able to services with socio-economic use cooling, heating and electricity and process competencies. and invest in energy from local wind turbines. The master plan will Envisioning the future provide a new way of living based Liveable Cities Lab is Ramboll’s on the most advanced 21st-century expert unit dedicated to supporting infrastructure and technology. cities by envisioning future Ramboll has developed design development. In 2014, the Lab concepts for sustainable energy, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 29 ASSESSING IMPACT Building a new highway, bridge or airport creates new social and economic opportunities, but also brings potential harm to the environment or the people living close by. Incorporating impact assessments in any largescale infrastructure project, Ramboll supports customers in not only fulfilling the legislative requirements during the permitting process, but also in mitigating a construction project’s social and environmental impacts. The impact assessments are used to determine social and environmental effects, compare alternatives, identify mitigation measures and facilitate informed decision-making. Ramboll’s specialists aim to Above: Due to traffic congestion, Halton Borough in the UK invested in another GREENER challenge the design teams bridge across the Mersey River. Ramboll helped safeguard the environment by BUILDINGS to drive improved social and assessing the environmental and social In 2014, Ramboll in Finland environmental performance into impacts of the project. conducted a Green Market Study construction projects, for example, Left: The Chicago Lakeside project is taking sustainability focused urban asking customers and other by including carbon footprint stakeholders such as tenants development in the US to new levels. calculations, transport and traffic and property owners about mapping, environmental and sociotrends in the real estate industry economic baseline studies and relating to sustainability in the stakeholder management initiatives. Nordic market. ‘Green’ buildings 60% adhere to specific criteria in areas Safeguarding the environment including water conservation, An example is the Mersey site sustainability, energy use, Gateway bridge project near building materials and design Liverpool in UK. The site for the innovations to earn certifications new river crossing is located in such as LEED or BREEAM. an environmentally sensitive area, of building developers The results indicate that and therefore Halton Borough Council needed to ensure that the expect to invest more in stakeholders widely agree that there is growing demand for bridge would be constructed in green building solutions. sustainable buildings. In the the most sustainable way. In the coming years, it is expected that early stages of the project, Ramboll data monitoring on environmental therefore contributed with baseline indicators will increase, along with studies on e.g. ecology, noise and more communication between vibrations, transport flows and tenants and owners on how to act social effects to identify the most in an environmentally responsible appropriate and sustainable route manner. Most importantly, tenants for the new road and bridge. expect more sustainable buildings and are willing to pay more to live in green real estate premises. OVER 50% OF THE WORLD LIVE IN CITIES Adding further weight to this trend, 60% of building developers expect to invest more in green building solutions. Ramboll will use the RURAL AREAS CITIES RURAL AREAS CITIES RURAL AREAS CITIES insights from the Green Market Study to engage with stakeholders who are looking to develop real estate using sustainable building solutions based on 1950 2000 2050 certification standards, (see page 18 for Ramboll’s certification Illustration of the distribution of the world’s population between capabilities and definitions). rural and urban areas over time. Today, 54% live in cities, a number projected to reach 66% by 2050. Source UN. One dot equals 1%. 30 DILEMMAS DILEMMAS On a daily basis, Ramboll is customers and society as a whole. faced with issues regarding continuously faced with dilemmas. In addition we strive to implement adverse impacts on construction We deal with many needs preventive measures such as workers’ rights in the projects and considerations, weighing screening of business partners to which we deliver services. the social, environmental and and proactive communication of We will sometimes oversee economic dimensions of an issue our commitment in proposals. aspects of construction to ensure to find balanced solutions. adherence to the designs, but we Labour conditions are not a construction contractor Leverage our influence The construction industry is an responsible for hiring and managing Ramboll is often approached exposed profession in relation to a workforce on the ground. with the question “why don’t you adverse impacts on construction However, we are aware that just say no” to a specific project, workers’ rights to safe and healthy we have a responsibility to seek market area, country etc. working conditions, not to be to prevent and mitigate adverse We sometimes say ”no” because subjected to slavery, servitude or impacts through our business the particular project or customer forced labour, and to adequate relationships on a project. Through are in clear conflict with our standards of living. This may be dialogue, we try to use our values. But in most projects we are challenging in contexts where influence to promote business committed to making a difference, labour laws do not exist or are not relations across the value chain for instance, by getting involved enforced, or where companies that demonstrate respect for to minimise impacts by design as do not follow international construction workers’ rights. well as optimise long-term value standards for their responsibility by applying scientific progress to respect human rights. and leverage our influence to help As a design and engineering deliver solutions with value to our consultancy, Ramboll is sometimes CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 31 SHALE GAS Shale gas is rapidly becoming a global energy market gamechanger contributing to the supply of more affordable energy. Shale is a sedimentary rock consisting of clay and sand. It is now possible to produce gas directly from the shale. Like natural gas, shale gas emits 50% less carbon than coal and thus can be a significant contributor to meeting emissions reduction targets. However, concerns have been raised regarding the possibility that the method used to produce shale gas, sometimes known as “fracking”, may result in the potential for high freshwater demand, groundwater contamination, noise KREOD Pavilion, London. The Ramboll Computational Design team in the MITIGATING from operations and increased UK works solely on using digital intelligence to create more optimised IMPACT BY DESIGN truck traffic and other issues. buildable and sustainable structures. According to the UNEP’s We must be aware of and Sustainable Buildings and Climate address such concerns as global (UNEP SBCI 2009), the building oil and gas markets are developed. sector accounts for more than We promote renewable energy 40% of CO2 emissions worldwide but, acknowledging that the global and this number has increased energy mix will continue to include during the past 45 years. The fossil fuels, we see an opportunity building sector is Ramboll’s biggest and our responsibility in helping market accounting for more than to ensure the environmentally one third of our revenue, but as a sound development of sustainable society consultant, it is fossil fuel resources. our responsibility to mitigate the negative environmental impacts Supporting qualified 35% from the buildings that we design. decision-making Building materials, on-site Customers and society should construction activities and the benefit from scientific progress and operational phase of a building are Ramboll’s approach contributes to all sources of carbon emissions. more qualified decision-making by They may have a negative impact applying technical and scientific on, e.g. local scarcity of resources, insight. With our experience in the working environment for The Buildings market accounts assessing social and environmental for 35% of Ramboll’s revenue construction workers and users of impacts, we help the industry in 2014, growing by 11% to a the building. However, the building manage impacts and take steps to total of DKK 2.9 billion. sector has the largest potential for ensure high operational standards. significantly reducing greenhouse We facilitate stakeholder dialogue gas emissions compared to addressing legitimate public other major emitting sectors. concerns and assist governments The building sector offers major in developing policies that opportunities for improvement protect public health and secure by using more sustainable affordable energy for all. materials and energy-efficient solutions through the application of environmentally-friendly technologies and materials. In response to this challenge, we continuously develop our services in relation to local and international standards and sustainable building certification systems in all our markets. 32 ADVOCACY ADVOCACY Ramboll is committed to spoke at the Arctic Breakthrough other experts exploring how environmental advocacy by round-table in Canada, codesign enables energy efficiency engaging in conferences and partnered and hosted Sharing and economic performance for discussions with decision-makers Copenhagen events with the City the world’s growing cities. and business leaders across of Copenhagen during 2014, and Ramboll has also developed the world whenever possible. hosted a high level master class for an internal cross-culture the network of global cities, C40. Sustainable Buildings Network Climate agenda We were involved with where Ramboll specialists from In 2014, Ramboll participated DK2050, a series of conferences the Nordics, UK and Middle East in the World Cities Summit and events on future urban share knowledge and challenges conference in Singapore. The development in Denmark. on sustainable building design. main theme was ‘Liveable and In addition, we played a key role With different obstacles and Sustainable Common Challenges, in the Global Green Growth Forum, regulatory environments, the Shared Solutions’. Ramboll gave which was held in Copenhagen, network members take advantage a keynote speech on building Denmark. Nearly 300 leaders and of the experience and ideas of resilient cities and took part in a decision-makers were part of the their colleagues, while knowing roundtable discussion focusing conference, which focused on that a sustainable solution in on water and waste management energy-efficient design solutions. Oslo, Norway may not be the challenges in urban areas. We We contributed to a session with same as in Dubai, UAE. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 33 ASSOCIATION FOR RESPONSIBLE CONSTRUCTION A new association will ensure a strong focus on corporate responsibility in the Danish real estate and construction industry (“Foreningen for Byggeriets Samfundsansvar”). The association which is comprised of building owners, developers, contractors, consulting engineers and architects will among others help to strengthen and develop sustainable building, labour conditions, and stakeholder dialogue in the Danish real estate and construction sector. This association is one of the first to strengthen collaboration on corporate responsibility across the value chain and is driven by members who acknowledge the competitive UN CLIMATE Above: An architectural light show entitled illUmiNations: Protecting Our Planet, advantage of a structured SUMMIT designed to inspire action on climate change, is projected on the side of United appoach to responsibility. The association is founded on a In September 2014, Ramboll had Nations headquarters, 2014. Image: AP charter consisting of six principles Photo/Jason DeCrow. the honour of participating in the for corporate responsibility. The Below: Head office for Disabled People’s UN Climate Summit in New York Organisations in Denmark. Ramboll charter is inspired by the UN City, USA. With more than 120 played a key role in the development Global Compact Principles and heads of state and government of the sustainability strategy for applies a local interpretation of the building. Image: Leif Tuxen. as well as climate advocates the principles relevant for the gathered, this was a unique industry and national context. opportunity to make our voice As a natural continuation of heard in the global climate debate. our commitment under the UN We contributed to a roundtable Global Compact and our position discussion that was part of the as leading engineering consultant UN Private Sector Business Forum in Denmark, Ramboll signed at the Summit. The discussion the charter for responsibility focused on advancing corporate in the Danish construction action in terms of sustainable sector and is an active member solutions that mitigate the effects of the association. of climate change and help to limit the global rise in temperature to less than 2 degrees Celsius. Ramboll contributed among other thought leaders to the debate, explaining how we deliver solutions that effectively reduce the impact of climate change while also enabling sustainable development of the society. The objective of the session was to catalyse climate action by challenging the leaders to bring bold announcements and actions that help reduce carbon emissions and strengthen climate resilience. Based on the discussions, the UN aims to reach a meaningful global agreement in 2015. 34 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We aim to make a positive Architecture. Streetlight is an architectural partner and Atelier impact in the communities where orphanage and school organisation Dreiseitl, now part of Ramboll we work by contributing our in Tacloban, in the Philippines. Group in Singapore, are designing knowledge and resources to When hurricane Haiyan decimated the landscaping and hydrology. The relevant initiatives and charities. Tacloban, the Seawall community rebuilding will focus on sustainable was hardest hit, amongst them the design, using local materials and Rebuilding Tacloban orphanage Streetlight. Jago Boase, practices. A key aspect of the Passionate Ramboll employees an engineer on sabbatical from project is to involve the community dedicate their free time to help Ramboll, has been living on site to in the design and construction to communities or people in need deliver the rebuilding and relocation ensure that they take ownership around the world through pro of the orphanage. The engineering of the project and that principles bono work, fundraising or by works include the infrastructure of good design are passed on. volunteering their knowledge for 100 new homes as part of the and experience. The main project Masterplan for the community. supported by the Ramboll UK Together with the children and Charity Task group 2014 is staff of Streetlight, Alexander and Tacloban Streetlight. Ramboll Jago are leading the design and was invited to join the project by reconstruction process. L.V. Locsin Alexander Furunes of WORKSHOP Architects in Manila are the local CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 35 SOCIAL INVESTMENT IN INDIA In 2014, Ramboll developed a framework for a social investment programme in India based on Ramboll’s Global Commitment and the Indian Companies Act with the purpose of achieving positive social outcome in the local communities in which Ramboll operates. The programme is in line with Ramboll’s business strategy and aims to invest in society through employee engagement, partnerships with NGOs and sponsorships within areas such as eradication of hunger and poverty, education, gender equality, Above: The building is the physical DONATIONS 2014 environmental sustainability, foundation for the Malandighi Child The Ramboll Foundation, the relief and welfare of scheduled Care Programme in India, which main owner of Ramboll, has made will be home to 150 disadvantaged several donations to nonprofit castes and other minorities. children aged 6 through 18. organisations or charities in 2014: A committee has been Left: Full scale model making with house appointed to manage and parents at workshop in Tagpuro. • EUR 538,000 to a research project develop the programme with with Zeppelin University in Germany. The purpose is to develop research local representatives across findings on ‘Blue-Green Infrastructure Ramboll business units and in High-Density Urban Environments’. management. Future actions in • EUR 134,000 to a Danish Technical 2015 include developing policy, University-based research team action plan, selecting activities, preparing for Solar Decathlon budget, implementation and Europe, an international competition to create innovations annual reporting of activities. in energy-efficient housing. • EUR 107,000 to Engineers without Borders for three different projects; the construction of buildings for a children’s village in Malandighi in India, an effort to improve waste management in Togo and to build facilities for a boarding school for girls in Tanzania. • EUR 33,500 to ’Danmarks indsamlingen’, the Danish public ‘I LOVE WIND POWER’ service broadcaster Danmarks Radio’s (DR) annual charity telethon, where 12 of Denmark’s largest Collaborating with the environmental charity organisation ‘I Love humanitarian organisations collected Wind Power’, engineers from Ramboll in London have taken on an funds for projects supporting effort to design and construct a wooden wind turbine in Montes children across Africa and in Haiti. Claros, Brazil. In the summer of 2015, Ramboll employees will facilitate • EUR 19,500 to ‘I Love Wind Power’ a workshop where local people will be taught the entire process in addition to internal hours and of design, construction and installation of small wind turbines. The resources to design and construct a wooden wind turbine for a wooden wind turbine will be completed later in 2015 and will power school in Montes Claros, Brazil. a water pump for the local school, providing water and energy while using materials that are accessible to the local population. The employees from Ramboll volunteer hours and resources to develop a concept for a 12-metre wooden tower structure for the wind turbine. The concept is intended to be implemented in other regions where the charity organisation operates, e.g. Mali and Tanzania, empowering more local communities through small-scale wind energy contributions. The project in is one of many supported by the Ramboll Foundation. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 RAMBOLL GROUP A/S WWW.RAMBOLL.COM
