CONTENTS SUSTAINED ENERGY SAFE AND CLEAN CUSTOMER-FIRST “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” GIVING BACK SUPPLY PRODUCTION AND MARKET SERVICE EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT TO SOCIETY OPERATION 02 About PetroChina 19 Consolidating Our Resource Base 25 Improving HSE Management 37 Enhancing Quality Management 45 Employee Rights 53 Promoting Local Development 04 Message from the Chairman 20 Optimizing Our Product Mix and 28 Enhancing Operational Safety 39 Focusing on Product Innovation 47 Occupational Health Refining Geographical Coverage 54 Poverty Alleviation 06 Interview with the President 30 Ecological Protection 40 Providing High-Quality Products 48 Platform for Employee 20 Pushing Forward Pipeline Development 55 Supporting Education 08 Highlights in 2014 Network Construction 33 Promoting Energy Saving and 42 Delivering Considerate Services Emission Reduction 51 Local Staff Development 56 Volunteer Activities 10 Corporate Governance 21 Developing Alternative Energy 43 Ensuring Stable Supply 34 Response to Climate Change 51 Security in Overseas Operations 57 Contributions to Overseas 15 Communication with 23 Deepening International Communities Stakeholders Cooperation 60 Investor FAQs 64 Objectives and Plans 66 Performance Statistics 68 Approach to Reporting About PetroChina Core Business PetroChina Company Limited (PetroChina, hereinafter also referred Our to as “the Company”, “we” or “us”) was established on 5 November, Energize, Harmonize, Realize Upstream Oil and Gas Exploration, Development and Production 1999, upon the restructuring of China National Petroleum Mission Our upstream Corporation (CNPC). PetroChina was listed on the NYSE (ADS PetroChina takes a leading position in domestic oil and gas exploration and business includes code: PRT) and the HKEx (stock code: 00857) in April 2000 and on development business. We operate in a number of major oil and gas producing Our To be a world-class international the exploration, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (stock code: 601857) in November energy company regions such as Daqing, Changqing, Xinjiang, Liaohe, Tarim and Sichuan. In Vision development and 2007, respectively. 2014, we produced 945.5 million barrels of crude oil, 3,028.8 billion cubic feet of production of crude oil and natural gas. marketable natural gas, and 1,450.4 million barrels of oil and gas equivalent. PetroChina is one of the major oil and gas producers and Business Resources, Markets, distributors in China, ranking among the leading international Strategy Internationalization oil companies. It engages in a wide range of activities related to Refining and Marketing of Crude Oil and Oil Products oil and natural gas and provides sustainable energy for socioeconomic development. We pursue harmonious relationships Guidelines of Quality, Efficiency We owned 8 ten-million-ton-level refining bases. In 2014 we processed 1010.6 between energy, the environment and the society. Development and Sustainability million barrels of crude oil, produced 92.671 million tons of oil products. We are operating over 20,000 gas stations covering 31 provinces (municipalities and Honesty, Innovation, Mid-Downstream autonomous regions) and the HongKong SAR of China, and undertook the supply Our Values Safety and Distinction of about 40% of China’s oil products. Our midstream and downstream business includes refining, transportation, Production, Transportation and Marketing of Petrochemical storage and Products marketing of crude oil and oil products, The Company is engaged in producing six categories of chemical productsas well as production synthetic resin, synthetic fiber and raw materials of synthetic fiber, synthetic and marketing of rubber, urea, organic and inorganic compounds with thousands of trademarked basic, derivative products. Our production capabilities of products such as ethylene, synthetic resin and other chemical and synthetic rubber ranked among the best in China. In 2014, we sold over 21 products; and million tons of chemical products, and produced 4.976 million tons of ethylene. transportation and Forbes Platts Energy BrandZ marketing of natural Top 250 global energy companies gas. Transportation of Natural Gas, Crude Oil and Oil Products, 10th in global top 2,000 enterprises 1st in Asian energy 8th in top 100 most valuable and Distribution of Natural Gas companies in overall ranking Chinese brands PetroChina is mainly responsible for transportation and marketing of natural 1st in Asian integrated Top 10 most trusted gas, and storage and transportation of crude oil and oil products. The Company oil and gas companies Chinese brands operated 77,000 km of pipelines in China, covering 29 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) and the HongKong SAR in China. Two employees were International granted Incentive Award for The Jabung Block project International Business IR Magazine Business Outstanding Engineers by of PetroChina International the International Scientific (Indonesia) was presented the We are engaged in oil Currently, we have established five international oil and gas cooperation zones Best IR by an energy company Exchange Foundation of China Special Contribution Award and gas exploration and in the Middle East, the Central Asia, the Asia-Pacific, the Americas and Africa, by the Indonesian Ministry of production in nearly and three oil and gas operation centers in Asia, Europe and the Americas. The Three employees were granted Energy and Mineral Resources in 30 countries and have expansion and growth of our international oil and gas cooperation has been Best IR by a mainland awards from the Sun Yueqi 2014 and was the only one from substantial in terms of size and scope, with operational quality improving greatly. Chinese company trade relations with Science and Technology Indonesia’s oil and gas industry. In 2014, overseas oil and gas equivalent production reached 147.2 million barrels. Education Fund more than 80 countries. 2 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 3 We sought to identify opportunities and challenges, and made progress in adversity. We continued to adhere to our principle of steady growth and our guidelines of quality, profitability and sustainable development. We accelerated our strategic transition from focusing on large-scale development to quality and Message from the Chairman profitability enhancement, thereby maintaining sound and stable development. The year 2014 saw a more complicated international economic We steadily promoted reform and innovation and continued to carry out the HSE system audit, and strengthened the development. We will accelerate business transformation amid environment and increasing downward pressure on the domestic boosted growth momentum and vitality. risk prevention and control system and our emergency response China’s economic “new normal”, and shift our development model economy, resulting in slower growth in demand in the oil and gas capability. In addition, we accelerated the implementation of from rapid development to sustainable and steady development. market. In particular, the international oil price has seen a big drop We expanded pilot projects to give greater operating autonomy to projects for energy conservation and emissions reduction. As a Furthermore, we will shift our focus from incremental investment to since July 2014, resulting in a sharp rise in the difficulties faced oilfield companies, and launched and implemented reform of our result, our HSE performance is generally stable and controllable. adjusting existing investments, optimizing new projects, promoting by production and operations, and posing increasing risks to our natural gas marketing system and the integration of downstream We made great efforts to develop a harmonious enterprise, giving innovation-driven development and improving the quality of staff. international businesses. In the face of growing pressures and businesses. We continued to improve our systems and mechanisms top priority to the overall development of our employees. To this We will benefit from the coordinated development of the upstream, challenges, we sought to identify opportunities and challenges, for corporate and business development. We implemented a end, we built platforms for employee development, promoted midstream and downstream sectors, instead of relying on the and made progress in adversity. We continued to adhere to our performance-based compensation scheme, reviewing employee local recruitment, safeguarded employee rights and interests, upstream sector. We will better fulfill our economic, environmental principle of steady growth and our guidelines of quality, profitability remuneration in accordance with corporate profitability to provide protected their physical and mental health, strengthened the and social responsibilities and continue to offer environmentallyand sustainable development. We accelerated our strategic incentives through performance appraisals. Through the active protection of staff working overseas, and actively improved their friendly and low-carbon energy, allowing us to contribute to transition from focusing on large-scale development to quality and introduction of social capital, we ensured the orderly development living conditions. We strengthened corporate governance and national energy security and socio-economic development. profitability enhancement, thereby maintaining sound and stable of joint venture and cooperation projects. By implementing the compliance management in accordance with the law and explored development. innovation-driven development strategy, we made significant an approach to anti-corruption work using a mix of systems We would like to express our heartfelt gratitude for your continuing achievements in our major technology projects and field tests. plus technology. We cracked down on commercial bribery and interest in and support for PetroChina over the years. We welcome We optimized our business structure and delivered We made relentless efforts to increase revenues, lower costs and strictly followed the relevant laws and regulations on commercial your valuable comments on this report. more green and low-carbon products and high-quality improve profitability, and launched campaigns to strengthen our competition to maintain a fair and open market order and establish services to the community. management. As a result, we have enhanced the level of lean PetroChina as a model enterprise of transparency and integrity. management. Through reform, innovation and strengthened management, we have achieved a better-than-expected business Today, the world’s political and economic landscape is undergoing With a focus on restructuring, maintaining growth and enhancing performance in spite of a significant reduction in investment scale a profound readjustment, the relationship between global energy profitability, we prioritized the development of our core oil and and declining oil prices. supply and demand is experiencing rapid change, and China is gas business, and improved and optimized our value chain. The actively pushing forward energy reform. The quick establishment proportion of upstream investment climbed to over 75%, with We fully implemented three fundamental projects to of a clean, efficient, safe and sustainable modern energy system domestic oil and gas reserves continued to grow, and oil and gas will have a great and dramatic impact on economic development, output hit a record high. The proportion of natural gas in total oil lay a stronger foundation for sustainable development. social progress and even human civilization. As one of the major and gas equivalent rose to 35%. We intensified the restructuring Zhou Jiping, Chairman of the Board oil and gas producers and suppliers in China, PetroChina shoulders of our refining business and gradually optimized our processing At PetroChina, we have taken concrete steps to implement three great responsibilities and has a mission to advance energy reform. resources, operation processes and product mix. A number of fundamental projects in safety and environmental protection, Facing this new situation and our new role, we will make every major pipelines and storage facilities were completed and put into harmony and stability, and anti-corruption. We strengthened the effort to grasp important strategic opportunities for development, operation, and our sales services network was further improved. foundations for safety and environmental protection and ensured tackle the challenges in an innovative manner, and strive for The proportion of revenue and profit from overseas operations the effective enforcement of our systems and accountability. We business restructuring, fostering new growth drivers and low-cost continued to increase. 4 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 5 Interview with the President As China’s economic development has entered interest rates and tax rates and the planning of tax expenditure, and The Chinese government is pushing forward Second, we attach great importance to health, safety and a “new normal” phase coupled with a slowdown in improved the debt financing structure. Furthermore, we continued reforms to promote mixed ownership of state-owned environmental protection. To this end, we have been actively to lower our financing costs and improve our financial position. involved in environmental protection, anti-terrorism and growth in demand for oil and gas, how will PetroChina enterprises. What initiatives have been taken by We tightened our controls over key cost indicators, significantly occupational health in overseas markets. At PetroChina, we give foster new growth drivers and competitive advantages PetroChina in terms of cooperation with social and reduced our management costs and substantially scaled down top priority to the management of pollution sources and ecological to achieve sustainable development? the increase in labor costs. We also improved our internal control private capital? What are your plans for the future? restoration. We promote green and safe development in order to system, strengthened risk management and control, and strived to build ourselves as an environmental friendly enterprise. We believe that there is pressing need to develop new growth reduce the risks of loss resulting from market fluctuations. drivers. They not only help us address current development PetroChina upholds the principle of “open cooperation for Third, we implement a localization strategy for our operations. We bottlenecks, but also lead us to achieving long-term sustainable We will step up efforts to further reduce costs and increase mutual benefit”. We have strengthened our strategic capital give top priority to the employment of local workers to create jobs development. Therefore, we will explore new areas for growth profitability, and adopt a more flexible and efficient production planning, accelerated business integration and light-asset model for local communities and strengthen the skills training of local based on our existing business, strengthen the businesses where and management strategy to weather the changes in oil prices of operations, and established a number of joint venture and staff, promoting the joint development of local enterprises and we have competitive advantages and sound profitability, and and the market. We will adhere to our supportive and control cooperation platforms to further open up our businesses. In 2014, PetroChina. gradually improve the performance of loss-making operations. We measures to optimize our investment structure and pace. We will we entered into joint venture and cooperation agreements with will explore new catalysts through market development and seize strive to optimize our revenue and expenditure, ensuring the stable provinces and regions such as Xinjiang, Heilongjiang, and Shaanxi, Fourth, we actively participate in public welfare undertakings. opportunities arising from economic restructuring to maximize our performance of our businesses. We will strictly control our costs, and a number of cooperation projects are being steadily put in Our donations help build hospitals, roads, bridges, schools and share of the domestic incremental market. We will also explore new reduce non-productive expenditure, reduce construction and place. In the future, we will continue to steadily promote and drinking-water facilities, provide residents with medical services markets for our products and international markets, and cultivate procurement costs, and strive for low-cost development. expand cooperation with social, private and foreign capital to make and medicines, promote local economic development and social potential markets. Moreover, we will seek growth drivers from new the most of our complementary advantages and develop side-by-side. progress in the host countries, and improve the living standards of projects and business areas, accelerate the development of projects The new Work Safety Law of the People's Republic local residents. with high potential, actively deploy new businesses, develop and of China and the Environmental Protection Law of the How does PetroChina cooperate with local promote the use of new energy such as biomass, seek opportunities People's Republic of China were introduced in 2014. governments and communities? We earnestly fulfill our social responsibilities in overseas markets for cooperation in the gas-fired power plants, and make efforts to and vigorously promote joint development. As a result, we are How did PetroChina implement them? What measures highly recognized and appreciated by local governments and foster alternative businesses for growth. With a mission of “Caring for Energy, Caring for You” and to ensure were taken and what improvements were made? communities and have won numerous accolades and honors, such mutually beneficial and shared development, PetroChina has How will PetroChina respond to the severe enhanced communication and coordination with the governments as the Kazakhstan CSR Award and the 2014 Special Contribution We studied both laws carefully in order to implement the new and communities in the countries it operates in order to achieve Award from Indonesia. challenges brought about by declining global oil regulations. Executives are primarily accountable for operational win-win cooperation. prices? safety and environmental protection. We strictly assessed both process and accident indicators and are strict in holding First, we have strengthened compliance management in We believe the low oil price is a “double-edged sword” that may accountable those responsible for accidents. We carefully accordance with the law. All our overseas project companies attach not only affect our business performance but also force us to seek examined our rules and regulations to ensure their compliance great importance to laws, internal control and HSE management, low-cost development through reform and innovation. In 2014, we with the new laws. We have established a control mechanism at and they ensure compliance with local laws in relation to took a series of measures to cut costs and increase profitability: we all levels and enhanced our HSE system for audits and rectifying environmental protection, labor and health while running implemented consolidated management of capital expenditure, issues. Furthermore, we focused on safety checks in key areas, Wang Dongjin, our businesses. They respect local religions and customs, and optimized the investment structure, and stipulated stringent criteria strengthened security controls for oil and gas pipelines, and protect the human rights of local employees and residents from Vice Chairman of the Board and President for returns on investment and process controls. As a result, we reinforced efforts on energy conservation and emissions reduction. infringement or negative impact. have reduced the scale of investment by nearly 20%, strengthened Thirteen key emission reduction projects assessed by the State liquidity management, enhanced research on exchange rates, were completed on schedule and met national emission reduction targets. Our overall HSE performance is stable and under control. 6 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 7 Highlights in 2014 Cooperation Platform Environmental Protection We enhanced cooperation with social capital and private capital, entered into cooperation agreements with the provinces and regions Technological Innovation The Mohe-Daqing Section of the RussiaEmployee Development Resource Base such as Xinjiang, Heilongjiang and Shaanxi, China Oil Pipeline was successfully passed the and started the implementation of a number evaluation by the State in terms of water and of cooperation projects. Key technology for the construction and We launched an EAP network to provide soil conservation, environmental protection, Our new proven oil and gas reserves operation of strategic oil and gas channels” overseas employees with online psychological safety facilities, and occupational health continued to grow ; our oil and gas won the first prize of the National Science counseling. protection, and all of its water conservation production hit a record high. and Technology Progress Award. targets have met or exceeded the national standard. The PK project of PetroKazakhstan was presented the Social Responsibility Award for fostering local socioThe South Xinjiang Gassification Project was economic development, by the President of Kazakhstan. We established service stations in the granted the PMI (China) Outstanding Project Medog County in the Tibet Autonomous Award. This project has established a gas We proactively implemented the Action Plan for the Region, the last county in China to trunkline network in the Tarim Basin Rim, Prevention and Control of Atmospheric Pollution, and Overseas Community Engagement completed fourteen National-IV diesel upgrading projects gain road access to the outside world, effectively met the gas demand of people expanding our sales ser vices to 31 and businesses in South Xinjiang, and driven on schedule. All our gasoline has reached the National IV provinces (municipalities and autonomous economic and social development. standard. regions) and the HongKong SAR of China. Upgrading of Oil Products Quality Social Contribution Service Network 8 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 9 Corporate Governance Sustainable development, as an indispensable internal need, runs through the Company’s production and operations. We integrate The rule of law, integrity and compliance are the foundation of an enterprise’s sustainable development. sustainable development into our overall strategies and follow a policy of quality, efficiency and sustainable development. The foundations of our corporate governance are safety and environmental protection, harmony and stability and anti-corruption. We strive to become an At PetroChina, we always advocate the rule of law, which calls for the supremacy of law, equal outstanding corporate citizen with outstanding wealth creativity, brand influence and social appeal. authority and responsibility, procedural compliance, honesty and trustworthiness, and justice and equity. We regularize our business and employee behavior through compliance management, The management solicits suggestions and requests on sustainable development from stakeholders through face-to-face meetings, site visits improve our capability of enterprise management by law, and strive to achieve the modernization and and other activities. In addition, a committee has been established to prepare the sustainability report, and matters concerning sustainable internationalization of the corporate governance system, especially by institutional constraints. We development are verified and disclosed. will make unremitting efforts to explore the scientific and operable measures to enhance corporate governance and to promote efficient management and long-term operations in compliance with all legal requirements. Quality Focusing on development quality and efficiency, the 1. Sustainable Development compensation of managers and employees is linked with their environmental and safety performance, and a “oneExecutive’s vote negation system” is implemented for top managers’ Performance Efficiency Safety incompliance in environmental protection and safety. Employee’s Subsidiaries are assessed on production safety, and Compensation advanced collectives and individuals are selected and p ly y Sup Sa Produ fe an appraised once a year. erg c ti o d En n & Cl e a ed Op n a in er st at Su i Environmental Safety and on Protection Environmental Protection to Cus ard and Transpare St a n d mer-first Market Service nt Quality 2. Governance Framework ate Governan Cor or Efficiency p Sustainability ce AntiHarmony corruption and As one of the first Chinese companies listed in both the Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges, PetroChina has set itself the goal of Stability being a market-oriented enterprise following international best practices. Since its debut, PetroChina established its corporate governance structure in compliance with international rules and regulations, including the Annual General Meetings of shareholders, the establishment of a Board of Directors with its affiliated committees, a Supervisory Committee, and the executive management led by the President. These Em p management structures operate in compliance with domestic and foreign regulatory requirements. ” ted en e nt “ ty ori pm c ie levelo PetroChina actively improves the legal decision-making mechanism, strengthens the evaluation and demonstration for decision making, oS op D e o t ack Pe yee and maintains the retrospective and lifelong accountability systems for decisions made. The Company keeps improving the supervision gB Gi vi n lo and restriction mechanism for the exercising of power, and clarifies the administrative authorities at different levels with equally detailed requirements on their authority and responsibility. Moreover, by coordinating all resources including legal affairs, internal control, auditing and supervision for internal supervision, PetroChina reinforces self-supervision, supervision by dedicated departments, and supervision between superior and subordinate departments, and accepts public supervision, in order to achieve well-documented decision making, appropriate authorization, well-controlled exercise of power, and tracing the accountability for abuses of power. 10 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 11 Shareholders’ and Annual General Meeting Supervisory Committee 3. Management System (AGM) As specified in the Company Law of the PRC and the Articles The general meeting of stockholders is the top authority in the of Association, the Supervisory Committee is responsible for Company and acts in accordance with the laws. PetroChina’s carrying out the duties of the AGM, such as attending supervisory The Company's management approach stresses efficiency, specialization and integration to develop and improve internal control general shareholders’ meetings are held annually and all committee meetings, participating in all board meetings, mechanisms that are accountable, rational, streamlined and dynamic to further restrict and monitor the exercise of power. We proactively shareholders enjoy equal privileges to exercise their rights. As the reporting to the AGM, and preparing proposals and reports for seek integrate and ascertain the suggestions and feedback from the independent directors, in order to improve corporate social responsibility controlling shareholder of PetroChina, CNPC will abstain from the Supervisory Committee. The committee supervises company performance and achieve sustainable growth. voting when a connected transaction is presented to the general finance and monitors the legal compliance of the directors and meeting for consideration in order to ensure fairness. senior management of the Company in order to ensure their responsibility to all shareholders. As of the end of 2014, the Compliance Management Mechanism of PetroChina Board of Directors and its affiliated Board Company’s Supervisory Committee has nine members, with four Committees employee members being involved. The directors are elected by the general meeting of shareholders Executive Body and are accountable to shareholders. The board has several Prevention Control Supervision Accountability committees: the Audit Committee, Evaluation & Remuneration The Company’s executive management body consists of a Vice Committee, Investment & Development Committee and the President and a CFO presided over by the President. They are Health, Safety and Environmental Protection (HSE) Committee, appointed by and accountable to the Board of Directors, and are System and process Compliance registration Compliance reporting Punishment and all of which advise the board on its decisions. Shareholders responsible for carrying out the board’s resolutions and day-toand reporting and investigation rectification with 3% or more of the Company’s voting shares may submit a day business operations as authorized under the Company Law of Risk evaluation and warning Compliance audit of Compliance evaluation Corresponding system and written proposal to the General Meeting prior to the convening the PRC and the Articles of Association and the Board of Directors. important matters procedure amendment date with their intent to nominate a director for candidacy and The Company has a two-tier executive governance organization Compliance audit Training Compliance archives the candidate’s acceptance of the nomination. A board director for the headquarters and local offices, and a three-tier business and testing serves a three-year term, after which they may run for reelection. structure consisting of the headquarters, subsidiaries and local According to our Board Diversity Policy, nominees to the board operations. We have four core business operations: exploration are considered based on the needs and requirements of the and production, refining and chemicals, marketing, and natural Company, as well as the candidate's age, educational background gas and pipelines. and professional experience. There are four non-executive independent directors in the Board of Directors, making up more Compliance Management System Internal Control and Risk Management than one-third of the Board. These independent directors are System Integrity and compliance are the bottom line of our business from different countries and technical backgrounds, including operation and the cornerstone of the Company’s development. Following the Company’s development strategies, we actively petroleum and petrochemicals, accounting, finance, international We know clearly that the Company’s reputation and sustainability implement the national Comprehensive Risk Management investment, and portfolio management. are highly dependent on integrity and compliance. We have a Guidelines, Basic Standard for Enterprise Internal Control and “Zero Tolerance” attitude to irregularities and enhance process regulatory requirements of capital markets in order to improve control while focusing on prevention. We have established our competitiveness. Specifically, for purpose of further improving Corporate Governance Structure a management framework with unified administration, clear internal control, deepening comprehensive risk management, job division and coordinated operation, and strive to build a optimizing business process management and enhancing compliance management system with complete regulations, the effectiveness of internal control and supervision, we General Meeting of Shareholders scientific procedures and proper execution to cover all staff, promoted system construction and optimized system design; entire process and all aspects. Moreover, we strictly comply with highlighted risk-orientation and strengthened the practicability Audit Committee the applicable laws and regulations, abide by business ethics of comprehensive risk management; reinforced process control, Supervisory Committee and adhere to the principle of honesty and credibility, in order optimized the business process management and improved the Evaluation & Remuneration to promote transparent trading, maintain fair and impartial power of execution; and strengthened the internal control testing Committee Board of Directors competition and fight against unfair competition in any form, and and intensified examination and appraisal. Furthermore, we Investment & Development conduct faithful, honest and legal external transactions. strengthened the construction of an auditing system and issued Committee the Provisions on Auditing Rectification, Audit Project Management Measures, and Audit Project Quality Management Measures, and Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Committee focused more on process design and the execution of significant Executives & Managements investment, financing and acquisition projects. The Company’s internal control was in good condition and the internal control system was effective and sustainable throughout the year. 12 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 13 Corruption Punishment and Prevention System Technological Innovation System Communication with Stakeholders In line with the technological philosophy of “strategy-driven, We treat our business partners, customers, suppliers, contractors goal-oriented, and top-tier design”, we continue to implement and counterparts with integrity, respect and equality. We oppose and improve the three projects of scientific innovation, with We are dedicated to improving quality and efficiency to maximize returns to our shareholders and value any form of commercial bribery and require our business partners a technological innovation system combining technology for our stakeholders, to achieve our common goal of harmonious and mutually beneficial growth. to follow the Company’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies, development, organization of research, resources platform and with no abuse of one’s position in signing business contracts for technology service. The science and technology innovation personal gain or other illegal or immoral benefits. Moreover, we system has propelled our innovation-driven development. never conduct, participate in or support any forms of money Technological innovation was widely promoted in several Gaining our stakeholders’ trust and support is fundamental to development, safety, clean energy, energy-saving, environmental laundering. national and company-level research projects and field tests, i.e., the building of a sustainable business. We actively perform our protection and governance performance. The top managerial theories and technologies were further advanced for oil and gas obligation of information disclosure, and provide the public with personnel of the Company frequently attend high-level Realizing the importance of taking a firm stance against exploration, water flooding and enhanced oil recovery of high timely, accurate, complete and reliable information through conferences and forums and deliver speeches. We keep improving corruption, we make unremitting efforts to combat corruption, water cut oilfields, development of heavy oil and super heavy oil, multiple means according to the Articles of Association, as well our website to provide more information, and have introduced putting it as our top priority and the foundation of our work. and development of low-permeability reservoirs; breakthroughs as laws, regulations and regulatory requirements where the interactive features such as “Investor FAQs”. We also respond to PetroChina has established an anti-corruption leading group and were made in the development of key technologies and new Company is listed. We solicit suggestions from stakeholders, investors’ questions through the “E-interactive Platform” of the an anti-corruption coordination group, formulated a five-year products including catalysts for refining and petrochemical and respond to these suggestions and make improvements Shanghai Stock Exchange. Moreover, we enhance communication work plan, work division scheme and annual advancement plan operations; a process package with proprietary intellectual accordingly. We have improved the management and relevant with the media through press releases, by holding press specific to the corruption punishment and prevention system, and property rights was formed for liquefaction of natural gas; and systems for information disclosure of significant events, and conferences and media briefings, and organizing different constantly promoted the accountability system. We strengthened a batch of technical achievements were popularized for the document every opinion and suggestion, and channel them to forms of media visits and communications to attend to external education on regulations on incorrupt administration and work application, such as coiled tubing, substituting oil with gas relevant departments, so that the Company is aware of the needs concerns. Upon the occurrence of significant events, we issue ethics, perfected the anti-corruption system, built the electronic for ships, and clean gasoline/diesel oil production. The overall of the stakeholders. notices promptly to provide our shareholders and investors with supervision platform, and used scientific means to prevent conceptual design of the ERP-based application integration the latest information. We also organize roadshows and site and control corruption risks. Moreover, efforts were made in project was completed and trial programmes have been put into We have established a multi-level mechanism to communicate inspections for investors, meet investors, and invite individual inspection, compliance supervision, and discipline auditing, in practice. The field implementation of the IOT project achieved with stakeholders, through periodic reports, interim reports, shareholders to attend the AGM, in order to improve mutual trust order to firmly fight against corruption. remarkable results. Our data center with cloud computing was media communication, interviews and visits, and interactive between stakeholders and the Company. fully completed and put into use. In 2014, nine technological communication, which cover information on technological achievements we have taken part in won the National Science and Technology Progress Award and the National Technical Invention Award. Suppliers’ seminars are regularly held to solicit opinions and Customer Experience Day, a campaign launched by PetroChina suggestions for business cooperation Shanxi Marketing Company to provide customers with oil knowledge Experts from the PetroChina delegation hosting a semina at A close look at PetroChina the 21th World Petroleum Congress 14 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 15 Communication Approach Key Actions Expectations Offer company expertise Behave legally and ethically, and abide by the applicable laws and Attend to public concerns and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate Stable energy supply Stabilize oil and gas supplies improve corporate behavior Harmonious economic and social Participate in discussions organized by the government on climate Governments Launch strategic cooperation with development change, energy conservation and emission reduction relevant departments Leading role of brand and technology Promote local employment and cultivate local talents Attend seminars and forums Tax payment according to law Pay taxes according to law Key Actions Communication Approach Communication Approach Operate in a responsible manner to Key Actions Expectations Fulfill requirements on statutory maintain a good reputation Hold tendering meetings Strengthen centralized procurement Hold large cross-border business Fair and transparent information disclosure Convene annual general meetings management to provide suppliers with equal negotiations and technical exchange procurement Expectations Organize roadshow and reverse Equal treatment of shareholders, opportunities meetings Win-win cooperation roadshow activities, such as field visits and value opinions of both small Standardized corporate Issue reports and announce results and medium-sized shareholders Enhance communication and coordination Use the electronic trading platform Shareholders governance performance on a regular basis Hold dialogues with investors and with contractors and strengthen the HSE Engage in sharing managerial Stable business growth Launched an “Investor FAQs” mailbox shareholders in various ways management of contractors by creating a safe practices and technical standards Sustainable development to receive public opinions and healthy working environment Conduct contract negotiations and Improve security measures and the routine meetings emergency response network Hold training for business partners Open the investment field Conduct daily operation meetings Business partners Key Actions Enhance employee training and skills development Communication Approach Key Actions Organize vocational skill Elect employee representatives to competitions Submit a progress report to the UN Global join the Supervisory Committee Conduct occupational health Communication Approach Expectations Compact Establishment of trade unions at all checks Attend to external concerns through various Improve sustainable management Share the Company’s experiences Expectations levels Promote local employment in forms of communication Participate in NGO activities Perform social responsibilities Basic rights guaranteed Convene employee representatives’ overseas operations Play an active role in participating in and such as poverty alleviation and Promote international Employees meetings and make reports Provide a career development environmental protection Professional development supporting international environment and communication Growth in wages and Organize employee training programs platform for employees standardization initiatives benefits Set up a complaints and feedback Protect employee safety in overseas Participate in a wide range of forums and NGOs system operations conferences Key Actions Expectations Key Actions Participate in disaster relief and reconstruction, and provide financial support for education and Promote employment growth Communication Approach Consumers Strengthen quality management poverty alleviation Protect community Communication Approach Hold a Quality Month activity Hold dialogues with local environment Support and drive local economic growth Expectations Carry out activities to protect Develop an appraisal methodology for the communities Promote economic through large projects Provide safe, environmentally consumers’ interests quality management system Supply clean energy, e.g. natural gas, to remote Organize community visits development in the friendly, high-quality Publicize commitment to Improve service quality at service stations regions Conduct social and community products and services quality services Increase the supply of clean fuel, such as Hold volunteering activities among employees environmental impact Respect cultural traditions of Constantly improve the Provide hotline services natural gas, high-standard gasoline and diesel Procure locally, where the business is carried out assessments of projects the community quality and variety of services Conduct customer satisfaction Secure oil supplies for disaster relief and Provide job opportunities and training for the Promotion of education Operate with integrity surveys agricultural production local community Increase information disclosure Communities 16 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 17 SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY Energy is essential to socio-economic development. A Safe, Stable, Diversified and Clean Energy Supply System Our mission is to develop a safe, stable, diversified and clean energy supply system, thereby promoting Population growth, economic development and urbanization continue to drive growth in global energy demand. However, inefficiencies in energy production and use lead to the depletion of precious energy resources and cause environmental problems, sustainable economic growth and social progress. such as global warming, extreme weather and air pollution. They have also exacerbated global instability, hunger and poverty and slowed the progress towards achieving the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. Clean energy supplied in a safe, stable and efficient manner provides fair and sustainable energy solutions for all people and is a prerequisite for a sound economic system and sustainable social development. At PetroChina, we are proactively changing the ways we produce energy. Through diversification, lower carbon emissions, innovation and cooperation, we strive to build a safe, stable, diversified and clean energy supply system. We further strengthen our resource base through technological and managerial innovations. To ensure sustainable energy supply in the future, we are building a diversified energy system, accelerating natural gas development, exploring unconventional energy, and supplying more clean energy. In addition, we are expanding international cooperation and optimizing our global businesses in order to play a leading role in supplying cleaner and greener energy and to fuel sustainable socio-economic development. 1. Consolidating Our Resource Base Oil and gas resources are essential for supply capacity building and serve as the foundation for our sustainable business growth. Therefore, the resource strategy is our top priority. We have implemented a number of reserve-growth peak initiatives in order to acquire economic and quality reserves and to consolidate our “Top Ten Geological Prospecting resource base. Achievement of 2014” Stable Growth in Domestic Oil and Gas The project of “Natural Gas Exploration in Kelasu Reserves Area of Tarim Basin”, and the project of “Great Breakthrough made in Tight Oil Exploration in In 2014, we focused on in-depth exploration at target zones, Yanchang Formation of Ordos Basin” were awarded strengthened prospecting and risk exploration at key areas and the “Top 10 Geological Prospecting Achievements basins, and made continuous efforts to improve our continental of 2014” by the Geological Society of China. oil and gas exploration theories and technologies. As a result, notable achievements were made in gas exploration in the Ordos, Sichuan and Tarim basins. New progress was made in oil exploration in the Ordos, Junggar and Qaidam basins, and major breakthroughs were made in tight oil exploration in the Ordos, Songliao and Turpan-Hami basins. Our reserve replacement ratio is 1.05, according to an independent valuation agency. 2014 Sustainability Report 19 Cross-sea export pipeline Increasing Oil and Gas Production Efficiency Expanding Transnational Oil and Gas Transportation Channels The Company optimized the overall development plans of our oil and gas fields, accelerated capacity building for major projects, continued In 2014, PetroChina continued to expand its transnational oil and gas pipelines and construct LNG receiving terminals. The Dalian LNG Project to carry out finely controlled water injection, and implemented secondary development and tests for major developments, reinforcing the was completed and passed the national inspection. As a result, the Company’s delivery capacity for imported gas has been further enhanced. foundation for the stable production of mature oilfields. Daqing Oilfield maintained efficient and continuous development, and achieved annual oil output of more than 40 million tons for the twelfth consecutive year. Changqing Oilfield shifted its focus from increasing the scale of production towards lean management and produced 55.45 million tons of oil equivalent in 2014. In 2014, our domestic crude oil output and marketable natural gas output reached 823.2 million barrels and 2879.2 billion cubic feet respectively. Oil equivalent output reached 1303.2 million barrels. 4. Developing Alternative Energy In view of the continuous decline in conventional, easily accessible and high quality oil and gas resources, unconventional energy such as Oil Equivalent Production (106 barrels) tight oil and gas, coalbed methane (CBM) and shale gas are now seen as realistic and viable replacements. PetroChina is focusing on the 35% future of the energy supply and is actively promoting the development and use of unconventional oil and gas resources as well as renewable energy to create a sustainable energy supply system. We continue to intensify our efforts in the exploration and development of unconventional resources such as tight gas, shale gas, and coalbed methane. PetroChina is now the home of the National Energy and Tight Oil and Gas Research Center and we are increasing In 2014, contribution from natural technological research and development. In 2014, we made rapid progress in tight gas development and produced 26.7 billion cubic meters gas to our total oil equivalent of tight gas, accounting for 28% of the Company’s total domestic gas production. We continue to be active in shale gas development and output increased to 35% we accelerate production in Weiyuan and Changning in Sichuan Province and Zhaotong in Yunnan Province. The Sichuan Changning longdistance shale gas pipeline was put into operation, enabling the delivery of regional shale gas to other areas. In CBM development, a series of economically viable supporting technologies for CBM exploration and development were employed and a total of 1.36 billion cubic meters of marketable gas from CBM was produced, an increase of about 58% over the same period in 2013. 2. Optimizing Our Product Mix and Refining Geographical Coverage To meet society’s growing demand for high-quality oil products, the Company has optimized its product mix based on market demand. We increased production of clean gasoline, low freezing-point diesel and jet fuel, accelerated new product development and stepped up efforts to enhance product quality and profitability. We made progress in the upgrading of oil product quality,with our entire diesel products for motor vehicles now meeting the NationalIV standard. In addition, we further optimized the geographical distribution of our refining business. Sichuan Petrochemical Company’s refining project was put into operation, Guangxi Petrochemical Company’s sour crude oil support project was completed and put into operation, and the development of Yunnan Petrochemical’s refining project was accelerated, enhancing the Company’s capacity to supply oil products in southwest China. 3. Pushing Forward Pipeline Network Construction Compared with transportation by water, road, railway and air, pipeline transportation is safer and more efficient, energy-saving and environmentally-friendly. We continue to expand the oil and gas pipeline network to reduce oil and gas transportation costs, boost our capacities in transportation and allocation, and optimize the market allocation of resources. Improving Domestic Pipeline Network In 2014, we made further improvements to our key oil and gas pipeline networks and a number of domestic oil and gas pipelines were completed and put into operation, including the west section of the Third West-East Gas Pipeline, the Hohhot-Baotou-Erdos Oil Product Pipeline, and the Fourth Daqing-Tieling Oil Pipeline. Therefore, the Company’s emergency peak-shaving capacity was further enhanced. The throughput capacity of natural gas and oil products increased by 10.4% and 22.8% respectively on a year-on-year basis. Shale Gas Drilling Site Wei 204H-4 of PetroChina Southwest Oil and Gas Field 20 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 21 5. Deepening International Cooperation Case Study Large-Scale Development of Shale Gas Accelerates Clean Energy Development We adhere to the principles of “cooperation for mutual benefit and joint development” and comply with the laws, regulations and energy policies of the host countries. Based on our advantages in funding, technology and management, we have participated in oil and gas exploration with our partners globally, in order to contribute to the global oil and gas market. As an unconventional gas, shale gas plays an important role in improving the energy mix and promoting Overseas Energy Development the Changqing Oilfield maintained high and stable production. environmental protection. At PetroChina, we regard shale gas as an important alternative resource to achieve profit We have mechanically completed the purification plant and Well growth. In the Sichuan Basin, we actively carry out pilot experiments for shale gas development, promote the In 2014, we got considerable achievements in cooperation on oil Site A for the Northeast Sichuan Project, developed in cooperation and gas projects in countries such as Iraq, Peru and Venezuela. with Unocal East China Sea, Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of construction of national shale gas demonstration areas, and accelerate the large-scale development of shale gas. Phase II of the Halfaya Project developed in partnership with Total Chevron Corporation. In partnership with Total, we fully developed and Petronas in Iraq became operational. New breakthroughs the project in South Sulige Block, which was hailed by Total as Large-scale and efficient development We are the first company in China to carry out comprehensive geological were also made in venture exploration and rolling exploration in “one of the world’s best projects”. In 2014, net output from our evaluation of shale gas to select favorable areas and layers. We applied innovative systems and mechanisms for Chad and the PK project in Kazakhstan. Over the course of the domestic foreign cooperation projects reached 5.132 million tons the industrial development of shale gas and developed a model for its efficient exploration and development that year, we achieved a net overseas oil and gas equivalent output of of oil and gas equivalent, representing an increase of 6.3% over combines “platform-based well placement, industrial drilling and fracturing, skid-mounted construction, and digital 147.2 million barrels. the same period in 2013. production management”. In recent years, the Company has invested a cumulative RMB 7 billion, completed 42 shale gas wells and produced 177 million cubic meters of commercial shale gas, accelerating the development of the Promoting Oil and Gas Cooperation with Steadily Expanding International Trade ChangningWeiyuan National Shale Gas Demonstration Zone. International Partners In 2014, we further enhanced our international trade in terms of We continue to make steady progress on cooperation with volume and quality, and maintained steady progress at three main Clean and energy-saving development As part of its QHSE management system, we apply a “treat while you drill” international partners in developing oil and gas resources in operating centers in Asia, Europe and the Americas. The average technology which promptly collects and treats drilling waste and stops it coming into contact with the ground. We annual growth in international trade between 2006 and 2014 China. In 2014, we entered into an agreement with HESS on also recycle waste oil-based mud and reduce the amount of waste generated. This further optimizes the use of water joint research of shale gas in the Rongchang North Block in the reached 20%. resources with a recycling rate of over 90% for fracturing flow back fluid. In addition, the company is actively exploring Sichuan Basin. The Changbei Project in partnership with Shell at anhydrous fracturing technology to save water resources and applies platform-based well placement technology which reduces land use by over 70% compared with single-well placement. Broadening joint ventures and cooperation When developing shale gas resources, we proactively carry out technical communication and cooperation with international companies such as Shell, ConocoPhillips and Schlumberger. We explore market-oriented operating mechanisms, adopt the engineering, procurement and contract (EPC) model for drilling and formation testing, provide venture exploration services, and integrate various advantages of different market players in geological research, technical research and professional services. In cooperation with social capital, the company has established Chongqing Shale Gas Exploration and Development Co., Ltd. to share risks and profits. Successful first delivery of oil of Missan Oil Export Pipeline (MOEP) in Iraq 22 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 23 SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION 1. Improving HSE Management Safety and environmental protection is essential to our development. In 2014, our safety and environment protection efforts remained The natural environment is essential for the survival under strict supervision. We attach great importance to health, safety and the environment (HSE), give priority to safety and environment of all life on Earth and it is therefore part of our in our operation, and fully conduct HSE system audits. By improving the management system and implementing stricter inspection of philosophy of caring for people and protecting responsibility fulfillment, PetroChina promoted the evaluation and risk control of safe production, strengthened incident management, and strived to enhance HSE management performance. As a result, our overall HSE performance was stable and controllable in 2014. the environment. Upholding the principles of being “people-oriented, prevention-driven, all staff involved and continuously improving”, we strive to build a resource-saving, environmentally friendly Building a Sound HSE Management System and safety-oriented business with the goals of “zero injuries, no pollution and zero accidents”. In 2014, we completed HSE system reviews covering all of our businesses, and continued to establish and improve HSE systems HSE Spot Checks and standards, in order to enhance their operability and achieve closed-loop PDCA management, PetroChina provided refining In 2014, PetroChina attached great importance to enterprises with HSE counseling and strengthened management HSE spot checks. We went directly to the grassroots of weak processes; promoted training pilot projects on the HSE units and work sites for spot checks without prior position matrix to enhance the effectiveness of HSE training; notice, requiring no briefing or reception, in order evaluated the competence of senior managers to enhance safety to identify problems in grassroots production management; and carried out spot checks to identify and deal promptly, and to promote the intrinsic safety of our with any hazard or problem in a timely manner. HSE performance. Strengthening the Mechanism for Responsibility Fulfillment, Evaluation and Supervision PetroChina continuously improves job management, assesses the supervision system, and ensures overall and strict fulfillment of HSE responsibilities. In 2014, PetroChina entered into a Safety and Environment Agreement with the top managers of all subsidiaries Key Points of Safety Supervision and for the eighth consecutive year; and revised the Provisions on Management Duties for the Operational Safety and Environmental Control Protection, to define the safety responsibility system for each position. Moreover, we strictly assessed safety and environmental Focusing on lessons, problems, and persons in performance with both process and accident indicators. The top charge; follow-up in operations, guidance and managers of the subsidiaries were held accountable for accidents inspection. with a one-vote veto for any misconduct in HSE performance; safety and environmental performance was linked with the performance of the top managers and employees’ remuneration; and safety and environment patrols were carried out to conduct supervision and spot checks of establishment, revision, implementation and assessment of the systems in all the units. 2014 Sustainability Report 25 Sulige drilling site Major Accident Risk Prevention HSE Management System Mode We are engaged in an industry involving high risks. Accidents may threaten employees’ lives and even lead to public safety and environmental pollution incidents. Therefore, we attach great importance to accident risk management and control. At PetroChina, we have established a risk management mechanism implementing “management and control by different levels”, and upgraded management for 14 categories of major HSE accidents. Risk management and control processes were streamlined, and key points and responsibilities for risk control at different levels were defined. In 2014, we upgraded the investigation and handling of accidents to the highest level, with field investigations conducted by the headquarters, those responsible seriously punished, and accident-hit units downgraded in their performance evaluation. We strictly investigated accident responsibility, established effective channels for accident and incident reporting, Health, Safety & Planning and strengthened the investigation and handling of anyone who conceals, falsely reports or delays the reporting of any accident. Drawing Environmental Policy lessons from accidents, we enhanced employees’ awareness of the prevention and control of major risks. Organizational Management Leadership & Structure, Prevention & Control of Major Accidents and Risks Review Commitment Resources and Documents Inspection & Implementation & Corrective Action Operation Accident & Incident Strict Accident Accountability Escalation Management Internal Audit Layered Management Hierarchical Prevention & Control Following the PDCA management model, our HSE management system is composed of 7 key elements. Through the process of PLAN, DO, CHECK and ACTION, we keep enhancing our management skills and performance. Responsible Person Accident Resource Sharing Escalation & Disposal Enhancing Emergency Management Capabilities At PetroChina, we implemented laws and regulations including the Emergency Response Law of the People's Republic of China, built three key emergency response centers for drilling well control, pipeline and marine operations safety, improved the pipeline maintenance and rescue system, and improved the linkage operational mechanism for five major fire protection areas. By doing so, an emergency rescue system composed of full-time and part-time members was developed, which is backed by the Company’s rescue measures and supported by other emergency rescue forces. To strengthen coordination and cooperation in oil spill response, we have established an integrated emergency response mechanism together with Sinopec and CNOOC for resource sharing and joint response in spill emergency and fire prevention, and the development and promotion of spill response technology. Five of our subsidiaries including Urumqi Petrochemical Company were designated as national bases for hazardous material rescue. Daqing Oilfield Company was designated as Daqing Base for national oil and gas field rescue. Safety tips at workplace 26 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 27 2. Enhancing Operational Safety Offshore Operational Safety In 2014, PetroChina improved its regulations on offshore safety. and environment responsibilities of the organizations that have PetroChina advocates the principle of “people-oriented safety management”, and believes that “safety comes from responsibility, design, We amended the national Management Measures on Safety established relations of cooperation, trust, contracting or lease, quality and prevention”. Therefore, we have adopted production safety as one of our core values, and have implemented this concept in all Supervision of Offshore Oil Production, and participated in the and labor export with PetroChina. our sectors and production and operation processes. compilation of the National Plan for Improving Emergency Response in Major Offshore Oil Spills. Moreover, we implemented new safety Safe Production Month and environmental laws, and conducted compliance reviews on the HSE performance of artificial islands, beaches and shores, In 2014, we held the “Safe Production Month” campaign to Pipeline Hazard Control jacket platforms, onshore terminals, subsea oil and gas pipelines, strengthen the safety awareness and promote safe development. subsea cables and other oil and gas facilities. Training for safety Through special columns on websites and TV, we organized Pipeline hazard control is a common challenge for governments, announcing progress of these controls. We developed a platform qualification certification was carried out for the top managers k nowledge contests and discussions for all employees, oil and gas production and transportation enterprises and their to identify pipeline safety hazards, ensured the entry, tracking and of subsidiaries with offshore operations. In 2014, a total of 373 popularized safety knowledge, fulfilled safety responsibilities, and contractors. To ensure the safe and smooth operation of oil and supervision of basic risk and hazard information, and improved key personnel and safety management personnel were trained. further improved and consolidated the long-effect operational gas pipelines, in 2014, we carried out special hazard investigation efficiency in hazard identification. We promoted pipeline integrity We also promoted the building of an offshore emergency rescue safety mechanism. A total of over 200 headquarters managers and and remediation, and promoted pipeline hazard control in management, strengthened regular testing, and accelerated response center, and maintained safe and smooth offshore oil and 89,000 employees took part in the consultation day activities of cooperation with local governments. Furthermore, we established the shutdown and scrapping of old pipelines. As a result, 92 old gas production throughout the year. the “Safe Production Month”. a working mechanism to supervise the identification and control pipelines have been suspended. In 2014, 3,721 pipeline hazards of major hazards, by listing major hazards among the top tasks were corrected, completing the remediation plan ahead of Contractor Management Training on the amended Work Safety Law of of the heads of our subsidiaries, and regularly checking and schedule. the People's Republic of China Contractors are our partners in our production and operation activities. We attach great importance to their safety, and have As the amended Work Safety Law of the People's Republic of China incorporated contractors’ safety into our HSE management puts forward higher requirements for enterprises’ operational system, based on the principle that “the bidding party is in safety capabilities, we provided relevant training for all employees charge of supervision, and the employer takes the responsibility”. via video conferences and special training courses. In compliance First-Class Enterprises in Operational “Demonstration Enterprises for National In 2014, we carried out two special supervision patrols for with the new requirements of the law, we conducted compliance Safety Standardization in Petroleum Safety Culture Building in 2013” contractors’ operational safety, and urged them to correct the checks and problem rectification to ensure operational safety. problems identified. Moreover, we further defined the safety Industry Five of our subsidiaries, including Ningxia Petrochemical A total of 64 of our subsidiaries, including Northeast Company and the Third Oil Production Plant of Daqing Sichuan Gas Field of Southwest Oil & Gas Field Oilfield Company, were named “Demonstration Company, were named “First-class Enterprises in Enterprises for National Safety Culture Building in 2013” Operational Safety Standardization in Petroleum by the State Administration of Work Safety. Industry” by the State Administration of Work Safety. Emergency drill 28 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 29 3. Ecological Protection A diversified environment is a valuable resource for humanity. Respecting nature, developing in harmony with nature and protecting nature are of significant and far-reaching importance to our sustainable development. As our oil and gas exploration and development projects and long-distance pipeline projects involve certain environmental risks, we strictly comply with relevant international and domestic laws and regulations, study and implement the Environmental Protection Law of the People's Republic of China, intensify hazard control and environmental protection during production, reinforce ecological restoration of environmentally sensitive areas, actively promote the development and utilization of clean energy and environmentally friendly products, and strive to develop in harmony with the environment. Environmental Management We take into account the environmental impact of our activities the process of design, construction and operation. With regard and decisions, improve the environmental management to environmental risk factors in production, such as oil & gas system, strengthen target and responsibility assessment, and spills, emissions and waste discharge, we have developed a environmental supervision and management, and strictly multi-tiered risk management mechanism and formulated strict control environmental risks, in order to minimize our negative environmental protection measures, to eliminate pollution and impact on the environment during operation and production. protect the ecological environment at the source. While working Environmental management is implemented in the whole in environmentally sensitive areas, we strive to minimize the process of construction projects, and preliminary environmental occupation of arable land, ensure soil and water conservation, and impact assessments are required in experimental pre-EIA take measures to restore vegetation restoration measures, in order projects. For each construction project, environmental protection to restore the ecological environment and protect the biodiversity facilities are required simultaneously with the main project in wherever we operate. Desert highway in Tarim Lifecycle Environmental Management Diagram Whole-process environmental management Tarim Desert Highway Ranked Among Top 10 Most Beautiful Highways in China Communication with stakeholders Communication with stakeholders The Tarim Desert Highway was built in Tarim Oilfield in 1993 exclusively for oil exploration and development in the Environmental Ecological Monitoring Ecological Taklimakan Desert. Running across 446km of drifting deserts, it is the world’s first classified highway built in the drifting Assessment management protection and treatment restoration desert. This highway has shortened the distance between Hotan Prefecture and Urumqi by more than 500km, lowered exploration and development costs, and promoted economic and cultural exchanges in South Xinjiang. In order to reduce the encroachment of sand on the road, Tarim Oilfield Company planted more than 20 million trees such as Haloxylon Project Design Construction Production Acceptance construction Check and Calligonum around the highway to ensure sand fixation. Photovoltaic technology was used to generate power to irrigate the ecological protection forests. Nowadays, thousands of tourists from home and abroad travel here every year, where animals such as hares run and birds fly. In 2008, the Ecological Shelterbelt Project of the Tarim Desert Highway was entitled the “National Environmentally Friendly Project”. In 2014, it was ranked among the Top 10 Most Beautiful Highways Multi-level risk control in China by China Highway Network (www.chinahighway.com). 30 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 31 4. Promoting Energy Saving and Emission Reduction Ecological Protection for Mohe-Daqing Section of China-Russia Crude Pipeline We continued to promote our Ten Energy Saving Projects and Ten Emissions Reduction Projects. We also intensified our efforts in research and development for technologies related to energy conservation, emissions reduction and energy optimization, increased our awareness of green and low-carbon development, strived to enhance energy efficiency, reduced the environmental pressure from energy utilization, To build green, environmentally friendly and high-technology pipelines, we take effective measures to protect key nature and strived to build a resource-saving and environmentally friendly enterprise. In 2014, the Company saved 1.16 million tons of standard coal reserves and other sensitive areas along the Mohe-Daqing Section of the China-Russia Crude Pipeline. equivalent and 19.79 million cubic meters of water, accomplishing 145% and 141% of the annual plans respectively, while our COD, ammonia nitrogen, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions all decreased compared to 2013. Energy Conservation Waste Management The Company invested special funds in six The ecological diversity of transnational PetroChina has established an energy-saving management At PetroChina, we strictly monitor waste discharge during special research programs including the “Evaluation waters was protected. Special funds have been model focusing on consumption reduction via technology and production, reinforce environmental monitoring capacity, and Forecast of Geological Conditions in Permafrost established to build fish breeding stations, management; revised the Measures for Selection of Role Models complete the installation and data networking of online Project for the Mohe-Daqing Section of the Chinaconduct fish established and releasing, carry for Energy and Water Conservation, and improved the evaluation monitoring equipment for waste water and waste gas, and Russia Crude Pipeline”. As a result, we have provided out research on artificial reproduction of burbot, mechanism of energy conservation goals. To ensure energy perform real-time monitoring and early warning of discharge systematic solutions to many global challenges, and monitor and supervise water quality and conservation at source, we strictly managed energy-conservation from major pollution sources, to ensure treatment at source and including the technology for pipeline construction aquatic life. evaluation and reviews of fixed asset investment projects. We process monitoring. and river crossing in permafrost regions. fully promoted the energy efficiency management information system and provided technical training for affiliates. We also We make every effort to reduce waste emissions. Our emission conducted energy efficiency benchmarking of oil and gas fields reduction objectives are broken down to all the subsidiaries and and petrochemical enterprises to analyze gaps and develop integrated into the performance evaluation of the subsidiary measures. In 2014, in response to the national initiative of the “Top top management. We have established the emission reduction 10,000 Enterprises Energy Efficiency Program”, we implemented verification and accounting center to verify the emission reduction 56 key energy conservation projects, including energy-saving measures and performance of key subsidiaries on site. In 2014, we upgrading of mechanical production and surface systems in attached great importance to the implementation of the ten FCC The ecosystem of arable land was protected. Woodland occupation was reduced. oilfields, upgrading of heating furnaces, and steam system flue gas desulfurization projects and the three refining wastewater We invested in soil and water conservation, with We reduced the width of the operation area optimization. We also launched the “Energy Conservation Week”, treatment projects listed in the national Targets for Emissions 816 hectares of arable land reclaimed, 680,000 cubic from 28m to 18m-20m, cutting land occupation to popularize knowledge on energy conservation and low carbon, Reduction of Main Pollutants, and all these projects have been meters of casing soil renovated, and 16,900 mus of by 8,210 mus. boost communication about energy-conservation technology, completed and put into operation on schedule. We conducted afforestation completed. and enhance the energy saving awareness of all the employees. monthly scheduling for all the major emission reduction projects under the “12th Five-Year Plan” (National Economic and Social Development Plan 2011-2015). We also reinforced emission reduction, shut down companies with heavy pollution and poor efficiency, and reduced energy consumption. All the water conservation indicators along the pipeline have reached or exceeded the national standard: disturbed land reclamation rate of 98.8%, total soil erosion control rate of 98.7%, percentage of dammed slag or ashes of 99%, controlled ratio of soil erosion modulus of 0.86, recovery percentage of forestry and grass of 97.6%, and percentage of forestry and grass coverage of 48.8%, as accepted by the Ministry of Water Resources of the People's Republic of China. In 2014, the four projects (soil and water conservation, environmental protection, safety facilities and occupational health protection) in the Mohe-Daqing Section were successfully accepted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the People’s Republic of China. 32 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 33 5.Response to Climate Change Global climate change affects our future. As a responsible energy company, we attach great importance to the control and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and actively support the policies and actions of the international community to address climate change. Utilization of Renewable Resources Furthermore, we took the initiative to reduce carbon emissions and sequestrate carbon to address climate change challenges together with PetroChina reinforces technological research and development to the international community. promote the evaluation, development and utilization of biomass What is carbon sequestration forest? energy, geothermal energy, wind energy and solar energy, and to The forest can absorb 11.83 tons of carbon dioxide Participation in Greenhouse Gas Reduction And in Changqing Oilfield, we actively promoted field tests for control greenhouse gas emissions at source. In the Xinjiang and carbon dioxide flooding. Liaohe Oilfield, we built demonstration projects for photovoltaic and release 1.62 tons of oxygen on average for Actions each one cubic meter growth of stock volume. The power generation, wind power generation, and the development and utilization of geothermal resources. In Huabei Oilfield, forestry carbon sequestration is a forestation activity We actively participate in carbon trading at home and abroad we conducted pilot tests for the comprehensive utilization of to give full play to the forest’s carbon sequestration in order to achieve carbon reduction targets through market Case Study function, for the purpose of reducing carbon dioxide mechanisms. Before signing contracts for overseas investment geothermal energy, and made considerable achievements in geothermal power generation, heating, and heat tracing for oil concentration and mitigating climate warming. The and M&A projects, we fully consider the carbon constraints and Reduction of Carbon Dioxide Emissions transportation. Liaohe Oilfield independently developed shallow forestry carbon sequestration should measure and requirements for total greenhouse gas control in the local area. for Daqing Oilfield CDM Project monitor the accumulated carbon sequestration recirculation technology, enabling the industrial application of of the project, take full account of the project’s Development and Application of Low In Daqing Oilfield, methane accounts for 70% of the geothermal resources, with more than 10 projects completed for effect on improving the forest’s ecological system components of associated gas. According to the applying groundwater source heat pumps. Carbon Environmental Technology and protecting the biodiversity, and enhance the international standard, the reduction of one cubic meter public awareness on environmental protection. The We carried out research on “key low-carbon technology” to of methane emissions is equivalent to the reduction of Afforestation development of carbon sequestration forest requires promote innovation in energy-saving. Continuing to innovate about two kilograms of carbon dioxide emissions. To Forests are an important carbon sink of nature, a climate stabilizer appropriate market mechanism and lawful means to in carbon dioxide flooding and sequestration technology, we enable the recycling of associated gas, the CDM Project and a shelter for biodiversity. The Company is actively engaged gain benefit from carbon sequestration trade, and established a national R&D center, and established a strategic (carbon trading project) of Daqing Oilfield was put in forestry carbon sequestration transactions, promotes full improve the economic effect of forestation. alliance for technological innovation with more than 30 into operation in May 2012. Under the project, 900,000 enterprises, universities and research institutes, and primarily cubic meters of natural gas can be recycled per day and participation in afforestation efforts, and strives to cultivate forest developed an internationally-advanced theoretical and technical 400,000 tons of carbon dioxide emission reductions resources. system for carbon dioxide separation and capture technology, can be sold every year. In 2014, 350,000 tons of certified and carbon dioxide flooding and sequestration technology emission reductions were issued by the United Nations, for low permeability continental reservoirs. In Jilin Oilfield, our realizing the recovery of associated gas and reducing demonstration area for carbon dioxide flooding and sequestration carbon dioxide emissions at the same time. experienced steady progress. In Daqing Oilfield, we accelerated the industrial application of carbon dioxide flooding technology. Research on low-Carbon Environmental Technology for Sustainable Development In response to global climate change and in support of the Company’s sustainable development, we have organized research on “key low-carbon technologies” in recent years. In order to save energy and enhance efficiency, reduce emissions and turn waste into resources, and adopt low-carbon strategies and standards, we carried out key research, including energy and water conservation technology for high water-cut oilfields, low-permeability oil and gas fields, and thermal recovery process; energy conservation technology for refining and chemicals, and long-distance pipelines; energy saving and emission reduction technology for drilling operation; technological integration for oily sludge utilization; efficient wastewater treatment and recycling technology in refineries; greenhouse gas capture and utilization; PetroChina’s evaluation index system for energy conservation and emission reduction, the low-carbon development strategies, and the standards and policies. We made innovations in nine key low-carbon technologies, including digital pumping, unheated gathering and transportation, superheated steam generation, oil transportation with pour point depressant, energy compensation for gas drilling, segregated oil sludge treatment, and associated gas recovery. We also integrated 11 complete sets of technology, including energy and water conservation technology for typical major oilfields and refining, and carbon capture technology. By the end of 2014, we have saved a total of 350,000 tons of standard coal equivalent, reduced 900,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions, saved 15 million cubic meters of water, cut 100,000 tons of sludge discharge, and reduced 205 tons of COD emissions. The carbon sink forest base of PetroChina Xinjiang Oilfield Company, covering an area of 148,000 acres, is the largest stretch of plantation in Xinjiang, playing an important role in carbon storage, air purification and windbreak and sand fixation 34 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 35 CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE 1. Enhancing Quality Management System At PetroChina, quality is always our top priority. We have put into practice the State Council’s Quality Development Program 2011-2020 and continually improved our quality management system in order to enhance the quality, metrology and standardization management, to Petrochemical and gas products play a vital role in improve our product and service quality, and to ensure the high quality of our products, safety, environmental protection and efficiency. China’s economy as well as in the lives of the Chinese people. The Company attaches great importance Quality Management System Metrology Standards to the environment, safety, quality and people The Company reinforces its quality management system and At PetroChina, we strictly comply with the government’s and adheres to the principle of “honesty, quality makes vigorous efforts on brand building and quality supervision laws and regulations and strengthen the maintenance of our and excellence”. Our goal is to produce zero-defect and inspection, aimed at securing the certification of its quality measuring tools to ensure their accuracy and reliability. We carry products with the highest domestic and international management system. In 2014, the quality management system out audits and spot checks so as to promptly rectify any defects certification covered all of our branches, with the certification that may arise. Moreover, we actively promote new measuring standards and realize zero accidents. We promote rate increasing by 5.11% to 87.4% from 2013. We carried out the technologies and leverage informatization technology to management and technological innovation and second round of the review of our quality management system increase the metrological efficiency, thereby enabling us to offer make our best efforts to provide a diverse range of and integrated the quality management system with other consumers high quality and specified quantity of our products. In products and services to consumers. management systems to enhance the efficiency of the overall order to further enhance our overall metrological capabilities, the system. In addition, we launched the “Quality Month” campaign Company developed and issued the Program for Implementation to strengthen the quality management of all staff members and of the Measurement Development Plan in accordance with processes, with employees participating in it a total of 550,000 the national Measurement Development Plan, setting forth our person times. objectives, tasks and execution plans in this regard by 2020. Answering Netizens’ Questions about the Quantity and Quality of Gasoline on the “Refueling Experience Day” “Do you get the amount of gasoline that the fuel dispenser meter shows?” “If an attendant turns the nozzle and off repeatedly while refueling, will I get less gasoline than what I paid for?” “Why is the amount refueled more than the volume listed for the vehicle?”These are the questions frequently asked online. Therefore, Shaanxi Marketing Company invited some 60 netizens from two popular Chinese Internet forums, Tianya Club (www.tianya.cn) and Kaidi Network (www.kdnet.net), to visit its gas station for a closer look at the refueling process. Staff from the Xi'an Institute of Measurement and Testing Technology, the Xi’an Administration for Industry and Commerce, 4S automobile stores and fuel dispenser manufacturers briefed them on the workings of the fuel dispenser meter and the structure of the fuel tank in the vehicle. Through metrological verification of fuel dispensers, they showed the visitors that to shut off and start fuel dispensers repeatedly while refueling did not result in less gas being supplied. Meanwhile, workers from the quality inspection center at Shaanxi Marketing Company showed them the advantages of National-V gasoline over National-IV gasoline. The visit and demonstrations enabled the public to have a more comprehensive understanding of the quantity and quality of PetroChina’s oil products and helped clear up their misunderstandings. Comments from Netizens @YUZHONGFEIYAN: I used to watch the attendant closely when he was refueling my car at the service station. However, during the visit, I didn’t spot any shortfall although they stopped and started the fuel dispenser many times during the refueling. It’s just hearsay that repeated stopping and starting of the fuel dispenser would result in less gasoline being supplied. Of course, this doesn’t mean that netizens are credulous. It’s just because we have no way to find out the truth. This is a communication problem between two sides. @SHANGSHANRUOSHUI: It was widely known that the quality of PetroChina’s oil products were good, so we had long been loyal customers for many years and were never disappointed. But, we had no way to find out whether its oil products were really good or not, their advantages, sources or quality assurance. Today, we witnessed the sampling and inspection processes for a variety of oil products ,getting first-hand information on why we can trust PetroChina. @HAI88: We watched a promotional video to learn about the entire sales process for oil products, which covered transportation, testing and measurement. Each phase is strictly controlled, ensuring the safe delivery of qualified oil to the car of each consumer. 2014 Sustainability Report 37 We establish service stations in Medog County in Tibetan Autonomous Region, the last county in China to gain road access to the outside world. Turn to page 42 for more. Achievements in Standardization for Onshore Pipelines were officially approved. We also entered into an agreement with the American Petroleum Institute (API) to accreditation, inspection, supervision and factory supervision for major products. Moreover, specific supplier requirements 2. Focusing on Product PetroChina is active in raising its own standards and participating in the revision of industry standards. The Company takes measures enhance cooperation on standardization. In 2014, we developed and modified 120 enterprise standards. on business ethics, human rights, HSE, quality standards and public responsibility were highlighted for the process of supplier Innovation to improve its scientific management levels and to increase the approval, evaluation, strategic supplier development, materials utilization rate of industry resources in order to ensure the high Supply Chain Management procurement, tender invites and tender evaluations. A supplier Focusing on the development of our main business, we strive standards of its products and services. In 2014, nine standards won database was established and through open tenders and online to make key technological breakthroughs and develop new the third prize of the China Standards Innovation Contribution At PetroChina, we actively promote the sustainable development transactions, we provide suppliers with fair, transparent and technologies, processes, equipment and materials to upgrade Award, including Natural Gas Determination of Sulfur Compound of its supply chain and the joint fulfillment of corporate social competitive opportunities. With “open business, controlled our production facilities. We carry out product innovation based Part 4: Determination of Total Sulfur Content by Oxidative responsibility with our partners to provide the public with highprocesses, fully documented, and permanently traceable” as our on market demand to provide consumers with a diverse range of Microcoulometry Method (GB/T11060.4-2010). Two international quality products and services. We have established a steering watchwords, we ensure the quality of procured products and quality products. PetroChina Lanzhou Petrochemical Company standards for natural gas were officially released, including Natural team for contractor management, composed of the managers services. produced a full series of green nitrile rubber; and PetroChina Gas Determination of Sulfide – Determination of Total Sulfur by of relevant departments and subsidiaries and headed by Daqing Petrochemical Company was engaged in the industrial Oxidizing Microcoulometry Method. Three new international PetroChina’s Chairman. We have also established a complete production of heat-resistance polyethylene pipe materials. The standard proposals including Geological Hazard Risk Management supplier quality management mechanism which covers quality large-diameter, low-sag PE pipes of PetroChina Jilin Petrochemical Company were well received; and great progress was made in the production technology and products of environmentally friendly extended rubber. In 2014, the Company developed 22 new petrochemical products brands and produced 740 thousand tons of new petrochemical products of 62 brands. 1709 In 2014，we were granted 1709 patents in China 8859 As of December 31, 2014, the company owns 8859 patents Oil worker carefully checking instruments 38 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 39 3. Providing High-Quality Products Case Study Develop Premium Brands and Improve Service Efficiency We make continuous improvements in our product mix and upgrade our product quality. Our products, including gasoline, diesel, lubricants and chemical products of different grades, are widely used in different sectors, such as automobiles, building materials, electronics, pharmaceuticals, printing, household appliances and daily-use chemicals. Guided by its strategic policy of “ensuring superior quality and building a first-class brand”, Jilin Petrochemical Company has implemented a brand strategy, improved its quality management system, and enhanced quality awareness among all of its Upgrading Oil Product Quality Providing High-Quality Chemical Products employees. As a result, the company is experiencing high-quality and efficient development. In 2014, we proactively implemented the Action Plan for the The Company cultivates high-quality brand products, and Prevention and Control of Atmospheric Pollution and drove the provides consumers with environmentally friendly and diversified Strengthening standardization and implementing Promoting technological innovation to enhance upgrading and replacement of diesel-powered vehicles with products. Four products were named the Distinguished Brand in stringent quality analysis. Jilin Petrochemical competitiveness. To meet market demand, Jilin those of National IV standards. Meanwhile, we successfully applied 2014 by the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation, continues to improve its quality, health, safety, Petrochemical has intensified independent technological PHF diesel hydrotreating technology to accelerate the upgrade of including polypropylene pipe material from Daqing Refining e n v i ro n m e n t a n d m e a s u re m e n t m a n a g e m e n t research and introduced technologies for re-innovation diesel quality to the National V standards. & Petrochemical Company and the industrial acrylic acid from systems. It has strengthened process control, improved and new product development. Breakthroughs were Lanzhou Petrochemical Company. Jilin Petrochemical Company management standards and documentation, established made in core technologies for special fibers, C5 separation 100% 100% of our motor was awarded the title of Model Enterprise for Brand Building in a materials market access and appraisal management and isoprene rubber. In addition, a number of new gasoline and diesel China’s Petroleum and Chemical Industry. Kunlun acrylic fiber system, and strictly organized production. I t products were developed that constitute internationally reached the National from Daqing Petrochemical Company was awarded the title of implemented dynamic monitoring and statistical analysis recognized achievements, such as environmentally IV standard National Product for Customer Satisfaction. of product quality and established a comprehensive friendly SBR and oil-extended SBR, high-grade EPR, highrandom sampling system. Moreover, the company density polyethylene resin and carbon fibers. also strengthened quality management training and included quality assessments in employee performance Meeting customer needs and improving service evaluations. quality. Jilin Petrochemical has established a full process of customer service including surveys, analysis, feedback and improvement. The company categorizes and stores user files so it can visit and phone customers regularly for satisfaction surveys. It is then able to adjust the product PetroChina’s Products were named the Distinguished mix, production plans and quality indicators in a timely Brand by the Chinese Petrochemical Industry manner to meet different consumer’s unique demand for quality and product. Through technological innovation and brand building, Product Name Production Unit Jilin Petrochemical has nurtured a number of branded products in the ethylene, propylene, and butadiene industry supply chain, including two national “Famous Kunlun industrial acrylonitrile Jilin Petrochemical Company Brands”, five “Renowned Brands” in China’s petroleum and chemical industry, and 17 “Famous Brands” in Jilin Province. The total sales volume and value of output of Kunlun polypropylene pipe compound Daqing Refining & Chemical Company these notable branded products accounted for 13% and 20% of the totals respectively. In 2014, Jilin Petrochemical was awarded the title of Model Enterprise for Brand Kunlun acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) resin Jilin Petrochemical Company Building in China’s Petrochemical Industry. Kunlun industrial acrylic acid Lanzhou Petrochemical Company 40 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 41 4. Delivering Considerate Services Giving priority to customer satisfaction and upholding a customer-oriented concept, we are making great efforts to expand the coverage of our service network and functions. The first Optimizing Service Network According to the appraisal results jointly issued by the CNIS Customer In 2014, by putting 150 new service stations into operation, we continued to optimize our service network, covering 31 provinces Satisfaction Measurement Center and Tsinghua University, the (municipalities and autonomous regions) and the HongKong SAR of China as well as Medog County in Tibet Autonomous Region, the satisfaction level for PetroChina’s service stations was 72.7 in 2014, the last county in China to gain road access to the outside world. The one-stop service at our service stations was further expanded to cover highest among the companies evaluated in the industry. refueling, rest, shopping and vehicle maintenance. Improving Service Quality 5. Ensuring Stable Supply Case Study The Micro-Blog and the Service Station The Company focuses on the customer and takes steps to PetroChina sees ensuring stable supply as an important social enhance service awareness, capacity, brand influence, and responsibility. To this end, we are strengthening coordination customer recognition. We have been promoting our “one card and organizational efforts in order to establish a long-lasting Medog County sits at an elevation of 1,200m above sea reduction, explosion protection, fire retardancy, corrosion for nationwide refueling” service, and as of 2014 have sold 64.07 mechanism and give back to society. In 2014, during the peak level, nestled into the south side of the eastern end of the protection, anti-static protection, surge elimination million Kunlun fuel cards. These cards can be purchased and agricultural periods of spring, summer and autumn and important Himalayas and downstream of the YarlungZangbo river in and oil and gas volatilization inhibition. The oil and gas used in counties as well as cities above the county level. At periods when events like the National People's Congress, the the Tibet Autonomous Region. Its first highway opened recovery rate can reach 90%-97%. the 5th Prepaid Card Industry Summit jointly held by the China Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and the to traffic as late as 2013. Local Tibetan Jiduo runs a gravel General Chamber of Commerce and the Commercial Prepaid Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meetings were held, critical plant in Medog, but has faced difficulties as there was Villager Lobsang Rabten said, “We used to go to Bomê Card Regulatory Committee, the Kunlun Fuel Card won the moments when natural disasters such as the Ludian earthquake no accessible road or service station. Before the highway County for fueloil. It’s far away and very costly. Now that Most Influential Brand Award. We improved our online service and Kangding earthquake hit, and the peak gas consumption opened, he wrote to PetroChina via his micro blog: “In we have the PetroChina service station we can refuel in channels. To facilitate customer consumption, we provided periods in winter, we actively mobilized our resources, optimized Medog County, there are a great number of gasoline and our own county, which is great!” “BESTPAY” and WeChat payment services at service stations transport capacity, strengthened on-site services, and ensured a diesel users apart from government agencies and the and online recharge. We improved our field services at service continuous oil and gas supply in our service stations. In 2014, our military, including businesses like Huaneng Group and stations, paid mystery-shopper visits, improved the specialized refined oil and natural gas supply accounted for about 40% and gravel plants owned by a dozen farmers and herdsmen, business in our convenience stores, shaped the “USmile” brand, 70% of the domestic market share respectively. as well as 170 trucks and 30 passenger cars. However, improved our 95504 customer service platform, and enhanced there is only one service station in the whole county. It customer experiences. We have also launched many campaigns In order to meet the peak in demand for oil and gas during the offers poor quality products at high prices, and it often such as the Autumn Cool, Spring Outing and World Cup Fan winter, PetroChina activate the “plan for winter gas supply” in runs out of fuel”. He said that he hoped PetroChina would Season campaigns to provide convenience and benefits to our mid-2014 and enhanced gas supply capacity by increasing the build a service station in his county. users. These campaigns have enriched our services and improved production load of our four leading gas zones of Changqing, customer satisfaction. Tarim, Southwest and Qinghai, improving the operational PetroChina therefore took the initiative to coordinate with efficiency of our gas storage facilities, and increasing gas imports. the local government and established the PetroChina In the winter of 2014 from October to December, PetroChina Medog Lotus Service Station in 2014, extending our supplied 33.48 billion cubic meters of natural gas to the market, service station network to Medog, the last county in an increase of 10.1% over the same period in 2013. China to gain road access to the outside world. Close to the county’s main road, the service station is equipped with an oil and gas recovery system and an explosionproof system featuring energy conservation, consumption A customer easily paying for refueling with the “BESTPAY” card 42 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 43 PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 1. Employee Rights We remain committed to a people-first philosophy in treating our employees with respect and equality while protecting their legal rights. At PetroChina, employees are our most valuable We strive to resolve the practical issues that most concern our employees and make sure that all employees can equally share in the fruits of asset. The overall development of employees is one our development. of our development priorities. We protect employees’ rights, care for their health and well-being and Fair Treatment provide a platform for career development. We 23.32% 45.20% continue to promote the hiring of the local staff, At PetroChina, we strictly abide by domestic and international College Degree Technical and have been strengthening security at our rules and regulations and have established a fairly complete Secondary employment management and policy system to regulate 31.9% School overseas operations. We strive to create an inclusive, and below employment practices according to the law. The system equal, mutually trusting and cooperative working 28.41% incorporates employment contract management, remuneration, 3.07% Bachelor’s Degree environment, and to make sure value is aligned to insurance and benefits, leave, performance appraisals and Master’s Degree and above benefit both employees and the Company. vocational training. Through self-inspection of our employment practices in compliance with the law, we provide effective protection of the legal rights of employees. 12.76% Technicians We are committed to providing equal opportunities and fair 15.15% treatment to all employees regardless of their nationality, Administrative 59.54% ethnicity, race, gender, religion and culture. We prohibit the Staff Production Staff employment and use of child labor and reject all forms of slave 2.41% and forced labor. Instead, we emphasize the employment of local Financial Staff 7.47% residents, women, ethnic minorities and college students in order 2.67% to increase job opportunities for local communities. Salesmen Others 68.1% 31.9% Male Female In 2014, we made recruitment information public for college graduates through a recruitment 31.9% 7.26% platform, such as recruitment procedures and Female standards, remuneration and benefits, and Administrative Staff requirements for employment. We announce results to the public and do not set restrictions on applicants on the basis of their ethnicity, gender and religion. 31.9% 6.89% Ethic Minority Employees 44 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 45 Roz Mamat Barker, a minority employee of Xinjiang Oilfield Company. Turn to page 50 for more. Remuneration and Benefits 2. Occupational Health The Company has further improved its performance appraisal and The Company has established multiple channels to communicate remuneration system, as well as its employee compensation and with employees and has continued to implement democratic benefits framework. The framework pays attention to the value procedures. We communicate across all levels of the Company, The Company abides by the Prevention and Control of Occupational among employees and enhance the ability of employees to tackle and performance of employees according to their different roles, and conducted multi-level communication through meetings Diseases Act of the People’s Republic of China in its occupational health issues. so that each employee can reach his or her potential. In addition, with staff representatives and online discussions, to encourage health management, focusing on the prevention and control of we are steadily extending employee coverage of social security employees to participate in the management of production and hazards as well as the implementation of related measures. By We proactively monitor and control workplace and occupational programs in accordance with the Social Insurance Law of the operations. emphasizing occupational health management and protection hazards and have standardized the evaluation of occupational People’s Republic of China, and we have improved supplementary at field operations, we give top priority to employee health hazards for construction projects. We ensure that employee medical care and insurance, corporate annuity and living and personal safety. In 2014, the rate for physical exams for health and safety facilities in a construction project are designed, allowance schemes to ensure employees’ interests and rights are occupational health remained at over 97% and the detection rate constructed, and put into use at the same time as the main addressed. We are adjusting overseas risk allowances according to Case Study for occupational hazards in the workplace was also over 97%. project, and continue to improve employees’ working and living the risk level to ensure the system is reasonable and fair. environment. In 2014, we issued the Management Regulations The General Manager’s Mailbox for We place great importance on monitoring our employees’ for the “Three Simultaneous Measures” for Occupational Health Democratic Participation Communicating with Employees occupational health and have stepped up physical exams for at Construction Projects, which regulates the management of front-line staff, contractors, and temporary workers. We provide occupational health facilities for new construction, renovation and The Company attaches great importance to employee democracy In order to solicit employee opinion, Qinghai Oilfield pre-deployment, on-the-job and post-deployment health checks expansion projects. We provided occupational health protection and their legal rights and employees play a role through Company launched the general manager’s mailbox, for staff who work in hazardous roles. The Company has improved facilities at more than 60,000 projects to protect our employees democratic management, participation and oversight. Apart through which employees’ concerns are reviewed the management of employee health surveillance records to from occupations hazards such as toxins, dust, and noise, and from establishing trade unions, PetroChina has put in place a and forwarded to the personnel and departments provide customized medical services for employees. In 2014, brought the inspection and maintenance of such facilities within democratic style of management through its employee’s congress responsible to be solved within a specified period of Liaohe Oilfield Company launched a two-year campaign named the scope of safety and environmental hazard control. and has a transparent approach to industrial affairs to ensure time. For example, the company sped up an external “Health in Liaohe” in order to raise awareness of health issues employees are well-informed and have the means to participate wall insulation renovation project on residential in and supervise corporate management. We have further buildings for employees after receiving letters raising standardized the content, procedures and model of our open this issue. So far, 94 buildings have been renovated at Health in Liaohe Campaign Improves Employee Health system for industrial affairs by clarifying rights and obligations, the the Dunhuang and Golmud bases. Since the mailbox organizational system, and working processes for the employee was set up five years ago, over 3,300 messages have representative congress. been handled with a resolution rate of over 95%. Long-term Full launch Implementation Review effectiveness Jan., 2014 Oct., 2015 Occupational health Sports science Psychological Disease health prevention Objective Number of employees suffering from Number of employees taking high cholesterol, high blood pressure, regular physical exercise exceeds and high blood sugar drops by 10% 50% A variety of activities to enrich the life of employees in Liaohe Oilfield Company 46 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 47 We pay close attention to our employees’ mental health. PetroChina was among the first Chinese enterprises to implement the Employee the e-learning platform, which was further improved with a wider training on a large scale. In 2014, we held competitions for Assistance Program (EAP) in overseas projects. Since the launch of the program, the proportion of overseas employees with poor mental range of courses. In order to enhance the scientific management four types of vocational skills in three contest areas, attracting health has dropped by 21%. In 2014, we launched an EAP internet platform to provide overseas employees with online psychological abilities of our management personnel, the headquarters held two 241 employees from over 40 subsidiaries. We also actively took counseling. training sessions for key management staff from our subsidiaries, part in international and domestic competitions and achieved two business management training sessions and two chief remarkable results. Our employees won two first prizes, two PetroChina has carried out training and promotion on occupational diseases prevention and treatment across the board and at all levels. In accountant training sessions. To enhance competitiveness and second prizes and two third prizes in the youth group at the 2014, we carried out a promotion week on the prevention and treatment of occupational diseases and over 20,000 employee and health capacity for innovation for top level technical experts and highlythird ARC Cup International Welding Competition. We also won managers took part in occupational health training. We also organized for employees to attend the national contest for occupational disease skilled personnel, we organized for 40 technical experts to study the individual championship in the first national petroleum and prevention and treatment, where the Company won awards. at Tsinghua University and China University of Petroleum (Beijing). petrochemical system vocational skill competition, as well as the We also provided training on cutting-edge technologies including top three team prizes. unconventional oil and gas development and 19 demonstration Course of Development of PetroChina’ s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) training classes on topics such as oil quality analysis. We strive to cultivate the integrated skill level of international talent, and held 15 pre-travel and overseas training (study abroad) sessions for 351 163 trainees. PetroChina believes in the power of contests to encourage training. We enhance the practical skills of our employees at In 2014, PetroChina headquarters organized EAP internet 163 training programs platform grassroots levels by using skills contests to promote vocational Crisis management Crisis management Regional managRegional management training ement training Evaluation of staff Evaluation of staff in subsidiaries in subsidiaries Family evaluations Family evaluations Training Training Training Training Overseas site Overseas site Overseas site Overseas site services services services services EAP training EAP training EAP training EAP training EAP training EAP hotline EAP hotline EAP hotline EAP hotline EAP hotline EAP hotline EAP hotline 3. Platform for Employee Development The Company uses modern corporate concepts and advocates Employee Training innovation in creating space and mechanisms for employee development. We have improved our training centers and PetroChina continues to perfect its training bases and the network and address our employees’ need for career development e-learning platform through a combination of professional at different stages by providing career planning services. We aim training, specialist training, distance training and outsourced to build a learning organization with knowledge-based staff and training to improve the theoretical and practical skills of all provide a stage for employee development. employees. In 2014, 670,000 employees took training courses via International exchanges in support of career development of employees 48 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 49 Career Development 4. Local Staff Development With a corporate culture that values moral integrity as well as professional competence, the Company has developed a selection process Respect for Cultural Differences that is democratic, open, competitive and merit-based in order to create a positive workplace atmosphere that enables the recognition and At PetroChina, we embrace a respectful, open and inclusive culture PetroChina fully respects cultural diversity and local customs. best use of talent. We promote a parallel managerial and technical system in our research institutes to provide our technical professionals and are committed to the localization, professionalization and We promote mutual understanding and respect for different and management personnel with equal opportunities to develop, as well as gaining corresponding remuneration packages. We exercise marketization of skills when managing overseas talent. We have values and traditions and foster cross-culture cooperation in a the dynamic management of technical experts and have increased the number of experts. We have also started to bring the review process developed Protocols on Local Employee Management in Overseas culturally diverse workplace. Chinese employees are encouraged online, in order to provide opportunities to employees with outstanding technical expertise. We have been active in attracting high caliber Operation covering hiring, attendance, vacations, performance to learn about the laws, history, and culture of local communities. talent from other countries, and introduced six overseas-educated experts as part of the “Thousand Talents” program. Meanwhile, three appraisals, incentives and penalties for each management process At the same time, we arrange for foreign employees to visit candidates we recommended have become national experts as part of the program. We expanded the rotation and temporary transfer and position in line with the laws and regulations in host countries our headquarters in China and experience Chinese culture. of staff within PetroChina, and promoted exchanges between management personnel as well as participation in overseas projects to to attract and train top local talent and to provide a working Our project company in the Americas holds cultural salons for strengthen management capabilities. environment more conducive to employee development. employees to better understand the cultural differences between China and the Americas and to enhance mutual understanding We value incentives for innovation and have sought to establish mechanisms such as funds for technological innovation and incentives and recognition. for enhancement in technological efficiency. We have pushed forward the establishment of studios for technical experts and expanded Local Hiring communication and reviews to allow skilled experts, grassroots technicians and technical workers to play a role in technological innovation. We actively recruit and train local employees and with our 91% We believe in the importance of growth and development for technical staff, and select young key research staff to take part in national and competitive hiring system we do not discriminate against local company-level technology programs for domestic and overseas key projects, major works and research bases. In 2014, two employees were candidates for managerial positions. By the end of 2014, we granted the Incentive Award for Outstanding Engineers by the International Scientific Exchange Foundation of China while three employees hired professionals from over 30 countries and regions to work in were granted awards from the Sun Yueqi Science and Technology Education Fund. exploration and development, project construction, international trade, finance, accounting, and human resources at our overseas By the end of 2014, the Company had 12 academicians at the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Chinese Academy of Engineering, 980 projects. By the end of 2014, local employees experts entitled to the Government Special Allowance, as well as 193 senior technical experts, 84 management experts, 197 skilled experts, accounted for 91% of our overseas workforce 3,367 senior technicians, and 19,662 technicians. In Oman, we have built a long-term partnership with local training institutions and developed a comprehensive training program. In 2014, we provided local managers at the middle level and upwards with systematic training, enhancing their operational Case Study Roz Mamat Barker, from a Beginner to a Technical Expert management, team-building and conflict resolution capabilities. In Xinjiang Oilfield Company, ethnic minority employees account for 25.7% of the total staff. The company encourages employees 5. Security in Overseas Operations from all ethnic groups to learn from and support each other at work and to communicate and integrate in daily life. Training and learning opportunities are provided to help employees overcome language and technical difficulties as well as to facilitate In 2014, PetroChina faced threats such as social unrest and terrorism at its overseas operations. The Company put its emergency growth through practice. management system into use, including establishing early warnings and precautions, launching its 24-hour crisis management mechanism, monitoring events as they unfold and organizing the orderly evacuation of employees. In response to the Ebola crisis in West Africa, Roz Mamat Barker is an employee of Xinjiang Oilfield Company. When he joined the company, he could not speak Chinese and the Company issued early warnings and quickly established temperature monitoring and psychological counseling for employees in had yet to develop his skills. However, he studied hard and improved himself by taking advantage of the training and technical order to ensure the safety of employees overseas. The Company also carried out extensive anti-terrorism safety training, organizing 230 learning opportunities provided by the company to employees from all ethnic groups. In the 20 years since joining the company, sessions for almost 15,000 participants. There were no any significant or major overseas accidents or issues relating to production security, he has attended more than 20 off-the-job sessions training totaling 1,200 days. The training means that this young man who did environmental pollution or ecological destruction during the year. not understand Chinese has become a promoter of Mandarin Chinese and gone from being a beginner in the oil production industry to become a training coach and a national technical expert. Since 2004, he has trained over 4,000 employees in oil production jobs in the heavy oil development company. In his spare time, he has written four books including the Phonetic Case Study Responding to Security Challenges in Iraq Textbook on Practical Oil Production for Ethnic Minority Employees. These four books have become training materials at Xinjiang Oilfield. He has also established a website (www.hlsyw.com) to provide a free communication platform to oil workers from all Beginning in July 2014, the security situation in some regions of Iraq sharply deteriorated due to terrorist attacks. PetroChina over the country. By the end of 2014, he had won 27 honorary titles, including “National Exemplary Individual for National Unity rapidly launched its emergency response mechanism, quickly establishing an emergency leadership team and preparing an and Progress”, “Technical Expert”, “Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Model Worker”, and “Young National Skilled Expert”. His evacuation plan. The Company strengthened communication with diplomatic organizations in the local area and in surrounding team has also won more than 30 honors, including “National Exemplary Collective for National Unity and Progress”, “Top Ten Unit countries to gain diplomatic assistance for the employee evacuation plan. The Company carried out reconnaissance on overland for Culture Building by Company Teams in China”, “Top 1000 Exemplary Unit” , “PetroChina Iron Man Pioneer”, and “Pioneer Worker” roads and ports for evacuation routes, contacted with aerial evacuation planners and arranged commercial charter flights to in Karamay. In Xinjiang Oilfield Company, more than 46% of the ethnic minority workforce are management personnel, key ensure the feasibility of the evacuation plan. In case of a sudden change in the situation, the Company also stockpiled emergency technicians and experts. supplies of water, food and fuel. These strong security precautions ensured the smooth operation of the projects in Iraq and that the personal safety of employees was not affected. 50 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 51 GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY As a member of society, we have a duty to give back to the community. Bearing in mind that our ultimate goal is to promote socio-economic development, we 1. Promoting Local Development attach great importance to the well-being of people and social advancement. We expand joint ventures PetroChina’s development is inseparable from the support of governments, communities and the public. While providing stable energy and cooperation, enhance local development supply for local economic development, we maintain close cooperation with multiple investment bodies based on the principle of “open capability, give donations to impoverished students cooperation for mutual benefit”. We fully enhance our cooperation with state-owned capital, social capital, private capital and foreign capital. and organize our staff to join volunteer activities and We have built platforms to attract more social, private and foreign capital for joint ventures and cooperation in the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors. During the process of developing and running our projects, we help to nurture local suppliers and contractors, creating community services. Through our efforts, we strive to jobs and driving the growth of related business segments, thereby giving back to local residents. build a harmonious society. Examples of Joint Venture and Cooperation Projects Operated by PetroChina Name of JV (Project) Partner Project Description Yan’an Petroleum and Shaanxi Yanchang Petroleum Oil and gas development Natural Gas Co. Ltd (Group) Co., Ltd. Government of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Karamay Hongshan Oilfield Oil and gas development Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps State Development & Investment Corporation (SDIC) Chongqing Shale Gas Exploration SINOCHEM Group Shale gas development and Development Co., Ltd. Chongqing Institute of Geology and Mineral Resources Sichuan Energy Industry Investment Group Co., Ltd. Sichuan Changning Natural Yibin State-Owned Asset Operation Shale gas development Gas Development Co., Ltd. Corporation Beijing Guolian Energy Industry Investment Fund National Council for Social Security Fund (SSF), Baosteel Group, Third West-East Gas Pipeline, Pipeline construction Western Sections of First and Guolian Foundation, and operation Second West-East Gas Pipelines Taikang Asset Management Co., Ltd. 2014 Sustainability Report 53 A campaign launched by PetroChina Fujian Marketing Company to donate clothes to children in mountainous areas in Northern Fujian to help them through the cold winter 2. Poverty Alleviation 3. Supporting Education The pursuit of sustainable economic growth and shared prosperity is a basic requirement for the sustainable development of human society. However, income inequality, natural disasters Our long-term economic and social development is and other constraints stand in the way of achieving this goal in inseparable from the great support of PetroChina over China and elsewhere in the world. To meet the specific needs of the years. People in Fanxian County appreciate it very local residents in underdeveloped regions, we make the most much. of our markets, resources, technology and talents, to support local industries, create jobs and improve the mindset and —— Government of Fanxian technical skills of local residents to drive self-development of local County, He’nan Province economies. We actively support and participate in poverty alleviation programs in China with China National Petroleum Corporation. In 2014, PetroChina carried out targeted and pairing assistance Additionally, PetroChina provided 8 training programs in Xinjiang, programs for poverty alleviation in 8 provinces (cities and Tibet and Qinghai, offering practical skill training to farmers and autonomous regions) and 14 counties (districts), including herdsmen and training to junior managers. In 2014, the South Xinjiang, Henan, Guizhou, Jiangxi, Tibet, Fujian and Chongqing. Xinjiang Natural Gas Pipeline Project was presented the PMI (China) With our proprietary production and engineering technology, Outstanding Project Award. This project has established a gas we assisted in building the FCC catalyst project in Changting trunk pipeline network in the Tarim Basin, effectively met the gas County, Longyan City, Fujian Province. The project has driven demand of people and businesses in South Xinjiang, and powered the development of the local rare earth industry, creating jobs economic and social development. for more than 300 people. In Fanxian County, Henan Province, PetroChina supported the 50kt/a maleic anhydride project of In response to major natural disasters in 2014, such as the Shengyuan Petrochemical Company by providing technical earthquakes in Ludian and Pu'er in Yunnan Province, PetroChina Supporting education by giving help to children training to the employees. In Shuanghu County of Tibet, we took swiftly launched the Emergency Response Plan, opened green part in the reconstruction of the central elementary school and channels to distribute oil, food, water and other emergency launched the shopping complex (Phase II) in Suoga Street, giving supplies to victims in the stricken areas, facilitated post-disaster It takes ten years to grow trees, but a hundred years to rear people. Supporting education is important for social progress. We have set up local residents access to supermarkets, book stores and a school. reconstruction. scholarships and student subsidies and supported contests in order to assist students. In 2014, we offered scholarships and subsidies to a total of 635 impoverished students and students with excellent academic performance. Moreover, all subsidiary enterprises also organized various activities to assist students and helped young people around the world gain equal opportunities for education and pursue their goals and personal growth. We also supported Kunlun Lubricant Formula Student China (FSC) to nurture talents for the automobile industry. Case Study Ten Years of Assistance to Students in Need In the remote, mountainous areas in Gansu Province, some outstanding students may drop out of school because their families cannot afford school fees. To help these students finish school, PetroChina has launched a scholarship program in conjunction with the Communist Youth League Gansu Committee and the Union of Students of Gansu Province since 2005. This program was implemented by PetroChina Lanzhou Petrochemical Company. Every year, we help pay part of the tuition for those high school and college students with financial difficulties. Over the past ten years, PetroChina has made continued efforts to improve the management of the program, increased its funding and expanded its coverage from the original 7 counties (including Zhuanglang, Yongdeng, Huining and Minqin) to 13 counties (including two ethnic minority autonomous counties). A total of approximately RMB 10 million in scholarships has been distributed, helping more than 7,000 outstanding students further their studies. “The sponsorship program has become a good role model in promoting education in poverty-stricken counties. It inspires other enterprises and people to make donations for education”, said Pan Youwei, Director of Minqin Education Bureau. We opened our service stations along all national and provincial roads in the areas such as Fujian during the Spring Festival for four consecutive years to provide thousands of migrant workers on their way home by motorcycle with food, refueling and other services free of charge 54 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 55 4. Volunteer Activities 5. Contributions to Overseas Communities PetroChina keeps improving the voluntary service system to care caring for children and the needy) and social services (services to While conducting business overseas, PetroChina has adhered Environmental Protection and serve local communities. We also encourage and support support major campaigns), making its contribution to building a to the principle of “cooperation for mutual benefit and joint employees to devote their personal time, skills and expertise to harmonious society. The Snow Lotus Volunteer Service Team of development”. We respect the cultures and conventions of the We emphasize the balance of business development and participate in volunteer activities. Xinjiang Oilfield Company was named by PetroChina as one of “Ten countries in which we operate as part of our efforts to develop environmental protection. Therefore, we strictly comply with the Benchmark Youth Volunteer Service Teams” for its dedication over long-term stable partnerships with them and promote their laws and international standards on environmental protection In 2014, we formulated the Regulations on Youth Volunteer the past 14 years. Zhang Zhaoxia, an employee of Dagang Oilfield socio-economic development. We have set up environmental in the countries we operate, protect the local ecological Service to ensure youth volunteer activities are carried out in a Company, was given the title of “Outstanding Youth Volunteer in protection and community relations coordination departments environment and strive to minimize the impact of our operations regulated and systematic manner. Qinghai Oilfield Company has China” by the Association of Chinese Youth Volunteers. In 2014, in many overseas areas to promote cooperation with local on the environment. In Niger, we carefully protected animals and established three volunteer service systems: technical services we had 6,359 youth volunteer teams with 169,000 members. They governments, NGOs, and community representatives. By holding plants in our operating areas during the construction process, and (training and consulting services to help young technicians realize provided 506 thousand hours of volunteer services to 2.09 million conferences, issuing reports and paying visits, we strengthen promptly cleaned up rubbish and waste we produced. We also their full potential), community services (services to promote beneficiaries. communication and coordination for common development. provided leak protection of mud pits and promptly backfilled the civilized behavior and the culture of respecting the elderly and pits after relocation of the drilling crew to restore the landscape in accordance with HSE regulations and operating procedures. Local Procurement Community Welfare Local procurement can boost the development of local SMEs and generate more income and job opportunities for local We take an active role to help improve the living conditions of communities. Therefore, PetroChina places strong emphasis on local people, give donations to education, health care and other reliance on local resources and the procurement of local products public welfare programs so as to achieve harmonious and mutual and services, strengthening cooperation with local enterprises development. In Indonesia’s Jambi province, we built water in technical services, logistical support, catering and logistics purification equipment in 14 villages which were hit hardest by to boost and promote the development of local SMEs. Our oil severe shortage of drinking water, aiming to offer drinking water and gas cooperation projects in Iraq have created total business to local residents. exceeding USD 400 million and job opportunities for over 20,000 people. The oil and gas cooperation projects in Africa have created nearly 10,000 jobs for local communities. A Visit to Halfaya Oilfield To strengthen communication with the local community, the Halfaya project company in Iraq invited students from local primary and secondary schools and universities to visit the oilfield in order to help them better understand the oilfield’s development and its contribution to local development. Halfaya Oilfield has become Our volunteers visiting the elderly of the Uygur ethnic group a demonstration center for local students. As of the end of 2014, nearly 1,000 students had visited the oilfield. Students being lectured by technicians of the production and control center in Halfaya Oilfield 56 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 57 Case Study MMG Hailed as “Most Respected Company” for Community Services Located in Mangystau Province in Kazakhstan, MangistauMunaiGas (“MMG”) is an oil and gas company jointly acquired by PetroChina and KazMunayGas in 2009. It is engaged in onshore and offshore oil and gas exploration and development in the Caspian Sea. Since its acquisition, the company has been actively involved in local economic development, job creation, and social welfare services, gaining a good reputation from local communities. Oil and gas cooperation for common development Before it was taken over, MMG had developed oil exploration business for more than 30 years. The oilfields it operated had a composite water cut of 86% with their production rate declining rapidly. In cooperation with its partner, PetroChina kept optimizing management and promoting innovationdriven development. As a result, the oil and gas production of mature oilfields has been rising, thereby achieving highquality, high-efficiency and sustainable development. This project has driven the rapid development of related industries, directly creating over 20,000 jobs. Put people first and promote cultural integration Upholding the principle of putting people first, MMG has taken Training on vocational skills for local teachers of Zone 6 and Zone 7 Projects in Peru various measures to strengthen communication with employees and promote the localization of its workforce. It communicated with employees through company newsletters and collected their opinions which allowed the company to make timely adjustments. Moreover, it improved employees’ working and living conditions by renovating dormitories, canteens, and sports and living facilities; and promoted mutual understanding between its Chinese and Kazakh employees by establishing channels for communication and creating a working atmosphere of mutual respect, understanding, trust Awards in Overseas Communities and support. Most of the existing 6,000 employees are local residents. Communication and community services MMG strives to balance the interests of all stakeholders, takes the initiative to communicate with the local government and communities, and maintains good relations with trade unions. A total of USD Outstanding Contribution Kazakhstan Social 55.44 million was invested to build sports centers, art schools, desalination plants, bus stations and public facilities, and to Award 2014 from the Indonesian Responsibility Award revamp village roads, schools, houses and water supply systems. Thirty eight local high school students with outstanding academic performance were selected and sent to China for further study, with more than 370 graduates recruited by it. Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources PetroK azakhstan actively par ticipates in local The project company has made relentless efforts to fulfill its social responsibility. It has received high recognition from economic and social development. In 2014, the PK local stakeholders. Moreover, PetroChina was regarded by the local government and local residents as the “most respected The Jabung Block project of PetroChina International project of PetroKazakhstan was presented the Social company”. (Indonesia) was presented the Special Contribution Responsibility Award, the highest honour for social Award by the Indonesian Ministry of Energy and contribution, by the President of Kazakhstan. Mineral Resources in 2014. The award winner is selected annually by the Indonesian government in recognition of the organizations with great contributions to the energy and mineral industry in that year. Only five organizations won the award in 2014, and CNPC International (Indonesia) was the only one from Indonesia’s oil and gas industry. 58 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 59 Investor FAQs How does PetroChina guarantee that its business partners strictly comply with the The Company has identified and confirmed 8 major production safety risks and 6 major environmental risks at the company level and Company’s Code of Conduct, in order to avoid HSE violations, bribery, corruption and other formulated risk prevention and control management methods. The safety risk prevention and control responsibilities in all production activities are assigned to different layers of management, and the key points, responsible subjects, and accountabilities for risk prevention issues? and control are defined for all levels. In this way, we have set up and improved the hierarchical production safety risk prevention and control A: The Code of Conduct is applicable to contractors, subcontractors and suppliers. We help our contractors, subcontractors and suppliers mechanism with clear and classified responsibilities and risks. understand the Code of Conduct and the moral requirements of the Company, and build partnerships with those observing laws and disciplines and respecting the Company’s values and code of conduct. Additionally, we have made specific criteria and procedures for How does PetroChina guarantee the application of unified standards in its global selecting business partners. operations? We regulate our business processes and employee behavior by means of compliance management, internal control, auditing and A: In recent years, maintaining an international approach, PetroChina has actively adopted advanced foreign standards and participated in supervision. We strengthen the compliance audits on business behavior, and thoroughly investigate and handle any violations, in order to the formulation and amendment of international standards, in order to improve its own standards and adapt to the global operations. ensure the observation of law and regulations in external cooperation. First, PetroChina has set up the goal to establish a standard system that is “unified, advanced and internationally-recognized”, and promotes Please explain how PetroChina fulfills its commitments in the execution of existing the application of unified standards in construction, production, operation and management. We adopt and participate in the formulation and amendment of advanced international standards, promote the quality consistency of our products, projects and services, and strive to contracts. enhance our voice in international standards. A: PetroChina attaches great importance to the control of the entire contract performance process. We keep improving contract management measures, with specific regulations on contract execution, which cover five aspects including subjective requests, process Second, PetroChina adopts international standards and advanced foreign standards systematically, in order to improve the Company’s management, and abnormal activity reporting and disposal. First, the contract execution party is specified as the subject of liability on the product quality and technical capacity, and reduce the technical trade barriers and adapt to the international trade needs. overall performance of contract, and relevant departments should collaborate on and supervise such performance based on their due responsibilities. Second, the contract undertaking department should clarify, prior to contract execution, the details of the contract to the Third, international or advanced foreign standards are preferably applied in international economic and technical cooperation and contract execution party and personnel, including contract contents, significant risks and performance requirements, in order to avoid international trade, in order to guarantee that business operations conform to the prevailing international rules and requirements and to contractual risks and losses due to the disconnection between conclusion and performance of the contract. Third, the contract execution reduce risks in overseas operations. If relevant standards are not available or local country has no specific requirements, through negotiation, party is required to designate specific personnel to sign the work quantity verification documents, with specified requirements on the we prefer to use PetroChina’s technical standards on the basis that local laws and regulations are observed, thus enabling the recognition of authority, performance requirements, change notice of the signing representative. Fourth, the risk assessment mechanism should be PetroChina’s standards internationally. established, by which the contract execution party should make regular risk assessment on contracts with a long time limit and high risks, in order to find and solve problems promptly in contract performance. Fifth, the contract execution party should timely report any abnormal Fourth, PetroChina carries out international standardization exchanges and cooperation and participates in the formulation and amendment activities that may affect or change the contractual rights and obligations during the performance of contract to the comprehensive contract of international standards. On one hand, PetroChina gives a full account of its demand during the formulation and amendment of management department. international standards and advanced foreign standards through active participation in ISO activities. So far, PetroChina has taken part in 12 activities of ISO Technical Committees and Technical Sub-committees, and entered into agreements with the American Petroleum Institute What are the Company’s current health and safety system and indicators? How do the (API) and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producer (OGP) on standardization cooperation. On the other hand, PetroChina transforms its unique technologies into international standards, in order to promote its technical standards globally. Now, PetroChina serves measures taken by the Company function properly? as the secretariats of three ISO technical committees and sub-committees for coalbed methane, natural gas and pipelines. The Company A: The Company implements the health, safety and environment management system (HSE management system) which is geared to is participating in the formulation and revision of nearly 20 international standards and advanced foreign standards, and two sets of international standards and widely accepted by the petroleum industry. We have formulated the Administration Measures on Production international standards formulated by PetroChina were launched in 2014. Safety and Environmental Protection Accountability System to standardize the top-down accountability system and assessment requirements throughout PetroChina. The Provisions on Management Responsibility of Headquarters Production Safety and Environmental Protection were Fifth, PetroChina strives to promote the international mutual recognition of standards. Based on the situation of our overseas operations, set out to specify the safety and environmental protection responsibilities of the HQ executives, departments and subsidiaries. We have PetroChina facilitates the mutual recognition of standards between Chinese standardization authorities and local countries, in order to take established the safety and environment responsibility assessment system, and signed safety and environment agreement with senior the lead in the industry to effectively reduce production and operation costs, and increase work efficiency. executives of the subsidiaries for 8 years in a row. Besides, the sanction to the persons responsible for production safety and environmental accident was formulated to investigate and punish persons of the regional company responsible for production safety and environmental accidents. 60 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 61 What measures does the Company take to ensure that the contractors and suppliers work company is considered in the assessment of its managers’ performance, the company’s gross compensation, and employees’ personal salary. as per PetroChina’s standards? Specific assessment is made of the company managers’ personal safety action plan and implementation of safety responsibilities, and the one vote negation system is continuously applied on production safety. The Company carries out the assessment of advanced enterprise, A: In order to reinforce the management of engineering construction contractors so that they can perform according to the project advanced collective and advanced individual in respect of production safety once a year, and the advanced enterprises or individuals are standards, PetroChina takes the following measures in accordance with the Contractor Management Measures and as agreed in contracts: rewarded. The Company implements the Evaluation Rules for Production Safety and Environmental Protection Performance, and has established and improved the performance appraisal indicator system which combines process indicators and outcome indicators. The safety (1) Organization guarantee. The Company has established the engineering construction contractor management leading group led by performance of each regional company is considered in the assessment of its managers’ performance, the company’s gross compensation, the Chairman of the Board and participated in by relevant departments and regional subsidiaries. Each subsidiary company has appointed and employees’ personal salary. Specific assessment is made on the company managers’ personal safety action plan and implementation dedicated managers to be responsible for the contractor management within their respective scope of responsibilities. of safety responsibilities, and the one vote negation system is continuously applied on production safety. The Company carries out the assessment of advanced enterprises, advanced collectives and advanced individuals in respect of production safety once a year, and the (2) System guarantee. The Company has established administrative measures on bidding and contractor management in engineering advanced enterprises or individuals are rewarded. construction and maintenance, as well as the enforcement regulations on annual contractor evaluation. What are the risks posed by global climate change, and how does the Company cope (3) Main practices. with them? a. Strict contractor access. Any enterprise applying for access to the Company’s engineering construction contractor database will A: PetroChina sticks to the green and sustainable development strategy and proactively adapts to the global trend of low carbon be assessed in respect of qualifications, technical capability, project performance and reputation, in a series of procedures including development. We have made contributions in the reduction of greenhouse gas emission and mitigation of global warming by adjusting recommendation by regional companies, verification by professional branch companies, evaluation and review by expert groups, approval business structure, developing clean energies, improving energy efficiency, accelerating low carbon technology development and increasing by the headquarters, and announcement. carbon sinks, which are mainly demonstrated in the following four aspects: b. Prudent contractor selection. PetroChina selects the contractors from the contractor database through bidding in accordance with the (I) Maintaining sustainable and rapid growth in natural gas business. Natural gas is currently the fastest-growing business of PetroChina, Administrative Measures for Bidding. while unconventional gas is a strategic alternative for future oil and gas growth. As for CBM, a series of economical and practical exploration and development technologies have been developed, with two major production bases built in Qinshui and Eastern Ordos. Two c. Strict contractor management. The project company supervises and manages the contractors with appropriate measures at different demonstration areas for shale gas industrialization are under construction. stages of the project in accordance with the contract, in respect of construction arrangement, quality management, HSE management, construction cost management, schedule management, subcontractor management and information management. (II) Expanding the renewable energy business. PetroChina vigorously promotes the evaluation, development and utilization of conventional and unconventional gas, biomass energy, geothermal energy and solar energy, and actively controls greenhouse gas emissions from the d. Audit of management system. Regular audits are made by the regional company (project owner) on its contractors or by the contractor on source. Demonstration projects for photovoltaic power generation, wind power generation, and geothermal resource development and its subcontractors, in order to be informed of the quality and the HSE management of the project, and timely find out and correct problems. utilization have been constructed in Xinjiang Oilfield and Liaohe Oilfield. A pilot test on the comprehensive utilization of geothermal energy has been carried out in Huabei Oilfield, achieving significant results in the utilization of geothermal energy for power generation, heating and e. Annual evaluation. In the fourth quarter of each year, the Contractor Management & Leading Group organizes all project owners to heat-tracing for oil transportation. examine and evaluate the contractors used in the year on whether they perform their contractual responsibilities and obligations during the implementation of the projects; whether their operations violate the Company’s standards; whether their operational quality meets the (III) Reinforcing energy conservation and efficiency improvement. Focusing on energy conservation and efficiency improvement, PetroChina requirements; and whether there are safety, occupational health and environment problems, etc. The contractors can be classified into four actively transforms its development pattern, and optimizes the industrial structure. We conduct assessments of the energy-saving targets and levels based on the evaluation results, i.e. Excellent, Qualified, Observed and Disqualified. Any disqualified contractor will be refused access. responsibility, especially in oil and gas production and refining, and increase the efficiency of energy utilization and raise the energy saving and emission reduction level by promoting the Energy Saving Projects and Emissions Reduction Projects, and reinforcing the management How did the Company establish the reward and punishment mechanism for health and of energy saving and emission reduction in key segments. safety? (IV) Improving the low carbon development capability. For the purpose of greenhouse gas control, PetroChina has worked hard on low A: The Company establishes and implements the Evaluation Rules for Production Safety and Environmental Protection Performance and carbon technology innovation, carbon emission permits trading, CDM projects, and carbon sinks. For example, the demonstration project has Regulations on Management Responsibilities for Production Safety and Environmental Protection and has established and improved the been constructed in Jilin Oilfield for carbon dioxide capture, sequestration and enhanced oil recovery (CCS-EOR); and we also participated in performance appraisal indicator system which combines process indicators and outcome indicators. The safety performance of each regional the Tianjin Climate Exchange establishment and operation. 62 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 63 Objectives and Plans Aspects 2015 Objectives 2015 Action Plans 1. Accelerate the revision of relevant safety and environmental Looking ahead to 2015, in order to build a world-class international energy company, PetroChina will continue to implement its strategies management regulations with regard to resources, markets and internationalization guided by the development policy giving priority to quality, efficiency and sustainability. We will promote the three fundamental projects including safety and environment, harmony and stability, and anti-corruption, 2. Continue to carry out hazard control of long-distance oil and gas pipelines, and improve emergency plans and monitoring and make efforts in business restructuring, fostering of growth points, and low-cost development. We will also deepen overall enterprise measures reform, promote innovation-driven development, improve corporate governance according to law, strengthen development momentum Strictly enforce the Work Safety Law of PRC and 3. Strengthen regulation over key areas and processes including and vitality, and enhance our core competitiveness, in order to play a greater role in the energy revolution and boost social harmony and Safety and Environmental Protection Law dangerous chemicals, refining equipment, storage facilities, prosperity. offshore construction and operations, and road traffic Environmental of PRC, strengthen supervision, seek both temporary and 4. Continue to promote the HSE system audit and regulate its Protection permanent solutions, and fully operations improve intrinsic safety Aspects 2015 Objectives 2015 Action Plans 5. Fully implement administrative measures for risk control of production safety, and accelerate improvement of emergency response capacity 1. Establish the concept of “supremacy of law”, and improve the 6. Strengthen energy conservation and emission reduction, and accelerate implementation of key energy conservation projects law education mechanism Implement law-based corporate 2. Promote management system reform, improve the governance 7. Save water, and promote water recycling technology governance throughout the whole process of promoting mechanism and institutional system, and strengthen risk Corporate energy reform and sustainable prevention and control Governance corporate development, 3. Strengthen the management incentive and restraint mechanism 1. step up the establishment of a Protect the interests of employees according to law, and improve scientific and complete system of 4. Safeguard the interests of the Company and the employees the employee representatives’ meeting system according to law law-based corporate governance 2. Improve the mechanism to link payroll with performance, Give priority to professional and 5. Close loopholes of violation of laws and regulations, seek implement incentive and restraint supporting policies, and favor international development, benefits through compliance management Employee improve systems and mechanisms, employees with great contributions and heavy responsibilities and employees taking front-line positions in our compensation Development and fully improve staff quality and and benefits policy competence 3. Expand trial units for parallel managerial technical system 1. Keep consolidating our resource foundation; focus on quality and efficiency in oil and gas exploration and development 4. Develop personal career development programs for technical, managerial and skill experts, and support their rapid growth 2. Focus on value enhancement, and accelerate gas development 3. Actively plan for unconventional and offshore oil and gas development, and keep abreast of the development and utilization of biomass and other new energy sources 1. Enhance cooperation, and expand value sharing with all sectors Oil & Gas Give priority to oil and gas of society operations, stabilize domestic 4. Deepen oil and gas cooperation, and develop overseas business Production oil and gas supply, and promote in a quality and efficient manner 2. Improve the community health and pension service system and Supply energy and resource conservation 5. Optimize the allocation of regional resources, accelerate the Benefit the people with our 3. Continue to conduct target and non-target programs in poverty development and application of new and special technology, Social development and reform alleviation, disaster relief, donations for education, and youth and increase the production of high-value-added products and volunteer campaigns and other activities new chemical products Contribution achievements, and jointly build a harmonious society 4. Enhance communication with investors, partners, customers, 6. Actively respond to market changes, and improve the network suppliers and other stakeholders layout 5. Explore cultural integration with partners and achieve mutual 7. Continuously enhance brand value and reputation benefits and win-win outcomes 64 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 65 Performance Statistics Category Indicator 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Category Indicator 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total assets (RMB 108) 16,565 19,176 21,689 23,421 24,055 Energy conserved (104 TCE) 173 113 121 108 116 Turnover (RMB 108) 14,654 20,038 21,953 22,581 22,830 Water conserved (104 cubic meters) 2,865 1,744 1,926 2,007 1,979 Net Profit (RMB 108) 1,400 1,330 1,153 1,296 1,072 Environment Oil discharged in waste water (tons) 698 642 604 577 500 Taxes (RMB 108) 2,870 3,744 3,620 3,758 3,745 COD in wastewater (tons) * Proven crude reserves (106 barrels) 11,278 11,128 11,018 10,820 10,593 SO2 emission in waste gas (tons) * Economic Proven gas reserves (108 ft3) 655,030 666,530 675,810 693,230 710,980 Number of employees (104) 55.3 55.3 54.8 54.4 53.5 Oil equivalent production (106 barrels) 1,228 1,286 1,343.1 1,400.0 1,450.4 Percentage of employees receiving Employees occupational health checks (%) 96 95 95 91 97 Crude oil production (106 barrels ) 858 886 916.5 932.9 945.5 Percentage of non-Chinese nationals in 94 94 94 93.4 91 overseas hires (%) Marketable natural gas production(108 ft3) 22,212 23,964 25,588 28,019 30,288 Contribution to poverty alleviation(RMB 104) 6,308 3,706 4,124 6,799 8,974 Total length of crude oil pipelines (km) 14,782 14,782 16,344 17,614 18,107 Educational donations (RMB 104) 3,458 11,928 9,151 10,736 6,431 Public Total length of refined products pipelines (km) 9,257 9,334 9,437 9,534 10,086 welfare Donations to disaster relief (RMB 104) 4,499 595 1,881 2,152 314 Total length of natural gas pipelines(km) 32,801 36,116 40,995 43,872 48,602 Environmental protection (RMB 104) 5,588 75 965 1,377 85 Crude runs (106 barrels) 904 985 1,012.5 992.3 1,010.6 *As of the date the report released, the statistics of COD in wastewater and SO2 emissions in waste gas of the company in 2014 are under Ethylene production (104 tons) 361 347 369 398.2 497.6 review of the Ministry of Environmental Protection of PRC (MEP), which will be publicized once verified. The verified statistics for the year 2014 shall be unveiled in this Sustainability Report Next year. Death rate caused by accidents 1.02 0.70 0.20 0.25 0.466 Note: Measurement units (person/100 million working hours) Safety Total accident rate (incidents/million 1 BOE = 1 barrel of crude = 6,000 cubic feet of NG = 169.9 cubic meter of NG working hours ) 0.0120 0.0326 0.0387 0.0522 0.0487 1 cubic meter of NG = 35.315 cubic feet of NG 1 metric ton of crude = 7.389 barrels of crude (API = 34) 66 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 67 Approach to Reporting About This Report This Report focuses on major international and domestic events related to the sustainable This report illustrates activities the Company undertook in 2014 pursuant to its ongoing commitment to advance the community, the development of the Company and its subsidiaries. economy and the environment. All information disclosed in this report was sourced from PetroChina’s official documents and statistics as well as from statistics gathered from the Company’s affiliated enterprises. It takes into account the Company's development priorities and stakeholder concerns. This report has been reviewed in accordance with the Company’s Rules for Information Disclosure Control and Disclosure Procedures. For continuity and comparability purposes, this report provides explanations on past and future initiatives on certain issues. Concerns of stakeholders This report is formulated according to the key principles of accuracy, transparency and consistency. We took reference from the Guideline on Preparing the Report on Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Environmental, · Investor FAQs Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide issued by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Furthermore, we continued to consult the · Media monitoring Sustainability Reporting Guideline (Version 4.0) released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on · Field research Voluntary Sustainability (2010) co-published by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and · Site interview the American Petroleum Institute (API). As a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we report our progress in compliance · Requirements of NGOs with the Ten Principles and will submit the report to be posted on UNGC’s website (http://www.unglobalcompact.org). This report includes a set of Forward-Looking Statements. Excluding historical facts, all events that may or will occur (including, but not limited to, premise, objectives, estimation and business plans) and descriptions of such events are categorized as Forward-Looking Statements. Due to the presence of external uncertainties, actual outcomes or the future climate may differ from those expressed in the Major economic, environmental and Forward-Looking Statements. As the Forward-Looking Statements were made prior to December 31, 2014, PetroChina holds no responsibility social impacts of the Company or liability for any modifications made subsequent to the said date. · Major policies, projects, strategies, risks and opportunities of the Company Thank you for taking the time to read this report. We welcome any comments and suggestions you may have as we believe that your feedback can improve our performance. This report is published, along with the Company’s Annual Report 2014 in March 2015, in simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese and English. In the case of any discrepancy, the version in simplified Chinese shall act as the lead publication. Content Selection Process Please visit our website (www.petrochina.com.cn) for more information or to download the electronic version of this report. The contents in this report were selected and disclosed based on their substantiality, integrity and balance principle, and taking into account The Board and all the Company’s directors hereby certify that there are no misrepresentations, misleading statements or material omissions the concerns of stakeholders and the Company’s great influence on the society. They exert substantial impact on the Company’s sustainable in this report. Furthermore, we jointly and severally accept full responsibility for the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of this report. development. 1. The Company pays close attention to the views of its stakeholders, and collects their comments through community Identification visits, periodical reports, field study and online communication. Media monitoring It makes suggestions on the topics of the report by taking into Email network Saving paper to build a greener earth together account stakeholders’ major concerns. Field study Please visit www.petrochina.com.cn to review PetroChina’s compliance with Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 4.0) released by the 2. We assess the Company’s sustainable development strategy and Global Reporting Initiative and Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability (2010). cover major social, economic and environmental events related to Review Prioritization our strategies, risks and opportunities. Internal evaluation Questionnaire Feedback from readers Seminars 3. We refer to the social responsibility initiatives and standards proposed by NGOs for topic selection. These include ISO26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility). Validation You can log on to our website www.petrochina.com.cn or scan the QR code to browse or download the electronic Content development 4. Topics are selected based on the comprehensive assessment version of this report and learn more about us. Department review of stakeholders’ concerns and their impact on the Company’s Executive approval strategies. The time span and the scope of impact for each specific topic are clearly defined to ensure the accuracy of the information disclosed. 68 2014 Sustainability Report
