C SR REPORT 2014 I N N O VAT I O N A N D A C C E L E R AT I O N – these are the drivers of our industry. PA S S I O N F O R T E C H N O L O G Y – this is the foundation of our company. T R A N S PA R E N C Y, F L E X I B I L I T Y A N D AT T E N T I O N T O D E TA I L – this is how we engineer precision components for the world’s leading innovators. The culture that drives our innovation is the very same culture that defines our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). To us, social responsibility isn’t a separate pillar in our organisation, but an ambition integrated into our everyday decision-making. At Kendrion, CSR is not just about being responsible; it is about TA K I N G R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y . TA K I N G R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y is embedded into our culture of innovation. It is what happens when smart, enthusiastic engineers come together in a high-technology environment open to dynamic new ideas. Sourcing smart materials, adopting energy-efficient machinery, conducting business fairly and creating growth opportunities for our employees. These aren’t just CSR issues; they are engineering challenges that are accelerating our business into the future. To many, being responsible is simply an obligation, a tactic to avoid falling behind. To us, taking responsibility is a strategy to stay ahead, After all, in an industry of innovation taking responsibility isn’t just a smart move. It’s also S M A R T B U S I N E S S . Contents 3 Preface 4 Short & simple 6 Timeline 2014 8 Organisation 10 CSR strategy ‘Taking Responsibility’ 14 CSR organisation CSR Key issues 16 Stakeholders dialogue 18 Sustainable products 24 Supply chain management 28 Sustainable operations 32 Energy & CO2 reduction 36 Fair labour standards 40 Health & safety 43 Business ethics programme 45 Community investment 49 Kendrion CSR Award 2014 50 Assurance report 51 About this Report CSR mission It is Kendrion’s mission that Corporate Social Interviews & more Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability are 20 The next great thing in driving? intrinsic, integral elements of Kendrion’s 21 Kendrion Symposium: marketplace for megatrends operations. Kendrion wants to conduct 22 Kendrion greensigned brand opens new doors business with consideration for climate 23 Kendrion Industrial Control Systems launches effects and energy sources, with a feeling first greensigned product for people and the environment, and on 31 ‘CSR within Kendrion is much more than a slogan’ the basis of a responsibility for the chain in 35 Combining personal drive and business goals which the company operates. This form of 42 On the safe side with 5S entrepreneurship pivots on the creation 48 Greasing the wheels of the community of multiple value – and consequently not just Profit, but also People and Planet. 2 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Preface We are pleased to present Kendrion’s 2014 CSR Report to you. In publishing this fourth CSR Report we aim to demonstrate to our stakeholders that our commitment to sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is of strategic importance to us. We want to contribute, within the scope of our possibilities, to a sustainable society. This means we must focus continually on our use of materials, our products that we develop for our customers (for instance in terms of emissions and energy savings) and the way in which we treat our employees. Global trends such as climate change, scarcity of resources, renewable energy and population growth also present Kendrion with opportunities and can create value for our stakeholders. We are pleased to report that a vast majority of our targets that we had set ourselves in this area were achieved in 2014. The highlights of the past year included: the development of a new CSR strategy for the years 2015 to 2017, ‘Taking Responsibility’; the further roll-out of our company greensigned logo; the substantial reductions in CO2 emissions achieved at our largest European plants; the presentation of the second Kendrion CSR Award; the steps we and our suppliers took in our supply chain; and a number of external HR and CSR Awards received by operating companies. Thanks to the efforts of many employees across all our divisions and business units, including the members of our CSR Board, sustained efforts are already underway to achieve new, realistic targets for the next years. We will update you on these efforts in this Report. Kendrion cannot work miracles by itself. We are keenly aware of the fact that further ‘greening’ of our internal processes and of the chain will take time and effort. Wherever possible, Kendrion wants to work with its stakeholders and partners in the chain to achieve this. We hold periodic meetings with our customers, suppliers, investors and staff with the intention of getting the best out of each other. We have observed that many of our customers are working on sustainability developments and are formulating ambitious targets, in particular for reductions of emissions, energy conservation and safety. We are of the opinion that we are in an excellent position to supply our customers the high-grade products and services they need to achieve their targets. We hope that the readers of this Report will appreciate the efforts we are making in fulfilling our corporate social responsibility. Piet Veenema, CEO Kendrion N.V. PREFACE 3 Short & simple (2014 including Kuhnke) Number of employees Training costs PEOPLE (fte) (as a % of wage costs) 2,756 (2013): 51% 49% 0.8% 0.8% (2013) 2,713: 50% 50% female male Absolute CO2 emissions* Relative CO2 emission* Energy consumption* PLANET (tons) (t/million turnover) (targets 2012-2014) Power: kWh 14,875,859 Power kWh/million turnover: 42,415 4,643 13.2 – 17.3% compared to 2012** Fuel oil: 140,882 liter – 16.3% – 46.1% Fuel oil ltr/million turnover: 402 compared compared – 14.7% compared to 2012** * All plants in Germany, to 2012** to 2012 Eibiswald (Austria) and Natural gas: m3 763,563 Prostejov (Czech Natural gas m3/million turnover: 2,177 Republic). – 10.8% compared to 2012** ** 2012 excluding Kuhnke. Revenue EBITDA PROFIT (EUR million) (EUR million) Normalised for 428.9 49.3 non-recurring items 354.0 36.9 2014 2013 2014 2013 4 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Accidents and Lost Time Injuries Illness rate (LTI in days) 2.3% 50 506 2.8% (2013) 38 (2013) 141 (2013) Accidents LTI Consumption of materials Acceptance of Number of supplier audits (in tons, best estimate) Supplier Code of Conduct (top 20 main material suppliers) Copper 75% 1,568 1,400 (2013) Permanent magnets 74 23 50 (2013) 2013 excluding Kuhnke Net profit Solvency (EUR million) 20.2 46.0% 40.1% 14.3 2014 2013 2014 2013 SHORT & SIMPLE 5 Timeline 2014 CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT Kendrion reports to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the first time. BEST EMPLOYER AWARD GIRLS’ DAY The Top National Employer Award Girls from different regional schools visit Kendrion and ‘Kununu’ (Germany’s largest locations in Donaueschingen, Malente, employer-rating portal) rate Kendrion Engelswies and Markdorf for Girls’ Day. They are as one of the best employers in given an overview of the possibilities offered by Germany. the technical professions and get an impression of what an engineer’s working day is like. KENDRION SUZHOU AT AAA-LEVEL LED PROJECT Kendrion Suzhou is one of only The project to replace old a few companies awarded the lighting with more efficient and AAA-level by the Suzhou Labour environmentally friendly LED Security Bureau. systems is launched in plants in Germany. 2014 01 03 05 06 07 08 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT In 2012, Kendrion started KENDRION PROSTEJOV: a scholarship sponsor AAA-EXCELLENT programme for disadvantaged Kendrion Prostejov is included students of Engineering in a list of the 100 most stable Studies in Pune, India. companies in the Czech Two more brilliant but Republic. Kendrion is awarded financially disadvantaged the AAA-Excellent status as students were recruited in a result. 2014, bringing the total number of students to six. Kendrion N.V. Utrechtseweg 33 3704 HA Zeist P.O. Box 931 3700 AX Zeist CSR REPORT The Netherlands Telephone +31 (0)30 699 72 50 GREEN Fax +31 (0)30 695 11 65 E-mail info@kendrion.com www.kendrion.com SIGNED TO GROW CSR REPORT 2013 Kendrion publishes its 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility ISO Report, based on the General Reporting Initiative (GRI) Kendrion Industrial Drive Systems in guidelines, Level B, in late Villingen and Kendrion (Aerzen) GmbH, March 2014. both in Germany, receive ISO 14001 (environmental management system) KD CSR JV 2013 Omslag-plano.indd I 07-04-14 17:51 certification. 6 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 TAKING RESPONSIBILITY Kendrion introduces its new three-year GREENSIGNED CSR Programme Taking Responsibility The Kuhnke Econo 208, which covers all its Corporate Social developed by the COMPLIANCE Responsibility (CSR) measures and Industrial Control operations. Clear and ambitious Systems business unit, Kendrion adopts an objectives have been formulated for is awarded the Anti-Bribery and Corruption the years to come. greensigned label. policy which encompasses The device – part of the issues including the Kuhnke Controller Line – periodic performance is an industrial Microbox of risk assessments, due CSR AWARD FOR diligence, communication PC for professional, KENDRION EIBISWALD and training courses. embedded systems used Kendrion Eibiswald is given the for switching-cabinet Kendrion introduces Kendrion CSR Award and the solutions. It is smaller an online compliance Austrian Daphne Award for its and lighter than any of training course which achievements in the field of its predecessors and is compulsory for environmental management uses a lot less energy approximately software for ISO 50001 certification. and packaging material. 300 employees working in purchasing, sales, management and for other specified officers. 09 10 11 12 2015 GREENSIGNED POWER AND HEATING REPLACEMENT SYSTEM OF RARE-EARTH As part of the MAGNETS The second combined power greensigned brand, and heating system is installed The Kendrion Academy, Industrial Magnetic at our plant in Villingen, in cooperation with the Systems has come Germany, leading to substantial University of Technology up with a unique further savings in energy in Ilmenau, starts a project solution for consumption and CO2 using a model-based fire-safety systems emissions. approach to investigate in hotels, offices the possibilities of and public buildings reducing (or even which does away replacing) the rare-earth with the need for a TRANSPARENCY magnets used in one continuous supply BENCHMARK of the business unit’s of electrical energy. In 2014, Kendrion ranked 42nd in products without a The profit made the Dutch Ministry of Economic reduction in performance. from this product Affairs’ Transparency Benchmark is the fact that it which rates the top 500 companies helps minimise in the Netherlands. Kendrion ranked VOLUNTEERS@KENDRION our CO2 footprint. 96th in 2013, which demonstrates Kendrion’s Volunteers Award provides the significant progress which has employees with EUR 1,000 for voluntary work been made. projects in the fields of sport, social work, young children and old-age pensioners. TIMELINE 2014 7 Organisation Development, production and marketing of high-quality electromagnetic and mechatronic systems and components 2,700 employees (including about 80 temps) in 15 countries Revenue: approximately EUR 430 million Listed company on Euronext’s Amsterdam Market >> Profile kendrion n.v., a solution provider, develops, manufactures and markets innovative high-quality electromagnetic and mechatronic systems and components for customers all over the world. Kendrion’s operations are carried out by two divisions with in total seven business units that are focused on specific market segments: zz Industrial Division’s Industrial Magnetic Systems, Industrial Control Systems and Industrial Drive Systems business units. zz Automotive Division’s Passenger Car Systems, Automotive Control Systems, Commercial Vehicle Systems and Heavy Duty Systems business units. kendrion has leading positions in a number of business-to-business niche markets. Germany is Kendrion’s main market, although other countries are becoming increasingly important. 8 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 >> Kendrion’s activities kendrion develops advanced electromagnetic and mechatronic solutions for industrial and automotive applications. These are used by customers all over the world in systems such as lifts, door-locking systems, industrial robots, medical equipment, electrical switchbox systems, diesel and gasoline engines, air-conditioning installations, motor cooling systems and beverage dispensers. Kendrion’s key customers include a.o. Bosch, Continental, Daimler, Delphi, Evobus, Hyundai, Siemens, ThyssenKrupp Bilstein, Volkswagen, Wabco, Yutong and ZF. Kendrion’s shares are listed on Euronext’s Amsterdam market. Kendrion’s strategic spearheads are: zz Niche market leadership in selected business-to-business markets; zz Organic growth in the current operations; zz Utilisation of synergy in and between the business units (locally but also internationally); zz Balanced spread of the operations; zz Targeted add-on acquisitions; zz Enhancement of the innovative capacity; zz Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability. O R G A N I S AT I O N 9 CSR strategy ‘Taking Responsibility’ >> CSR mission For Kendrion, Corporate Social Responsibility means: The responsibility of an organisation for the impact of its decisions and activities on society and the environment, through transparent and ethical behaviour. It is Kendrion’s mission that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability are intrinsic, integral elements of Kendrion’s operations. Kendrion wants to conduct business with consideration for climate effects and energy sources, with a feeling for people and the environment, and on the basis of a responsibility for the chain in which the company operates. This form of entrepreneurship pivots on the creation of multiple value – and consequently not just Profit, but also People and Planet. >> CSR strategy Some of the relevant megatrends in the world are: zz A rapid growth of the world population, especially in emerging markets; zz Urbanisation; zz Increased transportation needs of people and goods; zz An increasing scarcity of natural resources; zz The transition to more sustainable energy; zz Climate change; and zz Scarcity of highly educated (technical) people, especially in Germany. Some of these megatrends, such as the scarcity of natural resources and the reduced availability or substantially increased prices of energy sources, could in the longer term become a threat to the growth of Kendrion’s business and therefore need to be addressed in a timely manner. These trends also offer opportunities for Kendrion, however. Utilising such opportunities and using scarce energy and other natural resources in a responsible way will, in the long run, make an essential contribution to the creation of value for all Kendrion’s stakeholders. Therefore, Kendrion has included sustainability and CSR as spearheads in the company’s general strategic policy described on page 9 and referred to in more detail in the 2014 Annual Report on pages 8-10. >> UN Global Compact Kendrion joined the UN Global Compact in September 2009. The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest network initiative that unites companies, UN organisations and civil society in support of ten principles encompassing human rights, labour, the environment and sound business practices. Kendrion endorses these principles. This is a further example of Kendrion’s objective of being a company that all stakeholders can be proud of, in particular regarding the company’s social and ethical principles and the manner in which these principles are implemented in everyday practice. 10 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Kendrion’s customers are formulating more and more sustainability targets and, as a result, expect increasingly more from their suppliers. Kendrion’s Automotive Division and Industrial Division took the carefully considered decision to participate in a number of submarkets that accommodate these (mega)trends. Sustainability is at the core of many of the company’s products and innovations. Kendrion exploits the specific expertise and experience available within the company as a means of increasing safety and substantially reducing emissions and fuel consumption. More information is enclosed on pages 18-23. Transparency and supply chain responsibility are both important issues in the chain and, consequently, are also of great importance to Kendrion – for example with respect to the use of materials. For this reason, Kendrion attaches great importance to good relationships with the company’s customers, employees, suppliers, other business partners and the communities where Kendrion is active. Cooperation and consultations are essential if Kendrion is to fulfil its ambitions. Kendrion has interpreted these needs for its company processes in the terms explained herein. >> Materiality analysis This CSR Report focuses as much as possible on the issues which are most important to Kendrion, its employees and stakeholders; the key issues. The selection of these key issues is based on a materiality analysis. The materiality analysis is carried out with due regard for: zz the nature of Kendrion’s activities and business processes; zz the demands made of Kendrion and its products by its customers in connection with sustainability in the short and long terms; zz Kendrion’s potential impact and influence in the chain in the short and long term; zz the relevant megatrends worldwide (see page 10); zz Kendrion’s other strategic spearheads (see page 9); and zz the relevance to stakeholders and the possible influence on them. >> Transparency Benchmark Kendrion participates in the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation’s Transparency Benchmark, which monitors the Netherlands’ 500 largest companies. Kendrion ranked 91 in 2013. Kendrion was ranked number 42 in 2014. C S R S T R AT E G Y ‘ TA K I N G R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y ’ 11 The materiality analysis was carried out explicitly during 2014 in connection with the setting up of the programme for the years 2015 to 2017. First of all, the CSR Board members were asked to classify issues which might be relevant using the criteria mentioned before. The results and the key issues identified were discussed and endorsed by the Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board of Kendrion N.V. The result was finally also discussed with a number of different stakeholders including investors, suppliers, staff and customers. Their feedback was also processed. The materiality analysis will be repeated and evaluated annually on the basis of the results obtained and where necessary adjusted in line with the CSR Board’s proposals. A diagram representing the outcome of the materiality analysis carried out in 2014 is given below. Financial Quality performance Innovation Sustainable Effluents products Energy Health & safety consumption Biodiversity Fair labour Co2 emissions standards Water Materials Waste Other Integrity Environment emissions Transport Human Recources in rights supply chain Training & development Diversity Risk Fair management tax and regulation Strong communities Transparency Relevance for Kendrion and stakeholders The selection of the key issues has been reconfirmed on the basis of the materiality analysis. The key issues for Kendrion are: zz Sustainable products; zz Responsible use of resources in the supply chain; zz Environmental protection; zz Good labour conditions; zz Fair business conduct; and zz Strong communities. 12 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Next, specific targets and KPIs were formulated for those key issues. The key issues, KPIs and targets were discussed and endorsed by the Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board, and are evaluated annually on the basis of the results achieved and where necessary adjusted as proposed by the CSR Board. These evaluations also make use of the feedback Kendrion receives from its investors, suppliers, staff and customers during the meetings held. >> Shift to Taking Responsibility As had been planned the previous year, an assessment was made during 2014 of how best these key issues could connect with the organisation and with other strategic spearheads. There was also a desire to make further progress with the CSR cycle (see outline below) and move towards an even more strategic or even proactive position. The result was that a CSR programme entitled ‘Taking Responsibility’ was adopted after consultations between the CSR Board, Executive Board and Top Management. The programme not only aims to anchor further CSR and sustainability in the company's business processes but also to increase the commitment to sustainable products and services with regard to the way customers respond to megatrends. This will demand time, so it was decided to plan three years to the programme (2015 to 2017). Plans include each business unit drawing up its own CSR programme as part of its mid-term plan and agreed budget. You can find more information about the Taking Responsibility programme in the various chapters of this Report. The programme's content and the progress being made will be evaluated every year and adjusted where necessary. The CSR cycle The four CSR stages companies pass through 1 INACTIVE 2 REACTIVE 3 ACTIVE 4 PROACTIVE companies that companies that companies that companies that only look at CSR include reputation start stressing take the social from a ‘bookkeeping’ in their CSR the market perspective business case as point of view ­considerations their starting point Classic Defensive Strategic Social KENDRION C S R S T R AT E G Y ‘ TA K I N G R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y ’ 13 CSR organisation >> CSR Board and Ambassadors In 2011, the Executive Committee decided to give further shape to Kendrion’s CSR activities by appointing a CSR Board. The Board’s members are representatives of the divisions, business units and departments and come from Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany and the Netherlands. The CSR Board had 12 members in 2014. Board members do their CSR work in addition to their regular Kendrion duties. Each member has their area of interest and is responsible for the fulfilment of plans in this field. In addition to the CSR Board, there are 'ambassadors' in all operating companies who support CSR activities locally. >> Objective of the CSR Board The objective of the CSR Board is to coordinate, communicate, enthuse and accelerate. The CSR Board is empowered to structure and plan all Kendrion’s CSR activities. The Board also perceives its duties as including the provision of transparent information about the stipulated CSR targets to the employees and external stakeholders and to communicate the progress in the achievement of the targets. The Board endeavours to make the employees aware of CSR and to generate their enthusiasm for addressing CSR issues within the context of their day-to-day work and responsibilities. Kendrion intends to adopt a practical, realistic and relevant approach. >> Activities The Board met eight times in 2014, two of which were conference calls. It gave further consideration to the CSR themes of greatest relevance to Kendrion and developed the new CSR Programme for the years 2015 to 2017, Taking Responsibility. Furthermore, the progress made to realise the targets for 2014 was discussed from time to time. In one of the meetings, the Managing Director of Kendrion (Shelby) Inc., NC, USA, was invited to cover specific attention points for the USA. >> Commitment Top Management The CSR strategy, key issues and objectives are in line with the views of the Executive Committee. The CSR programme, Taking Responsibility, was discussed during the Top Management Meeting in September 2014. The Supervisory Board recognises the importance of Kendrion’s CSR programme and advocates a strong focus on the company’s social and environmental standards governing its processes, and the relationship between the overall strategy and sustainability. The Supervisory Board reviewed the achievements and endorsed the CSR Board’s plans for 2015 and beyond. >> Further guarantees Many requirements linked to the key issues and the objectives are guaranteed by procedures in various areas. These include ISO norms, safety training and procedures, environmental plans and agreements on working pay and conditions. 14 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 CSR and sustainability objectives are included in the performance criteria governing the variable remuneration awarded to top management and members of the Executive Committee. See page 37 for more information. Furthermore, Kendrion has implemented a Code of Conduct in its organisation. The principles and best practices established in this Code reflect the main values that need to guide Kendrion’s staff in the performance of their duties. The core themes include corporate social responsibility, the obligation for due care regarding safety and health, the environment, and social interests. Kendrion attaches great importance to the organisation’s compliance with the Code of Conduct. Employees who observe a (suspected) irregularity are encouraged to enter into discussions with those directly involved or with their supervisor. When this is not feasible or fails to achieve results, then they have the opportunity to report irregularities or suspicions of irregularities to the management without jeopardising their (legal) position according to the Kendrion whistleblowers policy. Kendrion employs Rules and Regulations and Letters of Representation. The Rules and Regulations constitute rules of behaviour governing all Kendrion Managing Directors. All Kendrion companies are requested to sign a Letter of Representation report once a quarter confirming that the (financial) information they have reported is correct and complete and in accordance with the Code of Conduct. CSR Board, from left to right: Sören Rosenbaum, Managing Director Kendrion Mechatronics Center; Heinz Jankowski, Facility Manager (KGS); Wijgert Gooijer, General Counsel and CSR Coordinator (Kendrion N.V.); Kathrin Grahl, Human Resources (ICS); Wencke Volkmann, Controlling (ACS); Wilma Stuiver, Executive Assistant (Kendrion N.V.); Josef Porta, Production Manager (PCS); Martina Svobodova, Human Resources (PCS); Bertram Heimgartner, Head of Commercial Department (CVS); Beate Hermannstädter, Marketing Coordinator (IDS); Wolfgang Mayer, Head of Quality Department (CVS) and Volker Buhl, Sales Manager (IMS). C S R O R G A N I S AT I O N 15 Stakeholders dialogue >> General Kendrion attaches great importance to good relationships with its customers, employees, suppliers, other business partners and the communities in which Kendrion is active. Kendrion engages in transparent communications in a manner in which the company carries out CSR activities. Exchanges of ideas, the involvement of business relations in the implementation of initiatives and the utilisation of the experience and networks of others will further the implementation and integration of Kendrion’s CSR policy within the company. The selection of stakeholders was partly based on questions such as who might be positively or negatively affected by the organisation’s decisions or activities, who can help the organisation address specific impacts, who can affect the organisation’s ability to meet its responsibilities and who in the value chain is affected? >> Customers and suppliers A substantial number of Kendrion’s customers are major Tier 1 suppliers and OEMs in the automotive sector or other large industrial companies. Some of these customers have implemented CSR and sustainability requirements for suppliers. Kendrion complies with their requirements, including their quality and environmental requirements, by an ample margin. Kendrion provided more insight into the company’s CSR efforts to its customers. Accordingly, Kendrion highlighted its CSR policy in a wide range of material published in the course of 2014. In 2014, various business units engaged in constructive dialogue with a number of important customers to discuss the company’s CSR efforts in more detail. The customers Kendrion consulted on its CSR strategy largely responded favourably. Kendrion successfully introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct in 2012. A large number of main suppliers signed this Code of Conduct in 2013 and 2014. Kendrion also started to integrate this Supplier Code of Conduct in supplier selection. Also a substantial number of CSR audits were performed. The aim is to continue Kendrion’s dialogue with suppliers on their performance in this area, with a view to jointly pursuing improvements if necessary. 16 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 >> Management and employees Kendrion regards its employees as the company’s greatest asset. The support of Kendrion’s CSR policy by the company’s employees is of essential importance. As in past years, Kendrion devoted continual attention to CSR issues in the Magnetised international staff magazine in 2014 and will continue to do so in 2015. The company’s employees will also be expressly involved in the continued roll-out of the Taking Responsibility programme. >> Investors Sustainability is also becoming an increasingly important issue for Kendrion’s investors. Kendrion held discussions with a number of its major shareholders and banks in the bank consortium. Kendrion presented its strategy, key issues and objectives, and also discussed the investors' CSR and compliance policies within the context of their investments. These parties welcomed the sustainability and CSR efforts within Kendrion. There were further discussions on Rabobank's circular economy challenges and possibilities. This bank also provided the opportunity for one of our German plants to participate in a pilot Life Cycle Assessment project. Kendrion maintains good relations with the Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development (VBDO – Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling). >> Local communities Kendrion is active in a number of countries in which, in a general sense, the standard of living, working conditions and human rights exhibit room for improvement. Kendrion endeavours to make a modest contribution to these improvements by means of including (mostly small scale) local community investment programmes. Kendrion appreciates the importance of good contacts with the local authorities. These contacts are important for reasons including the safety of the production facilities, accessibility, ties with the employees and the enhancement of local communities. More information about stakeholder engagement is enclosed in the various sections of this Report. S TA K E H O L D E R S D I A L O G U E 17 Sustainable products Target 2014 Result Ambition 2015 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility More products with At least two more products with Well developed and recognised greensigned label greensigned label greensigned product portfolio Continuation of study by Continuation of study by Kendrion Continuous optimisation of product Kendrion Mechatronics Mechatronics Center and R&D portfolio to meet the (CSR) megatrends Center and R&D departments departments regarding regarding sustainability in the sustainability in the supply chain supply chain >> General Sustainability is at the core of many of the company’s products and innovations. Kendrion exploits the specific expertise and experience available within the company as a means of increasing safety and substantially reducing emissions and fuel consumption. Kendrion is inspired by the desire to secure a sustainable and ‘green’ environment for generations to come, fully appreciating and assuming its responsibility for achieving this objective. >> Market trends and Kendrion products The megatrends referred to on page 10 can be interpreted in terms of a number of subtrends. The scarcity of natural resources and climate change, for example, are resulting in the transition to more sustainable energy sources. Urbanisation and the rapid growth of the population are leading to increased transportation needs for both people, energy and goods. Areas in which many people congregate are governed by increasingly stringent, building and transport system safety and environmental requirements. Population growth – and in some regions the ageing population – are accompanied by increasing healthcare requirements. These are accompanied by the trend towards continually smaller, lighter and faster products. The product portfolios of the business units are tailored to the current trends in Kendrion’s customers’ markets. A number of the submarkets targeted by Kendrion’s business units are focused on these specific trends, such as the Industrial Division’s safety technology, renewable energy and medical engineering, and the Automotive Division’s 18 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 fuel efficiency, engine management, sound design, cooling and safety & comfort technologies. This enables Kendrion to create both added value and competitive advantages for its customers in a changing landscape that is governed by increasingly stringent standards, for example for emissions and safety. More information about these submarkets and the unique properties of Kendrion’s technologies and products is available in the ‘Industries’ section of Kendrion’s website. >> Quality The majority of Kendrion’s products play a critical role in the systems and products of the company’s customers and end users, including systems and products such as lift braking systems, vehicle clutch systems, industrial robots, medical equipment and fast trigger solenoids for high voltage circuit breakers. For this reason quality and functionality are essential for all Kendrion products. This is in turn the reason why many projects have a lead time of a number of years, when large amounts of time and funds are invested in the development and testing of products in cooperation with the customer. Kendrion is renowned for the company’s technological know-how, innovative strength and high quality. Specific protocols have been implemented for dealing with quality issues raised by customers. Kendrion agrees on guarantee schemes with the company’s customers. The company’s suppliers also undergo comprehensive screening to verify compliance with Kendrion’s stringent quality standards. >> Greensigned In 2013 Kendrion carried out investigations into whether a green logo could be introduced for one or more products of the business units. Key aspects of this were that the right criteria were adopted, and that a transparent system was introduced that tests products against these criteria before a green logo is assigned. The introduction of a green logo must not only take place for marketing reasons; it also has to be apparent to customers and other third parties that the products in question provide a clear added value in the area of sustainability. This resulted in the introduction of the greensigned label for the KOBRA in 2013. Two more products were granted the greensigned logo in 2014. More information is provided on pages 22 and 23 of this Report. Safety is one of Kendrion’s core values and business drivers. Kendrion is involved in the production of the Sommital universal safety-bar locking system of ski lifts. The bar automatically locks and unlocks thanks to a special Kendrion solenoid. Kendrion is passionate about making skiing safer! S U S TA I N A B L E P R O D U C T S 19 Saving fuel and reducing CO2 Whoever believed that innovation in the automotive sector had just about reached its limits was wrong. Continental and Kendrion Passenger Car Systems (PCS) have collaborated on a project which takes as its starting point haptic responses from the accelerator pedal. Will this be the next great thing in driving? The next great thing in driving? The Kendrion product itself is an Wolfgang Keller: ‘The AFFP ® can be Not all features need to be implemented. electrodynamic actuator – high force equipped with a number of very special The OEM can choose to have one or level, long stroke – which includes a features and characteristics. It can for more features installed, depending on proportional stroke sensor. At PCS, the instance indicate the moment of transition the car,’ explains Wolfgang. ‘Research project is known as the LDDA project from the electric to the combustion has established that a haptic signal leads (Linear Direct Drive Actuator). Continental engine. The pedal gives a haptic signal to a reaction 10 times faster than with has built this proportional solenoid into an which indicates that, by pressing the other response-generating signals. accelerator pedal, called the Accelerator pedal a bit harder, the combustion engine Extensive testing has demonstrated that force Feedback Pedal (AFFP ). ® will be started. A second feature tells the the AFFP® helps you save seven to ten Wolfgang Keller, PCS Sales Manager at driver when to gear up or down. Changing per cent in fuel. One can understand why Kendrion Villingen in Germany: ‘This new gears at the right moment helps save fuel both we and Continental think this is a generation haptic-accelerator pedal is and reduce CO2 emissions. This is really product with huge market potential. We now being used in the Mercedes plug-in important for OEMs, who might have to have already started working on the next hybrid S-class and C-class. At the end of deal with CO2 credits in the near future.’ generation to make it suitable for mass the year, the next OEM in the automotive markets. With their “smart pedal” system, sector will start installing the AFFP ®.’ Continental is the benchmark at the moment and we are proud to supply Mass markets the most important part of this system.’ Information ‘A third feature is a warning signal in case Most cars these days have all kinds of of dangers, such as being too close to the information systems. Think of sensors, car in front of you or the road ahead being Accelerator force Feedback Pedal (AFFP®) cameras and navigation. Driving can be blocked by something. It is also possible made more comfortable, easier and safer to have the accelerator pedal adapt to by interconnecting, monitoring and the local speed limit automatically. processing this information. The AFFP ® can play a vital role in the process. 20 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 An important part of new business is driven by megatrends. These are evolutionary and revolutionary developments that either gradually change the world or bring it explosive innovation. Megatrends should therefore be included in the focus of every company that aims to play a role in co-shaping these developments. All this helps explain why Kendrion chose megatrends as the central theme of its recent bi-annual Symposium. Kendrion Symposium: marketplace for megatrends The world has quickly turned into a global Sessions village. Developments seem to accelerate. With the help of modern A total of 14 separate sessions during the means of communication, some of these Kendrion Symposium dealt with a variety developments become worldwide, of topics, all centred around and derived irreversible trends. And the biggest of from the aforementioned megatrends. these, megatrends, are important drivers Internal and external specialists and of innovation. During the Kendrion experts highlighted the most significant Symposium, Sören Rosenbaum, developments in their specific areas of Managing Director of the Kendrion interest. Professor Rüdiger Deike from the Mechatronics Center, identified four topics University of Duisburg-Essen for instance around which megatrends that have direct talked about resource efficiency against links with Kendrion’s core business are a background of changing international evolving: urbanisation, life expectancy, markets for industrial metals. He resources and technical infrastructure. described the sudden rise in use of raw materials and the consequent increase in price. But he also drew attention to a Focus recent reduction in prices and a growing Megatrends which are connected with trend towards recycling and re-use. these four central issues include: mobility (emissions, autonomous driving, allInspire electric driving, parking), the aging of the population (work-life balance, support and A vital role was played in virtually all assistance, medical technology), energy sessions by (aspects of) economic, sources (sustainability, raw materials, ecological and technological megatrends, wind/solar/water) and the internet of displaying Kendrion’s engagement in things (interconnectivity, mechatronics). ‘innovating for a better world’. Subjects Kendrion is active in most of these fields ranged from the impact of design through its two divisions and their variations on energy-conversion efficiency massive product portfolios. An important and maximum consumption savings focus is on social responsibility issues: achieved by demand-orientated cooling, reducing CO2 emissions, saving energy, to the Linear Direct Drive Actuator for the enhancing safety and improving the Accelerator Force Feedback Pedal and quality of life. risk avoidance in plant and machine engineering. The Kendrion Symposium inspired not only customers and business partners but also Kendrion staff. KENDRION SYMPOSIUM 21 Kendrion greensigned products excel in the very efficient use of energy and can even achieve zero energy consumption. As part of the greensigned brand, Kendrion Industrial Magnetic Systems has come up with a unique solution for fire-safety systems in hotels, offices and public buildings. It is available either as one system or as separate constituent parts. Kendrion greensigned brand opens new doors You will have come across them halfway Battery system Creating value down long hotel corridors, in ships, offices or other public buildings; seemingly Supplying the energy needed to release The use of permanent holding magnets useless doors, not giving access to new the door and disconnect the armature and a battery supply is not cheaper rooms but only there to block the way and plate can be done the conventional way, compared to conventional systems. isolate part of the building in case of fire. i.e. through wiring. Sensors supported by However, when implementing the In normal circumstances, these doors are cables activate a central control station, sustainability principles of the Kendrion held permanently open by magnets. which sends a pulse to the appropriate greensigned label, other value-creating These relatively simple products consist magnet, de-energising it and closing the elements are introduced. Not every of a solenoid. This is a cylinder with a flat door. Ernst Bauer: ‘But this can also be benefit can be expressed in terms of surface, holding an armature plate fitted done by using a battery and connecting money. The real profit made from this on the door. Until now, a continuous the control station without the use of wires product is how it helps minimise our CO2 power supply was needed to keep the to an addressable solenoid. Every single footprint. By applying permanent-magnet door permanently open. Kendrion door can be addressed individually and technology, CO2 emissions have so far Industrial Magnetic Systems R&D closed when necessary. A battery in itself been reduced by 560 tonnes. Bernd engineer Ernst Bauer: ‘But there are is not very environmentally friendly but the Dullenkopf, Product Manager in the field materials in nature, such as permanent battery system we have developed can of safety equipment: ‘We supply all the magnets, that make it possible to hold an disconnect a solenoid 100,000 times. separate components but are also armature plate permanently without a In order to increase the battery life cycle working on a very flexible Kendrion continuous supply of electrical energy. even further, we have developed a patent integrated electronic board which offers You only need energy to disconnect or pending switch that indicates to the all solenoid, battery and monitoring release the magnet in order to close second when the armature plate has left functionality.’ the door in case of fire or for testing or the surface of the solenoid. At that very cleaning purposes. Imagine the amount moment, the battery supply is switched off of energy that could be saved!’ again, thus saving energy.’ 22 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 The Kendrion greensigned brand comprises products which are developed, produced and distributed in as environmentally friendly a way as possible. Their relevant specifications include the use of recyclable materials, energy-saving production processes and transport, and low energy consumption when they are used. Kendrion Industrial Control Systems launches first greensigned product kinds of industrial production processes, State-of-the-art Less energy with the textile industry, paper industry Continuous focus on the specific Ralph Köhler, Control Technology Project and food industry as its main markets.’ properties needed to fulfil the basic Manager at Industrial Control Systems, conditions of the greensigned label has was closely involved in the development Growing interest resulted in two more approved products. of the Kuhnke Econo 208: ‘We have been One of these is the Kuhnke Econo 208, making industrial PCs since 2006. So the The Kuhnke Econo 208 was developed developed by the Industrial Control technology is not new to us. In building with a view to the future. It has industrialSystems business unit. This device – part this new version, however, we have compliant interfaces and all kinds of of the Kuhnke Controller Line – is an applied the latest technological building extension possibilities for connecting new industrial Microbox PC for professional, blocks and have managed to make it modules such as WLAN or Bluetooth, for embedded systems used for switchingsmaller and lighter than any of its the extension of memory using modules cabinet solutions. It is a state-of-the-art predecessors. This IPC is very stable and and for making new fieldbus connections and highly flexible example of nextcompact because of its stainless steel such as EtherCAT®, Profinet and so on. generation IPCs and offers measuring housing. It also uses a lot less energy Ralph Köhler: ‘We already have a and control software functions through and packaging material. This fanless customer base for our existing IPC standard CODESYS V3 Soft PLC embedded PC is very easy to take apart, products and are pleased to see packages. It also handles visualisation maintain and repair. That is why we can increasing interest in this new product. tasks, data storage and processing, and be confident the Kuhnke Econo 208 We recently started production and are supports a complete range of belongs in the greensigned product already successfully selling it to the first communication systems. portfolio. The device can be used for the users.’ control of machines and equipment in all GREENSIGNED 23 Supply chain management Target 2014 Result Ambition 2015 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility 100% of main material 100% of main material suppliers All material suppliers comply with suppliers comply with comply with Supplier Code of Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct Conduct Five CSR supplier audits per At least five CSR supplier audits CSR audit fully integrated part of supplier business unit per business unit audits Fix framework for score and zz Fully integrate supplier audit CSR fully integrated in supplier selection relation to other supplier scores in supplier process requirements requirements zz First results study on permanent magnet reduction zz Initiative pilot to reduce copper use >> General; the supply chain The chains in which Kendrion is active have an impact on people, the environment and society that cannot be specified in unequivocal terms. Kendrion’s production processes are not polluting, in the sense that they do not result in large quantities of residual products with a great impact on the environment and which cannot be recycled. Nor do they result in large emissions of substances with an environmental impact (other than CO2). Many of Kendrion’s products enable the company’s customers to reduce the environmental impact of their products, for example in terms of emissions and energy consumption. Kendrion wishes to play a significant role in the chain in which the company is active. However, in many instances Kendrion is a relatively minor link between. As a result, Kendrion’s sphere of influence is limited. In order to achieve the best results possible, it is of great importance that Kendrion continues the dialogue with its suppliers and, in the selection and assessment of suppliers, that it continues to consider their performance as regards sustainability. 24 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 >> Supplier Code of Conduct Major customers in the industrial sector or automotive industry regularly request Kendrion to sign their Supplier Code of Conduct. The customers introduce these Codes with the objective of giving more shape to the chain’s responsibility for CSR. Nevertheless, Kendrion has decided to develop an own Supplier Code of Conduct in 2012. Kendrion attaches great importance to responsible and honest operations throughout the supply chain. Consequently, this Code requires suppliers to assume their responsibility for issues including the environment, human rights, working conditions and fair trade. The suppliers are also requested to introduce rules of this nature further in the chain whenever possible. A copy of the Kendrion’s Supplier Code of Conduct is available on Kendrion’s website. Kendrion has set a target in 2014 stipulating that the Supplier Code of Conduct shall be accepted by all main material suppliers in all business units. All new material suppliers will be requested to conform with the Code, also by means of including the incorporation of the Supplier Code of Conduct in Kendrion’s standard procurement terms and conditions. This was particularly applicable to German and other European suppliers. The scope and grouping of suppliers who were requested to comply with Kendrion’s Supplier Code of Conduct were extended at the end of 2014. The term material suppliers refers to all suppliers who provided materials for production processes in 2014. All ten of the main material suppliers of Kendrion have signed. The term main material suppliers refers to the largest suppliers with regard to procurement in 2014. Signed Supplier Code of Conduct 2014 % Material suppliers top 10 10 100 Material suppliers top 20 15 75 Total 214 There are no known cases of suppliers deliberately not wishing to sign the Code of Conduct, and no abuses have come to light as a result of the request to comply with it. >> Supplier selection and audits The extent to which a potential supplier addresses environmental and social issues and business ethics plays a role, in addition to standard criteria such as product quality, in the ultimate selection of suppliers. In 2013, Kendrion began to conduct CSR supplier audits to review whether the suppliers continue to comply with the required standards. Audits that result in unsatisfactory assessments and that reveal that the relevant supplier does not meet the minimum requirements for compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct are followed by a meeting to prepare a plan and review means of achieving rapid improvements. Failure to follow up the improvement plan or follow up S U P P LY C H A I N M A N A G E M E N T 25 the plan to an adequate extent can result in the termination of the relationship with the relevant supplier. All the circumstances in the specific case are taken into account when reaching any such decision, including the strategic importance of the supplier and the country in which the supplier is based. 2014 Number of supplier audits 23 For 2014, the aim was to make compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct a part of supplier audits, at a minimum of five suppliers per business unit, in a more structured way. Through open discussion, the state of affairs at these suppliers was discussed and any difficulties have been identified. Where possible, an action plan will be formulated together. The number of audits increased substantially in 2014 to 23 (the target was however 30). The results of supplier CSR audits have in general been positive. Further stress will be laid on the willingness of suppliers to take CSR initiatives in relation to their own suppliers and human rights issues, or to join the UN Global Compact. The same target has been set for 2015. Furthermore, the aim is to fully integrate the CSR audits in the regular supplier-audit process with regard to at least the main suppliers, and to fully include CSR in the regularsupplier selection process. >> Life Cycle Assessment pilot project, True Pricing A Life Cycle Assessment pilot project was launched at the operating company Kendrion (Aerzen) GmbH in Germany during 2014. The objective of the project was to calculate the environmental footprint of the company’s various products and processes. Once the results of the pilot project have been analysed in the first half of 2015, an assessment will be conducted to determine whether the method or other true pricing concepts can also be used at other plants. >> Conflict minerals Under the Dodd-Frank Act the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires US listed companies to disclose their use of conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold and their derivatives) sourced in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and countries adjacent to the DRC. Kendrion does not add any conflict This rule has been implemented due to the concern that the exploitation and minerals from the DRC to its products trade in conflict minerals by armed groups is helping to finance conflicts in the DRC region. While it is not prohibited to use conflict minerals from the DRC, the during its own production process. idea is to encourage markets to create substitutes for materials or even a market In the event that it were reported that for conflict-free minerals. Conflict minerals can be found in many common suppliers or sub-suppliers of Kendrion consumer products such as mobile phones and computers but also in industrial use such conflict minerals, Kendrion products. would undertake commercially Kendrion is not listed in the USA and is thus not under an obligation to issue a reasonable efforts to gradually replace conflict mineral report. But, as (indirect) supplier of many listed US companies them in the supply chain and would Kendrion has also been asked to provide information on the extent to which its ask its suppliers to do the same. products contain conflict minerals. Kendrion has decided to adopt a group-wide approach as much as possible to collect the relevant information from its suppliers. This is a burdensome process but Kendrion aims to serve its customers efficiently in this manner. >> Rare earth metals In some of Kendrion’s products, permanent magnets are used. The category of permanent magnets with the highest energy density contain a number of what are referred to as rare earth metals. These metals are not referred to as ‘rare’ because they are so scarce – they are more abundant than copper – but because of the small quantities of economically extractable resources. 26 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Kendrion is primarily exposed to Neodymium, Praseodymium and Dysprosium, metals which are also used in products such as mobile telephones, electric cars (rechargeable batteries) and wind turbines. China is currently still the producer of more than 90% of the world’s rare earth metals. Western companies are currently (re)opening mines and starting production. However, the dependency on China will remain for several years. Mining and refining rare earth metals are both difficult and highly energy-intensive. Moreover, they are often further complicated by the mining and refining by-products that cause environmental pollution. A paradox lies in the fact that, for reasons including climate change and the need for alternative sources of energy, for example the use of wind turbines and electric cars is being encouraged whilst these products actually exacerbate the shortage of rare earth metals and the environmental pollution caused by their extraction. The recycling The Kendrion Academy initiated of rare earth metals is still in its infancy. Another paradox is that the use of further research into replacing or permanent magnets in products increases their functionality, for example the torque. As a result, less material is required and the product is lighter – which in optimising the use of rare-earth turn reduces energy consumption and emissions. permanent magnets in 2014. The work is being carried out jointly with Unfortunately, Kendrion’s relatively small position in this market does not enable the Commercial Vehicle Systems the company to exert a great influence on the processes. However, when possible Kendrion does endeavour to limit the company’s dependency on these business unit and the Technical metals by seeking alternative techniques or products and to look for industry University of Ilmenau in Germany. initiatives in this respect. The first results will be available in mid-2015. The majority of the permanent magnets are used by two business units, Industrial Drive Systems and Commercial Vehicle Systems. >> Other materials The most recent assessments have revealed that few critical materials are used other than those referred to in this chapter. In 2014, a number of further ideas were developed at a strategic level on the feasibility of reducing the use of certain potentially critical or expensive materials, or materials with a relatively high environmental or health impact, or replacing them with other materials. Specific examples are the substitution of certain sprays or cleaning agents in the production process. This has also resulted in the decision to endeavour to dismantle what is referred to a ‘plating area’ at one of Kendrion’s operating companies in 2014, and to relocate this non-core activity elsewhere. Another plating area will be dismantled in the course of 2015. In the recent years, Kendrion used the following raw materials in the manufacture of the company’s products: Consumption of materials (in tons, best estimate) 2014, incl. Kuhnke 2014 2013 Copper 1,568 1,387 1,400 Permanent magnets (rare earth + alloyings) 74 62 50 A special pilot project to reduce the amount of copper used in each part of certain applications has been launched at one of Kendrion's business units. S U P P LY C H A I N M A N A G E M E N T 27 Sustainable operations Target 2014 Result Ambition 2015 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility zz Waste data plan for all Waste data plan and number of Waste data plan including subtargets European plants subtargets for all European plants implemented in all plants zz Preparations for inclusion and US plants of US plants zz ISO 14001 in two zz ISO 14001 in two locations of zz ISO 14001 at all locations except locations of the business the business unit Industrial for smaller (sales) offices unit Industrial Drive Magnetic Systems zz ISO 50001 at least at five plants Systems zz ISO 50001 at Kendrion zz Preparations for ISO (Villingen) GmbH, Germany 14001 for two other and preparation for Kendrion locations of Industrial Kuhnke in Malente, Germany Magnetic Systems zz ISO TS 16949 at Kendrion zz ISO 50001 at Kendrion (Markdorf) GmbH, Germany (Eibiswald) GmbH, Austria Start preparation of annual Annual CSR plans at business unit level CSR plan on business unit level Start integration sustainability Sustainability requirements integrated in major business processes part of all major business processes Start circular economy pilot project in both divisions >> A circular economy Most current business models are based on a linear economy (take-make-dispose). Raw materials are extracted from natural resources, products are created for consumption and then thrown away. Business growth in this scenario is coupled with negative ecological impact. Models involving a circular economy build and retain value because they involve for example refurbishment or remanufacturing. Together with an external specialist, Kendrion carried out a limited analysis of its current business models in 2014. There are a couple of instances of circular economy within Kendrion’s business at the moment. One good example is the way the Commercial Vehicle Systems business unit collects used angle gearboxes from customers. The angle gear boxes are remanufactured at the plant and after being tested, they are sold again under warranty. The regulations governing the automotive industry mean a large amount of recycling of cars and parts already takes place in the sector. Kendrion has little or no influence on this as the company is a relatively small player in the supply chain. Its products only account for a small part of a complete vehicle and the products themselves are made up of a 28 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 number of materials. The logistical consequences and costs of retrieving parts, should parties further along the chain be open to the idea, are outweighed by the potential advantages. The same applies to a certain extent to products manufactured by the Industrial Division’s business units. Kendrion is however convinced that circular business models represent a meaningful contribution to creating value and to reducing the production of waste and the exhaustion of natural resources. In this context, Kendrion considers it best to focus initiative on the end product. Kendrion is ready to join its partners in fleshing out this idea and intends to launch suitable pilot projects in this area. >> Waste & recycling Kendrion aims to minimise waste, with a view to its environmental and cost impact. All Kendrion companies which have been awarded ISO 14001 certification keep records of their production and processing of waste, such as oil, cleaning agents, packaging materials and inks and toners. Internal instructions at these companies are issued for the safe use of materials and the separated collection and disposal of waste. The companies work solely with certificated waste processers. As part of the certification process, each year new waste reduction measures must be implemented, and measures that reduce the use of dangerous goods are externally audited. Those measures can differ from plant to plant. Kendrion worked hard on the streamlining of the data and database of waste and hazardous substances in recent years. This process takes time. As a result, the data for the largest European plants are processed and reported on a uniform basis. The objective is to gradually roll out this system across the group, also in the USA, in 2015. Kendrion has reviewed how the company can optimise the use and recycling of materials and reduce waste and waste costs even further. A further study was carried out at a number of local operating companies for the development of a ‘paperless office’ proposition, for example in part based on e-invoicing and e-order projects and digital meeting management. Last year, Kendrion has set a target prescribing a 20% reduction in the group’s consumption of paper in 2015 compared to 2013. In line with the new Taking Responsibility programme, Kendrion no longer considers reducing the use of paper within the group to be one of the most important issues. It is still, however, deemed relevant and worthwhile. Kendrion’s products are often integrated in larger systems by Tier 1 suppliers or OEMs. Partly for this reason, it is not possible for Kendrion to determine what proportion of the materials used is recycled. If recycling is at all possible for such systems, it does not relate to the parts supplied by Kendrion. Nor is Kendrion able to influence this in any way. However, Kendrion supports broader consultation in the chain on the possibility of developing new recycling options. Kendrion considers a healthy and safe working environment part of the rights of its employees. Within Kendrion, the quality, environmental and safety systems are usually combined in one system that forms the basis for the implementation of many projects. Virtually all of Kendrion’s operating companies comply with the most stringent quality and safety requirements. >> ISO certification Kendrion’s environmental management systems at eleven plants (2013: nine) comply with the ISO 14001 standard. Two German plants, Industrial Drive Systems in Villingen and in Aerzen, completed the certification process for ISO 14001 in 2014. Two more German plants will follow in 2015: Industrial Magnetic Systems in Donaueschingen and in Engelswies. The preparations for the award of this certification included mapping the potential environmental impact of the relevant plant’s operations. The ISO 14001 certificate confirms that the plant complies with all the relevant environmental legislation. A number of annual environmental targets are also set for each of these plants. S U S TA I N A B L E O P E R AT I O N S 29 This system includes the appointment of a number of Safety Officers and the organisation of training programmes to increase the employees’ awareness of environmental issues. All procedures are laid down in writing. Audits of the system are conducted at regular intervals. Eleven of Kendrion’s plants have been awarded ISO EN 9001 certification. Six plants have been awarded ISO TS 16949 certification. ISO EN 9001 lays down general requirements for the company’s quality management system, while ISO TS 16949 has been developed specifically for the automotive industry and imposes the most stringent requirements on suppliers. The plant in Markdorf, Germany, will be audited in 2015 with a view to receiving its ISO TS 16949 certificate. Kendrion (Eibiswald) GmbH in Austria received, as the first Kendrion location, the ISO 50001 certificate. ISO 50001 is a relatively new international energy management standard. This standard is focused on the reduction of organisations’ energy consumption on the basis of a detailed insight into their energy consumption and use of energy. ISO 50001 also imposes requirements on the results from the organisation’s management system, which must focus on continual improvements in its energy performance, the provision of the information and resources required to achieve the targets, and the provision of assurances for compliance with the relevant statutory requirements. The efforts of Kendrion (Eibiswald) GmbH were rewarded with the second Kendrion CSR Award. The location was also granted the Daphne Award by the Austrian authorities. Preparations are ongoing to enable Kendrion's biggest plant, that in Villingen in Germany, to gain this certificate in 2015. Kendrion intends to roll out the certification process to other companies during the following years. >> Business processes A number of measures related to this will be introduced from 2015. Parts of One of the spearheads for the coming the measures related to the ISO 50001 certification process, independent of years contained in the Taking the certification process itself, will be implemented in various companies. This will involve such things as requirements in the areas of sustainability, Responsibility programme is to safety and ergonomics being laid down in relation to machines and production interlink the key CSR topics and equipment ordered by Kendrion. Furthermore, each business unit will make targets further with the strategic a start on drawing up its own annual CSR plan which will be integrated as targets and the day-to-day business much as possible with the regular budget and midterm business plan. The parts of the variable remuneration of top managers which relate to CSR objectives will processes of the operating eventually be able to be connected with the business units' individual CSR plans. companies. In the course of 2015, a Taking Responsibility toolkit will be prepared designed to offer business units and plant managers as much support as possible in this whole process. The toolkit will include as many potential measures and best practices as possible. In this way, Kendrion creates the right preconditions for the business units to become even more (pro)active in this area. Value chain Kendrion Investments Customers (Tier 1/OEM) INDUSTRIAL MARKETS DESIGN SOURCING MANUFACTURING/ SALES & R&D & PARTS & ASSEMBLY DISTRIBUTION ENGINEERING MATERIALS AUTOMOTIVE MARKETS Human capital 30 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 The environment, energy, waste, HR issues, labour standards, sustainability, recycling, CO2 reduction are all aspects of the Kendrion corporate social responsibility programme. The CSR Board was introduced to coordinate and advance our CSR strategy. Meet Wencke Volkmann and Kathrin Grahl, who have been CSR Board members since the integration of Kuhnke into Kendrion. CSR Board members Kathrin Grahl (l) and Wencke Volkmann (r) ‘CSR within Kendrion is much more than a slogan’ ‘The topics and issues the CSR Board corruption into their strategy and transparently and completely. CSR should deals with were not new to us at Kuhnke. operations. In conforming to these be at the top of everybody’s agenda Before we joined Kendrion, we had standards, Kendrion has committed itself because, as far as I’m concerned, people working on all these concerns,’ to applying a comprehensive sustainability Kendrion is not only about business and explain Kathrin Grahl and Wencke reporting framework, developed by the profit, but also about people and the Volkmann. ‘But it is good to combine all Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Wencke environment.’ the separate efforts in one headline goal. Volkmann: ‘Progress can be made by Wencke Volkmann: ‘I find it an interesting The CSR Board brings it all together and using standards, comparisons between challenge as a controller to combine our tries to make connections between what’s companies and reliable statements as to profitability goals with our CSR-related happening at the corporate level and our position. Our CSR Report is based on goals. Investments in CSR should always what’s happening at the different a selection of key performance indicators be measured against their returns. locations. This ensures we are all moving (KPIs). At the end of 2014, we adapted In some cases though, it’s still hard to in the same direction and contributing to these in line with the latest version of express these returns in financial terms. the overall strategy.’ the GRI standards and our new CSR CSR also generates non-financial profits. All members of the CSR Board have Programme ‘Taking Responsibility’. This This sometimes leads to very interesting their own individual activities and all took a huge effort. The quality of the discussions between CSR Board responsibilities. Kathrin’s duties involve CSR Report, the reporting process and members.’ the coordination between the CSR Board the data collection system will be and the divisional / business-unit levels on reviewed in an external audit.’ HR topics such as health management and labour standards. Wencke is Challenge responsible for transparent, standardised and accountable reporting on the Kathrin Grahl: ‘Implementing CSR is a progress made. dynamic process, focusing on continuous improvement. We have developed a longterm strategy which embraces all relevant Standardisation topics and actions. I think we are on the Kendrion complies with the UN Global right track. CSR within Kendrion is much Compact standards by achieving its CSR more than just a slogan. But there is still objectives. The UN standards provide a a lot of work to be done. Our aim should framework to help companies integrate be to inform everybody even more human rights, labour standards, environmental stewardship and antiINTERVIEW 31 Kendrion Eibiswald in Austria is the proud recipient of the first ISO 50001 certificate. It also received the Daphne Award from the Austrian authorities for its efforts. Energy & CO2 reduction Target 2014 Result Ambition 2015 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility 15% reduction of absolute 10% reduction of relative CO2 25% reduction of relative CO2 emission and relative CO2 emission emission and energy compared to 2014 for the group compared to 2012 for biggest consumption compared to 2014 European plants (including for biggest plants in Europe, USA Kuhnke) and China Energy scans in US plants Preparations for new energy New energy systems installed at Malente and Kuhnke plants systems in Malente, Germany and Shelby and Shelby, NC, USA Second combined heating / Preparations for heating / power power unit in Villingen, unit in Engelswies, Germany Germany LED project roll out to biggest plants in Europe >> General Kendrion bears and wishes to assume its responsibility for environmental issues. Kendrion endeavours to make efficient and less use of energy, and encourages the company’s employees to make continuously improvements to environmental procedures. This can represent a meaningful contribution to combatting climate change and the exhaustion of fossil fuels. It can also lead to direct financial savings for the business. >> Production process The environmental risks associated with Kendrion’s production processes are generally relatively low. The processes require the use of relatively few substances with a potential environmental impact. 32 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 >> Energy consumption The energy consumption reduction programme in 2013 and 2014 focused on the company’s five plants in Germany, the plant in Austria (Eibiswald) and the plant in the Czech Republic (Prostejov) representing approximately 80% of the group turnover. Kendrion will gradually include the energy data of other plants over the coming years, starting with the plants in the USA and China. The consumption of power, fuel oil and natural gas in 2012, 2013 and 2014 can be presented as follows: Energy consumption Conversion 2014, incl. Kuhnke 2014 2013 2012 Power kWh – 14,875,859 10,936,099 10,730,518 11,604,604 Fuel oil ltr 1 ltr = 10.1 kWh 140,882 140,334 100,292 106,529 Natural gas m 3 1 m = 11.2 kWh 3 763,563 586,249 650,704 552,775 Energy consumption per EUR million turnover 2014, incl. Kuhnke 2014 2013 2012 ∆ % (2014/2012) Power kWh 42,415 45,715 48,119 51,279 (17.3) Fuel oil ltr 402 587 449 471 (14.7) Natural gas m3 2,177 2,451 2,958 2,442 (10.8) The 2014 target specified a 15% reduction per EUR million turnover, including the Kuhnke plant in Germany, compared to 2012. The target was nearly achieved. >> Investments Kendrion invested more than EUR 2 million in energy-efficient systems for the largest European plants during last years, with limited payback periods. These investments include the installation of two new combined heating and power systems in Villingen, Germany. Several further projects in various plants are executed or still in progress. In combination, these projects will result in relatively substantial energy and CO2 savings. An example is the implementation of energy and air pressure metering systems per production line in Eibiswald, Austria. This led to the group’s first ISO 50001 certificate. In 2014, Kendrion once again devoted a great deal of effort to the reduction of production-line energy consumption in and around the workplace, for example by a more efficient use of equipment and of air-conditioning systems. LED lighting pilot projects were also launched at a number of plants and will be expanded to several more plants in the course of 2015. >> Reduction targets for emissions The CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) from the company’s plants in Germany, the plant in Austria and the plant in the Czech Republic can be presented as follows: CO2 emissions 2014, incl. Kuhnke 2014 2013 2012 ∆ % (2014/2012) Absolute emissions tons 4,643 2,319 5,047 5,548 (16.3) Relative t / million emissions turnover 13.2 9.7 22.6 24.5 (46.1) The calculation of the CO2 emissions is based on the following conversion factors: zz Electricity generated from renewable sources: 0,017 kg/kWh; zz Electricity generated from non-renewable sources: 0,366 kg/kWh; zz An average conversion factor for fuel oil and natural gas of 0,200 kg/kWh. ENERGY & CO2 REDUCTION 33 The results from energy scans and other reviews of potential energy projects carried out at Kendrion plants in 2013 contributed to the specification of more comprehensive targets for the reduction of the plants’ energy consumption and CO2 emissions for the year 2014. The target prescribed a 15% reduction of the total CO2 emissions, in both absolute and relative terms, of the largest European plants and Kuhnke’s German plant by the end of 2014 (as compared to 2012). This was an extremely ambitious target. After this target was set, Kendrion’s European electricity supplier notified the company that changes it has been compelled to make in the sources of its power deliveries will result in a substantial increase in CO2 emissions as from 2014. This is due to the fact that in the past the supplier’s deliveries used to include electricity generated by German nuclear power stations. These are scheduled to close within the near future. At that moment the supplier did not have sufficient access to alternative sources of clean energy to absorb this shortfall and, as a result, was temporarily compelled to fall back on coal-fired power stations. As a result of extensive discussions with the supplier, Kendrion was able to conclude a new ‘green’ contract, securing the delivery of electricity whose production involved zero CO2 output. As a result, the original target could be reconfirmed. The target has been achieved, also because of the investments described before. >> Transport It is opportune to reduce travel and transport movements wherever possible. In most cases, the customers are responsible on the basis of agreed Incoterms for the transport of Kendrion’s products. In that sense Kendrion has no direct influence on this. However, in Germany Kendrion does intend to gradually switch to an even more ‘green’ car fleet (of a moderate size), although the pace will be tempered by a number of current contracts. The lease car scheme applicable in Germany has been reviewed to assess options. This has resulted in the decision to offer German lease drivers the option of switching to lease cars with a smaller engine capacity and, consequently, lower emissions, whereby they will then be offered the opportunity of allocating a portion of the resultant difference in the purchase price to the purchase of extra features. The lease terms and conditions applicable in other countries were reviewed during the course of 2014. However, as this did not lead to major improvement potential, it was not a priority. The number of (individual) video conference options have been expanded to reduce travel, as planned. >> 2015 and beyond In line with the Taking Responsibility programme, the decision has been made to work with a new three-year objective. The objective is to achieve a 25% reduction in both relative energy use and CO2 emissions compared to the end of 2014. The decision has been made to base the relative objective on the added value and no longer on the revenue. This will allow for a clearer picture. Further steps can be taken in the area of energy efficiency, especially at the Shelby plant in the USA. In addition, the roll-out of ISO 50001 certification and the LED project to various other large plants over the next three years should result in further improvements. 34 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 ‘Most politicians passionately advocate the use of wind turbines and solar panels to generate energy. But CO2 measures could be so much easier and more effective if we were also to invest in energyreduction in industry,’ says Heinz Jankowski, member of the Kendrion CSR Board and Facility Manager of the Villingen plant in Germany. He proves his point in his day-to-day work. Heinz Jankowski Combining personal drive and business goals Heinz Jankowski joined Kendrion Within Kendrion, Heinz is responsible for The LED project, which Heinz started in 23 years ago as an engineer. He then environmental issues at all European and Villingen, is part of the location scan and became a Production Manager and has US locations. He has managed to cut the company-wide energy-reduction been Villingen’s skilful Facility Manager down considerably on the use and the programme. All German locations have for more than eight years. His long history cost of energy at most of these sites, or been analysed and are preparing for the with the company enables him to relate he is in the process of doing so. The old lighting to be replaced with LED. to the people, the product and the procedure Heinz applies always starts Heinz Jankowski: ‘When used optimally, production processes and to operate as with defining what is locally needed in the the return period on the investment here a ‘go-between’ for management and the way of heating, cooling and use of water. is achieved in eight months! Generally shop floor. His commitment to providing The next step is the use of measuring speaking, we work with return periods of solutions for energy use and CO2 instruments to monitor how well the four to five years for investments in this reduction is based on his personal existing energy systems function. After particular area.’ engagement with these urgent social that, decisions are made with regard to issues and topics: ‘At home, I’m very strict optimising existing systems and investing Next step about monitoring my weekly energy use in new ones. and taking appropriate measures. And a Eibiswald in Austria was the first Kendrion growing number of my colleagues are too. location to be granted the ISO 50001 Optimising systems They sometimes even ask me to come to international standard for energy their homes to check for instance why Heinz Jankowski: ‘So much can be done management systems. The measures their heating system is using so much to optimise what’s already there; for taken at all Kendrion locations will energy. I’m more than happy to help out.’ instance, just by mixing external and eventually comply with this. The roll-out internal air in the right way. But there’s of the standard to all European and US no standard solution. Every situation Kendrion plants is a major project for Growing awareness demands a tailor-made approach. Heinz in the future: ‘Bigger plants are ‘We should be similarly aware of the role In Shelby, NC, USA, we are working ISO 14001 certified apart from we can all play in cutting carbon towards a new, far more efficient energy Engelswies and Donaueschingen. emissions at Kendrion,’ Heinz Jankowski system. Once these two locations also comply believes. ‘I’m very pleased to see that this In Donaueschingen, Germany, we have with this standard, the next step will be awareness is growing. And that Kendrion implemented a new combined power the introduction of ISO 50001. There’s still is taking its social responsibility very and heating system, which is smaller plenty to be done.’ seriously by investing money in practical but more efficient.’ measures focusing on energy reduction. For me personally, that’s very inspiring and motivating.’ INTERVIEW 35 Fair labour standards Target 2014 Result Ambition 2015 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility Staff satisfaction survey Staff satisfaction for two business Staff satisfaction survey introduced extended to two other units (in total covering at least at all plants business units 1/3 of all employees in the group) Introduction of CSR activities CSR activities in bonus schedule in bonus schedule of other of other key management key management Review need for separate Human Rights Policy >> General Despite Kendrion’s worldwide strong growth, the number of the company’s staff decreased by 2% to approximately 2,700 employees (including about 80 temps) located in 15 countries. Healthy and happy employees are essential to ensure future success. That is why Kendrion focuses on good opportunities for training and development, good pay, staff satisfaction and a social policy to match. Nondiscrimination and diversity are key priorities that define Kendrion’s approach to its employees. Kendrion is a decentralised organisation. Responsibilities are assigned as low as possible within the organisation, and local entrepreneurship is encouraged. Moreover, this enables Kendrion to promote creativity, innovation and offer all business units and their employees an opportunity to develop their full potential. Also Kendrion’s Human Resources (HR) policy is decentralised, and local management bears the responsibility for the local HR policy within the specified guidelines. A number of duties are coordinated at a central level by the international HR department in Villingen, Germany. These duties primarily relate to the (development of) senior management, and to the improvement of opportunities for recruitment. >> Dilemma The uncertainty concerning the future economic situation and the volatility in the markets mean Kendrion is forced to be flexible, also when it comes to labour costs. For this reason, Kendrion has attempted to maintain a core of temporary employees, and to build flexibility into contracts, so that changing circumstances can be responded to quickly. There is a tendency among the German government, trade unions and employees towards more certainty for employees. Kendrion is aiming for the optimum solution, taking due regard of all interests. >> Bond with the employees Kendrion’s Executive Committee devotes a great deal of attention to the communication of the strategy and the plans of action resulting from the strategy. This ensures that the employees are provided with a clear insight into what is expected of them, and consequently are able to make an active contribution to the achievement of growth. Kendrion’s corporate magazine ‘Magnetised’, for all staff, is published three times a year. 36 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 >> Employee representation Works councils or employee representatives that have been installed at Kendrion’s largest operating companies in Germany, Romania and Austria are, in accordance with the local labour legislation, involved in a wide range of employment, health & safety and social issues. About 60% of all Kendrion employees are represented by these works councils and employee representatives. Collective bargaining agreements govern the terms and conditions of about 60% of Kendrion’s employees. In general, Kendrion has a good relationship with the works councils and the trade unions, although on occasion difficult issues need to be discussed. >> Staff loyalty As Kendrion’s employees are the company’s most valuable asset, Kendrion has implemented a variety of staff loyalty measures at all its plants all over the world. These measures range from individual support to specific programmes and opportunities to the benefit of all Kendrion employees. Kendrion’s corporate culture includes the celebration of the company’s successes to thank our employees. Kendrion is of the opinion that these events offer company staff a great opportunity to meet each other away from work and to get to know each other better in a relaxed atmosphere. >> Family and career Kendrion continually strives to improve the compatibility of its employees’ careers and their families. The company has, for example, introduced flexible working hours for employees who need to care for family members. Kendrion offers individualised work schedule solutions to its German employees with young children who need day care. Kendrion is endeavouring to ensure that employees do not need to decide between ‘children or Kendrion’, but can decide on ‘children and Kendrion’. >> Remuneration As from 2012 non-financial individual performance targets for the improvement of Kendrion’s CSR have been set for both the CEO and CFO. The Supervisory Board of Kendrion decided that as from 2013, for both the short-term and the long-term bonus of the CEO and CFO, a considerable proportion of the non-financial performance criteria will consist of CSR and sustainability targets. The fact that such targets now form an important component of the bonus scheme reflects the importance that the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board attach to this. More information on the remuneration of the members of the Executive Board is available in the Supervisory Board’s Remuneration Report 2014 that has been published on Kendrion’s website. From 2013, CSR and sustainability targets were also included in the bonus scheme for the members of the Executive Committee. As from 2014, Kendrion included CSR performance criteria in the bonus schemes for other key management members. The implementation of these measures and their effectiveness will be further assessed in 2015. >> Training and management development Good management, expertise and motivation are of essential importance to the future, and for this reason Kendrion assigns high priority to management development. The corporate management development programme is supported by the Kendrion Executive Programme, a customised, international modular teaching programme in which the company collaborates with the Rotterdam School of Management. Two members of staff graduated and 12 started out on the programme in 2014. It is also important for Kendrion to build up the management generation of the future. This is why the company implemented the ‘Kendrion High Potential Programme’ in 2012. It is a modular training programme covering a period of three years. The first group of fifteen selected high-potential employees from all over the world will graduate in 2015 and the process of nominating a new group of high potentials has started. Taking Responsibility is part of the programme. FA I R L A B O U R S TA N D A R D S 37 In addition, the various business units have implemented training programmes at all levels in the organisation. Managers participate in an individual development assessment. >> Social policy Kendrion is and wishes to remain a conscientious and reputable company. The need to say farewell to permanent or temporary employees, for example due to the economic situation or the loss of projects, can have a great impact for the people involved and their families. Kendrion acts in accordance with the prevailing local conditions and circumstances and with respect for the individual concerned. This has, unfortunately, been necessary at a few of the operating companies in 2014. Fair agreements were reached and employees were given help in finding other jobs wherever possible. >> Staff satisfaction Annual staff-satisfaction surveys are conducted pursuant to the plants of the Passenger Car Systems business unit in Villingen, Germany, Prostejov, Czech Republic and Eibiswald, Austria. These surveys are based on the staff’s labour performance (as determined by factors including bonus payments and overtime), participation in social events, the absenteeism rate and the percentage of employees terminating their contract of employment. A pilot trial project started in 2013 reviewed the feasibility of conducting staff-satisfaction surveys on a more individual basis, including individual satisfaction with the balance between work and private life. The first survey was conducted at Kendrion’s plant in Markdorf, Germany. Kendrion intended to roll out this survey, in consultation with the relevant works councils, at other plants of at least two business units in 2014. This target has not yet been reached. However, preparations have been completed which will allow the survey to be carried out in the spring at two of Kendrion’s largest plants: those at Villingen and Malente in Germany. This will result in about one third of Kendrion’s workforce being surveyed. Preparations will also be made for the roll-out in a number of smaller plants. The three-year Taking Responsibility plan aims at involving all operating companies in the process and this will also create good benchmark opportunities. >> HR Awards Kendrion is very pleased to have received the ‘Top Nationaler Arbeitgeber 2014’ award for its plants in Germany. Furthermore, Kendrion Kuhnke in Malente, Germany, received the Excellent Young Talent Development Award. The Chinese Suzhou labour security bureau conducted an audit and evaluation of Kendrion (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. This was followed by the award of AAA level credible employer certification to Kendrion (Suzhou). In June 2014, Kendrion’s German companies were honoured for a second time with the familyNET award for outstanding familyfriendly projects. >> Diversity and discrimination Kendrion’s Code of Conduct expressly states that the company does not tolerate discrimination by gender, race, religious denomination, remuneration or any other means when hiring new staff or in dealings with staff in positions of equal importance. Kendrion promotes the formation of a workforce and lower and middle management that reflects the composition of the local population as closely as possible. The company’s home market, Germany, and also the USA, have, in particular, implemented detailed and stringent anti-discrimination legislation. Kendrion strives to create a corporate culture that does not tolerate discrimination. No reports were made to these Anti-discrimination Officers in 2014. Kendrion attaches importance to the achievement of diversity in nationalities and cultures. This diversity promotes intercultural experience that is highly compatible with the current internationalisation trend. In 2014, Kendrion had employees of at least 40 nationalities. 38 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Approximately 50% of all Kendrion’s employees are women. Although it increased to 7.5% in 2014, the number of women in key management positions of the company’s operating companies is still relatively low. Kendrion advocates the appointment of more women to company management positions as the company is convinced that this will ultimately lead to more balanced considerations and improved processes and results. When recruiting staff for management positions, Kendrion expressly endeavours to search for women by means including intensive contacts with universities. However, the number of women who are following or have followed a technical education and are available for management positions in the company is low. This is a problem confronting many high-tech companies, in particular in Germany, which cannot readily be addressed by Kendrion in autonomy. Personnel: key figures 2014 2013 Total number of employees at 31 December 2,808 2,860 Number of women in permanent employment 1,233 1,247 Number of men in permanent employment 1,215 1,219 Number of employees with a fixed-term contract 360 394 Number of permanent and temporary employees at 31 December (FTE) 2,713 2,756 Number of direct employees (FTE) 1,443 1,504 Number of indirect employees (FTE) 1,192 1,165 Number of temporary employees (FTE) 78 87 Average age of women 41.3 40.7 Average age of men 40.9 40.9 Average age of all employees 41.1 40.8 Average number of years’ service 10.4 10.1 Average rate of absenteeism per employee (%) 2.3% 2.8% Wage costs per FTE (EUR) 44,875 44,567 Training costs (as a % of wage costs) 0.8% 0.8% Kendrion staff worldwide 710 232 Rest of Europe Total 477 941 Germany The Europe 1,187 1,173 Americas 2,360 Asia 159 142 73 74 301 147 FA I R L A B O U R S TA N D A R D S 39 Health & safety Target 2014 Result Ambition 2015 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility Less accidents than in 2013 Less accidents than in 2014 Zero accidents Absenteeism rate on Absenteeism rate on comparable Absenteeism rate on comparable level comparable level and not level and not above 4% for direct and not above 4% for direct and not above 4% for direct and not and not above 3% for indirect above 3% for indirect personnel in each above 3% for indirect personnel in each plant plant personnel in each plant Increase health activities in Increase efficient health activities China and USA International HR workshop and trainings covering work life balance and burn-out 5S system for clean working 5S system for clean working space fully space fully implemented in two implemented in all plants more plants >> General Kendrion regards a healthy and safe working environment as one of the rights of its employees. Kendrion’s quality, environmental management and safety systems are usually combined in one system which forms the basis for the implementation of many projects. Virtually all of Kendrion’s operating companies comply with the most stringent quality and safety requirements. The requirements include the appointment of safety officers and the periodic training of employees in health & safety issues. >> Accidents / Lost-Time-Injuries Kendrion’s continual attention to the safety of the production processes has enabled the company to keep the number of accidents relatively limited in the past years. The total number of accidents and Lost-Time-Injuries (LTI) at Kendrion in the last years was: Accidents including Kuhnke excluding Kuhnke 2014 2013 2014 2013 2012 Number of accidents 50 38 32 27 46 LTI (days) 506 141 475 111.5 323 Excluding those at Kuhnke, the number of accidents was 32, which is a slight increase compared to the number in 2013. No fatal accidents occurred in the years 2011 – 2014. Kendrion does not consider this number of accidents to be satisfactory and reducing this figure must consequently be given increased attention because safety is a top priority. Further analyses of the nature of these accidents and their circumstances did reveal that there were no indications of shortcomings in the safety or working conditions of the employees. Kendrion’s objective is to further reduce in the total number of accidents at its plants, ultimately bringing it down to zero. The achievement of this objective will be measured on a monthly basis and furthered by an evaluation of the cause of every accident to review the feasibility of implementing improvements in safety procedures, working methods and production lines. The work will include the implementation in 2015 of the 5S philosophy whose objective is clean and safely organised workplaces in all plants. See page 42 for more information. The LTI rate was up on 2013 as a result of a few cases concerning employees who were absent for extended periods following accidents. 40 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 >> Absenteeism 2014 2013 2012 Absenteeism rate 2.3% 2.8% 2.6% Kendrion’s overall absenteeism rate was 2.3% in 2014, which is very low for the company’s type of industrial operations and geographical spread, and a clear improvement compared to last year. The objective is to retain the rate at approximately the same level in future years, whereby the rate for direct employees should not be above 4% and for indirect employees not above 3% for each individual plant. This target was achieved in 2014 in almost all plants. A low absenteeism rate is indicative of healthier employees and an agreeable working environment. A lower rate also results in less stress for the colleagues of employees on sick leave and lower costs for the company. Kendrion shall also endeavour to achieve this objective by adopting an individual approach. When the absenteeism rate of specific departments or employees is relatively high Kendrion conducts individual discussions with those directly involved and implement measures designed to ensure that the employees recover as quickly as possible and return to work. An international HR workshop will be organised in 2015 during which specific attention will be paid to work-life balance and stress factors. >> Health programmes Many Kendrion companies have implemented programmes to promote their employees’ health. A variety of plants that account for approximately 70% of all Kendrion’s employees offer a free weekly basket of fresh fruit and mineral water. Many Kendrion employees are offered free stop smoking courses. Kendrion shall promote the roll-out to other plants in the coming years. This is also the case with an initiative in which employees are offered an opportunity to receive an influenza vaccination during working hours. In 2014, employees at various plants in Europe and Asia were able to participate in an annual health day that offered them a general health check (blood pressure, diabetes, etc.). Other examples of measures include training courses designed to avoid back complaints, ergonomic advice and grants to attend a gym at various locations. In addition to the aforementioned initiatives, Kendrion also frequently organises social events such as sport activities designed to strengthen the relationships with and between its employees. These programmes will be continued and extended where possible in 2015. To your good health! Fit@Kendrion The management of Kendrion Kuhnke in Malente, These days, stress causes many health problems. Germany, is collaborating with the health circle to The working environment can also play a role in this. launch the ‘Wasser marsch...’ campaign for all Kendrion offered its employees in Villingen, employees in Malente. The aim is to encourage Germany, a training course to prevent mental stress the employees to drink sufficient liquid, preferably and burnouts. The course covered topics such as water if possible. inner motivation, work-life balance and problem solving. The intention in 2015 is to offer this training course at more plants in Germany. Kendrion macht dich fit! H E A LT H & S A F E T Y 41 Better quality, higher productivity Did you know that people in companies waste an hour a day on average looking for information or ‘things’, such as documents, tools, e-mails, parts… Multiplying these hours by the number of employees adds up to thousands and thousands of wasted minutes every day. 5S is one of the instruments that could help solve this problem. Kendrion Eibiswald and Prostejov are two of the companies that have implemented the concept and are starting to reap the rewards. Martina Svobodova and Josef Porta On the safe side with 5S 5S – which has its origins in the in optimising their own work environment everybody’s commitment being production environment and is part of the on the basis of the 5S concept. Literally strengthened and better quality, safety Lean intellectual legacy – is a practical everything was included and scored, and higher productivity being generated.’ tool to raise the awareness of employees ranging from ergonomics and safety The S of ‘Safety’ in the context of 5S with regard to their workplace. A person to lighting. The scores were used to refers to creating a safe workplace and who manages to keep his or her work develop plans and actions aimed at preventing accidents and injuries. environment tidy, clean and well improvements.’ Last year, Martina Martina: ‘When a new colleague joins us, organised is focused, in control and works Svobodova and Tomas Soldan did the he or she undergoes training in general in peace and quiet, and in a safe same at Kendrion Prostejov in the Czech safety rules and procedures. This is also environment. 5S shows how to organise Republic: ‘Mess is an international word, done in regard to special instructions a workspace so as to achieve increased so to speak. We started 5S by taking around the individual workplace. This safety, efficiency and effectiveness by pictures and providing examples and workplace training is repeated once a identifying and storing items used, and by training sessions to show how things year in the case of every individual maintaining the area and its new order. could be improved. It has slowly but employee. We are proud to say that we 5S refers to five Japanese words: surely become part of the internal culture had no accidents at all in 2014.’ Josef zz seiri – sort: keep what you need to take responsibility and contribute adds: ‘The information boards around our zz seiton – straighten: store things so towards improvements wherever premises represent an important aspect that you can easily find them again necessary and however small.’ of our safety procedures. This is how we zz seiso – shine: keep things clean keep track of the number of incidents and zz seiketsu – standardise: do things accidents, and provide everybody with the Commitment in the same (right) way background information needed to zz shitsuke – sustain: persevere, with Martina, Josef and Thomas can now prevent accidents from happening again. willpower and devotion contentedly conclude that 5S has All Kendrion locations are different of influenced behaviour and helped make course, but I am sure they would all things better. And it has also proved a lot benefit from implementing 5S.’ Improvements of fun: ‘5S is an ongoing process. By Kendrion Eibiswald in Austria started regularly evaluating results, we can implementing the 5S concept three years continue to focus on the next concrete ago. Josef Porta is responsible for its actions to be taken. It definitely has a progress: ‘We split the factory and offices positive effect on the motivation and into smaller areas and involved everybody sense of responsibility of all employees. Paying serious attention to all comments, observations and remarks has led to 42 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Business ethics programme Target 2014 Result Ambition 2015 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility 100% acceptance Code of 100% acceptance of revised 100% acceptance Code of Conduct Conduct Code of Conduct Roll-out compliance training Roll-out competition regulation Full and efficient functioning of and audits training compliance programme Introduce third party risk Third party risk assessment tool fully assessment tool implemented at all plants >> General Kendrion believes it is very important that all activities at the company are conducted with integrity and aims to foster and promote a culture in which this is a given. Besides the ‘tone at the top’, Kendrion has a set of internal policies and procedures in place which contribute to ensuring this ethical culture – these are detailed below. >> Governance – internal codes and procedures Code of Conduct Kendrion has implemented a Code of Conduct in its organisation that applies to all Kendrion staff. The principles and best practices established in this Code reflect the main values that need to guide Kendrion’s staff in the performance of their duties. The core themes include market position, authorities, corporate social responsibility, accountability in general, and the obligation for due care regarding safety and health, the environment, and social interests. Kendrion promotes compliance with the Code of Conduct by continually bringing the Code to the attention of (new) managers and staff in their own language. Preparations were made in 2014 for a change to the Code designed to lay even more stress on anti-bribery and corruption. This change will be implemented at the beginning of 2015. Whistleblower’s Charter Kendrion attaches great importance to the organisation’s compliance with the Code of Conduct. Employees who observe a (suspected) irregularity are encouraged to enter into discussions with those directly involved or with their supervisor. When this is not feasible or fails to achieve results, then they may make use of the procedure laid down in the Whistleblower’s Charter. The Whistleblower’s Charter offers Kendrion’s employees an opportunity to report irregularities or suspicions of irregularities to the management without jeopardising their (legal) position. Any such report gives cause to an internal investigation. Within this context, Kendrion has also appointed Confidential Counsellors whom employees can contact to make confidential reports of (suspicions of) irregularities. BUSINESS ETHICS PROGRAMME 43 Three irregularities were reported in 2014. Following investigation, two of these reports were deemed unfounded. The third issue (an accusation of unauthorised use of company assets) was confirmed true but had negligible financial impact and no operational impact. Adequate measures have been taken against the employee involved; also in order to prevent such incidents in the future. Anti-Bribery & Corruption policy (AB&C) Kendrion is committed to combating corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption obstructs or impedes economic development and results in an unequal distribution of wealth. In addition, involvement in corruption can result in damage to and the loss of the reputation of Kendrion, the management and employees. Kendrion’s Code of Conduct devotes specific attention to this issue. They are not allowed to request or suggest, seek or offer, accept or pay any form of bribe in either monetary or any other form. Any irregularities may be reported pursuant to the Whistleblower’s Charter. In view of the importance of combating corruption and the increasing attention to its prevention in the relevant legislation and from the investigative authorities, the company has decided to adopt a proactive approach to bringing the employees’ attention to this issue, in particular in those countries in which Kendrion is active and corruption is frequent. An AB&C policy was implemented. This policy has resulted in measures including the performance of further risk analyses and due diligence of business ethics when entering into new business relations. The company furthermore rolled out a compliance workshop in 2014. In this way, Kendrion remains active in further eradicating the risks of corruption. An online compliance training course was developed in 2014. It deals with Kendrion’s policy and guidelines regarding gifts and hospitality, political and charitable donations and bribery and corruption. Several hundred employees are now following the course. A similar training course dealing with competition issues will be developed during 2015. The increasing complexity of the business and the regulations governing it has led to the decision to introduce a new legal & compliance plan that will describe the legal and compliance checks necessary in various situations. The plan will include the introduction of a new guideline on the implementation of third party due diligence. A legal & compliance audit plan has also been drawn up which will form the basis for audits of all operating companies to be carried out every three years. However, these and all other measures do not provide any guarantee that no cases of corruption will arise. If there is any case of fraud, or any suspicion of fraud, then Kendrion will respond appropriately via the investigation protocol the company has developed for this purpose. Other internal regulations Kendrion has implemented internal regulations to prevent insider trading. In addition, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are governed by restrictions on trading in other listed companies. Kendrion’s Compliance Officer is entrusted with the supervision of compliance with the regulations. Kendrion has implemented a structured risk management framework. Comprehensive information is available in the 2014 Annual Report. 44 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Community investment Target 2014 Result Ambition 2015 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility Six students in India project in Keep at least six students in India First students graduated and offered 2014; first apprenticeships project; continuation of employment contract started apprenticeships >> General Kendrion intends to engage in community investment efforts as a means of promoting development and benefiting local stakeholders. An appropriate approach to community investments can help in establishing mutually beneficial relationships between Kendrion and its local stakeholders and in contributing toward long-term improvements in the quality of life of local communities in a manner that is both sustainable and supports the company’s business objectives. At present, the local management bears the responsibility for determining the degree to which Kendrion companies are involved in community investment projects, as they are in the best position to determine the optimum means of providing local communities any necessary support. >> Human rights Kendrion holds it to be important that human rights and the related international regulations are respected throughout the chain. This is why the subject is covered in the Supplier Code of Conduct and in the CSR audits of Kendrion’s suppliers. A decision will be taken in 2015 as to whether a separate policy is necessary regarding the issue. >> Sponsoring and charitable donations Kendrion introduced a sponsor and donation policy for all local operating companies that can assist managers in reaching appropriate decisions on these investments. The objective is to arrive at more strategic choices with an impact and to link to strategic issues relating to the business, such as education. An increasing participation of the employees, many of whom originate from the local communities, will then be of importance. Kendrion was responsible for more than 30 sponsoring activities and donations to charitable funds in 2014, including local Red Cross organisations, support for a number of scientific activities and education for children. >> Interaction and volunteers Kendrion promotes interaction with the company’s environment by means of including initiatives such as ‘Girls days’ and open days for schoolchildren and family days in various plants. Kendrion also organises regular meetings for its retired employees. In 2014, Kendrion’s site in Villingen, Germany started an initiative to highlight and raise awareness of employee volunteer work: volunteers@kendrion. See the interview with Manuela Casper on page 48 for more information. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 45 >> Corporate community investment project in India Kendrion is active in a number of countries which are developing rapidly but still exhibit substantial inequalities in the inhabitants’ standards of living and opportunities. Kendrion does not neglect these issues. One example is India, where Kendrion began a greenfield operation in Pune in 2011. Kendrion is convinced that especially economic activity can contribute greatly to further growth. Kendrion started in 2012 a project to enable deprived young people in India to follow a technical education together with the College of Engineering in Pune. The college is an autonomous institute of the government of Maharashtra, the province where Pune is located. Since then, six scholarships have been awarded to poor students of the Electrical, Electronics or Mechanical Engineering faculty who have good study results and an interest in electromagnetism. At least half of the selected students is female, as girls and women are at an even bigger structural disadvantage. The selected students have the opportunity to do summer apprenticeships at the Kendrion plant in Pune. The intention is to offer some of them a job after graduation. Kendrion was able to increase the number of scholarships to six in 2014. >> Support of local economies Kendrion offers its employees good terms of employment which are always assessed against local benchmarks. Kendrion has implemented a local sourcing strategy when the nature of the products and the quality of the suppliers permit procurement in the region. Kendrion N.V. became a participant in the Utrechtse Ondernemers Academie (‘Utrecht Academy of Entrepreneurship’) in the Netherlands in 2013. This Academy helps starting and young innovative companies that are based in the region where Kendrion has its head office to develop their operations at both national and international level. Kendrion’s staff make use of their own knowledge and expertise in providing these companies the high-grade support they need. This assistance is beneficial to the region’s economic growth. >> Dilemma Sometimes, because of commercial conditions or market developments, the decision has to be taken to make some employees who work in a local operating company redundant. In a small number of cases, the closure or relocation of production facilities may be necessary. The employment opportunities in the communities concerned can then be reduced, with all the inevitable impact of this. The individual employee’s interest in permanent employment needs to be weighed against the company’s interest in its continuity. Kendrion therefore does not take such decisions lightly, and always takes them with due regard for the applicable local social regulations and circumstances. Kendrion consults with the relevant trade unions and works councils in an endeavour to arrive at reasonable solutions. >> Tax policy Kendrion strongly believes that pursuing a transparent and honest tax policy is a part of doing business. This is in line with the group’s Code of Conduct. In addition, the interests of all relevant stakeholders – a.o. customers, local communities, governmental institutions, shareholders – need to be balanced with this. Tax payments can contribute to local development. In this respect, Kendrion does not only pay a substantial amount of corporate income tax in the countries where it does business, but is subject to several other taxes such as VAT, pay-as-you-earn tax deductions (withholding tax), payroll taxes and property taxes. Kendrion believes it has an obligation to pay the amount of tax legally due in any territory. 46 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 At the same time, it is in the interest of the company’s continuity and its financial results to optimise its tax position. This too is part of sound business operations. Kendrion also has a responsibility in this respect to its shareholders to enhance shareholder value. The commercial needs of Kendrion however remain paramount and all tax planning is undertaken in this context. All transactions must have a business purpose and/or commercial rationale: ‘tax follows business’. In addition, consideration is also given to the reputation of Kendrion and to its corporate and social responsibilities. Another important aspect of Kendrion’s tax policy is to effectively manage risk and to comply with all applicable tax laws, rules, regulations and disclosure requirements. The aim is to comply with the letter as well as the spirit of the law. Kendrion makes use of the services of accredited tax advisers at both local and group levels and has included tax compliance in its internal audit programme. It goes without saying that in cases where (the interpretation of) the tax law is unclear, the optimal and most legally defensible position is taken. If necessary and feasible, tax authorities will be consulted in advance for additional certainty. Kendrion’s aim in this is to be open and transparent towards all authorities and to act with total integrity. Compliance with all anti-bribery legislation is safeguarded. Transactions conducted between group companies located in different countries are conducted in line with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and other local transfer-pricing regulations. The company uses the Master File concept for transfer-pricing purposes to ensure that coherent and up-to-date principles are applied. Kendrion is aware of the ongoing OECD BEPS developments in areas including treaty abuse, transfer pricing and country-by-country reporting. Given that Kendrion’s tax position corresponds to the geographical spread of the operations and that no aggressive tax structures are employed involving the movement of funds through secrecy jurisdictions (tax havens), the company believes that the impact of these developments is limited. Furthermore, even though Kendrion understands the tendency to use country-by-country reporting to gain more insight into local tax contributions, it has been decided, from the viewpoint of overall competitiveness, not to introduce this particular kind of reporting at this stage. India Community Project update improve our selection methods for new people and build up an idea of what it is like Two years ago, Kendrion launched a scholarship candidates. In my opinion, this to work in ‘the real world’. They all agreed it scholarship-sponsor programme for has resulted in a better match with regard was a very useful experience and that they disadvantaged students of Engineering to the students we have chosen. would therefore like to come back.’ Studies in Pune, India. The first two They are very enthusiastic and highly The students Kendrion sponsors are brilliant students to participate in this programme motivated. The students are still studying at but come from very challenging back­ are now in their third year and have one the college. However they did an internship grounds and are financially not very well off. more year to go. Sameer Deshmukh, here at the company during their holidays Kendrion offers them the opportunity to Managing Director at Kendrion Pune: last May and June. They worked in finish their university engineering courses ‘The students have learned a lot, but the production for two weeks and in the without the problem of financial worries. same applies to ourselves. We have gained quality department for a further fortnight. experience, enabling us for instance to This allowed them to get to know our COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 47 Promising start volunteers@kendrion For Manuela Casper, HR Business Partner in Villingen, Germany, Kendrion is more than just work. Her engagement with Kendrion and its people inspired her to launch the volunteers@kendrion project. Villingen was the start, but she hopes it will become a success at all Kendrion locations. Manuela Casper, HR Business Partner in Villingen, Germany Greasing the wheels of the community Kendrion employs people from all walks participating in taking a project forward Volunteers@kendrion was a pilot project of life. People who work with our company and thereby closer to its goal. Participants in Villingen, but Manuela hopes to have but also use their talents and skills to were provided with a template to explain the idea taken up across the company: participate in voluntary work within their their project and personal involvement. ‘Markdorf (Germany) is the next location community. People who play a vital role Two winners were picked out of the many that’s going to implement the concept. It in the fields of sports, social work, entries. ‘A great start, particularly because definitely helps build closer links between young children, old-age pensioners, all the entries were very useful and colleagues and employees and within the neighbourhood help or any other worthwhile. The two winners – Marina company. Little effort, great results; what community initiative. ‘It’s impossible to Zeren for ‘Kreistierheim Donaueschingen’ more can you wish for?’ separate work and private life completely,’ and Regina Ilg for ‘Baku Yie together as says Manuela Casper. ‘Voluntary work is one’ – received their awards and their the lubricant greasing the wheels of the 1,000-euro cheques at our Christmas community we’re all part of. At the same party here in Villingen. The awards were time, Kendrion is more than just the place tokens of our admiration for their work where you spend eight hours a day. and the money provided modest support Adding all that together inspired me to for their project. A positive side effect was find ways to honour and support our the interest shown by colleagues, some Kendrion volunteers. If we want to create of whom even offered help. I hope this a family spirit, it’s important to know what generates even more entries next year.’ our employees are involved in and interested in and what keeps them busy Closer links during their time away from the company. That’s what the volunteers@kendrion ‘This is what energises me,’ Manuela project is based on.’ explains. ‘For me Kendrion is not ‘just a job’. It’s part of my life. I think Kendrion is a great company and worth spending time Great start on. You can really change things here. The project was launched last year at You can express your opinion and can be Kendrion Villingen, Manuela’s base camp. sure you’ll be listened to. There is room The only criterion for taking part was the for a personal touch; that’s what I like personal engagement of the Kendrion about Kendrion.’ employee. Volunteering is not about donating money but about actively 48 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Kendrion CSR Award 2014 Target 2014 Result Ambition 2015 Second Kendrion CSR Award at Top Management Meeting Third Kendrion CSR Award Kendrion presented its second CSR Award at the Top Management Meeting held in mid-September in Charlotte, NC, USA. The Executive Board established the Award to stress the importance of putting CSR into practice at Kendrion’s operating companies. After a preselection round, five nominees were in the running for this second CSR Award: Industrial Drive Systems with its greensigned product, the Automotive Division locations in Eibiswald in Austria, Markdorf in Germany, São Paulo in Brazil and Kendrion Kuhnke in Malente, Germany. After an introduction by the CSR Coordinator emphasising the business relevance of the topics in question, the representatives of three nominees gave accounts of their efforts and activities. The majority vote of the business units and the Executive Committee went to Kendrion (Eibiswald) for its achievements relating to the environmental management software connected with the ISO 50001 certification. Runner-up was Kendrion São Paulo, which showed that it is also possible to bring about many improvements, e.g. in the area of health, with just a small team at a small plant. Thereafter, the valuable progress that Industrial Control Systems and Automotive Control Systems in Malente (third place) had made in energy and CO2 reduction, health & safety standards and community/employee investments was explained. There was also appreciation for the efforts of Industrial Drive Systems, together with its suppliers, and for those of Markdorf in Germany which achieved energy and CO2 reductions in the micropulsing and anti-slip protection aspects of its products. Martin Kollmann, Managing Director of Kendrion Eibiswald, proudly received the Kendrion CSR Award 2014 on behalf of his dedicated team. Kendrion hopes this second CSR Award and the presentations illustrating the sort of activities and results which can be achieved will boost all CSR-related efforts within the whole group. The aim is to present a third CSR Award in 2015. KENDRION CSR AWARD 2014 49 Assurance report Independent limited assurance report on the Key Performance Indicators included in the CSR Report 2014 of Kendrion N.V. To the stakeholders of Kendrion N.V. >> Engagement and responsibilities We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Key Performance Indicators Energy consumption, Absolute and Relative CO2 emissions, Accidents and Lost Time Injuries, Acceptance of Supplier Code of Conduct and Number of Supplier audits, as listed in the section ‘Short & Simple’ of the CSR Report 2014 of Kendrion N.V. (hereafter: ‘the KPIs’). >> Conclusion On the basis of the procedures we have performed nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the KPIs in scope of our assurance engagement have not been prepared and presented in all material respects in accordance with the applicable Specific Standard Disclosures of the Global Reporting Initiative version G4 (’GRI G4’) as presented in ‘About this Report’ on page 51 of the CSR Report 2014. >> Comparative periods We did not carry out any limited assurance procedures on the KPIs of the comparative periods. >> Our work as a basis for our conclusion Our work was carried out by a multidisciplinary team of experts in assurance and Corporate Social Responsibility. It is our responsibility to issue a limited assurance report on the KPIs. We have conducted our examination in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standard NV COS 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. This requires that we meet the applicable ethical requirements. The nature and scope of our work was more limited than an engagement to obtain reasonable assurance and can only result in a conclusion that provides limited assurance that the KPIs are not materially misstated. This provides less assurance than an audit. Our work performed mainly consisted of the following procedures: zz Evaluating the acceptability of the reporting policies and their consistent application for the KPIs; zz Reviewing the processes for data collection and processing of the other information, including the aggregation of data to information as included in the KPIs; zz Performing analytical review procedures on the KPIs; zz Interviewing management and relevant staff responsible for the KPIs at group level. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. >> Standards applied by Kendrion N.V. The management of Kendrion N.V. is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the KPIs in accordance with the applicable Specific Standard Disclosures of GRI G4 as presented in ‘About this Report’ on page 51 of the CSR Report 2014. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of a system of internal controls relevant for preparing the KPIs free from material misstatements due to fraud or error, the selection and application of acceptable reporting criteria for corporate sustainability reports, and the preparation of estimates that are reasonable given the circumstances. Amsterdam, 9 April 2015 Deloitte Accountants B.V. A. Sandler 50 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 About this Report Ambition 2015 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility Limited external assurance Full external assurance GRI 4.0 Core report GRI 4.0 core Second, improved Carbon Disclosure Project Report This CSR Report 2014 is the fourth CSR Report published by Kendrion. This CSR Report encompasses all the Kendrion group companies in 2014. In a number of instances the information provided in this Report relates solely to part of the operations. When this is the case, it is stated explicitly in the Report, this is due either to the operations not being carried out or the reliability of the data does not yet match with Kendrion’s requirements. This CSR Report, in combination with the 2014 Annual Report and the corporate website, has been compiled by using the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 ‘core level’. The GRI-index can be found on Kendrion’s corporate website. For the quantitative information on energy consumption, absolute and relative CO2 emissions, accidents and lost time injuries, acceptance of Supplier Code of Conduct and number of supplier audits, Kendrion used the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures G4-EN 3, G4-EN5, G4-LA6 and G4-HR 1. The information on accidents, lost time injuries and information on suppliers includes all group entities. The information on energy (G4-EN 3 and G4-EN5) is based on the consumption of Kendrion’s production facilities (electricity, gas, oil) in Germany, the Czech Republic and Austria. For Greenhouse Gas emissions (G4-EN 15 and G4-EN 16) Kendrion applies the same reporting scope as for energy. Internal and external transport under control of Kendrion is very limited, therefore transport emissions are not included. Kendrion will evaluate the use of conversion factors in 2015, including the application of country specific indicators for electricity, fuel oil and natural gas. Kendrion reports the total number of work related accidents for own employees and for external employees over which Kendrion has oversight. Furthermore Kendrion reports the absence resulting from work related accidents of own employees. The LTI is calculated based on the total number of lost hours calculated on the basis of actual number of working hours per day. Kendrion does not specify LTI data per region, worker type or gender as Kendrion considers this information not relevant for its current operations. Kendrion is evaluating the definition of the LTI rate to enable better benchmarking. For reporting on the number of signed Supplier Code of Conduct and number of supplier audits, Kendrion makes use of GRI indicator G4-HR 1 in connection to number of suppliers that signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and underwent a supplier audit. The supplier audits are internal audits by Kendrion employees based on interview questionnaires. For more information on the scope of the Code of Conduct and related audits Kendrion refers to its website (Code of Conduct). The ‘percentage of main suppliers that signed the Supplier Code of Conduct’ is based on the 20 biggest suppliers in terms of procurement value (in euros). At the end of 2014, the internal management information system for CSR reporting was improved. It is designed to provide for the collection and consolidation of relevant CSR information from all Kendrion’s operating facilities. This is required for the preparation of reliable periodic internal and external Reports about the KPIs. Kendrion realises that the figures and data presented in this Report are not always fully comparable with those of other companies. There are two reasons for this. Companies do not always select the same KPIs or apply the same definitions for them. Secondly the nature and spread of Kendrion’s activities mean that one-on-one comparisons with other industrial companies are not easy to make. But where possible Kendrion stated the own prior-year figures and data, to make internal progress visible. Other information used in this Report was collected from the existing management and financial reporting systems. Any estimates or forecasts included in the Report are explicitly referred to as such. The KPIs on energy, carbon emissions, number of accidents, LTI rate, number of supplier audits and number of signed Supplier Code of Conduct have been reviewed by an external auditor. It will be assessed, within the context of the process of moving to full external assurance, when and to what extent the transition will be made to integrated reporting. ABOUT THIS REPORT 51 Contact information Any questions or comments about this report or Kendrion’s CSR activities can be raised with: Mr Wijgert Gooijer CSR Coordinator Utrechtseweg 33 3704 HA Zeist, the Netherlands P.O. Box 931 3700 HA Zeist, the Netherlands Telephone: + 31 (0) 30 699 72 50 Fax: +31 (0)30 695 11 65 Email: wijgert.gooijer@kendrion.com The Executive Board wishes to thank everyone who has contributed to this CSR Report. Copy Wim Dieleman, teamtva! reclamebureau. Photography and images Jens Hagen Büro für Fotodesign, Theo Berends, Sommital. Organisation Wijgert Gooijer and Wilma Stuiver. Concept and realisation C&F Report. This CSR Report is printed on environmental friendly paper. More information about Kendrion and the company’s strategy, results and products is available from Kendrion’s website (www.kendrion.com). Kendrion’s 2014 Annual Report and 2014 Annual Magazine have also been published on the website. 52 KENDRION CSR REPORT 2014 Kendrion N.V. Utrechtseweg 33 3704 HA Zeist P.O. Box 931 3700 AX Zeist The Netherlands Telephone +31 (0)30 699 72 50 Fax +31 (0)30 695 11 65 E-mail info@kendrion.com www.kendrion.com
