Ensuring Quality of Life Sustainability Report 2014 Bosch Group Key figures 2014 Sales Shareholder structure Sales by business sector 49 92 68 robert bosch Mobility stiftung gmbh Solutions billion euros 14 7 % Industrial % +6.3% Bosch Family ­Technology year-on-year 9 1 Energy and­ robert bosch Gmbh Building technology 9 Consumer Goods 12.9% –19.9% –20% 20% 02 Corporate target Corporate target 20% reduction of CO2 emissions (relative) 20% female executives by 2020 over 2007 levels by 2020 Status 2014: –19.9% Status 2014: 12.9% 367 3.1 1,000 6.8 3 Corporate target Corporate target 1,000 environmental and social audits 3 accidents per million hours worked of suppliers by 2020 by 2020 compared with 2007 (6.8) Status 2014: 367 (since 2010) Status 2014: 3.1 R&D Earnings Investments in Personnel expenditure after tax fixed assets expenses 5.0 2.6 2.6 15.3 billion euros billion euros billion euros billion euros +0.4 billion euros +1.4 billion euros +46 million euros +0.4 billion euros ­year-on-year ­year-on-year year-on-year year-on-year Dear readers, If there is a correlation between happiness and quality of life, then happiness can be measured. The Organisation for ­Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) established the B ­ etter Life Index to this end. The model examines ecological, economic, human, and social factors as the determinants of a bright future. Eleven indicators – among them health, personal safety, education, work environment, and environmental conditions – serve to assess whether we are on the right path. The success story of our sensors shows how we are contributing to this bright future with technology “Invented for life”. In the 1990s, we were one of the first companies that used MEMS sensors to improve vehicle safety. Thanks to systematic research and development efforts, we have ­consistently worked ever since to make this technology more affordable and suitable for a broad range of applications. As the leading global manufacturer of MEMS sensors, we now produce four million units a day. In addition to this, we hold more than 1,000 patents and patent applications 03 in this realm of technology. Bosch sensors are paving the way to the connected world of the future. They make life more comfortable, and contribute to greater safety at home and on the roads. Sensors not only make our company more profitable, they also highlight our commitment to social and environmental responsibility. Not least, they help ensure quality of life. The pages of this report present more evidence of the ways in which our activities promote sustainability. At the same time, this publication serves as a progress report with regard to our membership in the United Nations Global Compact. Above all, it illustrates how our current activities are laying the foundation for a better quality of life – for us and for future generations. Sincerely, Dr. Volkmar Denner, chairman of the board of management, Robert Bosch GmbH Further information about sustainability activities at Bosch and our sustainability blog can be found at csr.bosch.com Ensuring quality of life Living a better life Since 2011, the OECD’s Better Life Initiative has been asking: How’s Life? To find a valid answer to this question, the organization has defined indicators that can be used to measure quality of life around the world. In addition to this, the OECD’s capital model shows, which factors will influence our well-being in the future. A functioning infrastructure, clean air, education, and The OECD’s forms of capital, which also shape this report, trust in the political system: these are just four of many correspond to the four areas that Bosch’s sustainability factors that are decisive for the quality of life we enjoy, and activities focus on. For instance, with environmental edufor the well-being of future generations. The OECD has cation initiatives, we contribute to protecting natural pooled these resources into a four-pronged model that capital. We enhance human capital with our open corpocomprises economic, natural, human, and social capital. rate culture, which promotes diversity and encourages All four contribute to maintaining prosperity over time. For associates to contribute their knowledge and expertise. this reason, consistently monitoring their status is vital, as is actively investing in their development and counterFurther examples of how we contribute to ensuring acting negative developments and abuse of the system. quality of life can be found on the following pages. 04 Time Investment Challenges + Environmental protection Depletion Efficiency Social Education Depreciation – Waste Emissions structures Environment Products Associates Society BOSCH Natural Economic Human Social OECD capital capital capital capital e.g. Air, e.g. Buildings, e.g. Expertise, e.g. Social Water, Machines, Skills, Collaboration, Forests Currency Health Trust Ensuring quality of life over time The Bosch Group at a glance The Bosch Group is a leading global supplier of technology Our strategy 05 and services. It comprises Robert Bosch GmbH and Bosch develops technology “Invented for life”: products its roughly 440 subsidiaries and regional companies in that spark enthusiasm, improve quality of life, and help 60 countries.* The company is divided into four business conserve natural resources. To achieve this goal, we are sectors: Mobility Solutions, Industrial Technology, Consumer shaping the changes ahead and seizing opportunities in Goods, and Energy and Building Technology. In fiscal the areas of connectivity, electrification, energy efficiency, 2014, the Bosch Group’s sales grew 6.3 percent over the automation, and the emerging markets. previous year, to 49 billion euros. In developing beneficial solutions, we rely on our interna92 percent of the share capital of Robert Bosch GmbH is tional research and development network, which counts held by Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH, a non-profit founda45,700 associates around the world. Last year, they filed tion. The majority of voting rights is held by Robert Bosch some 4,600 patents. In 2014, Bosch spent a total of five Industrietreuhand KG, an industrial trust. The special billion euros on research and development – about ten ownership structure of Robert Bosch GmbH guarantees percent of its sales. the entrepreneurial freedom of the Bosch Group, making it possible for the company to plan over the long term and Around the world, some 360,000 people contribute their to make significant upfront investments in the safeguarding expertise to the success of the Bosch Group.* With over of its future. Moreover, thanks to its business activities, 100 different work time models, international exchange Bosch can secure the financing of its charitable initiatives programs, and opportunities for lifelong learning, we and of Robert Bosch Stiftung. aim to encourage associates to perform to the best of their ability. * Status of April 1, 2015 (including BSH Hausgeräte GmbH and Robert Bosch Automotive Steering GmbH) More information on our company can be found at csr.bosch.com To find out more about Robert Bosch Stiftung, please visit www.bosch-stiftung.com Sustainability at Bosch Improvements in the world of technology and business should always also be b ­ eneficial for mankind.” Robert Bosch 06 Mission statement and fields of activity Organization In line with the convictions of our company founder Robert At Bosch, sustainability management is twofold. First the Bosch (1861–1942), we strongly believe that the lasting company’s various departments identify relevant topics success of our business depends on a healthy society and and assess where action is needed. Then, committees environment. The aim of sustainability is thus a firmly comprising presidents of divisions, heads of corporate established part of our corporate strategy. We pursue this departments, and members of the board of management aim in four main areas: environment, products, associates, draw on this information to define global sustainability and society. targets. These bodies also monitor progress. • Environment: Thanks to annual targets and systematic environmental monitoring practices, we are reducing Measuring success resource consumption and waste at our locations Bosch measures success in two ways: with strategic around the world. controlling and by monitoring functional areas. The aim • Products: We continuously strive to improve the material of strategic controlling is to support management in and energy efficiency of our products. Moreover, a confinding and assessing new fields of sustainable busisiderable portion of our R&D expenditure goes toward ness, and to weigh the corresponding opportunities and eco-friendly technology. risks. In contrast, the monitoring of functional areas is • Associates: We promote working in diverse teams, decentralized and focuses on operations: it involves which we consider a driver of innovation and value providing Bosch units with specific targets, for instance added. with regard to reducing CO2, decreasing the number of • Society: Among other things, our charitable activities accidents in the workplace, and increasing the number focus on educational projects and initiatives that supof women in management positions. Bosch publishes port young scientists. the most important key figures and target values in its annual Sustainability Report, and in the form of interactive graphics on its website. Natural capital 07 Environmental education promotes responsibility Healthy ecosystems and biodiversity are the foundation of life, and are necessary for prosperity and well-being. But natural capital is limited. This is why maintaining ecological resources for future generations is one of the biggest challenges society faces. Bosch is actively tackling this challenge with concrete guidelines and Group-wide measures, and by promoting environmental awareness in a targeted manner. For many years, using energy and resources responsibly But environmental targets are not the only way the company has been a top priority at Bosch. In order to protect the ensures that progress is made in protecting the climate and climate in a tangible manner, the company has defined a conserving resources. Bosch also places a great deal of CO2 target and established clear management structures. importance on raising awareness of environmental issues By 2020, Bosch aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions among associates and stakeholders around the world. The by 20 percent over 2007 levels, relative to its value added. company does this with a broad range of local initiatives. lead the way” explains how engineers contribute to reducing CO2 emissions with innovative products. In addition to this, practical examples aim to motivate readers to calculate their own CO2 emissions and come up with ways to reduce them. In Worcester, Bosch has also commissioned the development of a play that aims to spark the interest of seven to Bosch China: Identifying energy consumers eleven-year-old schoolchildren in green topics. In “EveryOver the course of the Go Green campaign in 2014, Bosch body can make a Difference”, actors playing Bob the Boiler plant managers in Changsha, China, called on associates and Solar Sam talk to the audience about saving energy to come up with ways to reduce energy consumption in and reducing waste. the company’s everyday operations. Associates identified the location’s lighting as an area that showed sigWith its annual Environment 2020 Award, which is nificant savings potential. Since then, energy-intensive geared toward installation technicians, builders, and halogen metal halide lamps have been replaced with effimunicipal authorities, the Bosch location in Worcester 08 cient LED lamps. This measure alone saves the location also honors building measures that have an especially 60,000 euros per year in energy costs and reduces annual positive effect on the environment and contribute to CO2 emissions by 492 tons. improving energy efficiency. Bosch Turkey: Raising awareness about energy ­efficiency More information on environmental and climate In 2011, Bosch opened an energy efficiency training ­protection at Bosch can be found here center at its Bursa location. The center, which is geared toward associates, organizations, companies, and schools in the region, has an ambitious aim: to raise awareness for energy efficiency and sustainable energy consumption. To this end, the center offers training sessions on a regular basis that focus on real-life examples. All associates can register for the sessions online via the Key figures 2014 Bosch training portal. Response to the sessions has been positive: in four years, Bosch has trained more than 3,000 Relative CO2 emissions people with an interest in the environment. Eighty per–19.9 percent* cent of those who have taken part in the training sessions have been Bosch associates. Other participants have Energy needs included students and employees of non-governmental –9.0 percent* organizations, as well as companies from the region. Water consumption Bosch UK: Making environmental education fun –0.9 percent* In the United Kingdom, Bosch is also working to raise the Funds spent on protecting the environment environmental awareness of young people. For instance, +72.5 percent* the company has cooperated with leading thinkers at the Royal Academy of Engineering to develop an energy effi* compared with 2007 levels ciency handbook for schools. “Reducing CO2: Engineers Natural capital Project portfolio Mangroves to protect the coast On World Environment Day in 2014, Bosch associates in Indonesia and their families planted 6,000 mangrove trees on Marunda’s coast, north of Jakarta. Bosch organized this project in cooperation with the Mangrove Restoration Foundation, a local non-profit organization. The initiators aimed to raise awareness about the importance of mangrove forests for coastal protection. The trees, which can grow in both fresh and salt water, help prevent erosion, mitigate the impact of tropical storms, and absorb CO2. Commitment to water On the occasion of World Water Day, Bosch held an event at a mall in Coimbatore, India, that focused on the importance of water for all forms of life, and on protecting the valuable resource. To sensitize mall goers to the sustainable use of water, the Bosch location offered a varied program that included an exhibit by a local school, sketches by Bosch associates, expert presentations, and a millet cooking contest. Growing the cereal requires relatively little water, which makes it an eco-friendly alternative to rice. Promoting interest in e-mobility How can associates be encouraged to think about and use eco-friendly forms of mobility? Since October 2014, Bosch Belgium has done this by giving associates the opportunity to try out eBikes and electric cars. Associates in Anderlecht can now use the new shared electric vehicle for short trips and test eBikes for their commutes to work. The charging station that opened in August 2014 provides the energy needed for low-emission driving. For more information, please visit csr.bosch.com 10 Economic capital Smart and multi-talented They save lives by correcting human error. They also help save energy and make our jam-packed everyday lives more comfortable. MEMS sensors are the sensory organs of vehicles, smart phones, and household appliances. They are a key technology for the connected world. Thanks to continuous research and development, Bosch has contributed to making the smart technology available to the masses. In so doing, the company has contributed to the development of economic capital that helps ensure quality of life. As a result, everyday activities such as cooking, heating, or driving are becoming safer and more sustainable. MEMS stands for micro-electromechanical systems. The when a sensor notices that no one is in the building. At a intelligent technology measures physical parameters such plant nursery, a smart socket makes sure that the watering as pressure, humidity, or temperature and transmits the system can turn itself on and off, depending on the soil’s data collected via the Internet, for instance to a user’s humidity. And when it comes to reducing energy consumpsmart phone. In so doing, the sensors create a connection tion in residential buildings, offices, or factories, MEMS between the real and virtual worlds. With the help of sensensors are increasingly being used. In 2014, Bosch prosors, objects can detect their environments and react to duced a total of one billion units of the smart helper, and changes. For example, a lighting system can turn itself off is global market leader in the field of sensor technology. Safe travels The technology experienced its first breakthrough in the production costs have continuously decreased. Not only are automotive industry of the 1990s. Since then, tiny sensors many of the microchips produced at the site in Reutlingen, just a few millimeters in size have measured pressure and Germany, suitable for a broad range of applications; they acceleration. One of them is the SMI700, which is at the are also enabling the Internet of Things, which is set to be core of the ESP anti-skid system that Bosch launched in the next technological revolution. In January 2015, Bosch 1995. The sensor continuously monitors whether the presented a number of connected solutions for smart ­vehicle is traveling in the same direction that the driver is homes at the CES consumer trade fair in Las Vegas. The steering. When this is not the case, it tells the system to company displayed technologies that will make life more reduce engine power or make individual wheels decelercomfortable and sustainable in the future, among them an 11 ate. According to Bosch accident research, ESP has preoven that automatically determines optimal cooking time. vented some 190,000 accidents since it was launched, This not only helps ensure the perfect Sunday roast, it also and the technology has saved 6,000 lives. Since November 1, guarantees the most efficient use of heating energy. 2014, the anti-skid system has been mandatory in all newly registered vehicles in the EU. More information on our sensors can be found here In addition, since last year ACC adaptive cruise control has been ready for series production in small and large vehicle classes. The system is based on a radar sensor that monitors traffic in front of the car. Drawing on the data it gathers, it can then adapt the vehicle’s speed to the flow of traffic by braking or accelerating automatically. This makes it possible to effectively avoid rear-end collisions. Key figures 2014 The technology is also eco-friendly: thanks to the predictive, steady driving style that ACC enables, heavy braking Patents and patent applications in the area of MEMS sensors can be avoided, and this helps reduce the vehicle’s fuel more than 1,000 consumption by up to five percent. Number of MEMS sensors in a modern vehicle Heading toward a smart future more than 50 The sensors must be able to meet high demands: they must Number of associates around the world who develop driver have a long service life despite being in constant use, and ­assistance and vehicle safety systems they have to be energy efficient. Over the past 20 years, more than 5,000 Bosch has pushed the further development of the smart helpers forward with its own intensive research and develShare of sales generated with environmental and opment activities. In the area of MEMS sensors alone, safety products in 2014 Bosch currently holds more than 1,000 patents and patent 40 percent applications. And as the number of applications has grown, Economic capital Project portfolio A generation of lightweight solutions Smaller, lighter, more affordable: it is with these requirements in mind that Bosch engineers have made further improvements to the ESP anti-skid system. Today, the processing of a hydraulic block produces 40 fewer grams of aluminum chips, a 16 percent decrease compared with the previous model. This will save up to 700 tons of aluminum chips in the production of ESP safety systems over the course of one year, which represents a 13,700-ton reduction in CO2 emissions. More­ over, producing smaller ESP units requires 20 percent less energy. Four in one 12 At the beginning of 2015, Bosch presented a first with the BME680. The environmental sensor, which is three by three millimeters in size, measures four physical parameters: air pressure, humidity, temperature, and indoor air quality. This makes a number of new applications possible. Combined with the right technology, this sensor could monitor air quality in conference rooms and production shops, for instance. Moreover, the sensor is capable of providing personalized weather information, which will enable the efficient control of heating systems in the connected house of the future. Smart savings Smart grids in which power prices change on an hourly basis are already widespread in Sweden. With the help of the Bosch IVT Anywhere app, the owners of internet-enabled heat pumps can now take full advantage of smart grids. The app makes it possible to operate heat pumps whenever electricity prices are especially low. With intelligent solutions such as this one, Bosch is helping make renewable sources of energy attractive for a growing number of people. For more information, please visit csr.bosch.com Human capital 13 The asset of diversity We are all different, and all our differences matter: this was the message of the first global Bosch Diversity Day, which was held in June 2014. With an open working culture that embraces diversity, Bosch not only attracts highly qualified graduates, it also promotes the health and motivation of its associates – the company’s “human capital”. With their broad ranging knowledge and experience, the women and men who work at Bosch can help find solutions to the complex challenges of the future. And by applying their skills, associates contribute to the development of solutions that enhance quality of life. By the end of the day, there were barely any white spots ­colleagues that had little contact in their day-to-day work left on the oversized world map that was hanging at the engaged in conversation and found out more about their Mobility Solutions business sector’s headquarters in company’s multicultural workforce. The same day, Bosch ­Farmington Hills, Michigan. On the occasion of Bosch Diverassociates 15,000 kilometers away in Singapore played a sity Day, the location’s associates placed colorful stickers game of diversity bingo. At a total of eight stations, there all over the map to show where they were born, where were stamps for associates who showed their translation they had been, and where they would like to go. As a result, or music skills, or their knowledge of different cultures. ­management tasks can be carried out on a part-time basis, the company also understands the importance of supporting its associates when they face special family challenges, including caring for loved ones. Today, Bosch even recognizes family leave as a career building block comparable to a foreign assignment. Diversity at the company is also expressed through international associate networks such as family@bosch, the Africanetwork cam@bosch, women@bosch, and 50plus@ Farmington Hills and Singapore were just two of the 200 bosch. Many of these networks have been active for a locations that took part in the first global Bosch Diversity number of years already, and they see to it that the conDay on June 24, 2014. Around the world, there were workcerns of the company’s diverse workforce are heard shops, discussions, and other events that focused on the around the world. Associates will have another oppor14 topic of diversity. The event gave associates around the tunity to express themselves at the next global Bosch globe an opportunity to think about the different aspects Diversity Day on May 21, 2015 – which coincides with of diversity, and to question their own stereotypes and the UN’s World Day for Cultural Diversity. opinions. For Bosch, this critical questioning is decisive, as the wealth of experience, perspectives, and approaches within the company are central to understanding different More information on the Bosch definition of customers and markets. Studies have found that the best diversity can be found here results are the product of mixed teams comprising men and women of different ages as well as people of different backgrounds. Associates at Power Tools in Hangzhou, China, put this idea to the test on Diversity Day: in mixed teams of women and men of different ages, they came up with concepts for new tools, from multifunctional devices to a range of childproofed tools. Key figures 2014 Flexible and family-friendly Number of nationalities in the Bosch workforce In 2011, Bosch launched a diversity initiative that focuses more than 150 on equal opportunities for men and women, as well as for associates of all ages. It also promotes a flexible working Share of local executives at Bosch locations worldwide culture and internationality. Among other things, the ­initiative encourages diversity at Bosch by calling for the 80 to 90 percent establishment of the right conditions. One result of this Share of female executives at Bosch is the Mindset Organization Executives (MORE) project, 12.9 percent over the course of which more than 1,000 executives in a number of Bosch countries put flexible working models Number of associate networks that help to the test. In addition, the company has made its familyshape diversity at Bosch friendly corporate culture part of its global guiding princi10 ples. In so doing, Bosch acknowledges not only that Human capital Project portfolio Lunch roulette in Reutlingen Thanks to a new initiative, associates on their lunch breaks were encouraged to talk about something other than their current work projects between mouthfuls of food. On November 11, 2014, associates at the Bosch site in Reutlingen were set up for a blind date with a colleague. The aim of the diversity initiative was to promote conversations about internationality, work/life balance, and the Bosch working culture. Associates were invited to sign up beforehand based on their area of interest, and were then paired up with like-minded colleagues. From Weert to the world Production specialists from Weert, the Netherlands, recently had the opportunity to gather impressions from places as far away as Goa, Chengdu, and Alphaville. The center of competence for packaging technology supports Bosch sites around the world. For this reason, the Weert location declared Bosch Diversity Day a day of international cooperation. Associates at the site’s restaurant organized an informative photo exhibit that was presented by colleagues with international experience. And international delicacies were served that day – from German sausages to chicken curry. The diversity puzzle: Putting the pieces together Over the course of Bosch Diversity Day, the offices at the Bosch location in Istanbul, Turkey, became increasingly bright as associates tested their knowledge in a diversity quiz and were awarded colorful t-shirts and pieces of puzzles. After the quiz, associates put the puzzle together, talked about diversity, and anxiously awaited the arrival of the day’s special guest. The Turkish actor Sunay Akin, who is well-known for his humorous stories on historical events, was on hand to talk about his own experience with diversity. For more information, please visit csr.bosch.com 16 Social capital Local commitment At Bosch, our special ownership structure means that economic success and social commitment are closely interlinked. The company’s profitability is the basis of Robert Bosch Stiftung’s non-profit activities. What is more, Bosch has contributed to increasing social capital for decades through its commitment to promoting well-being in communities close to its locations around the globe. Associates worldwide volunteer their time to strengthen social collaboration onsite and beyond. In so doing, they help ensure the quality of life of future generations. At Bosch, there are many reasons for associates to volunown skills and help secure the company’s innovative teer in their free time. Those who contribute their skills to strength. This is why there are initiatives at almost all promoting social well-being support the aim of maintainBosch locations that encourage associates to voluning a healthy society, and this reflects Bosch values. At the teer. In Germany, for instance, development programs same time, volunteering allows associates to broaden for up-and-coming executives include providing active their horizons, strengthen team spirit, and come up with support and good ideas for a project carried out by a creative solutions. It also enables them to enhance their local social organization. only lost their houses, but also their livelihoods. With the aim of providing the region’s children a promising future, Bosch Group and associate donations funded the construction of Musu Bosch Central Primary School. Today, six hundred children are being taught in six grades in the earthquake-proof building. However, many families cannot afford to send their children to school. To help them, volunteers have launched the One-on-One Education Assistance project, which sees Bosch associates sponThe Primavera – Hilfe für Kinder in Not e.V. success story soring individual children to continue their schooling. By shows just how much can be accomplished when associthe end of 2014, 300 Bosch China associates were ates join forces. The initiative was founded in 1990 when involved in the project, enabling 218 students to complete associates at the Bosch site in Curitiba, Brazil, began the schooling they need for future occupational training. helping disadvantaged children who lived in favelas close 17 by. In 2014, Primavera had about 880 members. From the very beginning, the aim of the initiative has been to give More information on volunteering at Bosch can be young people the education they need to live an independfound here ent life. Today, Bosch associates and their former colleagues volunteer for some 30 projects in 12 countries. Their work reflects the wishes of company founder Robert Bosch, who was also committed to promoting education over the course of his life. A solid foundation Strengthening local communities is another focus of volunteer work at Bosch. In 2014, thousands of Bosch associates around the world took part in regional aid projects. For instance, associates from the Power Tools division Key figures 2014 spent a week volunteering to help reconstruct buildings in Cebu, an island in the Philippines that was badly Bosch Group donations to charitable initiatives affected by a typhoon. Together with Habitat for Humanity, 12.6 million euros they helped prepare the ground for twelve new houses and provided much-needed professional power tools. This Donations made to Primavera – Hilfe für Kinder in Not e.V. made it possible to prepare the ground in just two hours, 654,278 euros a task that would have taken about two weeks if common Sponsorship volume of Robert Bosch Stiftung shovels and picks had been used. By the end of 2014, Bosch associates in the Philippines had also helped build 68.2 million euros six multi-purpose halls, three schools, and three libraries. Annual internal and external projects at Robert Bosch Stiftung For the past six years, Bosch associates have been helping around 800 people in China’s Sichuan Province to help themselves. Following an earthquake in 2008, local farmers there not Social capital Project portfolio Ten years of working for a promising future In Brazil, Instituto Robert Bosch supports education and training projects in communities close to Bosch sites. The foundation also helps Bosch associates find projects they can volunteer for. One such project is Formare, which celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2014. The initiative aims to provide disadvantaged youth the education they need to prepare for occupational training. Bosch associates conduct some of the seminars. Last year, associates volunteered more than 6,000 hours of their time for charitable initiatives. Green space for city kids 18 At the Bosch location in Bari, Italy, associates have joined forces to promote their region’s well-being. Their efforts are based on a social charter that defines the focus and aims of their charitable activities. In 2014, Green Kids was one of the resulting projects. Together with schoolchildren, teachers, and parents, volunteer helpers held planting days at public daycare centers in the region. In so doing, they helped sensitize even the smallest of children to environmental issues. 64 Bosch associates and another 100 children and grown-ups took part in the project, which attracted considerable local media attention. Help for Kumbalgodu The residents of Kumbalgodu, a village close to the southern Indian metropolis of Bangalore, live in poverty with insufficient state aid. In 2014, Bosch associates from the Thermotechnology plant close by volunteered to improve living conditions in the community. In a first step, they planted 150 saplings to make the barren environment greener. Next, they installed ten solar lamps that not only continuously provided light, but also made the villagers more independent from a patchy energy supply. For more information, please visit csr.bosch.com Looking back at 2014 schools to put their knowledge into teaching concepts, 200 senior high Successful diversity management practice. Among other things, the school students from 70 countries in China and Spain winners of the “HTL Oscars” have are completing their international In order to support female associthe opportunity to complete a sixbaccalaureate. Environmental topates achieve their career goals, month internship at Bosch. ics are a central part of the college’s Bosch has developed special mencurriculum. Robert Bosch Stiftung toring and training programs and Robert Bosch GmbH contribaround the world. In Germany, the uted more than 40 million euros for Girls’ Campus is one of several inithe school’s construction. tiatives that offer girls the opportuJune nity to take a behind-the-scenes Bosch associates in Korea support look at the global provider of techpeople in need nology and services. Bosch aims to increase the share of women in October management positions to 20 perBrazil wears pink cent around the world by 2020. China and Spain are pioneers in this regard. At Bosch China, 23 percent of executives are women. In Spain, the figure is 21 percent. Twenty years ago, the Bosch executive Park Ducksu decided to donate part of his salary to people in need. May Together with a colleague, he founded In the spirit of the American Cancer An Oscar for up-and-coming engithe “Love and Happy Plus” initiative. Society’s Pink October, last fall neers Today, 446 out of 606 associates at Bosch associates at the Campinas, the Bosch plant in Buyong are taking Curitiba, Joinville, Atibaia, and part in the initiative. In June 2014, Pomerode locations actively took they were honored by the Korean part in a breast cancer prevention health minister for their commitment initiative. To initiate dialog, the assoto sustainable development. ciates organized a number of actions, including selfie contests and information events. In addition, many associates wore pink to work. In the spring of 2014, 141 up-andSeptember coming engineers submitted a total UWC Robert Bosch College opens of 54 projects for the annual in Freiburg “Invented for life” prize. The award, The first and only United World Colwhich is presented by Bosch Austria, lege in Germany, UWC Robert aims to encourage young graduates Bosch College, opened in SeptemFor more information, of the country’s secondary technical ber. With the help of innovative please visit csr.bosch.com Communication on progress Activities – an overview Robert Bosch GmbH has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004, and is committed to this initiative’s ten global principles in the areas of human rights, working standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. The following table provides an overview of the progress made in the 2014 reporting period in relation to these ten principles of responsible corporate governance. Principle Basis/goals Actions Results Human rights Corporate objective: Supply chains: 367 audits conducted since 2010 1,000 supplier audits by Conducting environmental and occupa• Principle 1: Support and the end of 2020 tional safety audits and auditing supplier respect human rights portfolios Code of Business Conduct • Principle 2: No comBosch Global Supplier Award: Award is given out every two years and will be again plicity in human rights Basic principles of Awarding the best suppliers awarded in 2015 20 abuses social responsibility at Purchasing guidelines: Suppliers have made improvements where needed; Bosch Imposing sanctions on suppliers until now, sanctions solely due to sustainability issues have not been necessary Bosch purchasing guidelines Mission statement “We are Bosch” Working standards Corporate objective: Diversity management: Group-wide • In 2014, the share of female executives stood at Women to fill 20 percent programs to promote diversity and attract 12.9 percent • Principle 3: Uphold of management positions the best staff have been continued and • China has already reached a 23 percent share of freedom of association by 2020 expanded women in management positions; in Spain, the figure is 21 percent • Principle 4: Elimination Bosch Human Resources • In Germany, one in four apprentices is female of all forms of forced and System (BHS) • First international “Bosch Diversity Day” at more compulsory labor than 200 participating locations Guidelines for a flexible • 2,200 foreign assignments per year • Principle 5: Abolition and family-friendly work of child labor culture Senior experts program: Former • Senior experts work around 50,000 days per year Bosch associates support the company as • Number of retirees who work as senior experts: • Principle 6: Elimination Mission statement expert advisors after they retire, and thus 1,600 of discrimination “We are Bosch” continue to feel valued on a professional level Cultural consultants: Bosch associates At present, there are some 200 cultural consultants act as experts for intercultural cooperation at Bosch and advise colleagues who are going abroad Committed associates: Bosch associates • Donation volume of more than 650,000 euros in founded “Primavera – Hilfe für Kinder in 2014 Not e.V.” in 1990; the aid organization • Up to now, 880 members and some 30 projects in aims to promote education for disadvan12 developing and emerging countries taged children in developing countries • More than 8 million euros in donations since the around the world organization was established Foundations around the world: The In 2014, the Bosch Group donated a total of 12.6 milnational companies are committed to social lion euros well-being in the regions, and there are four international Bosch Group foundations in Brazil, China, India, and the US Principle Basis/goals Actions Results Working standards Corporate objective: Dual training: The Bosch training model • Bosch has some 6,900 apprentices around the Women to fill 20 percent has been established in more than 20 world, of which almost 2,000 are outside of • Principle 3: Uphold of management positions countries around the world Germany freedom of association by 2020 • Last year, about 90 percent of apprentices in Brazil graduated to jobs at Bosch; more than 1,400 • Principle 4: Elimination Bosch Human Resources apprentices have been trained there since 1960 of all forms of forced and System (BHS) compulsory labor Flexible working culture: A greater • Over 100 work time models across hierarchical Guidelines for a flexible focus is being placed on results rather levels, including part-time work, telecommuting, • Principle 5: Abolition and family-friendly work than on physical presence and job-sharing of child labor culture • Standardized rules with regard to telecommuting, as well as to personal use of e-mail, telephones, and • Principle 6: Elimination Mission statement Internet at work of discrimination “We are Bosch” Supporting schoolchildren: Initiatives • A Girls’ Campus is organized each year that to spark children’s interest in technology provides around 35 schoolgirls insights into the global provider of technology and services • As part of the Wissensfabrik initiative, Bosch participates in some 250 educational partnerships New training positions: Bosch combats • As part of an occupational training initiative to fight youth unemployment in southern Europe youth unemployment in southern Europe, Bosch took on 50 Spanish apprentices in Germany, and offered another 50 apprenticeships to young people in Italy, Portugal, and Spain • In total, Bosch announced more than 1,300 apprenticeship openings in Germany Promoting innovative spirit: With its • Bosch was awarded the DeutscherIdeenPreis 2014 corporate suggestion scheme, Bosch for the best ideas management among automotive relies on the innovative strength of its suppliers associates • In total, 21,900 associates submitted suggestions for improvement in Germany, which were rewarded with a total of 7.7 million euros Environmental Corporate objective: CO2 reduction: Targeted reduction of • Relative CO2 emissions have been reduced by protection Cut relative CO2 emissions by 20 percent by 2020 relative CO2 emissions at production locations around the world 19.9 percent compared to 2007 • Absolute reduction to 2.5 million tons 21 • Principle 7: Precaution(–3.3 percent) compared to 2007 ary environmental Guidelines for occupational • Environmental/Safety portfolio makes up 40 perprotection safety and environmental cent of Bosch Group sales protection • Principle 8: Initiatives to Sustainable research and develop• In 2014, nearly 55 percent of Group-wide R&D promote greater environBosch Product Engineering ment: Continuous investment in the expenditure went toward sustainable products mental responsibility System (BES) further development of products that • 4,593 patents were filed around the world conserve resources and protect the • Principle 9: Development Bosch Production System environment and distribution of (BPS) ISO 14001: Bosch locations certified with All production and development sites have impleenvironmentally-friendly this international environmental managemented the management system, just under 200 of technologies Design for Environment ment system standard them have thus far been certified (DfE) Climate-friendly locations: Many As a result of efficient technologies and the use of Mission statement locations have made progress with regard renewable sources of energy, the annual CO2 “We are Bosch” to climate protection thanks to energyemissions of the following locations were signifiefficient technology cantly reduced, among other things: Reutlingen (10,000 tons), Schweinfurt (2,500 tons), Nurnberg (1,800 tons), Schwieberdingen (1,600 tons), Rodez (600 tons) Energy efficiency Wiki: Especially • The current examples for energy reduction include successful concepts are shared via a topics such as lighting, compressed air, heating, Bosch-wide Wiki cooling, electric current, or other forms of energy • When buying new machinery, purchasing takes the energy efficiency targets that have been set out in writing into account Model factory: Bosch is working toward • Bosch took part in the state-funded “Energy-effithe energy-saving factory of the future in cient factory for interdisciplinary technical and industrial and research partnerships applied research” at Darmstadt Technical University • The aim is to reduce energy consumption in industrial production. The parties involved see energy savings potential of up to 40 percent • The foundation stone for the energy-efficient model factory was laid in 2014 Technology for the energy turnaround: Europe’s largest hybrid battery went into operation Megawatt and hybrid batteries are being with the aim of optimizing the use of power generdeveloped that will enable the integration ated at the Braderup wind park in Germany of renewable sources of energy Principle Basis/goals Actions Results Environmental Corporate objective: Savings in heating and cooling: A new patented energy recovery concept for hot protection Cut relative CO2 emissions Bosch Packaging Technology is developing water shower sterilizers enables energy savings of up by 20 percent by 2020 energy recovery concepts to 40 percent for heating and 60 percent for cooling • Principle 7: Precautionary environmental Guidelines for occupational Energy-efficient packaging technology: New machines for the packaging of chocolate bars, protection safety and environmental Bosch Packaging Technology seals cookies, and other foods save some 390,000 square protection packages with ultrasound technology meters of plastic foil each year • Principle 8: Initiatives to Second Life Batteries project: In Hamburg, Bosch, BMW, and Vattenfall have promote greater environBosch Product Engineering Energy storage systems are making created an energy storage system with a capacity of mental responsibility System (BES) e-mobility more viable two megawatts; to do this, the project partners connected more than 100 used batteries from • Principle 9: Development Bosch Production System electric vehicles to each other and distribution of (BPS) environmentally-friendly Changing lanes safely: Rear mid-range The MRR rear radar sensor reliably detects other road technologies Design for Environment sensor has gone into series production users in the vehicle’s blind spot (DfE) More efficient electric and hybrid Bosch headed the EU-funded project, which was Mission statement vehicles: OpEneR, a European research completed in 2014. “We are Bosch” project, aims to increase the range of Results: electric vehicles • energy savings of up to 30 percent thanks to eco-routing • energy savings of up to 36 percent thanks to optimized driving strategies Eco.Logic Motion: The Bosch technology The technology is now in series production with reduces the fuel consumption of coaches a Daimler coach, and has resulted in average fuel savings of more than nine percent Fighting corruption Member of Transparency Whistleblower portal: A portal in which Associates (including interns and PhD students), International e. V. internal and external stakeholders can externals (e.g. temporary workers, employees of • Principle 10: Work (since 1995) report breaches of compliance (abidance external service providers), business parties (e.g. against corruption to the legal and internal regulations of suppliers, clients or cooperation partners), and other Member of the Forum business activities) third parties can report breaches of compliance Compliance & Integrity (since 2007) Compliance training: Active awareness Mandatory compliance training includes lessons on raising Code of Business Conduct, product liability, anti22 Code of Business Conduct trust laws, and export controls Mission statement “We are Bosch” Further key principles for sustainable activities in the Bosch Group: “We are Bosch”: Objective, motivation, strategic focal points, strengths and values In 2010, an office, expert committee, and steering committee were founded. These bodies have since been responsible for the efficient implementation of all of the Group’s sustainability-related activities. Scope of reporting The validity of information is specified in the relevant text, key figures, or targets. This report presents a summary of current activities from the whole area of sustainability in the Bosch Group, excluding the former joint venture companies BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH (now: BSH Hausgeräte GmbH), and ZF Lenksysteme GmbH (now: Robert Bosch Automotive Steering GmbH) that have been taken over in the meantime. It therefore serves as a progress report as part of the Group’s membership of the UN Global Compact. Reporting period The reporting period covers January 2014 to spring 2015. The cut-off date for key figures is December 31, 2014. The editorial deadline was April 1, 2015. Memberships (examples) United Nations Global Compact (2004), B.A.U.M. (1990), Transparency International (1995), econsense (2000, founding member), Global Reporting Initiative (2006, organizational stakeholder), Forum Compliance & Integrity (2007) Key figures 2014 CO2 emissions absolute 2.5 million metric tons –3.3% over 2007 Energy consumption 6,102 gigawatt hours –9% over 2007 Waste volume 471,639 metric tons –9.5% over 2007 Water consumption 17.2 million cubic meters –0.9% over 2007 Ongoing environmental protection costs 104.9 million euros –0.9% over 2007 Environmental protection investments 36.5 million euros +72.5% over 2007 Patent applications Environmental/Safety portfolio 4,593 40% 55% Share of Group sales Share of R&D expenditure 23 Number of associates 290,183 Training days 663,000 +13.9% over 2007 Training participants 515,000 +24.7% over 2007 Training expenditure 200 million euros –9.1% over 2007 Voluntary resignation Days lost due to accidents Number of accidents 5.9% +25.5% over 2007 23,533 –38.7% over 2007 1,664 –43.8% over 2007 Bosch Group donations Regional involvement to c ­ haritable causes Bosch Community Fund (Farmington Hills, USA) 3.0 million euros 12.6 Bosch China Charity Center (Shanghai, China) 1.4 million euros Instituto Robert Bosch (Campinas, Brazil) 1.0 million euros million euros Bosch India Foundation (Bangalore, India) 0.3 million euros Sponsorship volume of Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH 68.2 million euros for 800 projects Published by Contact Robert Bosch GmbH Head of Sustainability Office Corporate Communications, Brand Management, Bernhard Schwager and Sustainability (C/CC) bernhard.schwager@de.bosch.com Postfach 10 60 50 Phone +49 711 811-6402 70049 Stuttgart Germany Project team Phone +49 711 811-0 Sylvia Aßmann Annkathrin Kienle Senior Vice President Bernhard Schwager Dr. Christoph Zemelka Realization Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf Additional information on the company and sustainability at Bosch is available here: bosch.com csr.bosch.com sustainabilityblog.bosch.com Cover picture: Bosch produces radar sensors in Reutlingen, Germany. They are at the core of many high-performing driver assistance systems.
