UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Dūcere reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We strongly believe that the principles of the Global Compact are a strong component of social sustainability within any successful business. For this reason, we have worked towards integrating them at Dūcere to achieve the highest organisational standards and create an aware and respectful culture. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions regarding the Global Compact, and confirm our commitment to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary communication channels. Dūcere is a philanthro-capitalist organisation with a simple business model: we provide business and management courses on a fee-paying basis in the developed world, which fully funds the philanthropic programs of the Dūcere Foundation. Our vision is to support educational change throughout the world, enabling greater access to learning. In the words of Dūcere Chancellor, and former Australian Prime Minister, The Hon. Ms. Julia Gillard: “There's really no problem in the world that better education wouldn't make a difference to our ability to solve.” Yours sincerely, MR MATHEW JACOBSON FOUNDER & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, Policy and Goals Dūcere is forthright in its commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). Our policy statement declares that we shall not harass, bully or discriminate against colleagues, members of the public and employees, in reference with Article 2 of the UDHR. Our anti-discriminatory criteria is outlined in Article 7 of our policy document and directly refers to criteria that includes (but is not limited to) race, colour, ethnicity or national origin, gender, sex, religion and political conviction. This is also in consideration with Article 18 of the UDHR. Article 24 of the UDHR pertains to worker’s rights. Our HR Policies are in line with the National Employment Standards (NES) of Australia and this is further outlined in our policy document in Articles 10.1, 10.2 and 10.4. Employees are entitled to 4 weeks paid annual leave, 10 days paid personal leave per annum and agreements relating to long service leave. Our organisation is also complicit in trying to improve equality in education, delineated in Article 26 of the UHDR. As part of our commitment to this cause, we are planning to implement a one-million scholarship project, offering one-million scholarships to African students to study our Bachelor’s of Applied Entrepreneurship. To further our commitment to the United Nation Global Compact, our goal is to directly reference the UDHR in our company policies document. This is currently in review, and we consider our company policies to be a fluid document which intends to be complicit with all current and future amendments to the UDHR. Implementation Ducere have designed an open, discreet feedback system with the intention of mitigating occurrences of human rights violations. We have installed a “suggestion box” in our staff kitchen for employees to submit suggestions with their complaints and/or issues regarding unfair treatment. These complaints are revised by top management weekly and discussed immediately. We also have a student services support team who answer calls dealing with any complaints regarding unfair treatment of customers by staff. Any external issue 2 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. regarding vilification is referred through to them, and then passed on to our top management for discussion. Measurement of outcomes All matters regarding abuse and vilification are dealt with and recorded by our HR staff. Since becoming a member organisation of the Global Compact, Dūcere have recorded no violations of the UDHR. As we are a small but growing company, we anticipate the likelihood of future violations occurring. Consequently, we are planning on implementing company training modules to educate staff about fundamental human rights and prevention of infringements, and also implementing a more thorough review and resolution process in the event of a UDHR abuse. 3 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goal. LABOUR Assessment, Policy and Goals Dūcere is committed to upholding the conventions and recommendations of the ILO Core Conventions. As stated previously, our anti-discriminatory criteria is outlined in Article 7 of our HR Policies Document, which is in accordance with Principle 6 of the Global Compact. We have specific policies relating to workplace health and safety outlined in Article 18 of our HR Policies to ensure employees are not forced to work in unsafe conditions, with workers required to report any incidents to the HR m anager. Staff members are entitled to feel safe at Dūcere and all health concerns are taken seriously, with stringent monitoring to ensure employees return to work safely. We provide compensation if injury or incidence does occur (Article 18.4). We are also currently reviewing our HR Policies so that all suppliers and business partners are made aware of our labour principles and are fully complicit. This review will coincide with a company commitment through our policies to eliminate forced labour, child labour, and employment discrimination. We will continue to refine our policies to incorporate the Global Compact. Implementation At Dūcere, we have implemented health and safety training on a yearly basis for all staff, so employees are made aware of, and not forced to engage in, unsafe practices. Through our HR Policies, and workers’ understanding of it, we strive to ensure worker safety and have a process of conflict resolution process for when incidents occur. All staff are entitled to workers leave and payment in accordance with the NES of Australia. We have a “suggestion box” and call centre to register grievances, as well as a Human Resources Manager for reporting and managing issues. 4 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goal. Measurement of outcomes As a small company, we have not had any labour problems or disputes since becoming a member of the UN Global Compact. Over the coming business year we would like to implement a quantitative measurement for employee satisfaction. All employees are made aware of their rights as a worker through signing our company policies document and this assists us in dealing with workplace disputes, should they arise. The implementation of the Global Compact into our policies document should further assist us in our conflict resolution process concerning labour issues. 5 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies As a mostly office based enterprise, Dūcere’s direct environmental impact is relatively small compared with other higher education providers. As our courses are provided online, we do not have the physical presence and the environmental impact incurred, of a traditional education institute. We only operate through our office space in the Melbourne CBD, where we look to minimise our footprint where possible. We are also currently reviewing our business practices to improve our commitment to the Global Compact, through our actions and influencing those of our suppliers and partners. Implementation We have implemented recycling boxes located near all printers in the office, to ensure paper is reused and disposed of responsibly. We have also implemented a divided waste disposal system located in the staff kitchen, which incorporates landfill, mixed recycling and organic disposal. Measurement of Outcomes The implementation of recycling boxes and a division of material disposal has seen us begin our commitment to providing reusable materials. 6 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Dūcere is committed to Principle 10 of the Global Compact. In Dūcere’s company HR Policies, Article 3 (Code of Conduct), states that employees and the employers will: not engage in fraud or corruption, report any fraudulent or corrupt behaviour, report any breaches of the Code of Conduct and understand and apply all relevant accountability requirements. We are committed to eliminating acts or corruption, and any violation of our policy will result in immediate disciplinary action. Our plan for the coming business year is to incorporate the Anti-Corruption Global Compact principle into our policy document for staff. We will also be aiming to provide education to employees about corruption and actions to take should staff encounter it. Implementation All incidents of corruption are reported to our Human Resources manager and further disciplinary action taken. We have implemented internal controls to prevent the instance of corruption occurring. This consists of a segregation of duties, authorisation limits and multiple authorisations for bank transfers. As a small company, we are not required to have external auditing of our accounts. Measurement of Outcomes We have not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. If an employee is found to be engaged in corrupt behaviour, the worker in question will be terminated immediately. 7
