Progress on the UN Global Compact 2015 – British Land Page 1 of 2 Jun 2015 Progress on the UN Global Compact 2015 Lucinda and colleague Bernard Heersche supporting jobseekers in Westminster through our 2014 Community Day. By Lucinda Bell, Chief Financial Officer at British Land Lucinda Bell outlines our ongoing statement of commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. We continue to advance the UN Global Compact core values on human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption across our sphere of influence. We do so through our sustainability programme, which is at the heart of our business strategy. Our performance I am delighted by our strong performance on almost all our long-term social and environmental targets from 2009 to 2015. Much of what we have achieved has been made possible by our partnerships with suppliers, occupiers, local authorities and others. A big thank you to all involved. We have challenged ourselves to innovate across our activities, from cutting portfolio landlord energy use by 40% to being the first major UK developer to set a BREEAM Excellent standard for all our office developments, to launching our Community and Supply Chain Charters. To help our business and others to further integrate environmental and social factors into decision making, we have joined the Prince’s Accounting for Sustainability Project CFO Leadership Network. Given our relatively small team of staff, I believe that we have made remarkable progress in helping people into work in recent years, extending our influence to make a bigger difference. By partnering with our suppliers, occupiers and local authorities, we have supported over 500 apprenticeships since 2013. A further 480 people benefited from our employment and training initiatives this year alone, including longterm jobseekers and young people keen to get their first experience of the world of work. We continue to target high sustainability standards, with 3.5 million sq ft of our offices, shops, homes and cinemas rated BREEAM Excellent since 2009. However, we have found it challenging to deliver our 2015 target to get planning permission for a showcase sustainable building. UK Government policy shifted away from radical changes to new building standards, making it harder to drive the target within a commercial framework. We have made sure that every one of our new sustainability targets aligns with our business strategy, as well as positive social and environmental outcomes. http://views.britishland.com/2015/06/progress-on-the-un-global-compact-2015/ 16/06/2015 Progress on the UN Global Compact 2015 – British Land Page 2 of 2 I am particularly proud of the high level of involvement across our business. This is clear in the extra efforts that our people make to ensure that our buildings are as efficient as possible for our occupiers, because they really care. It is also reflected in how many of our Head Office team participate in volunteering initiatives to support our local communities, some 83% this year. As set out in our corporate values, we do what’s right not what’s easy. Our new 2020 sustainability strategy In the past year, we have developed our new sustainability strategy and targets to 2020, with active engagement from our staff, external experts and key stakeholders. This strategy is designed to help us to increase appeal – building on our strong social and environmental record to deliver lasting value for our business, our stakeholders and the wider society. Through our new strategy, we will be focusing on promoting wellbeing and productivity, supporting local communities, future proofing assets, and developing skills and opportunities. I look forward to continued progress in these important areas. Related links ◾ Lucinda’s article on British Land’s new sustainability strategy: read here ◾ Our detailed UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 signposts information on our progress against the Compact principles and our planned future actions: view here ◾ Download our 2020 Sustainability Strategy booklet: PDF here ◾ Download our 2009-2015 Sustainability Progress Report: PDF here ◾ Visit the UN Global Compact website: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ ◾ Visit the Prince’s Accounting for Sustainability Project website: www.accountingforsustainability.org The thoughts and opinions expressed above are those of the individual author, and do not necessarily represent the views of British Land or other employees of the company. For further details of relevant legal terms and conditions, including those relating to information you provide to us in the comments below, please refer to the Website Terms and Conditions. http://views.britishland.com/2015/06/progress-on-the-un-global-compact-2015/ 16/06/2015
