United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Period: 29 June 2014 to 28 June 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Date: June 29, 2015 To our stakeholders ICT Alliance supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. We have also recommended these principles to our joint venture companies, and sister concerns. This year, despite our operating environment/country Bangladesh got promoted to to a lowermiddle income country (by World Bank), corruption, human rights violation etc. are still prime issue in the society. The phenomena exist both in public and private organizations. Since, ICT Alliance works as consultant to many medium to large size business organizations. it has opportunity to create awareness about these issues to the business executives and decision makers in their industry and their business societies. Aside, it is up to independent companies like ICT Alliance to stick to the right ways while conducting business, creating examples to be followed.by others towards a cultural change. ICT Alliance has consistently followed several policies, supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact, right from the company’s inception. We would like to further confirm our continued support to these important values by being a member of Global compact. Towards our continuous commitment to build a greener world, we are continuing to give effort and financial support for our greener products. We believe that we are a unique company and hope to create a positive difference for society through proper strategy. Yours sincerely, M. Manzurur Rahman, CEO UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014-2015 2 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. ICT Alliance follows the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We maintain a flat management system with our employees and maintain a transparent work environment. We have declared policies which guarantee the employees their rights. Through the modernization of HR systems, at the end of this period, we are declaring work from home policy, and hope to have more disjointed resources towards their flexibility and independent in life balanced with work. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Existing Family Members: We continue to maintain the transparent system in ICT Alliance which allows its employers to easily share any sorts of issues during their work, and that is handled efficiently. Members of the top management team and trainees work in the same sorts of facilities, shoulder by shoulder, to avoid any sense of discrimination. We believe that knowledge is our raw material and sharing knowledge increases our inventory. We promote “sharing is caring”, which enhances productivity. The benefit and reward policies are well defined, so that no prejudice in the process takes places. This allows a sense of proportion to exist in the working environment. Since the business is getting competitive every day and revenue is shrinking in traditional areas, we are helping our HR to gain new experience and knowledge to become competitive, which is more effective to bring benefit to their career, industry oriented job security, satisfaction and personal life. As always, the health and safety of our employers are our topmost priorities. We continue to encourage our employees to take proper leave and take care about their health properly. We continue to maintain working facility based on individuals health condition wise need (e.g. orthopedic chairs, cushions, special displays etc.). This year, we started to look into the mental health of our employees too, to understand whether there are issues in their families and whether they need mental support from colleagues. As previous year we are continually maintaining “safety matters” in our factory visit activities. Because of several earthquake in the region this year, we are planning to move our premises from high rise building facilities to ground floor where possible, so that the exists are prompt from the building. Grow Green Program: ICT Alliance from the beginning adopted a policy to groom fresher for minimum 80% of its recruitments. We are now coming up with more opportunities for the changing working habit for freelancers by creating opportunity around them in a project called GreenForce. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014-2015 3 Women Right: Currently we are maintaining a healthy and equal male and female ratio in our organization. ICT Alliance is continually supporting amaderkotha.com.bd to empower women in our society. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. ICT Alliance has consistently ensured that the company does not discriminate its employees based on religion, gender, race, colour, caste or any other grounds. The company also has a quota for applicants who are physically challenged. The company policy ensures equal opportunities to the employees. When it comes to implementing projects ICT Alliance judges its moves strictly on a performance-basis and not based on any other factor. Positive decision on work from home: while it’s important to improve the company’s production rates as time prolongs, ICT Alliance believes that every employee has a right to family or personal time off. As a result, the company has policies that ensure that every employee enjoys a certain time away from work during the year. It also has special holidays for festivals and special personal occasions. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities).Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. ICT Alliance strictly follows the ILO’s declaration on ‘Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. It provides its workers with the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. It has eliminated all forms of forced or compulsory labor. There is also no room for discrimination in respect of employment and occupation in the Company. We are against child labor; the same system is followed even with the case of the support staff. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Knowledge Dissemination to new and existing employees: As always we conduct quarterly sessions and internal seminars on labor rights. Product and service commitments: ICT Alliance consult for some industrial sectors and our consultants help our customers to disseminate awareness about labour rights. Now in our HR application we have set forth to adopt compliance as feature in coming year to help managers and their customers to watch over whether the labor rights are being maintained in their factories or not, in case of any breach, which criteria they are not fulfilling. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014-2015 4 To have more millage in the area, ICT Alliance is investing in creating awareness in ‘Garments Sector’ trough a web portal. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. The company is in the implementation of expanding the activities of ‘Apparel Cloud’ the online portal on garment workers of the country and by doing so is further spreading awareness. We are now using social network in order to spread the articles throughout the garments industry. Online statistical tools in blog and social media gives us the number of visits and views to our articles which are healthy at this point of time. With regards to the safety issues, ICT Alliance has been consistently having a number of counseling sessions and safety drills with its employees, and till date we do not have any incident of work related injury. As disclosed earlier, we are shifting our premises to ground/first floor of buildings from high rise upper floor premises very soon to give better access to leave the building in case of earthquake, fire and other sorts of disasters. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities).Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. ‘Grow Green’ has been ICT Alliance’s go-to mantra ever since the company’s inception. With an aim to put lesser stress on the non-renewable resources, the company has built an environment-friendly work atmosphere. The company’s products have also been aligned to support the environment. In the coming years ICT Alliance aims to introduce a number of green concepts through MyApps. They include Online Shopping, Green tourism (Travel Portal) and Green Money. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. ICT Alliance changed its logo last year to a green logo with leaves to indicate its commitment towards the environment. Now we are a full-fledged green company. We changed the concept of outsourcing to GreenSourcing, and it will be implemented in the coming year. We are talking to environmental and green institutes in Europe to grow environmental leaders in our country and in negotiating stage to raise awareness. We are by now a part of Nordic Chamber, and it is targeting to bring the first green growth secretariat in the country. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014-2015 5 We have conducted several meeting with local UNGC steering committee members to come up with green society resolutions. We have conducted day long free workshop for corporates with our global resources on climate reality. We are promoting clouds to our clients to save energy and increase resource utilization. We are also formulating green school. We are promoting walking/cycling to office rather using motor vehicles. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. We monitor the following:  Make sure that our office and our customers use less paper then previous year.  Our Power consumption decreased another 25% compared to that of last year.  The ratio of physical visit to customers in comparison with online support.  Every quarter we are taking some stands (articles, awareness sessions, projects, campaigns etc.) to make the world greener. We are consuming less power which saves money, add more margin to our projects; aside we are raising our brand to be environment friendly, which intern is increasing our business volume. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment).Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. The Asia operation of ICT Alliance is located in one of the most corrupted countries in the world. Keeping that in mind, the company has designed a transparent system which ensures that no corrupt practices take place in the company. We have set policies which ensure that no unfair practices take place in the company. We also support the “UN Convention Against Corruption” and we don’t deal with customer that perform or request us to help them doing corrupt activities through information system. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. My Apps, software created by the development team of ICT Alliance has helped create a transparent atmosphere in the organisation and has also had a great influence on checking corruption. The software, in simple terms, helps upload details into ‘clouds’ which is readily accessible and in turn creates an atmosphere where the steak holders can almost have a ‘live-feed’ of every minute detail of its company. Over time it has helped in improving performance levels of the organisation. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014-2015 6 The software has recently made its debut in the most sought after sector of the country and that is the garments industry. The industry which bases its performance on a multiple levels would find the application of MyApps more than just useful. As a result of which, ICT Alliance has already entered into contracts with a number of garment industries, to setup the software in them and in turn help these factories gain transparency. Apart from the garments industry, the software has also made its mark in the banking sector of the country. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Our clients now DO NOT even requests us to make solutions that produce false report to government and other stakeholders SINCE we are very rigid and strict about transparency from the very beginning. It is hard to conduct business in a society where corruption is the key to compete and success, but we could manage our business in the line of honesty and rights, while ensuring that we deliver excellent quality in our solutions to help our customers to gain more competitiveness in their business, so that they do not go astray to survive. As we are ranked among top solution vendor in the country (key client in top sectors are using our products), we suppose, our strategy for transparency is working fine. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014-2015 7
