People & Planet Report 2014 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data About this report Thank you for taking the time to read our This report was published in May 2015 and People & Planet Report 2014. This report it was reviewed by Nokia’s Responsibility covers the key ethical, socio-economic Leadership Team before publishing. This and envi­ronmental issues most relevant to report is only available in digital format, as Nokia’s business and stakeholders during the we want to print less. We encourage you to fiscal year 2014. only print the pages you need. For an explanation of how we identified the A summary of this report is available as most rel­evant topics to include in this report, online version at see ‘Identifying key responsibility topics for www.nokia.com/people&planet. Nokia’ on page 15. Further information Nokia Networks (formerly known as NSN), We have published annual corporate which became a wholly owned subsidiary responsibility reports since 2003, and in our of Nokia in 2013, previously published its reporting, we are committed to expanding own detailed Sustainability Report but is our transparency and our coverage. now included in this report. The Devices & Services business, substantially all of which Nokia also incorporates corporate was acquired by Microsoft on April 25, 2014, responsibility and sustainability reporting is excluded from this report unless otherwise into our annual reports. These reports indicated. undergo a stringent verification and auditing process. The reports are available at To help ensure compatibility with other company.nokia.com/financials. organizations, we have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, and Your feedback our selected key sustainability indicators We welcome your views on our activities have been assured by an independent third and our per­formance. If you’d like to party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy (Nokia’s share your opinions, please contact us at statutory auditor). The Global Reporting sustainability.global@nokia.com. Initiative index is available on our website as a separate pdf document. For more detailed sustainability data, see the chapter ‘Nokia sustainability data’ at the end of this report. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 2 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Contents About this report 2 Respecting people in everything we do 28 Making change happen together 52 Letter from the President and CEO 4 Protecting people’s privacy 29 Engaging our stakeholders  53 Our key corporate responsibility Improving the security of our digital society 30 Supporting customers’ sustainability goals 53 achievements and challenges in 2014 6 Addressing human rights risks relating to privacy and Cooperating with others in our industry 53 About Nokia 8 freedom of expression 30 Collaboration with universities 55 Our economic impact 10 Ensuring decent working conditions and Partnering with NGOs to build a better tomorrow 56 Our responsibility approach 12 fair employment 32 Driving improvements with our suppliers 58 Making Nokia a great place to work 34 Our responsibility strategy: Improve, Respect, Protect  13 Independent assurance report  65 Identifying key responsibility topics for Nokia  15 Protecting the environment 40 Managing responsibility at Nokia  18 Nokia sustainability data  68 Our commitment to protecting the environment 41 Conducting business ethically  21 Managing our environmental impact 41 Improving people’s lives with technology 24 Improving the efficiency of our activities 44 Minimizing the environmental impact of networks 48 Opportunities opened by the Programmable World  25 Our commitment to using technology for a more sustainable tomorrow 26 Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 3 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Letter from the President and CEO At Nokia, we are excited by where technology implement sustainable and ethical working will lead us. practices in our operations, and training our employees on the Nokia Code of Conduct. And with a rich heritage in the The Code, which details our stringent ethical communication and technology industries, a standards, includes our commitment to, for diverse workforce and operations throughout example, ensuring that our communications the world, we not only have an obligation to technologies are not used to infringe on operate in a responsible manner, but we have human rights. an important role to play as our business and industry landscape changes and evolves. By embedding processes and sustainable development activities throughout the 12 months ago, we completed the sale of company, sustainability has become a vital substantially all of our devices and services part of everyone’s job at Nokia. business to Microsoft. We now have three distinct and profitable businesses, each a As we look to the future, our three leader in their respective segments: Nokia businesses are focused on a technological Networks, which provides trusted mobile shift towards a hyper-connected world where connectivity infrastructure, software and tens of billions of devices and sensors are services for hundreds of operators around all linked together, in ways that can unleash the world; HERE, our mapping, navigation human potential and well-being like never and location intelligence business; and before. That something is what we call Nokia Technologies, which is our engine for the “programmable world;” a world that future innovation, licensing and intellectual goes from beyond connecting people, to property. connecting things. During the course of the year, our teams We also know that at the same time, the did tremendous work to refresh and focus world faces many social, economic and the strategies for each of those businesses. environmental challenges. However, as During my first year as Nokia President and a company, we have to focus on those CEO, I have also been extremely proud of our areas where we can make the best impact. work to redefine the company’s values. Those We have identified those biggest topics values will guide our decisions, and our ways as: The human potential of technology of working for many years to come. in a programmable world; an increased importance of privacy; the demand for high We have continued to go to great lengths to ethics and transparency; the importance Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 4 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data of attracting and retaining talent; climate which can bring up to a 70% reduction in labour, the environment and anti-corruption. change; and the need for better resource energy consumption, with the remaining efficiency. 30% being powered through renewable Still, there remains much to be done. energy solutions. It is a great example which As technology advances, I believe Nokia Technology and innovation must inspire helps operators reduce energy consumption has the ability to unlock the potential to us to provide solutions to those global in their networks. We are also working improve on a vast number of areas including challenges, instead of slowing down in the with operators, partners, governments environmental degradation, transportation face of obstacles. We must be able to move and academic institutes to develop, share and resource consumption, learning and forward, and by continuing to work together security know-how and expertise, through work, health and wellness, in addition to with others, we can do so, and have a lasting our new state-of-the-art security centre in many more. effect. Berlin. Those benefits are not always immediately Nokia has made remarkable progress in many We have improved the resource efficiency of obvious, but with our 2014 sustainability areas. For instance, HERE is working with a our own operations and increased the use report, I hope you get the sense of the diverse range of stakeholders to combine of green energy. Half of the electricity we potential and one of the main principles information and communications technology used in 2014 came from certified renewable we embrace: that technological progress with energy and transport management sources, and in our networks business, we cannot and should not be made at any – to create solutions that meet the major achieved a 6% reduction in emissions from price. That is why, at Nokia, we are focused environmental, social and health challenges our offices and factories compared to 2013. on the human possibilities of technology; on facing our crowded cities. technology grounded in real human needs. The number of supplier assessments and Mobile technology has played a fundamental audits have increased, along with the more Going forward into 2015, a year that marks role in giving people a voice and access to training workshops for suppliers. Tackling our 150th anniversary, we want to be proud, knowledge, information and education. In labour conditions in particular, is a critical not only of what we achieve but also how we 2014, Nokia started a three-year global part of our sustainability agenda with achieve it. It is thanks to our heritage, our partnership with Save the Children to help suppliers, and even though we have made pragmatic approach, our commitment to improve children’s access to education and some progress in this area, I recognise we high ethical standards, and a deep belief in learning through the use of technology in have had some challenges, which we are the power of our values, which gives us the Myanmar. We also are working together moving swiftly to address. ability to continue to make a real difference in some pioneering areas with Save the to people’s lives. Children, for disaster risk reduction in both We continued working with various India and Myanmar. organizations driving sustainable Rajeev Suri development and we have restated our In Nokia Networks, we have developed our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s President and CEO Zero CO2 emission base station site offering, ten principles, in the areas of human rights, Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 5 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Our key corporate responsibility achievements and challenges in 2014 Achievements We extended our CSR program and joined In our networks business, we continued The coverage of the HERE Transit continued forces with Save the Children to promote minimizing our environmental impacts to improve Almost all, around 97%, of our employees children’s rights across the product life cycle HERE continued making the use of public completed the Ethical Business Training We struck a three-year global partnership transportation easier by bringing information >90% 50% This annual training demonstrates how our with Save the Children with an aim to about public transportation alternatives into Code of Conduct can be applied to realimprove access to education and use people’s smartphones from more than 1 300 life scenarios, addressing issues such as technology to improve learning in Myanmar. of the materials of the electricity public transport authorities in over 960 cities ethics in the workplace, fair competition Another key focus is to reduce the threat used in our base used in 2014 around the world. and anti-trust, trade compliance, privacy, of natural disasters to children in Myanmar stations can be generated from bribery and corruption, gifts, entertainment as well as in India, through disaster risk reused or recycled. renewable We more than doubled the number of sources. and hospitality, conflicts of interest, human reduction strategies by providing better supplier in-depth audits that focus on labor rights, environment, equal opportunity, discrimination and harassment. communications connectivity and using our telecommunications and mapping technologies. 100% of our packaging is 5% less water used conditions and environment We conduct in-depth audits of suppliers on labor conditions and environmental Our employees believe in the future of the recyclable. than in 2013. management to ensure compliance with our company and see Nokia as a place where requirements, especially those categorized they can develop Despite significant change and restructuring, We developed more than 20 enhancements for Single RAN Advanced portfolio to 200 000 kg less packaging as high-risk. These assessments include document reviews, interviews with managers our Employee Engagement Survey indicated decouple mobile broadband traffic growth material used than and employees, site visits and inspections of that our employees believe in the future of from CO2 emissions. in 2013. facilities, production lines and warehouses. the company and its strategy, and see it as a Nokia Networks enhanced its Single RAN Around place where they can develop. Advanced portfolio to enable operators Twenty more suppliers disclosed their 1 700 000 The Nokia Security Center opened its doors in Berlin to modernize their base station sites to achieve up to a 70% reduction in site energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Portfolio kg of old telecom equipment sent for 95% of our waste was climate impacts In 2014, 141 of our key suppliers, representing 49% of our total procurement We opened the Nokia Security Center also allows a broader use of renewable materials recovery. recycled, reused spend, disclosed information regarding or used as energy. in Berlin, which is a hub of leading energy sources like solar, wind and fuel Around their performance on climate impacts. This expertise focused on creating robust cells, making them viable for powering base information helps us to plan improvement telecommunications security solutions. The Center will give an insight into the wide range station sites. The Zero CO2 base station site offering was launched in March 2015. 15 900 programs with our suppliers and improve reporting of our Scope 3 emissions. units refurbished. of threats and help mobile operators protect their network infrastructure, services and users. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 6 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data We improved our transparency Challenges Managing energy as mobile data continues Helping employees affected by our We published our first conflict minerals its exponential pace of growth restructuring plans find a new future report which provides further information Risks in the area of health & safety of our The importance of managing energy Due to liens on Nokia’s handset on our due diligence activities, and we employees and contractors increases every year as mobile data manufacturing facility in Chennai imposed started reporting on our progress on At Nokia Networks, employees and continues its exponential pace of growth by the Indian tax authorities, the site was implementing the guiding principles of the contractors can face significant risks, with video streaming, internet access and left out of the scope of the Devices and Telecommunications Industry Dialogue including installing and maintaining social media as the main drivers. Expanding Services transaction with Microsoft. As a addressing human rights risks relating to equipment at height or in confined spaces, our business to meet the world’s growing consequence, Nokia entered into a temporary privacy and freedom of expression. We and constructing base station towers. We run demand for communications will increase the services agreement with Microsoft to address asked Save the Children to assess Nokia’s programs to improve our health and safety total impact, making it essential to improve their immediate production needs and keep current relevant policies and processes, and, performance, and encourage open reporting resource efficiency and use more renewable the factory operational. The manufacturing if needed, give recommendations on how of incidents and near misses by contractors energy. services defined in the agreement were to better integrate children’s rights into our and employees, and we report for all tiers of terminated by Microsoft effective November business principles and practices. contractors to ensure that all incidents are The total use-time energy consumption 1, 2014, and Nokia suspended production at investigated. of our products has increased since 2011. the Sriperumbudur facility. We gained external recognition for However, each new product enables our sustainability performance and In 2014, we conducted 155 supplier higher volumes of network traffic when in We are committed to helping affected transparency assessments and audits on corporate use, resulting in improved overall energy employees build a new future for themselves. During the year, Nokia was ranked sixth responsibility. We spent 104 auditor days efficiency. With uncertainty surrounding the fate of in Interbrand’s Best Global Green Brands conducting in-depth audits at 23 supplier the Chennai facility, we provided voluntary survey, received top ratings for its climate sites in China, India, Iraq, Kenya, Myanmar resignation packages for factory employees. performance and disclosure in the CDP and Saudi Arabia. We found 341 instances The package offered a clear financial option Climate Change Report, was included in the of non-compliance, of which 193 related to to employees, providing them the chance FTSE4Good Index, and received RobecoSAM health and safety. to seek new opportunities outside the Sustainability Award Bronze Class. company based on a firm financial footing. We deeply regret that in 2014 our contractors We also arranged training and job fairs, had eight fatalities, the majority of which and supported skills development and were due to road traffic accident. entrepreneurial ambitions. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 7 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data About Nokia Nokia is a leader in the fields of network Net sales 2014 by business Net sales 2014 by region The average number of employees in 2014 infrastructure, location-based technologies divided according to their geographical and advanced technologies. location Following the sale of substantially all of our 6 7 1 3 Devices & Services business to Microsoft, 2 6 which was completed on April 25, 2014, 5 1 Nokia emerged with three businesses—Nokia Networks, HERE and Nokia Technologies. These three businesses are key participants A in the rapidly evolving world of technology 5 2 which is as much about connecting things as B about connecting people. 4 2 We have a global presence with operations 3 and research and development (R&D) 1 3 4 facilities in Asia, Europe,North America, sales in approximately 140 countries, and around 62 000 employees. Our headquarters is 1. Nokia Networks €11 198m (-1%) 1. Europe €3 886m (-1%) 1. Finland 6 855 located in Espoo, Finland. A Mobile Broadband €6 039m (+13%) 2. Middle Last & Africa €1 100m (-6%) 2. Other European countries 15 523 B B Global Services €5 105m (-11%) 3. Greater China €1 410m (+17%) 3. Middle East and Africa 2 482 We are also a major investor in R&D, with 2. HERE €970m (+6%) 4. Asia-Pacific €3 364m (-2%) 4. China 8 608 expenditure through the three businesses amounting to around EUR 2.5 billion in 3. Nokia Technologies €578m (+9%) 5. North America €1 919m (+16%) 5. Asia-Pacific 15 838 2014. 6. Latin America €1 053m (-20%) 6. North America 5 136 Year-on-year change is in parentheses. 7. Latin America 3 124 Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 8 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Nokia Networks HERE Nokia Technologies Nokia Networks is the largest of our HERE is a global leader in the mapping and Nokia Technologies is a leading innovator businesses. As the world’s mobile broadband location intelligence business. HERE builds of the core technologies enabling the specialist, we help our customers to bring high-definition (“HD”) maps and combines programmable world, where everything their subscribers unrivalled quality of them with cloud technology to enable and everyone will be connected. Nokia experience, to maximize the value of their rich, real-time location experiences in a Technologies is expanding Nokia’s successful subscriber base and to run extremely broad range of connected devices from patent licensing program and licensing efficient mobile networks. Ranked third smartphones and tablets to wearables and proprietary technologies to enable its in terms of market share in mobile radio vehicles. In the automotive segment HERE is customers to build better products. Nokia networks and telecommunications services, a clear leader, with its maps powering four Technologies is also helping customers Nokia Networks is a significant player in out of five in-car navigation systems in North leverage the value of the Nokia brand its chosen markets and, with sales in over America and Europe, and its location platform in the consumer device space, starting 120 countries, served by approximately is used by leading internet companies. All in with the Nokia N1 Android™ tablet(2). 54 600 employees, it has the global reach all, more than 13 million cars were sold with Finally, the Nokia Technologies incubation and scale to deliver high-quality solutions HERE maps on board during 2014. HERE program focuses on developing new ideas to the largest operators. Nokia Networks offers maps for more than 190 countries, and prototypes. All of these activities are has more than 100 years of experience in drive navigation for 118 countries and live supported by its world-class Nokia Labs R&D telecommunications, from 2G to 3G to 4G traffic information for 44 countries. team, which is continuing more than two (“LTE”) and now the emerging 5G, and it has decades of Nokia leadership in multimedia, always been—and intends to remain—at the connectivity, sensing and material cutting edge of mobile technology. technologies as well as imaging, audio, web and cloud technologies. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 9 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Our economic impact As a global company, Nokia has a significant employees and our impact on communities. in technology transfer and human capital economic impact on our stakeholders, both Overall, mobile technology facilitates development. directly and indirectly. Our direct economic positive change on a scale greater than ever impact on various stakeholder groups is before, and at a time when we need rapid Our tax payments summarized in the table below. change the most. The links are astonishing. One of the topics in global corporate Research shows that GDP increases by responsibility dis­cussions has been We also contribute to economic development 0.6% in emerging markets when 10 more the transparency and sustainability of indirectly in various ways. Our indirect mobile connections are added per 100 companies´ tax planning and the allocation economic impact includes, creating business inhabitants. The impact of increased internet of tax payments between the countries in opportunities and jobs along our supply access almost doubles that. The technology which they operate. chain, competence development for our industry also has a major global role to play Economic impact table (Nokia Group) 2014 2013 2012 2011 Stakeholder Impact (EUR million) Continuing Nokia Group Continuing Nokia Group Nokia Group Nokia Group operations (Continuing and operations (Continuing and discontinued discontinued operations) operations) Customers Net sales 12 732 15 189 12 709 23 444 30 552 39 059 Suppliers Total purchases of goods 6 847 NA 7 248 NA 21 125 27 572 and services Shareholders Dividends paid NA 1 392 NA 71 755 1 536 Employees Wages and benefits 1) 3 215 NA 3 432 4 591 6 080 6 284 Creditors Net financial expenses 395 NA 280 270 340 102 Public sector Paid direct income taxes 329 636 244 386 478 718 1) includes termination benefits and excludes social security expenses Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 10 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data In 2014, we paid EUR 636 million in direct and Development (OECD). The guidelines We are subject to income taxes in income taxes, of which approximately 14% outline the arm’s length principle as an multiple jurisdictions. Our businesses was paid in the Americas area, 68% in Asia internationally accepted valuation standard and investments globally, and especially Pacific and the remaining 18% in Europe, for intercompany dealings. Based on the in emerging markets, are subject to Middle East and Africa. Of the total EUR 636 policy and the guidance given by the OECD, uncertainties, including unfavorable or million, approximately EUR 300 million was we comply with the arm’s length principle in unpredictable changes in tax laws, taxation related to discontinued operations. all our intercompany dealings. We also follow treatment and regulatory proceedings the development of local transfer pricing including tax audits. For instance, in 2013, In addition to direct income tax, we rules and regulations in all territories and the India Tax Authority commenced an contribute to society in the form of pension adopt localized transfer pricing policies if investigation into withholding tax in respect contributions, social security contributions, necessary. of payments by Nokia India Private Limited payroll taxes, value-added taxes, sales taxes, to Nokia Corporation for the supply of customs duties, excise taxes, environmental We may also seek so-called advance pricing operating software. The authorities later taxes, and similar duties and fees. Nokia is agreements, (i.e. agreements between extended the investigation to other related a major tax payer and collector of indirect tax payers and tax authorities) to the tax consequences and issued orders and taxes and payroll related taxes, and pays and extent feasible in order to gain mutual made certain assessments. The litigation collects these taxes following the applicable understanding and acceptance with the and assessment proceedings are pending. rules and regulations. tax authorities on tax treatment of interNokia has denied all such allegations and company arrangements. The benefit from continues defending itself in various Indian Our tax strategy such agreements is to remove uncertainty of litigation proceedings and under both Indian The foundation of our tax strategy is to pay tax treatment especially in complex business and international law, while extending its full the right amount of tax legally due in the arrangements. cooperation to the authorities. right jurisdiction. We observe all applicable rules and regulations in each country where Nokia has business in many countries. In Details on our financial performance are we operate, and follow the rules set by the each country, we operate in an open and published in our quarterly interim reports, in relevant authorities. co-operative relationship with the tax our Form 20-F, and Nokia’s Annual Accounts, authorities. Our tax planning is aligned which are available at company.nokia.com/ We also follow a global transfer pricing with our business models, and taxes are financials. policy, based on the Transfer Pricing considered in business decision making but Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises only as one of many elements. Our business and Tax Administrations issued by the or location planning is driven by sound Organisation for Economic Co-operation commercial needs. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 11 Our responsibility Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability We are committed to respecting approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data people and our planet in everything we do, as well as innovating ways approach to connect the world for a better tomorrow. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 12 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Our responsibility strategy: Improve, Respect, Protect Improving people’s lives with Respecting people in Protecting the technology everything we do environment We aim to find innovative ways to use We strive for the highest degree of ethical We aim to minimize environmental impacts technology for a more sustainable conduct in every decision we make and from making, distributing and operating tomorrow. every action we take. our products. NOKIA Making change happen together By working together with other organizations, we aim to make an even greater contribution to global efforts to achieve a more sustainable, socially responsible world. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 13 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Our responsibility strategy focuses on Our responsibility strategy focuses on: Making change happen together We work toward the areas where we can make the biggest By working together with other difference to society and the environment ρρtackling issues related to business ethics, organizations, we can make an even greater through our technology, our people, our operations and our partnerships. privacy and potential misuse of our technology, ρρworking with our suppliers and partners to contribution to global efforts to achieve a more sustainable, socially responsible world. 100% ρρEngaged employees The key areas are: Improving people’s We engage with our employees, partners, improve labor conditions, lives with technology; Respecting people suppliers and customers, as well as NGOs in everything we do; Protecting the ρρcreating a great place to work. investors and policy makers on a range of environment; Making change happen together. Protecting the environment sustainability issues to make an even greater difference. Zero Improving people’s lives with technology We aim to minimize environmental impacts ρρCarbon We are committed to innovating ways to use from making, distributing and operating technology for a more sustainable tomorrow. our products. Efficient use of energy ρρFatal accidents Our responsibility strategy focuses on using and other resources is a priority. Helping ρρUnethical behavior our technologies to: telecommunications operators manage energy use in their networks is increasingly ρρWaste ρρhelp people live better lives, important with the continued rapid growth of ρρhelp reduce global carbon emissions. mobile data services. Our responsibility strategy focuses on: Respecting people in everything we do We strive for the highest degree of ethical ρρimproving the energy efficiency of our conduct in every decision we make and every products, action we take. We are committed to running ρρreducing the environmental impacts of our our business in line with internationally operations and products during their design, recognized ethical and responsible business creation, transport, use, and end of life. practices, and fostering a culture in which employees feel confident raising any concerns. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 14 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Identifying key responsibility topics for Nokia Our responsibility work and reporting focuses In addition, as a founding member of the Based on our analysis, the key trends on the topics that are most important, or Telecommunications Industry Dialogue impacting our responsibility approach are: material, to our business and stakeholders. group, we continued the work to address The human potential of technology in a We use a combination of factors to identify issues related to freedom of expression and programmable world; Increased importance material topics, analyzing the shared value privacy in the ICT sector in the context of of privacy; Demand for high ethics and for people, the planet, and our company. the UN Guiding Principles on Business and transparency; Importance of attracting and These include: Human Rights. The findings of the industry retaining talent; Climate change; and Need work informed our own responsibility for better resource efficiency. ρρOur long history and experience of materiality analysis and priorities. corporate responsibility; ρρIssues that are subject to public debate, and media and analyst interest; Technology Identify main global factors development / ρρRegular engagement with stakeholders and programmable world impacting: partners; • People & Planet • Nokia key stakeholders ρρGlobal macro trends and responsibility • Nokia Business challenges, such as the UN Millennium Customers Development Goals; Understanding key Climate stakeholders priorities ρρAssessments of risks and opportunities for change Privacy Shareour business and our responsibility efforts; holders Nokia and Understanding impact on Business ρρThe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Nokia and key business Employees opportunities and risks guidelines. Attracting Other key and retaining Other key trends In 2014, we increased our focus on materiality. talent stakeholders We revised the materiality analysis that forms the basis of our responsibility strategy and Creating our target setting. Together with more than responsibility 20 companies and other stakeholders, we Good corporate governance, strategy participated in the work carried out by the ethics and transparency Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) to revise its materiality assessment and tool for the industry. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 15 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data The human potential of technology in a programmable world The rapid development of technology is Key factors affecting inevitably changing the way we live. Billions our sustainability • The human potential of eased importancy of • Increased of people are already connected through approach technology privacy our networks. Mobile technology is playing a • Demand for high ethics fundamental role in giving people access to and transparency knowledge, information and education. Now we are entering a new phase, connecting things as well as people; this is a rapid shift to what we call the Programmable World. Our responsibility Some of the benefits that will come from strategy: Improve, Improving people’s lives Respecting people in Protecting the this Programmable World will be better use of scarce resources; improved human Respect, Protect with technology everything we do environment well-being; reduced environmental damage; greater efficiency, and more. With our technology expertise, and by connecting things as well as people, we are well positioned to support efforts to address NOKIA global challenges. Increased importance of privacy While increased connectivity improves lives in many ways, privacy concerns are also increasing as the quantity of sensitive and private data transmitted across telecommunications networks grows rapidly. Getting privacy right is critical for Nokia as a company that provides technologies and services that fuel our information society. Extending our Demand for high ethics and transparency impact Making change happen together Unethical business practices like corruption, poor human rights and labor conditions are major obstacles for development in many Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 16 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data countries. We believe Nokia can be part of Key topics and their impact on sustainable development, stakeholder interest, and Nokia’s business the solution by upholding high standards of ethics and human rights in our own activities and throughout our value chain. Neglecting HIGH 1. Nokia’s direct economic these things would be a major risk for our 3 impact Importance to sustainable development and stakeholder interest reputation and our business. 2. Corporate governance, Importance of attracting and retaining 2 1 ethics and transparency talent 3. Improving people’s The companies that are able to attract, keep, 6 7 4 5 lives with technology and motivate the best talent are usually the most successful ones. Skillful and engaged 4. Privacy and preventing employees impact directly on our business mis-use of our technology success which is why we want to create a great place to work for all our employees. 9 5. Great place to work Climate change 6. Suppliers and partners Climate change is one of the biggest global 8 labor conditions challenges of our time. Its effects are wide7. Energy efficiency of our ranging, from inhibiting global economic 10 products development to increasing threats from flooding and extreme weather, contributing to 8. Energy use, water and rising energy prices, and leading to changes waste in our own in regulations. All these effects can have a operations long-term impact on our business. Nokia 9. Energy use, water and can also be part of the solution by using our waste in our supply chain technology to help reduce emissions. 10. Materials use & efficiency Need for better resource efficiency LOW Importance to Nokia business HIGH Global demand for natural resources is increasing at the same time as these Areas where we have the highest possibilities to influence. resources are depleting. This makes it important for us to use resources efficiently All the topics shown in this diagram are important in our responsibility work. Those shown in the and find ways of substituting, recycling, and top right corner of the diagram are most material to our stakeholders, sustainable development recovering materials. and our business. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 17 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Managing responsibility at Nokia We have strong governance structures and in 2014. The framework outlines our Nokia Board of Directors practices in place to manage responsibility priorities, targets and policies. at Nokia and ensure that social and environmental matters are taken into The team leads our responsibility unit, which account in everything we do. Responsibility in turn drives and advises on responsibility The President and CEO, and the Group Leadership Team issues are reviewed regularly at all levels, initiatives throughout the business. The Review and approve policies and main including the highest decision-making bodies responsibility unit works together with responsibility initiatives of the company. representatives and subject matter experts from our business units to develop and Leading from the top implement processes and activities to The highest decision-making level in achieve our environmental and social targets. responsibility matters at Nokia is the Board Ethics & of Directors. The Board oversees our In 2014, we established a Responsibility Compliance Office responsibility performance and reviews Council consisting of senior representatives, Supports employees in making decisions Nokia relevant topics at their meetings. typically members from various leadership that are ethical, legal Responsibility teams, in our business units and support and consistent with Council Ensures The President and CEO, and the Group functions. The council meets quarterly and Nokia values, and alignment investigates any Responsibility Leadership Team Leadership Team review and approve our ensures alignment across the business Oversees priorities, targets and policies across the concerns about policies and main responsibility initiatives. on responsibility strategy, priorities and potential breaches of business implementation of responsibility activities our Code of Conduct. Executive Vice President, Marketing and across Nokia. Corporate Affairs, is responsible for corporate Responsibility Team responsibility at executive management level. Together with experts within business organizations, He heads up the Marketing and Corporate develops and implements processes and activities to Affairs Leadership Team, which regularly Responsibility issues are achieve environmental and social targets reviews responsibility-related topics, makes reviewed regularly at all decisions and, when needed, escalates matters to the Nokia Group Leadership Team levels, including the highest Everyone working for Nokia or other Nokia business units. decision-making bodies of Embed responsibility across the business Embedding responsibility across the the company. business The Responsibility Leadership Team developed our new responsibility framework Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 18 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Setting clear expectations Our Code of Conduct sets out Risk & opportunity management prioritization of risk management activities. Responsibility is part of everything we do at Nokia has a systematic and structured In addition to the principles defined in the Nokia. Our Code of Conduct (The Code) sets our expectations for employees approach to risk management across Nokia Risk Management Policy, specific risk out our expectations for employees across across the company. The Code business operations and processes. Key management implementation is reflected in the company. The Code is supported by risks and opportunities are identified other key policies. policies and management systems related to is supported by policies and against business targets either in business responsibility issues. These include: management systems related operations or as an integral part of longThe most important risk factors as well and short-term planning. Key risks and as principal industry trends affecting our ρρGlobal HR Policies to responsibility issues. opportunities are analyzed, managed, operations are discussed in our 2014 annual ρρHealth, Safety and Labor Conditions Policy monitored and identified as part of business report in Form 20-F. These include also performance management with the support sustainability related risks such as: ρρVolunteering Policy of risk management personnel. ρρRisks related to privacy, product safety, ρρPrivacy Policy Nokia’s overall risk management concept is health and security as well as the based on managing the key risks that would environment. ρρHuman Rights Policy prevent Nokia from meeting its objectives, ρρRisk of non-compliance with regulations or rather than solely focusing on eliminating ρρEnvironmental Policy risks. The principles documented in the our supplier and customer requirements. ρρConflict Minerals Policy Nokia Risk Management Policy, which is ρρViolation of ethical standards, including our approved by the Audit Committee of the Code of Conduct. ρρSupplier Requirements Board of Directors, require risk management and its elements to be integrated into key ρρReduced employee motivation, difficulties ρρEnvironmental Management Systems processes. One of the main principles is to recruit, and loss of key personnel. that the business or function head is also ρρRisk and opportunity management process the risk owner, although all employees are ρρLabor unrest and strikes. responsible for identifying, analyzing and More information on Nokia’s corporate managing risks as appropriate to their roles ρρPurchasing boycotts, public harm to our governance practices is available in Nokia’s and duties. reputation and Nokia brand due to actual annual reports and on our website. or alleged reasons. Risk management covers strategic, operational, financial and hazard risks. Key risks and opportunities are reviewed by the Group Leadership Team and the Board of Directors in order to create visibility on business risks as well as to enable Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 19 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data We systematically analyze sustainability In this picture we have provided some illustrative examples related opportunities. Our innovations hold of responsibility related opportunities and risks the potential for changing the way we live, from technologies that improve people’s lives HIGH to helping lower our environmental impact. Improving lives with technology and network energy effiency There are revenue and, to some extent, also brand opportunities in creating Improving technologies that improve people’s lives Nokia’s overall risk lives with and in developing more energy efficient Focus on opportunity management technology management concept is networks. based on managing the key Attracting and retaining talent risks that would prevent Attracting The ability to attract, motivate and keep talent has an impact on how well we are and retaining Nokia from meeting its talent able to manage our revenue and cost related opportunities and risks. objectives, rather than solely focusing on eliminating risks. Privacy and business ethics Privacy and ethics are brand, reputation and regulatory driven risk areas but there Privacy are also opportunities in these areas. Ethics also covers how we work with suppliers and partners. Transparency Transparency Business ethics Transparency impacts especially on brand Opportunity related risks and opportunities. Resource efficiency in our own operations Eco-efficiency in our own operations and logistics include cost savings opportunities and also impact on Nokia’s brand perception. LOW Risk Focus on risk management HIGH Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 20 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Conducting business ethically Maintaining the trust of our customers and Our annual training on ethical business online. In 2014, we trained 3 534 employees the integrity of our business depends on conduct and human rights is mandatory for through 181 face to face sessions. our strong commitment to promote ethical all employees, to help them understand how behavior and uphold human rights. Our Code to apply our Code of Conduct in everyday Strong due diligence procedures remain in of Conduct details our high ethical standards decision-making. The Ethical Business place for the appointment and extension and includes our commitment to ensure our Training demonstrates how the Code can of any contracts with third parties used in communications technologies are not used be applied to real-life scenarios, addressing sales and promotion roles, which are subject to infringe human rights. issues such as ethics in the workplace, to approval by the Ethics and Compliance fair competition and anti-trust, trade Office. We also aim to engage with others in What our Code of Conduct means for compliance, privacy, bribery and corruption, our industry, and contribute to wider efforts employees, suppliers and partners gifts, entertainment and hospitality, conflicts to tackle corruption. Nokia places the highest value on integrity of interest, human rights, environment, equal in its business dealings. Everyone at Nokia opportunity, discrimination and harassment. is expected to uphold the highest ethical Around 97% of employees completed this standards in their dealings, both inside and training in 2014.* outside the company. We are committed to conducting business ethically and in We provided specific compliance training to Our annual training on accordance with all applicable laws and our customer, sales, global procurement and ethical business conduct regulations of the countries where we real estate teams. This covered topics such operate. All employees must avoid activities as bribery, corruption, trade compliance, and human rights that might lead to bribes or conflicts of anti-trust and conflict of interest. The is mandatory for all interest. This includes accepting or offering Ethics and Compliance team trained all gifts, hospitality, favors, benefits or bribes in members of the Nokia Leadership Team and employees. exchange for gaining or maintaining business. those reporting directly to them, on the US The values and commitments set out in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and UK Code must be upheld across the business by Bribery Act. The team also conducted a risk our employees, suppliers, and partners. assessment workshop and interviewed key personnel to assess the risk in their business Training and awareness and territory. We help our employees better understand what the Code means to them by providing Anti-corruption: prevention and detection training in ethical business practices, and Our anti-corruption strategy focuses on two *The percentage related to Ethical Business training work with our suppliers and business key areas: prevention and detection. To reach excludes Nokia Networks employees recruited in December 2014 and the employees that transferred partners to ensure they are aware of our as many employees as possible, we offer as part of the acquisition of SAC Wireless by Nokia expectations. anti-corruption training both in person and Networks in August 2014. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 21 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Reporting ethical concerns Investigations and resulting disciplinary action 2011 2012 2013 2014 We encourage employees and anyone working Number of investigations by Ethics & Compliance Office 112 139 192 152 with Nokia to report any concerns about potential breaches of our Code of Conduct, Number of employees dismissed on grounds of violation 40 28 26 22 and have a due diligence process to flag of Code of Conduct human rights risks in our sales process. Number of employees given a written warning 30 31 16 7 We investigate all notifications and take appropriate action when necessary. Ethics enquiries 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employees can ask for guidance or Ethical enquiries and concerns raised via the ethics 302 160 205 190 report ethical concerns by emailing email and anonymous reporting channels ethics@nokia.com, or contacting the Ethics Ethical enquiries and concerns raised via other channels 104 114 85 82 & Compliance Office through the anonymous channel available both on our Intranet and Internet pages. The identity of whistleblowers is kept confidential and there is no retaliation against those raising a concern or complaint. Type of enquiries made via the ethics email and anonymous reporting channel in 2014 We take all reports of ethical misconduct seriously. The Ethics & Compliance Office received 272 enquiries and concerns in 2014, 13 6 6 Total cases of which 120 were for advice, guidance or 14 Anti-Corruption 6 clarification on our policies. Of the total, 190 5 Code of Conduct 6 were reported through the ethics email and 32 anonymous channel, and the remainder were Conflict of Interest 14 11 reported directly to the Regional Compliance Fraud 5 Counsels. Gift & Hospitality 11 3 Total 190 Guidance 63 All reports of ethical misconduct are Human Resource (Fairness) 37 investigated by the Ethics & Compliance Office. In 2014, we investigated 152 alleged Human Rights 3 violations of the Nokia Code of Conduct. As a 37 Internal Policy Violation 32 result of these investigations, 22 employees 63 Privacy 13 were dismissed and a further 7 received written warnings. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 22 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Examples of ethical issues encountered by employees Issue raised Our guidance Action taken An employee within our competitor intelligence Nokia has an Anti-Trust Compliance policy and The employee was advised that they are not team found confidential material about our competes fiercely but fairly. We are committed to ethically or legally allowed to use classified competitors on a public file sharing website, complying with competition laws everywhere we competitor material found online. and asked whether they could download and do business. distribute it. Only unclassified competitor information, such as marketing on a competitor website, can be used. A whistleblower informed her line manager of her Nokia is committed to adhere the Human Rights The matter was investigated and the line manager pregnancy, and his reaction was offensive and and Global Employment policy. counseled. He understood that his reaction was unacceptable. inappropriate, and agreed to avoid this behavior in the future. The whistleblower was satisfied with the outcome. As a key sponsor of a conference, Nokia received Nokia has specific guidelines under our Gift, The employee was advised that our guidelines state free registrations normally worth around EUR 700. Entertainment and Hospitality policy. we do not give any gifts with a value over EUR 100, An employee asked whether we could give one of unless specific approval has been granted from their the free registrations to a customer. line manager and Business Head. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 23 Improving people’s Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability We believe that our technologies approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data are uniquely positioned to drive social and economic progress while lives with technology helping to reduce the environmental impact of many industries. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 24 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Opportunities opened by the Programmable World At Nokia, we’re excited by where technology ρρmore effective health-care as technology Did you know? From caring for aging will lead us. We believe that over the next enables increased, flexible opportunities An estimated 1.3 million people are killed as for patients to engage with clinicians, take populations to providing ten years, billions of connected devices will a result of road traffic accidents every year converge into intelligent and programmable steps to prevent conditions from becoming worldwide. clean water and safe energy acute, and better self-manage their care; systems that will have the potential to to reducing greenhouse gas, improve lives in a vast number of areas. ρρnew levels of business efficiency from In addition, EU estimates suggest that cars are responsible for about 12% of the total EU the opportunities opened pharmaceuticals, power distribution, fleet Today, most humans are connected. Now, management and beyond; and emissions of carbon dioxide, one of the main by the Programmable World we are quickly entering a totally new phase; greenhouse gasses. a phase that is all about connecting things in ρρmore leisure time as technology automates are seemingly endless. addition to people. By 2025, we believe there the many little things which consume time Autonomous driving, where cars effectively will be more than 50 billion connected things and effort in our daily lives. drive themselves, without human in the form of devices, modules and sensors. intervention, can have a massive impact. In time, all these connected things will come Especially if you consider that driver error is together in extraordinary ways. Software will Nokia Networks will play a leading part in the cause of about 90% of all car crashes. be the glue, analytics and intelligence will developing the Programmable World. It will bring meaning, and automated action will provide the networks that carry data traffic Even if you assume that autonomous driving bring simplicity and efficiency. from machine to machine to people and it would result in “only” 50% fewer annual will provide companies and individuals with fatalities by “only” half, that would be more The human benefits have the potential to be the intelligence to interpret and use that than half a million lives saved, every year. extraordinary: data. At the same time, autonomous cars could ρρsignificantly fewer fatalities and injuries as HERE already aggregates data related to reduce annual CO2 emissions by as much as well as sharply reduced emissions through parking, gas prices, traffic and weather, 300 million tons. That is just about the same intelligent cars and, ultimately, fully among other things, and we see further amount as half of all CO2 emissions from autonomous driving; opportunities in a world where billions of current commercial aviation, globally. ρρbetter use of scarce resources through devices, including phones, tablets and cars, are connected. precision agriculture and improved water management; Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 25 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Our commitment to using technology for a more sustainable tomorrow We are not only excited where technology Improving congestion management and Providing real time data to help urban drivers will lead us but also committed to innovating reducing carbon emissions find parking more quickly and efficiently ways to use technology for a more In Europe, 70% of the population now live in While driving, 30% of a car’s greenhouse sustainable tomorrow. Our responsibility cities and similar urbanization trends have emissions are generated when finding a strategy focuses on using our technologies been observed elsewhere in the world. This parking spot. To help drivers find parking to help people live better lives and help increase in population density brings chalmore quickly and avoid unnecessary reduce global carbon emissions. lenges in urban areas, such as traffic jams driving, HERE is exploring different possible and increased pollution. Traffic congestion applications of its advanced mapping and Supporting sustainable development costs us dearly economically, socially and location technologies. of urban areas through technology environmentally. Information and communication technology Partnering to develop solutions for (ICT) can help reduce the environmental HERE has developed products for the smarter driving impact of many businesses and people. automotive industry designed to ease traffic HERE and Ford have partnered to create a According to GeSI’s SMARTer2020 report, congestion. These include HERE Predictive concept location platform that automatically the increased use of ICT could cut the Traffic, a traffic forecasting product launched regulates a hybrid vehicle’s powertrain as projected 2020 global greenhouse gas (GHG) in November 2014 that can anticipate future it travels through established or driveremissions by 16.5%, amounting to USD 1.9 traffic conditions in real-time, helping drivers specified “GreenZones”. In other words, a trillion in gross energy and fuel savings, and to learn of delays in advance and avoid them. car is able to use gas at the beginning of a a reduction of greenhouse gases equivalent trip on the highway, but switch automatically to more than seven times the ICT sector’s to electric battery as it enters a city, limiting emissions in the same period. noise and CO2 emissions in highly populated In addition to being a global areas. By working with diverse stakeholders HERE helps define collaboration opportunities leader in the mapping and to combine ICT, energy and transport location intelligence business, management to create innovative solutions HERE helps create more inclusive, to the major environmental, social and health challenges facing cities. In 2014, sustainable and efficient cities HERE continued to power smarter logistics, through technology. safer and more efficient journeys and reduce emissions through advanced traffic and navigation products and services. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 26 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Informing the public about alternatives In 2014, we struck a three-year global to driving partnership with Save the Children with HERE also makes using public transportation an aim to improve access to education easier and brings information about public and use technology to improve learning in transportation alternatives to people’s Myanmar. Another key focus is to reduce smartphones from more than 1 300 public the threat of natural disasters to children transport authorities in over 960 cities in Myanmar as well as in India, by providing around the world. The coverage of HERE better communications connectivity and Transit continued to improve in 2014, using our telecommunications and mapping including deals with Danish, Finnish and technologies. Swedish, as well as the Parisian transit authority (STIF). HERE also started tapping Disaster risk reduction and communications directly into the journey planner of Deutsche technologies linked to mapping will help to Bahn, so any changes to available services provide: are reflected immediately, and train timetables as well as disruptions are reported ρρaccess to the right information at the right in real-time. Ease of access to reliable time, information on routing and timetables may ρρa geospatial database to create risk maps, have a big impact when deciding which mode of transport to use. ρρsafety maps and plans, Improving access to information ρρalternate routes and safe zones, through technology Our technology can play a fundamental ρρmobile-based information sharing networks role in giving people access to knowledge, for real time monitoring, information and education, and supporting the development of new skills. ICT and ρρbetter collaboration and coordination, broadband can also play a major role in ρρmobile-based triggering mechanisms, saving lives, especially in a world impacted by climate change, where up to 70% of the ρρmobile-based training and education. world’s population live in areas at risk of flooding, near the coastline or river basins.* *Source: The State of Broadband 2014: Broadband for all. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 27 Respecting people in Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability As a provider of technologies approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data and services that fuel our information society, we recognize everything we do our responsibility in helping to ensure that such technologies and services are used to respect, and not infringe, human rights. We also want to create an inclusive working environment where everyone feels valued, motivated and inspired to reach their full potential. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 28 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Protecting people’s privacy We believe that people have a right to know ρρexecutive oversight, enabled technology infrastructure for what happens to their personal data. We are our information society. Nokia has been committed to respecting privacy and fulfilling ρρpolicies and their implementation, actively and successfully pushing for a the expectations of our customers in this ρρstaffing and delegation, Standards Privacy Assessment process for area. We strive to build privacy into the design technology standardization to understand of our products and services, and to apply ρρtraining and awareness, and manage the privacy implications of new appropriate safeguards to protect personal technologies. The International Organization data against unauthorized use or disclosure. ρρongoing risk assessment and mitigation, for Standardization (ISO) has approved it as a standing document that will from now on In 2014, following the sale of substantially ρρprovision of remedies and procedures for guide all technology standardization work of all of Nokia’s Devices and Services business responding to inquiries, complaints, and ISO. With this endorsement, we look forward to Microsoft, we focused on reorganizing our privacy breaches, seeing support for Standards Privacy privacy management capabilities to meet Assessment from other standards bodies as ρρmonitoring and compliance auditing. the demands of our new businesses and well. organizational structures. We introduced a new Nokia Group-wide Privacy Management Privacy and technology Policy that provides clear privacy principles The evolution of technology creates new and a governance framework for our privacy challenges. As a technology company, We believe that people business helping to implement sound we focus on developing technology-oriented privacy-related practices. solutions to tackle these challenges. have a right to know what happens to their personal The essential elements of our privacy We believe an engineering approach can data. We are committed program play an important role in identifying and Getting privacy right in a complex technology mitigating privacy threats created by new to respecting privacy and and business environment calls for strategic technologies. In 2014, we continued to fulfilling the expectations of and consistent management of privacy and develop our approach on privacy engineering data-related risks and opportunities. Our and methodologies for assurance within our customers in this area. privacy management model, based on a our business. We also participated in recognized accountability model, provides external forums, contributing to the broader the structure to manage privacy across the development of this emerging engineering group. The essential elements of our privacy discipline, and published a white paper on program are: the topic which was well received. Technology standardization will play a significant role in creating privacy Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 29 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Improving the security Addressing human rights risks relating to of our digital society privacy and freedom of expression Information security is more important than network operators, partners, governments We believe that communication networks countries, including Finland, Sweden, the ever for operators, enterprises, and users as and academic institutes to develop and share have an important role in promoting human United Kindom, and the United States. Read more and more information is shared and security know-how and expertise. rights by enabling free expression, access more about our stakeholder engagement in stored using communications technology. to information, exchange of ideas and this area on page 54. According to the 2014 Acquisition & Retention The Nokia Security Center is the vital economic development. We also recognize Study Report, 75% of customers consider next stage in our strategy to make mobile our responsibility to help ensure that our Implementing the guiding principles of the security to be the operator’s responsibility. broadband security a key differentiator technologies and services are used to Telecommunications Industry Dialogue Enterprises are looking for secure channels for for our company. The Center will give an respect, and not infringe, human rights. Nokia is a founding member of the virtual collaboration, and both end users and insight into the wide range of threats and Telecommunications Industry Dialogue businesses take it for granted that operators help mobile operators protect their network The Nokia Human Rights Policy articulates our (ID) on Freedom of Expression and Privacy. will anticipate and protect them from security infrastructure, services and users. Strong commitment to respecting human rights, and We are committed to implementing the ID risks and meet all market and regulatory security attracts new customers, reduces reinforces our commitment to due diligence guiding principles and reporting annually on requirements for security. churn and increases mobile operator in this area across all our three businesses. progress. revenues. In line with the policy, we conduct extensive We are designing all our products with risk assessments and human rights due security built-in and are continuously We also pledged to help the OpenSSL Project diligence to mitigate the potential misuse expanding our security portfolio with our in its fight against future vulnerabilities like of our products. With the three very distinct Nokia was the first own developments as well as with qualified Heartbleed, by making a substantial financial businesses at Nokia, it is clear that different telecommunications partner products. Our solutions improve donation and becoming the Project’s first approaches are needed to adequately assess the security of our digital society and we Platinum sponsor. and address these risks. company to carry out are leading the industry in taking important due diligence specifically steps towards responding to the concerns In 2014, we collected feedback on the of mobile users and building advanced effectiveness of Nokia Networks’ due addressing human rights telecommunications security solutions. We are designing all our diligence process from our customer teams risks related to privacy and products with security and relevant regional teams. Based on their freedom of expression. In 2014, we opened the Nokia Security feedback, we started fine tuning the process Center in Berlin. This advanced mobile built-in and are continuously by working together with the people in our broadband security complex combines a expanding our security sales teams to ensure due diligence starts research laboratory and demonstration before negotiations begin with potential center with conference facilities. It is a hub of portfolio with our own customers. We also began reviewing and leading expertise focused on creating robust developments as well as updating due diligence requirements related telecommunications security solutions. to our decisions to enter new markets. Equipped with its own fully-operational with qualified partner 4G/LTE test network, the Center provides products. We presented our due diligence approach a platform for cooperating with mobile at external stakeholder events in several Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 30 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Implementing the ID guiding principles ID guiding principle Implementation status 1 Create relevant policies, with Board oversight or equivalent, outlining commitment to prevent, Nokia is committed to the Guiding Principles of the Telecommunications Industry Dialogue. We assess and mitigate to the best of their ability the risks to freedom of expression and outline our commitment to human rights, including freedom of expression and user privacy in our privacy associated with designing, selling and operating telecommunications technology and Code of Conduct. Our Human Rights Policy builds on the Code of Conduct to further underpin our telecommunications services. commitment in this area. 2 Conduct regular human rights impact assessments and use due diligence processes, as We work continuously to mitigate risks in this area through our Human Rights Due Diligence Process. appropriate to the company, to identify, mitigate and manage risks to freedom of expression In December 2014, we finalized an extensive review of the due diligence process for our Networks and privacy — whether in relation to particular technologies, products, services or countries — in business and are currently updating the process to improve it further. The new Nokia human rights accordance with the Guiding Principles for the Implementation of the UN Protect, Respect and policy extends the company’s commitment for due diligence across the Nokia Group, covering its all Remedy Framework. three business units. In the spirit of the Industry Dialogue best practices sharing, we also presented our due diligence approach in Industry Dialogue events to varying audiences in Washington DC, in London and in Stockholm in 2014. 3 Create and/or maintain operational processes and routines to evaluate and handle government As a vendor of telecommunications equipment, we at times receive government requests through requests that may have an impact on freedom of expression and privacy. our customers, usually regarding network functionality. In 2014 we started defining a new group level process for Nokia on how to handle these requests. 4 Adopt, where feasible, strategies to anticipate, respond and minimize the potential impact on We encourage everyone to report any suspicion of misuse through our freedom of expression and privacy in the event that a government demand or request is received http://company.nokia.com/en/about-us/corporate-governance/nokia-code-of-conduct. that is unlawful, or where governments are believed to be misusing products or technology for illegitimate purposes. 5 Always seek to ensure the safety and liberty of company personnel who may be placed at risk. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace where all employees are treated with respect and provided with equal opportunities. This commitment is outlined in our Code of Conduct. 6 Raise awareness and train relevant employees in related policies and processes. We focus on training the teams directly involved in the due diligence process but we have also included an introduction to the Human Rights Policy in the annual training regarding Nokia’s Code of Conduct which is mandatory for everyone working at Nokia. 7 Share knowledge and insights with all relevant and interested stakeholders to improve We participate in major multi-stakeholder events and when required, provide comments to reviews, understanding of the applicable legal framework and the effectiveness of these principles guidance and statements. Within the Telecommunications Industry Dialogue Group, we share case in practice, and to provide support for the implementation and further development of the studies and challenges from our operating environments with other members. principles. 8 Report externally on an annual basis, and whenever circumstances make it relevant, on progress We report on the progress in our annual Sustainability Report. in implementing the principles, and as appropriate on major events occurring in this regard. 9 Help to inform the development of policy and regulations to support freedom of expression and While we aim to engage in constructive dialogue with all our stakeholders whenever the need privacy including, alone or in cooperation with other entities, using its leverage to seek to mitigate arises, our main forum for advancing issues related to freedom of expression and privacy is the potential negative impacts from policies or regulations. Telecommunications Industry Dialogue group. 10 Examine, as a group, options for implementing relevant grievance mechanisms, as outlined in We encourage reporting of any suspicion of misuse through the channels available on our website: Principle 31 of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. http://company.nokia.com/en/about-us/corporate-governance/nokia-code-of-conduct. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 31 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Ensuring decent working conditions and fair employment We have a fundamental responsibility to Child labor avoidance Non-discrimination Managing and monitoring labor conditions provide decent working conditions and treat We have a strict policy against using child We have zero tolerance of any form of We monitor and assess labor conditions our people fairly. Our Code of Conduct sets labor. Our ethical and human resources discrimination. We prohibit discrimination in all our businesses, especially within the standard for labor conditions and we policies and related processes are designed based on any personal attribute such manufacturing operations. We have our own have comprehensive global human resources to ensure that no one below the legal as age, gender, nationality, opinions, factories in China, Finland and India. Each policies in place that ensure fair employment. working age is hired in our business. If memberships, religion, disabilities or race factory monitors labor conditions through These are aligned with international we identify child labor, we implement in all employment practices, including regular self-assessments that are used to labor laws and standards. We follow the remediation activities in line with SA8000 recruitment, promotions, training or pay create improvement plans. This helps us International Labor Organization (ILO) recommendations. levels. continually improve labor conditions. Fundamental Rights at Work and we meet or exceed the requirements of labor laws and Voluntary employment Working time Our Labor Conditions Management regulations everywhere we operate. We strictly prohibit the use of forced, bonded We regard working time as the time an Framework guides the implementation of or imprisoned labor. We acknowledge the employee must be available, ready to work our global labor standard. This is integrated Our global employment policies demand high types of challenges and risks that we are and to perform duties monitored and into our global employment policies and standards of ethical conduct and they are likely to face in relation to this topic and work regulated by the employer. guidelines. We publish information on our aligned with relevant ILO conventions, the to mitigate them. Our employment policies Global Labor Standard on the Intranet. SA8000 and the common industry code of also include examples of concrete actions to Compensation conduct. They cover: minimize these risks. All our employees have a right to compensation for a regular work week that ρρchild labor avoidance, Freedom of association and collective is sufficient to meet the worker’s basic Our Code of Conduct sets ρρvoluntary employment, bargaining needs and provide some discretionary the standard for labor We support the freedom of association for income. We pay at least the minimum ρρfreedom of association, all our employees and the right to collective wage or the appropriate prevailing wage, conditions and we have bargaining. We also recognize local works whichever is higher, comply with all legal comprehensive global ρρnon-discrimination, councils in relevant countries and are willing requirements on wages, and provide any to engage with them. fringe benefits required by law or contract. human resources policies ρρhumane treatment, Where compensation does not meet in place that ensure fair In Finland and Germany, all employees workers’ basic needs, we work with the ρρworking time, are covered by country-wide collective Fair Labor Association (FLA) – fair labour employment. ρρcompensation, bargaining agreements. Part of our workforce association – to take appropriate actions in China and India are also covered by that seek to progressively realize a level of ρρoccupational health, collective bargaining agreements and there compensation that does. are trade unions in our factories in Beijing, ρρoccupational safety. Shanghai and Suzhou. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 32 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data The health & safety of our employees and Nokia Networks Leadership Team and we hold incidents that did not result in injury Improving safety management contractors quarterly fatality prevention meetings. but could have – helps to reinforce the The OHSAS 18001 is an internationally The health, safety and wellbeing of our importance of proactive safety management. recognized standard that provides the employees and contractors is central to how We have started conducting project By creating a culture that identifies hazards framework and foundation for our health we do business. implementation assessments to more closely and supports active risk prevention and and safety management system, and drives review high-risk projects in each market. In action, we can significantly lower the number continuous improvement. In 2014, we At Nokia Networks, employees and 2014, we completed 85 assessments in 32 of incidents that occur. As part of this, senior maintained our OHSAS 18001 certification contractors can face significant risks, countries, and we plan to continue these leaders are getting more actively involved in by successfully completing 22 external audits including installing and maintaining assessments throughout 2015. safety, with regular management reviews and globally, and extending our scope to include equipment at height or in confined spaces, site tours. In 2014, we increased the number China. This demonstrates our commitment and constructing base station towers. We There were no employee fatalities in of senior leader tours to 123, from 79 in 2013. to long term safety improvement. strive to ensure that all our employees and 2014, but we deeply regret that in 2014 contractors are aware of the risks associated our contractors had eight fatalities, the with their job, and receive the necessary majority of which were due to road traffic Health and safety performance * training and equipment to work safely – accidents. We have introduced an updated 2011 2012 2013 2014 whether in the office or on site. road safety program which sets minimum global standards for the driver, vehicle and Lost-time incidents of employees ** 160 101 57 56 Our focus on safety is not only important journey, and offers an implementation plan to us as a responsible business, but is for internal and external stakeholders. In % Critical and Fatal incidents of all 4.80% 3.43% 0.45% 1.50% demanded by our customers. Differentiating addition, we have established a consequence incidents reported ourselves by demonstrating robust safety management program with our suppliers. Near miss incidents reported 55 141 636 630 standards and improved performance helps In 2014, we reviewed 27 incidents, issued us build trust and win work. 17 warnings, and stopped working with one supplier. Addressing key risks Work related fatalities We run programs to improve our health and We continue to focus on near-miss incidents. 2011 2012 2013 2014 safety performance, and encourage open This allows us to address improvements Total number of employee fatalities 4 2 0 0 reporting of incidents and near misses by before an incident occurs. contractors and employees. Any fatality is Total number of contractor and 9 10 2 8 unacceptable. We therefore report for all tiers Creating a culture of risk prevention subcontractor fatalities of contractors to ensure that all incidents are Our mandatory health and safety training investigated. We learn from these incidents emphasizes the importance of identifying and implement preventive measures where and avoiding risks, and reporting incidents. * Our incident and near miss tracking includes also cases from externals working for Nokia. Cut-off day for incidents reporting is 12th January. There can be some cases, especially from contractors, reported after the cut-off day. possible. All fatal, critical and high potential Engaging our leaders and encouraging **Nokia’s health and safety organisation puts most effort on prevention of critical and fatal incidents and we realise lostincidents are reviewed by members of the reporting of near-misses – hazards or time incidents data is not as accurate as the aforementioned data. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 33 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Making Nokia a great place to work A healthy, motivated workforce is vital to information sharing sessions hosted by We aim to create an organization Nokia’s success. We aim to attract a skilled the newly appointed leaders. During the and committed workforce, and conduct President & CEO’s first 100 days, he met over where ethical business practice our business in a way that satisfies our 15 000 employees across different sites, and workforce diversity are customers, consumers, investors and and held town hall events with employees a source of pride, and where employees. and meetings with local leadership teams. He also published a series of blogs and employees have a safe and Who we are today videos on our intranet, in relation to his motivating working environment In 2014, Nokia underwent significant changes meetings with customers, employees in the number and composition of employees, and other stakeholders. The President with equal opportunities. resulting from two major changes in the & CEO’s leadership team followed with corporate structure. similar updates providing employees with a 360-degree view of the new Nokia and its The divestment of the Devices & Services business. business in April 2014 resulted in a reduction in employees across the organization, as We gave employees the opportunity to almost all of the employees serving in that discuss and share their thoughts on the new business transferred to Microsoft. company on our intranet, which includes an introduction to the three Nokia businesses, We also restructured Nokia to include Nokia company structure and leadership. This oneNetworks, formerly known as NSN, as a stop shop for company information was also business under the Nokia organization. Now, the main channel for communicating the new over 89% of our employees are from Nokia governance model introduced in late the former NSN organization. May. Building one Nokia An important building block in bringing After the divestment of our Devices & the teams together and becoming “one Services business in April 2014, we started company” was the launch of our new values to build one Nokia by engaging employees in in July. The new set of values was built on the the new organization. We shared information heritage of the companies that are part of on the new company, its direction and Nokia while, at the same time, reflecting the leadership with employees through emails business of today. from the leaders, internal news articles and Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 34 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data At the end of the year: During the year: In 2014: Nokia employed a total of 61 656 people 79% of employees were men 98% of employees had a 4% of employees worked The average age of a Nokia Networks employee is full-time contract and only 2% worked directly in production at our factories 37 54 586 worked for Nokia Networks (89%) 21% were women part-time in Finland, India and China. 6 257 (10%) We recruited 3 714 employees chose to leave the company, for HERE 11 302 an attrition rate for voluntary leavers of 813 (1%) people 7% for Nokia Technologies. NOKIA Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 35 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Respect New Nokia values The Nokia values were designed to guide our decisions, our way of working and We currently have a number of different cultures throughout Nokia, influenced by a range of factors including geography, We treat each other with respect and we the responsibility we have towards our leadership styles, business focus and work hard to earn it from others. customers and other stakeholders. We strive acquisitions. We aim to build a common highto bring these values to life in how we think, performance culture throughout Nokia. This act, behave and communicate. means pursuing continuous improvement and high-performance in line with our values, Achievement Employee awareness of the new values has and creating a great place to work with the been remarkable. We conducted a simple highest employee engagement. survey with a cross-section of employees in Nokia Networks, HERE, Nokia Technologies Employee engagement We work together to deliver superior and the Group Common Functions, which Despite significant change and restructuring, results and win in the marketplace. found: there is still a high level of engagement across Nokia. The new Nokia Employee ρρ95% of our employees were aware of the Engagement Survey conducted throughout new values the company, indicated new record high Renewal ρρ87% understood and supported the new scores in the area of leadership. values Employee Leadership We invest to develop our skills ρρ79% said the new values seem like the Engagement and grow our business. right way forward Nokia Networks 86% 71% ρρ77% understood why the new values were HERE 84% 61% created. Nokia Technologies 77% 51% Challenge To further build the company culture, we Nokia Group 86% 70% introduced “One Nokia” at the Capital Markets Day event in November 2014. We are never complacent and These high scores show that our employees Defining and driving our culture believe in the future of the company and its perpetually question the status quo. Nokia’s culture builds on our values and is strategy, and see it as a place where they embedded across the organization through can develop. Employee engagement is key to governance structures, policies and our embedding our culture, which is needed to systems and processes. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 36 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data achieve long-term success and is therefore At the end of December 2014: 2013. In addition to classroom training, the We encourage employees an integral part of our culture transformation Academy used cost-effective technologies program. ρρThe Nokia Group Leadership team included to deliver training, such as virtual classroom to complete a Personal members from Canada, Finland, Singapore, learning. Around 45% of the training was Development Plan (PDP), Offering equal opportunities the United Kingdom and the United States. instructor led and the remainder was webagreed with their line We aim to create an organization where ρρ13% of senior management positions were based. ethical business practice and workforce manager, outlining how held by women. diversity are a source of pride, and where Training for HERE and Nokia Technologies was they will work towards employees have a safe and motivating ρρ72% of senior management positions arranged separately in 2014. The training their personal and career working environment with equal were held by employees of non-Finnish costs for employees in these functions opportunities. nationality. totaled around EUR 4.2 million. aspirations in the short Diversity We ran a Talent Watch program at Nokia and long-term. We believe it is important to employ a diverse In 2014, HERE was recognized as a leader Networks during 2013, to identify employees range of people from all backgrounds, in corporate policies and practices related for leadership training. In 2014, we offered experiences, levels of education, genders, to workplace equality, by the Human Rights this training to 1 056 employees who gave ages and nationalities. Campaign (HRC). HERE scored high on HRC’s the programs an average rating of 5.37 Corporate Equality Index in recognition of its out of 6. This does not include programs non-discrimination workplace protections, for executives or those offered as open domestic partner benefits, transgenderenrollment by the Academy. In 2014, we employed inclusive health care benefits, competency programs, and public engagement with the Personal development is key to retaining at least 130 different LGBT community. and engaging our employees and developing nationalities. their skills. Training We continued to invest in training and Almost all, 99%, of eligible employees support for our people to develop the covering the whole of Nokia, have received capabilities needed to deliver our new performance evaluation related to their business strategy. year 2014 performance. In addition, 78% of Nokia Networks employees had a Personal Our Academy, which in 2014 provided Development Plan in place at the end of 2014. learning solutions for employees in Nokia Networks and Nokia Group Functions Rewarding arranged around 27 hours of training per We use a global framework to set salary employee, an increase of 42% compared to bands, which are applied regardless of Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 37 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data gender, age or background. Levels of communities where we operate. By working compensation are determined by local with local communities and projects of Ensuring a smile on every child´s face labor markets, and take into account their choice, our employees can learn at Christmas time both individual contribution and company new skills and gain new perspectives, For many people, Christmas is a time performance. In countries and sites where we and the communities benefit from the for family and presents. But there are have collective agreements in place, salaries professionalism and experience of our underprivileged children, who are not are set according to those agreements. employees. able to celebrate Christmas safe and sound with their families. In December Our performance management and rewards In 2014, we started aligning the Nokia and 2014, together with Junior Chambers, approach highlights the importance of former NSN volunteering policies to create Nokia’s Volunteering team in Finland quality dialogue between managers and a new policy covering all of Nokia, to be organized a campaign to collect employees, and greater rewards for individual launched in 2015. presents for those children who might contribution. not get one from anyone else. The volunteering team selected children In 2014, Nokia Networks launched a aged up to 17 who are in child welfare new employee reward and recognition For over a decade, care in Espoo, Helsinki, Oulu, Salo and program Recognize Excellence. This Tampere regions. empowers employees and managers with a the Nokia Helping discretionary budget to perform peer-toHands program has given Employees at every Nokia office in peer recognition and rewards. Aligned to and every Nokia employee the Finland were invited to place a present supported by the new values, this is designed under the Christmas tree, labeled with to encourage more frequent and less formal opportunity to volunteer the age and gender of their intended ways of recognizing individual performance. two working days a year recipient. The volunteering team collected a total of 1 391 presents, Approximately 6 270 employees in 27 to support projects in which were delivered to the local social countries were given the opportunity to the local community. welfare authority for distribution in the participate in the Employee Share Purchase selected regions. Plan for the plan cycle in 2014. This program did not cover Nokia Networks employees in 2014. Volunteering Volunteering is an important part of our employee engagement and enables us to make meaningful contributions to the Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 38 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Our progress against the targets set for 2014 Target for 2014* Progress in 2014 Status in 2014 Future targets** Increase Employee Engagement Index by 1.5 percentage points. Increased from 82% in 2013 to 86% in 2014 (Nokia Networks and Group Maintain and improve our overall Functions). employee engagement, progress towards 90% Increase Leadership Perception Index in our annual survey by The new Nokia Employee Engagement Survey administered across all of Nokia Establish a firm understanding of 2 percentage points. groups indicated new record high scores in the areas of Leadership: increased Nokia’s culture and vision among all from 64% (2013) to 71% (2014). employees Increase employee support for direction of the business by The company direction and change survey results improved by Maintain and improve overall employee at least 4 percentage points. 4.6 percentage points. support for our company direction Provide leadership training for around 1 950 leaders at various At Nokia Networks, we ran a Talent Watch process in 2013 to identify levels of the business. employees for a specific leadership training. As a result, we offered leadership training to 1 056 employees during 2014. Achieved On track/Partially achieved Not achieved * These targets cover Nokia Networks only ** These targets cover whole the Nokia unless otherwise indicated Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 39 Protecting the Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability Our products inevitably affect the approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data environment because making, distributing and operating them environment uses energy and other resources. To reduce our environmental impact, we focus on operating more efficiently and designing products and services that help telecoms operators to reduce energy consumption in their networks. As our environmental impact and our ability to manage it originate predominately from our networks business, this chapter focuses on sustainability matters related to Nokia Networks. For more detailed information see ‘Sustainability data’, page 68. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 40 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Our commitment Managing our environmental to protecting the impact environment Nokia’s longstanding commitment to Improving the efficiency of our activities ρρenergy consumption, protecting the environment and managing throughout the value chain across our three environmental issues actively, openly businesses is helping us to save energy, cut ρρtravel and transport, and ethically, meets and often exceeds carbon emissions and costs, and minimize ρρwaste management, legal and regulatory requirements. We waste. Our environmental management embed environmental considerations system (EMS), helps us monitor progress and ρρcompliance with environmental laws, into our operations, business planning, identify ways to improve further. It provides decision-making and monitoring activities the basis for all of our environmental activity. ρρsuppliers and third-party products. to understand impacts and continuously improve. We also expect our business Our top five focus areas – based on their Energy consumption of our products in partners and suppliers to share our impact on the environment and our ability to use is a priority, as this is responsible commitment to the environment. manage them – originate from our networks for at least three-quarters of our total business: lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions. We are committed to finding new ways to reduce energy consumption, to offer the best Our top five focus areas products and solutions for our customers. – based on their impact on the environment and our ability to manage them – originate from our networks business. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 41 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data In our own operations, we are cutting Our approach to environmental management emissions by improving energy efficiency, purchasing certified renewable energy from the grid, and promoting less travel and lowercarbon modes of travel. Nokia environmental Laboratories are our most energy-intensive buildings. We are improving the efficiency management of lab cooling systems to cut energy consumption. In our offices, we are finding Internal & External Stakeholders ways to use the space more efficiently, for example flexible workspaces, which reduces the amount of office space needed. We strive to embed environmental improvements Energy & emissions which also have potential cost savings in Natural resources & waste everything we do, through our Green to Gold initiative. In 2014, we continued our global audit program and maintained certification to the ProductsO sO perations international environmental management • Research • Workplace standard ISO 14001 for Nokia networks, operations and for selected HERE operations. • Standardization • IT In addition, the two head offices of our • Travel & Fleet HERE business in Berlin and Chicago • Manufacturing achieved the WWF Green Office certification. • Sourcing This certification recognizes our strong environmental management systems and • Logistics efforts to reduce the impacts of our offices. NOKIA Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 42 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Our environmental improvements in 2014 50% of the electricity 100% of our packaging is Around 1 700 000 used in 2014 recyclable. kg of old telecom generated from equipment sent for renewable materials recovery. sources. >90% 5% 95% 200 000 Around of the materials used in our base less water used than in 2013. of our waste was recycled, reused kg less packaging material used than 15 900 units refurbished. stations can be or used as energy. in 2013. reused or recycled. NOKIA Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 43 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Improving the efficiency of our activities We continually improve our environmental The use phase of our products makes the Improving the efficiency of our most presence detectors that detect when to performance across our full value chain and largest part of our carbon footprint energy-intensive buildings turn the lighting on, free cooling and fuel the lifecycle of our products, and consider We aim to improve the efficiency of our switching. We aim to continue throughout the interdependence of environmental most energy-intensive buildings, particularly 2015, to build a culture of energy efficiency impacts at different phases. test labs, based on our analysis of energy across the business. 3 2 4 use at the sites with the highest energy In 2014, we continued to increase the use of consumption. The energy performance of green energy. Half of the electricity we used our test labs is measured and expressed came from renewable sources: certificates using the Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) Energy consumption in our buildings and direct green electricity purchases. In method. The performance of these sites addition, we continued to reduce our energy is then ranked, from which the lowest consumption and emissions, and achieved ranked labs and highest energy users are 6% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions investigated to identify root causes and from the Nokia Networks offices and actions for improvement. factories compared to 2013. In 2014, we installed Automatic Meter Reading (AMR) technology across 15 sites GWh with the largest test labs. This improved 1 monitoring and understanding of our 575 We continued reducing our energy use, enabling us to focus our energy 554 reduction initiatives. energy consumption and Tonnes CO2* 508 emissions, and achieved a We undertook a study with the University 468 1. Product use-time (Scope 3) 25 481 000 6% reduction of emissions 2. Suppliers (Scope 3) 2 700 000 of Oxford to identify energy efficiency 49 improvements in our laboratory in Espoo. from the Nokia Networks 3. Logistics (Scope 3) 199 500 The findings will be used as a basis for 2011 2012 2013 2014* offices and factories. 4. Energy use in buildings (Scope 1+2) 171 100 energy efficiency improvements at other 5. Business air travel (Scope 3) 62 000 laboratories. Our new sites in Finland have * 2011-2013 Nokia Networks only. already been designed according to the 2014 Nokia Networks (468), HERE and Nokia 6. External data centers (Scope 3) 700 Technologies (49) latest requirements and models. * Suppliers (Scope 3) in CO2e We identified and implemented a series of energy efficiency measures across our portfolio, including environmental controls, Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 44 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Our CO2 emissions from buildings reduced Reducing emissions from business travel Smart mobility in relation to sales and headcount and commuting Our initiatives to reduce emissions from business travel include: encouraging virtual Travel policy meetings using ICT, allowing employees to 16 15,4 15,3 work from home, implementing policies 15 for employees’ cars, and organizing shuttle buses between hotels, offices and airports. Business travel includes flights, hotels, rail, rental cars, taxis and public transport. Our Technology enablers Company car policies reporting is based on the biggest contributor to business travel emissions, air travel, for IT & virtual meetings, mobile Sustainable business using low 3,8 3,6 3,1 which we calculate the CO2 emissions based broadband, HERE navigation and emission vehicles in a smart way. 2,9 public transportation applications. on the number of miles flown. 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, our Group-level emissions related to business air travel were 72 300 tonnes tonnes CO2/sales EUR million CO2, 62 000 tonnes of which were from our Meeting and event tonnes CO2/headcount Networks business (53 000 tonnes in 2013). policies 2011-2013 covers Nokia Networks only. In 2014, the ratios Best practices for meetings Toward the end of the year, we started are the same for Nokia Group and Nokia Networks only. and events at Nokia premises reporting the fuel consumption and or externally. emissions of our global fleet. Improved transparency will enable us to develop the company car policy for all Nokia units globally. 50% of the electricity we used in 2014 came from We have several policies and guidelines which help us to minimize emissions of our own certified renewable sources. operations, and they all link to our ways of working. Connectivity and mobility are our areas of expertise. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 45 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Greening our IT Increased use of IT often means increased use of materials, limits costs, and cuts fuel By increasing the use of the energy consumption. We aim to reduce CO2 consumption and carbon emissions. emissions from our IT operations and the box on pallet method in use of IT products by 20% by the end of Despite an increase in overall CO2 emissions our product deliveries, we 2015, compared to 2008. from transporting our products in 2014, we were able to reduce the of made great progress with our more efficient At the end of 2014, we had cut overall method of packaging. By increasing the use packaging material used by carbon emissions from IT by 17% compared of the box on pallet method in our product around 200 000 kg. to 2008, and we are on track to meet deliveries, we were able to reduce the usage our 2015 target. This was mainly due to of packaging material by around 200 000 kg . improved data center efficiency, including This change also increased packaging density more efficient temperature control systems, by up to 30%, which in turn decreased the consolidation and server virtualization (using CO2 emissions in these particular deliveries. fewer physical servers to store the same or We aim to increase the use of box on pallet more data). In addition, we continued energy further in 2015. management of personal computers (PCs) and other systems within our operations. Reusing packaging We require all new PCs and notebooks to be All of our packaging is recyclable and we Reuse of packaging in our distribution hubs certified as Energy Star 5.0 and encourage use recycled fiber wherever possible. We decreased due to more extensive use of the employees to turn off computers and use also reuse the product packaging that we box on pallet delivery method standby mode to cut energy use. Printing receive at our inbound distribution hub, for defaults are set to black and white and outbound products. double-sided to reduce paper consumption, and we have removed personal printers. In 2014, our reuse of packaging in the distribution hubs decreased due to the more Creating smarter logistics extensive use of the box on pallet method. We aim to continually improve the efficiency metric of logistics, reducing environmental impacts tonnes from the transport of components from suppliers and products to customers. We 4100 focus on reducing packaging and the use of 3700 air freight. In 2013, we started using pallets 3600 to transport boxes without any additional 2400 containers, in selected shipments. This ‘box on pallet’ packaging saves space, reduces 2011 2012 2013 2014 Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 46 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Reducing, reusing and recycling waste in We sent only 5% of our waste to landfill our own operations We aim to minimize water use and reduce the overall amount of waste we create 4 while increasing the amount we recycle. We follow the principles of the Waste Hierarchy: 3 reduce, reuse and recycle. We aim to reduce the amount of waste generated and, where We follow the principles we have control over our waste disposal, of the Waste Hierarchy: adopt a rigorous approach to segregate and Total 6 300 sort our waste into 19 sub-categories to 2 1 reduce, reuse and recycle. maximize opportunities to recycle. Our waste management efforts focus on: 1. Reducing the amount of waste as a whole. Tonnes 2. Minimizing the amount of waste going to landfill. 1. Recycled 4 400 2. Reused 700 3. Reusing products and materials, and 3. Energy recovery 900 avoiding the use of disposables. 4. Landfill 300 In 2014, we generated a total of 6 300 tonnes of waste – 2% more than 2013 – but cut waste sent to landfill by 200 tonnes. Utilization increased from 93% to 95%. Packaging material made up more than half of our total waste, which we recycled. and implement water savings measures wherever possible, and support reductions in Paying attention to our water use water use through campaigns and training. Water is an increasingly scarce resource in many of the countries where we operate. In 2014, we used a total of 504 000 m3 of Even though Nokia’s operations are not water water across our operations 5% less than intesive, we monitor water usage to identify in 2013. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 47 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Minimizing the environmental impact of networks Starting from research future. That is why our substance tracking The importance of managing energy For a typical urban basestation site in Using fewer materials in radio access systems are increasingly important in increases every year as mobile data Europe, the use phase accounts for over network equipment cuts their environmental ensuring our continued legal compliance, and continues its exponential pace of growth 84% of global warming potential (%) footprint. In 2014, our Technology and for fulfilling our customers’ requirements. Innovation Research team focused on During 2014, we followed up ongoing material efficiency by analyzing materials discussions around phthalates within 84 350 efficiency using life cycle assessments. authorities and associations. Using our tracking tool we located the use of these 300 Ensuring compliance substances in Nokia Networks parts and As a manufacturer of complex and components, enabling us to prepare for their technologically advanced products, it is phase out or substitution. 200 important to have systems in place to track the regulatory status of substances used in Designing more energy efficient products components. We list substances falling under and services 100 14 2 0 restrictions in the Nokia Networks Substance The importance of managing energy increases list, which is regularly updated and published every year as mobile data continues its 0 on our website. Sometimes we implement exponential pace of growth with video 2006 2010 2014 further restrictions and earlier substitution streaming, internet access and social media Production dates than those identified by legislation. as the main drivers. Expanding our business Logistics We also list Monitored Substances that are to meet the world’s growing demand for Product energy consumption (TWh) Use phase under discussion to be restricted or phased communications will increase the total impact, Estimated mobile traffic 1 000*TB End of life out in the future. making it essential to improve resource efficiency and use more renewable energy. To ensure compliance of our suppliers, we include the Nokia Networks Substance List The use-phase of our products is a key requirements in our purchasing process as a priority. It is responsible for three quarters reference document, and require suppliers of the greenhouse gas emissions across the to provide us with the material content of entire lifecycle, and for typical urban and rural Expanding our business to meet the parts and components they deliver. This sites in Europe, the use-phase accounts for the world’s growing demand for forms part of our global purchasing terms 84 – 89% of global warming potential. and conditions, an essential part of our communications will increase the contracts with our suppliers. total impact, making it essential to We need to be prepared for the potential improve resource efficiency and impact of substances being restricted in the use more renewable energy. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 48 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data We improve the energy efficiency of our In 2014, we focused on improving the Managing energy consumption in networks Our Flexi base stations increase products in use by refining hardware measurement of product energy efficiency, A base station is just one contributor to the models, developing software and supporting following the European Telecommunications overall energy use in networks. Forwarding a base station site’s energy customers with energy management Standards Institute’s (ETSI) standard. All bits accounts only for around 15% of the efficiency significantly by services. We aim to ensure that every new of our new radio product releases were energy consumed by the network. Instead, allowing outdoor operations at product is at least 15% more energy efficient measured according to the ETSI TS 102 706 around 80% of a mobile network’s energy than the previous model. standard to ensure they are comparable is consumed by base station sites. Much temperatures up to 55 degrees with similar products on the market. We of this energy is used to power cooling Celsius, without any additional also trained our research and development systems, for heating and lighting, consumed teams accordingly to the energy efficiency by uninterruptible and other power supplies, cooling. The total use-time energy consumption requirements. We continued to develop new and in running idle resources. of our products has increased since 2011. software and active features to use energy However, each new product enables more efficiently. This enables radio access Our Flexi base stations already increase higher volumes of network traffic when in networks to better adapt to variable network a base station site’s energy efficiency use resulting in improved overall energy demand in different locations and at different significantly by allowing outdoor operations efficiency. times – a trend accentuated by the increased at temperatures up to 55 degrees Celsius, use of smart phones and demand for data. without any additional cooling. In 2014, we focused on enhancing network wide improvements and optimization. In 2014, we focused on We have set ourselves a goal to keep networks’ energy consumption flat by 2020. improving the measurement of Read more in our Technology Vision 2020 product energy efficiency and available at networks.nokia.com/innovation/ GWh finalizing our Zero CO2 emission technology-vision. 24 780 base station site offering which 32 230 we launched in March 2015. 30 270 47 540 2011 2012 2013 2014 2013-2014 energy consumption is based on products sold in high volumes, representing over 80% of the total use-time energy consumption. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 49 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Recycling and reusing old telecom equipment Our aim is to recover the material and energy 98% of the old telecoms equipment we collected was recycled or used as energy ~15 900 units refurbished content of obsolete products and ensure safe treatment of the substances they contain. We 5 2 take back equipment at the end of its useable ~1 713 life, including that of other manufacturers, to ensure that it is disposed of responsibly and sustainably. A small number of reputable recycling contractors treat everything from tonnes of old telecoms components to entire products, recycling equipment sent for material recovery materials where possible and disposing of hazardous waste responsibly. In 2014, we had around 320 asset recovery cases. We sent a total of 1 713 380 kg of old telecom equipment for materials recovery and refurbished 15 901 units. 93 Radio waves and health Recycled Wireless communications technologies operate well within the limits recommended Energy recovery by the International Commission on NonLandfill Ionizing Radiation Protection and endorsed by the WHO, and the company works to ensure continued compliance of its products with these requirements. Nokia engages with its stakeholders and in public discussions on this topic as well as monitoring scientific studies. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 50 Achieved On track/Partially achieved Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Not achieved Target Progress in 2014 Status in 2014 Future targets Products We aim to improve the energy efficiency of our products in each We developed more than 20 enhancements for our Single RAN We aim to ensure that every new product is at least main release. Advanced portfolio to decouple mobile broadband traffic growth 15% more energy efficient than the previous model. from CO2 emissions. (Zero CO2 base station site offering, launched in March 2015). We aim to work with our customers to help them reduce energy We had over 20 cases together with our customers related to smaller Ongoing consumption of telecommunications networks through our energy consumption of telecommunications networks through our innovative product solutions. innovative product solutions. We aim to implement a methodology to measure product All of our new radio product releases were measured according to the Ongoing energy efficiency, following the European Telecommunications ETSI TS 102 706 standard to ensure they are comparable with similar Standards Institute’s standard. products on the market. Operations We aim to create a low emission company car fleet with average Our new vehicles registered in Europe emit around 10g/km less CO2 We aim to further develop our low emission fleet and CO2 emissions (g/km) below the market average. than the market average.* maintain the related emissions below the market average. We aim to reach an average 3% reduction year-on-year for We reduced the energy use in our buildings by 7% compared with We aim to reduce the electricity consumption at our energy consumption in our own operations 2013, exceeding the target. factories by 2% per unit produced, compared to 2014. We aim to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions from our We reached 6% reduction in total emissions from our facilities, We aim to continue reducing the total greenhouse gas facilities (Scope 1 and 2) compared to 2013. compared to 2013. emissions from our facilities (Scope 1 and 2) compared to 2014. We aim to increase the use of renewable electricity in our We increased the use of renewable electricity and achieved 50% We aim to maintain the share of renewable electricity at operations to 50% in 2014. coverage through certificates, direct green electricity purchases and around 50% globally, depending on its availability at on-site generation. countries where we operate. We aim to reduce CO2 emissions from our IT operations and the At the end of 2014, we had cut the overall CO2 emissions from IT by Ongoing use of IT products by 20% by 2015, compared to 2008. 17% compared to 2008. We aim to reduce the amount of waste generated across our We cut the amount of waste sent to landfill by 200 tonnes and our Ongoing operations and increase recycling by improving facilities for waste utilization increased from 93% to 95%. We did not meet our collection and sorting, and encouraging employees to recycle waste reduction target as we generated a total of 6 300 tonnes of more. waste which is 2% more than 2013. We aim to reduce the amount of water used in our operations. We used a total of 504 000 m3 of water across our operations, which Ongoing is 5% less than in 2013 despite the increased occupant numbers. *source: JATO Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 51 Making change Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability By partnering with others, we can approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data make an even greater contribution to a more sustainable and happen together socially responsible world. We drive improvements by working with suppliers, industry peers, universities and NGOs. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 52 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Engaging our Supporting customers’ Cooperating with stakeholders sustainability goals others in our industry We engage regularly with stakeholders In 2014, we continued to conduct annual We regularly contribute to working groups through normal business practices. From corporate responsibility reviews with our and committees of various industry a responsible business point of view, our customers to better understand their needs. organizations that promote sustainability most important stakeholders are employees, goals. suppliers, and customers. We also rely on Key focus areas for customers in 2014 good relationships with our shareholders, included responsible procurement and In 2014, Nokia was a member of: governments and policymakers, universities, energy efficiency of telecommunications NGOs, and the wider community. networks. We responded by increasing ρρUnited Nations Global Compact efforts to improve supply chain labor ρρGlobal e-Sustainability Initiative (board Listening to stakeholders and translating their conditions through workshops and audits, member) expectations into business value is important by reporting our progress in tackling conflict to Nokia. This engagement means we are minerals in accordance with the Dodd-Frank ρρCDP better informed about emerging issues and Act, and by enhancing the energy efficiency trends, and enables us to share our learnings of our solutions. ρρThe Telecommunications Industry Dialogue with others for the greater good. We also used common industry platforms ρρClimate Leadership Council such as EcoVadis and CDP to increase transparency on our environmental and ρρDigital Europe In 2014, we continued to social management and performance as a ρρSeveral standardization and University conduct annual corporate supplier. co-operation groups. responsibility reviews with our customers to better We participated in groups addressing topics such as freedom of expression and privacy, understand their needs. sustainable development of urban areas, and creating standards to measure environmental impacts. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 53 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Addressing freedom of expression and approach to due diligence in the Industry Since 2012, the company has been privacy Dialogue’s meetings with various audiences participating in OPERA-Net 2 – a project As a founding member of the in London, Stockholm and Washington, and of the Celtic-Plus European ICT Cluster Telecommunications Industry Dialogue, participated in the Stockholm Internet Forum Research Initiative, part of the Eureka we continued to engage with this group of and the UN Forum for Business and Human Network – which aims to work with standards telecommunications operators and vendors Rights in Geneva. bodies to develop a common approach for to jointly address freedom of expression measuring the environmental impacts of and privacy. Influenced by the UN Guiding Find out more about the activities of the network infrastructure. A key focus is on Principles on Business and Human Rights, Industry Dialogue in 2014 in its annual managing energy use related to thermal the Industry Dialogue has published Guiding report. management. The results of this project are Principles that specifically address the issues anticipated in 2015. of privacy and freedom of expression as they Addressing sustainable development of relate to the telecommunications sector. urban areas Nokia Networks also participate in European These specifically explore the interaction and HERE was active in the European Commission pilot projects to test standards boundaries between a government’s duty Innovation Partnership for Smart Cities and develop new approaches for measuring to protect human rights, and the corporate and Communities and led the Citizen Focus impacts. The company has proposed a responsibility of telecommunications Priority Area. The company worked with simplified approach that concentrates on companies to respect these rights. diverse stakeholders – from the chemical energy and resource use across the product sector to consultancies and regional life cycle. To promote best practice, participating governments – to define opportunities for companies share the challenges they face and collaboration that combine ICT, energy and the progress they have made in implementing transport management to create innovative the principles. In 2014, external stakeholders solutions to the environmental, social and In 2014, we participated such as investors, government officials, health challenges facing cities. in groups addressing members of civil society and academia, and other companies were invited to join Creating standards to measure topics such as freedom roundtable discussions as part of the Industry environmental impacts of expression and privacy, Dialogue’s quarterly meetings. Nokia Networks is partnering with others in the industry to develop a common sustainable development of Nokia is committed to implementing the framework for measuring environmental urban areas, and creating Industry Dialogue Guiding Principles in its impacts, and create standards to identify business. In 2014, we published our first potential improvements. In 2014, standards to measure progress report on their implementation, the company was actively involved in environmental impacts. and the latest progress is described on page environmental standardization. 31 in this report. We also presented our Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 54 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Collaboration with universities We collaborate with leading universities In 2014, HERE agreed on a cooperative We collaborate with universities around the world and institutes worldwide to share relationship with the University of Applied ideas and resources, promote a strong Sciences at Potsdam (FHP) to fuel innovative Country University culture of innovation, and support the new work in data visualisation. Funding commercialization of innovative solutions. from HERE aided the creation of the Urban Finland • University of Helsinki Our work with academic institutions ranges Complexity Lab, which is an open, creative and • Aalto University from collaborative research to training innovative space devoted to data visualization • University of Oulu programs and events that foster innovation. for urban environments. • University of Tampere • Tampere University of Technology Our collaborations focus on current and Nokia Technologies also deepened Denmark • Aalborg University emerging topics relevant to different parts collaboration with universities through a of our business. In addition, the Nokia series of events designed to accelerate UK • University of Cambridge Donations Program enhances collaboration the development of the Programmable among the world’s leading experts from World, where connected devices will be Germany • University of Munich different organizations to promote scientific choreographed to respond to specific needs. • University of Augsburg innovations that offer social benefits. • Technical University of Dresden • University of Applied Sciences at Potsdam Nokia Networks’ research with universities Our work with academic Hungary • Budapest University of Technology and Economics focuses on future radio technologies like 5G institutions ranges from and millimeter wave (mmW), virtualization USA • Berkeley and Massachusetts Institute of Technology and cloud technologies, cognitive network collaborative research • NYU WIRELESS at New York University management, environmental technologies and to training programs • SRI International and University of California network reliability. In 2014, Nokia Networks ran the Brooklyn 5G Summit together with and events that foster China • Shanghai Research Center for Wireless Communications New York University, bringing together leading innovation. researchers in wireless and mobile technology This table does not feature all universities we engage with. from academia and business to explore the future of 5G wireless. It also engaged with universities to run seminars and exchange ideas on particular topics, such as the Nokia Networks Technology Vision 2020, and offered trainee positions that enable students to gain industry experience. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 55 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Partnering with NGOs to build a better tomorrow Through our corporate social responsibility Promoting children’s rights with Save the This new partnership is based on the We target our support programs, we work with NGOs to improve Children Children’s Rights and Business Principles people’s lives around the world. We target In December 2014, established by the UN Global Compact, Save where we can make the our support where we can make the greatest we announced a the Children and UNICEF in 2012. These greatest contribution using contribution using our core competencies three-year global 10 principles help companies incorporate our core competencies in information and communications partnership with child rights into their core strategies technologies (ICT). Save the Children to and take greater responsibility for the in information and promote the rights of children. realization of children’s rights. As part of our communications In 2014, our projects with NGOs focused on collaboration, Save the Children will provide promoting children’s rights and empowering Beginning in January 2015 in Myanmar, recommendations on how Nokia can work technologies (ICT). young people, supporting those affected by the partnership aims to improve access to with others to promote children’s rights. drought and natural disasters, and protecting education and use technology to enhance the environment. learning. Together, we will also work to Empowering young people with Plan reduce the threat to children from natural International disasters in Myanmar, building on our existing Since 2006, we have been working collaboration with Save the Children on this with Plan International to empower issue in India. children and youth in developing countries through education and advocacy. The partnership has helped thousands of children in 14 countries across Africa to speak out on children’s rights Give children Improve youth Create innovative Improve and bring about positive change. identity and employment solutions to preparedness for connect them opportunities urban challenges natural disasters to learning We are supporting a program launched by Plan International in 2014 that aims Improved to increase children’s literacy skills in up lives to 300 schools across Kenya. The Open Space Literacy program provides access to quality learning content and improves abc teachers’ capacity with enhanced teaching methods and ICT training. It will also engage communities in the management of local schools and advocate for quality education. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 56 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data The program is expected to reach approximately 67 500 pupils in grades 1-3. Once in full scale, the investment In 2014, data was transmitted and analyzed from 44 water points to monitor water stress and water usage patterns on a daily We also continued to support WWF’s Living Himalayas initiative, which aims to protect the natural freshwater systems of the 67 500 Number of pupils we expect to in infrastructure, teacher training and basis across nine counties in Kenya and Eastern Himalayas. reach through The Open Space community involvement would also indirectly eight districts in Ethiopia. We also mapped Literacy program with Plan. benefit a further 83 000 children in grades the location of 1 000 wells. Around 2 million Helping children, young people and families 4-8. In 2014, the program was piloted in people will directly benefit from enhanced achieve their human potential through two schools and extended to a further 23 early warning systems for drought and more technology schools in Nairobi. It will be scaled up to several more schools across Kenya in 2015 by project partners Plan International and sustainable management of strategic water points in areas prone to chronic drought. 1 000 Number of wells we mapped SOS Children’s Villages. We also supported efforts to help fishermen in Kenya and Ethiopia and coconut farmers in the Philippines We started working together with together with Oxfam. In Uganda, the project we have been rebuild their livelihoods after typhoon GlobalGiving UK to help children, young supporting to improve school governance Haiyan, and we launched a project that uses people and families in Ghana, Rwanda won the Plan International Global Award Nokia’s navigation and mapping technologies and Mexico achieve their human potential in 2014 for the most innovative use of technology and social media. Improving school governance helps ensure that children to improve the efficiency of disaster relief efforts through an online platform for NGOs. through technology. In Ghana, we are helping 1 800 children 44 Number of water points that receive high-quality education as well as Protecting the environment with WWF living in rural communities to engage with transmitted and analyzed contributing to gender equality goals, lifelong We have worked with nature technology for the first time through water usage patterns on a daily learning opportunities, and adult literacy. conservation organization WWF for innovative, solar powered, mobile libraries. basis in Kenya and Ethiopia. over a decade. The cooperation Improving lives with Oxfam has focused on improving the In Rwanda, we are helping 20 young tech We partner with Oxfam environmental performance of our entrepreneurs through business training and to promote sustainable business, raising environmental investment funding to scale their enterprises development. Together, we are awareness, and promoting sustainable from mobile charging kiosks to climate piloting a web-based system to development. tracking and code clubs for girls. monitor water availability in drought-prone regions of Ethiopia and Kenya. This system In 2014, the two head offices of our HERE In Mexico, we are helping the most offers real-time information to quickly business in Berlin and Chicago achieved disadvantaged communities there to have identify early onset of drought, enabling the WWF Green Office label. Green Office access to quality education, employment and response efforts to be mobilized before recognizes our strong environmental life skills through technology. reaching crisis point. management systems and efforts to reduce the impacts of our offices. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 57 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Driving improvements with our suppliers In this chapter we refer to the supply chain of respecting human rights and ethical business Findings from our in-depth audits Nokia Networks. conduct. Our Supplier Requirements form part of our contractual agreement with We expect all of our suppliers to meet suppliers, and we encourage them to apply Number of nonNumber of Total number of conformities potential risk recommendations the high ethical, labor and environmental the same standards to their own suppliers, Category identified areas identified for improvement standards set out in our Supplier our sub-suppliers. Requirements before we will work with them. Child labor (proof of age 0 0 0 We ensure compliance through regular and Driving improvements through supplier documents missing) robust assessments, and work with suppliers audits Forced labor (passports, 7 0 7 to improve performance where needed. We conduct in-depth audits of suppliers contract agreement issues/fine/ on labor conditions and environmental deduction etc) Our supply chain management to ensure compliance with our Our supply chain comprises three types of requirements, especially those categorized Health and safety 132 61 193 procurement: product (the materials that as high-risk. These assessments include Freedom of association and 1 1 2 go into our products), services (that we document reviews, interviews with managers right to collective bargaining use to create our offering to customers, and employees, site visits, and inspections of including networks planning, installation facilities, production lines and warehouses. Discrimination 7 3 10 and construction), and indirect (the goods Disciplinary practices 1 3 4 and services we need to run our business, In 2014, we conducted 155 supplier like cleaning and office equipment). Our assessments and audits on corporate Working hours 11 4 15 manufacturing suppliers are located responsibility. We spent 104 auditor days predominantly in Asia, but our services conducting in-depth audits at 23 supplier Remuneration 51 18 69 suppliers are located across the world, so our sites in China, India, Iraq, Kenya, Myanmar Management systems 100 61 161 responsibility extends globally. Of our total and Saudi Arabia. We found 341 instances spend, 80% is distributed among roughly of non-compliance, of which 193 related to Environmental management 31 1 32 400 suppliers. health and safety. Based on the findings, system we made 493 recommendations for Total 341 152 493 Setting high standards for responsible improvement, which are being addressed business conduct through corrective action plans (see We work closely with our suppliers to ensure examples on page 62). they meet our Supplier Requirements, with a specific focus on high standards of human In 2014, we conducted 155 rights, health and safety and environment. Suppliers are also expected to have a code of supplier assessments and audits conduct that demonstrates a commitment to on corporate responsibility. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 58 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data In addition to in-depth audits of high-risk Number of supplier audits or assessments covering the corporate responsibility elements suppliers on specific issues, sustainability criteria are included in our regular supplier Baseline 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total performance evaluations. Suppliers that are In-Depth Audits focused on 5 7 6 13 17 2 10 23 83 new to Nokia or have significant changes in labour condition & environment their operations are subject to system audits to check compliance with our requirements. On-site System Audits 37 103 147 108 121 57 27 25 625 During 2014, we continued to consolidate (Supplier Requirements) the number of suppliers we use globally, and Supplier Corporate 26 107 133 as a result there were only 25 system audits Responsibility Assessments of suppliers. (EcoVadis) In contrast, we increased the number of suppliers assessed using the E-TASC targets through the CDP Supply Chain all of our product and services suppliers, management to high-risk suppliers in supply chain management tool powered Program, which helps us to plan improvement we estimated our product and services indirect sourcing categories such as facility by EcoVadis. In 2014, we used this tool to programs with our suppliers and improve procurement related Scope 3 emissions to management, travel & fleet and logistics. assess 107 suppliers, bringing the total reporting of our Scope 3 emissions. be approximately 2.7 million tonnes of CO2e. As part of our consequence management, assessed since its introduction in 2013 to We excluded those suppliers that are part of we issued 23 warnings to suppliers for 133 suppliers, accounting for around 52% of In 2014, 141 of our key suppliers, our more detailed data collection such as failing our health and safety requirements. our total spend. Where we identify instances representing 49% of our total procurement transportation and logistics suppliers. Due to Since we want to learn from every incident of non-compliance, we invest in programs to spend – an increase of 20 suppliers from the timing of the submissions made to the and raise our standards, we shared these help our suppliers improve. 2013 responded to the CDP’s request CDP, emissions data relates to calendar year learnings with suppliers, covering topics such to disclose information regarding their 2013. as working on fragile surfaces or lifting and Encouraging suppliers to set carbon performance on climate impacts. Of these, rigging. reduction targets 111 disclosed their carbon emissions, and Tackling labor condition-related issues Our suppliers, except those with very 73 set reduction targets. The total saving Tackling labor condition-related issues is a Child labor low environmental impacts, must have a of their carbon reduction initiatives was 6.3 key topic on our sustainability agenda with We do not engage in, nor support in any documented environmental management million tonnes of CO2 equivalent and around suppliers. way, the use of child labor. This principle system (EMS) in place. For key suppliers USD 379 million during the year. is embedded in our Code of Conduct, and those with greater impacts, it must As health and safety is a particular risk for and further enforced by our Global be certified to ISO 14001, which we track In 2014, 64 of our product and services suppliers supporting our services business, Labor Standards guideline and supplier through audits and assessments. suppliers calculated Nokia’s share of their we focused on ensuring and maintaining requirements, which set out guiding emissions based on our procurement. This our high standards. We released a road principles fully in accordance with recognized We encourage key suppliers to report their made up around 670 500 tonnes of CO2e. By safety standard for our suppliers, and also international labor standards. We expect our climate impacts and set carbon reduction scaling up the calculated emissions to cover extended our health and safety consequence suppliers to meet the same high standards we set for ourselves. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 59 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data In 2014, we addressed three suspected child addressed child labor risks and other labor imposed by management if the employee union officials. We pursued the case until a labor cases in our second tier suppliers. condition and human rights topics. We also left the company before the contract ended. collective bargaining agreement was signed After thorough investigations, in two of asked Save the Children to assess Nokia’s There were also two instances where worker and the majority of the union officials were the cases the employees in question were relevant policies and processes, and, give passports were collected and kept with the reinstated. not children but young workers, which we recommendations on how to better integrate employer. All of the instances were followed define in our supplier requirements as children’s rights into our business principles up with a request for immediate corrective employees exceeding the minimum age of and practices. action, and we are working with the suppliers 15 or the minimum legal age of employment to ensure such cases do not happen again. whichever is higher, consistent with ILO Forced or compulsory labor Read more about our corrective action plans Convention 138 and Recommendation We have zero tolerance for forced labor. on page 62. 146 on Minimum Age. In one case, a Nokia In our Supplier Requirements, we demand supervisor identified four children aged 13that upon employment, individuals shall be Freedom of association and collective 14 entering our construction area with the provided with a work contract/agreement/ bargaining intention of performing work on behalf of a offer letter, have basic induction training and Our suppliers shall respect, and not second tier sub-contractor. That supervisor not be required to give financial deposits obstruct or discourage in any way, the took immediate action and ensured that or original identity documents. Forced right of all employees to seek to form or the children were not allowed to start the labor must not be used. Employees shall join their own organizations and to bargain planned work. In addition, remedial actions be free to leave the company after giving collectively. In cases where this is restricted were put in place with the direct supplier in reasonable notice. Suppliers shall ensure by law, we facilitate parallel means to question, as they had contracted work to the that exit procedures are compliant with local ensure that individuals or groups are able second-tier supplier without the appropriate legislation, international labor standards and to raise concerns to the attention of the approvals and processes in place. Further applicable collective agreements. management. We usually look at freedom work with the second-tier supplier was of association as part of the broader topic immediately discontinued by our direct In 2014, we found seven instances related of Worker-Management Communication supplier. to forced labor as part of our Corporate during our corporate responsibility audits. Responsibility audits. Most of them were In addition, we have been involved in the While the children did not end up working issues related to worker contracts: For development of training materials on Worker at our site, we recognized that there was example, a supplier didn’t have written Management Communication as part of our increased risk related to child labor in the working contracts in place with its collaboration in the EICC-GeSI Learning and country where the incident took place. Given employees, a contract agreement stated Capability Building working group. this, we conducted in-depth labor condition that employees may be asked to work audits with our suppliers in the country, overtime without compensation, and a In 2014, we addressed one worker union increased site supervision, and organized small amount of contracts were found to issue where one our manufacturing suppliers a workshop with suppliers where we be binding for a longer period through fines of was alleged to have illegally dismissed Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 60 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Countries where risks related to child labor, forced or compulsory labor, and freedom of association occur. This map includes three parameters: child labor, forced labor and freedom of association, and it was created based on Maplecroft’s Global Risks Portfolio. The map covers countries where we have significant business with suppliers but it might not cover all countries where our suppliers operate. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 61 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Some examples from our corrective action plan Non-conformity identified Our recommendation for improvement Action taken Employees can only take 12 days paid leave a year. We recommended to our supplier to provide paid leave Supplier amended and approved the leave policy change that fulfills the country’s legal requirement of 16 days to 16 days a year. The change was communicated to a year. employees by email and updated in the company’s HR induction module as well as in the online Employee management tool. Foreign employees have two contract agreements which are We recommended to our supplier to ensure that To comply with the local law, the supplier has a contract in inconsistent with one another. The agreement signed in the employees get the benefits they were promised in their the employee’s home country for the purpose of the visa, employee’s home country includes a benefit of free food and home country. and another in the country where the work takes place accommodation, and a free return ticket once the contract so that the actual term of employment is the same for all ends. The other contract, signed in the country where the employees. work takes place, includes a term of deduction for food and accommodation. The latter contract is in use. To ensure that foreign employees earn the amount they were promised in their home country, the supplier added the amount deducted to their salary. To cover the cost of foreign employees’ return ticket, the supplier started paying a monthly allowance. None of the employees are certified in first aid procedure. We recommended to our supplier to provide first aid Supplier nominated an employee responsible for first aid in training to an adequate number of employees and teams, and provided training. ensure that at least one employee with certified first aid competencies is present in every project or office. The rigger is provided with only a safety belt instead of full We asked our supplier to provide a full body harness. Supplier purchased adequate number of full body body harness. harnesses and provided training on how to use them. Contract agreement with the supplier does not include We asked our supplier to ensure that the contract terms Supplier amended and implemented the contract clause obligation for their suppliers to adhere to ethical with their suppliers include a clause obliging the subwith a clause that the supplier shall adhere to ethical requirements. suppliers to adhere to ethical requirements. requirements. Supplier made financial deductions from its employees as a We recommended that our supplier review its disciplinary Supplier reviewed its procedures and implemented disciplinary procedure. practices and establish a disciplinary procedure based on a a warning system. warnings system rather than financial deductions. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 62 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Tackling conflict minerals minerals inquiry last year, we conducted sessions we focused on health and safety, as Electronic components contain many two sets of conflict minerals inquiries with well as labor and environmental risks. different metals, which can include tantalum, our suppliers in 2014. We raised awareness tin, tungsten and gold (‘3TG’). We are through webinars, collected conflict minerals We train our procurement teams on concerned about the potential that the reporting templates, provided detailed sustainability topics to help them mining and trade of the minerals that these feedback for suppliers on their performance communicate our requirements to suppliers, metals are extracted from is fueling military and requested corrective actions. We also and identify potential sustainability risks. All conflict, related human rights violations and reached out to smelters that were not yet procurement staff must complete Nokia’s environmental degradation. conflict free, to encourage them to undergo annual ethical business training, and 99% the Conflict-Free Smelter Programme Audit completed this in 2014. In addition, we We work to find a sustainable solution to to ensure their conflict-free status. offered our Procurement Staff web-based the issue of these ‘conflict minerals’ to trainings on corporate responsibility in ensure responsible and conflict-free sourcing In 2014, we published our first conflict procurement, and health and safety in through legitimate trade and positive minerals report which provides further services procurement. development in the affected regions. information on our due diligence activities. The results of our due diligence process in Our suppliers must commit to sourcing these 2014 will be published in our second Conflict Training workshops for suppliers operating in high-risk countries materials from environmentally and socially Minerals Report, which will be available on our responsible sources only. Materials which website in June 2015. 2011 2012 2013 2014 either directly or indirectly contribute to Number of suppliers participating in 76 105 122 183 conflict are unacceptable. Working with suppliers to improve Nokia sustainability workshops and performance webinars We collaborate with our industry peers To improve our suppliers’ capacity to meet through the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative our standards, we run web-based training Number of management level 115 133 183 256 supplier workers participating in Nokia (CFSI) set up by the Electronic Industry workshops for suppliers operating in highsustainability workshops and webinars Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and the risk countries. These sessions usually include Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) to topics such as labor conditions, climate improve traceability of minerals and ensure change and due diligence on conflict minerals. responsible sourcing. We have developed a robust due diligence approach, aligned In 2014, we organized webinars on climate with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for change, conflict minerals and corporate Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals. responsibility, involving a total of 128 suppliers. We also held face to face training To improve data quality and completeness workshops for 55 suppliers in Iraq, Kenya, of information following our conflict Myanmar and Saudi Arabia. During these Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 63 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Target Progress in 2014 Status in 2014 Future targets Target date Work with suppliers to ensure all open audit findings are addressed, We conducted 23 in-depth audits. Work with suppliers to ensure all open audit End of 2015 and perform 20 new in-depth audits. findings conducted in 2014 and before are All open audits from previous year were addressed, addressed, and perform 30 new audits. although 3 remain open. Increase the number of suppliers reporting their energy use and The number of suppliers reporting their energy use Increase the number of suppliers reporting End of 2015 greenhouse gas emissions via the CDP to 150. and greenhouse gas emissions via the CDP increased their energy use and greenhouse gas from 121 to 141. emissions via the CDP to 170. Continue to engage with and train suppliers on sustainability issues We conducted four workshops in high risk countries, Continue to engage with and train suppliers End of 2015 through workshops and webinars. and six webinars. on sustainability issues through workshops and webinars. Increase the number of suppliers using the EcoVadis supply chain We assessed suppliers accounting for 52% of spend Increase the number of suppliers using the End of 2015 management tool to cover 50% of our supplier spend. EcoVadis supply chain management tool to cover 70% of our supplier spend. Roll out health and safety consequence management systems in We rolled out these systems through face to face Roll out health and safety qualification End of 2015 further markets. workshops, and extended them to cover indirect tracking for all active suppliers procurement. Continue working to ensure our products are conflict free. The quality of supplier responses improved and Continue working to ensure our products are End of 2017 number of smelters that are now known and certified conflict free. has increased. Continue to encourage our top 100 suppliers End of 2016 to set emissions reduction targets by 2016. Achieved On track/Partially achieved Not achieved Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 64 Independent Our responsibility approach Improving people’s lives with technology Respecting people in everything we do Protecting the environment Making change happen together Independent Assurance Report Nokia sustainability data Assurance Report Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 65 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Independent Assurance Report To the Management of Nokia Corporation ρρTotal energy use within Nokia (GWh) ρρShare of women within senior management (%) We have been engaged by the Management ρρRenewable electricity amount (GWh) and of Nokia Corporation (hereinafter also the portion of total electricity consumption (%) ρρNumber of nationalities employed Company) to perform a limited assurance ρρProgress in implementing the Guiding ρρProduct use-time energy consumption engagement on selected Nokia Corporation’s (GWh) Principles of the Telecommunications sustainability information for the reporting Industry Dialogue (ID). period 1 January 2014 to 31 December ρρWater withdrawal in facilities (m3) and 2014 included in Nokia Corporation’s People recycling (%) & Planet Report 2014, as disclosed on the Supplier indicators: Company’s website (hereinafter the “Selected ρρWaste amounts (tonnes) and treatment. sustainability information”). ρρNumber of system audits against Nokia Social indicators: Supplier Requirements Selected sustainability information ρρNumber of in-depth audits (focused on The Selected sustainability information ρρNumber of lost-time incidents of employees labor conditions and environment) against consists of the following performance Nokia Supplier Requirements indicators. ρρNumber of employee fatalities ρρNumber of suppliers assessed on Environmental indicators: ρρNumber of contractor and subcontractor Corporate Responsibility in EcoVadis ρρFacility related Scope 1 greenhouse gas fatalities Sustainable Supply Management platform (GHG) emissions (tonnes CO2e) ρρAmount of training days provided by ρρNumber of suppliers assessed on their ρρScope 2 GHG emissions, gross and net Academy and Average number of training climate change impact based on their CDP hours per employee by Academy reporting for Nokia. (tonnes CO2) ρρScope 3 GHG emissions: air travel (tonnes ρρPercentage of employees who have completed online training on ethical CO2) business conduct ρρScope 3 GHG emissions: external data ρρYearly employee attrition of voluntary centers (tonnes CO2) leavers (%) ρρScope 3 GHG emissions: product use-time ρρNumber of nationalities and share of non(tonnes CO2) Finnish within senior management (%) Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 66 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Management’s responsibility Selected sustainability information has not Conclusion The Management of Nokia Corporation been prepared, in all material respects, in Based on our work described in this report, is responsible for preparing the Selected accordance with the Reporting criteria. nothing has come to our attention that sustainability information in accordance causes us to believe that Nokia Corporation’s with the reporting criteria as set out in In a limited assurance engagement the Selected sustainability information has not the Company’s reporting instructions and evidence-gathering procedures are more been prepared, in all material respects, in GHG Protocol (hereinafter the “Reporting limited than for a reasonable assurance accordance with the Reporting criteria. When criteria”). engagement, and therefore less assurance reading our assurance report, the inherent is obtained than in a reasonable assurance limitations to the accuracy and completeness Practitioner’s responsibility engagement. An assurance engagement of sustainability information should be taken Our responsibility is to express a conclusion involves performing procedures to obtain into consideration. on the Selected sustainability information evidence about the amounts and other based on our work performed. Our assurance disclosures in the Selected sustainability Helsinki, 29 April 2015 report has been prepared in accordance with information. The procedures selected the terms of our engagement. We do not depend on the practitioner’s judgement, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy accept, or assume responsibility to anyone including an assessment of the risks of else, except to Nokia Corporation for our material misstatement of the Selected Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner work, for this report, or for the conclusions sustainability information. Our work that we have reached. consisted of, amongst others, the following Partner Director, procedures: Sustainability Authorised Public We have not been engaged to provide and Climate Change Accountant assurance on the Selected sustainability ρρInterviewing relevant management of the Assurance Services information with respect to prior reporting Company. periods. ρρInterviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the Selected We conducted our work in accordance with sustainability information. the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance ρρTesting the accuracy and completeness Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of the Selected sustainability information of Historical Financial Information”. This from original documents and systems on a Standard requires that we comply with sample basis. ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited ρρTesting the consolidation of the Selected assurance whether any matters come to our sustainability information and performing attention that cause us to believe that the recalculations on a sample basis. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 67 Nokia sustainability data Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data These figures cover Nokia Networks 2011-2014 data and Nokia Group data for Continuing operations for 2014. Nokia Networks was formerly known as the NSN business, which began operations as Nokia Siemens Networks on April 1, 2007 following a merger of the networks business of Nokia and the carrier-related operations of Siemens AG for fixed and mobile networks. Since August 7, 2013 the business has been wholly owned by the Nokia Corporation and is now operating under the Nokia brand. Nokia Group numbers cover our three businesses: Nokia Networks, HERE and Nokia Technologies (jointly, “Continuing operations”). In 2014, Nokia Networks represents majority of the Continuing operations (88% net sales, 89% of year-end employees). Group numbers do not include Discontinued operations (formerly Devices & Services business), which was part of the Nokia Group until its sale on April 25, 2014. We report, however, some key environmental and financial data from Discontinued operations in a separate table. For longer term historical development, please see previous NSN and Nokia sustainability reports on www.nokia.com/people&planet. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 68 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Nokia Networks Nokia Group (Continuing operations) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (metric tonnes) 1 GHG Scope 1 (direct emissions from facilities and car fleet (fleet data only 6 600 4 600 17 700 7 800 10 500 2014 for HERE) (CO₂e) Direct CO₂ emissions from facilities, total 6 600 4 600 5 100 4 300 4 900 Hydro-Fluoro-Carbon (HFC) (as CO₂e) n/a n/a 12 600 3 500 3 800 CH₄ from facility energy use (as CO₂e) 0,07 0,08 0,09 0,08 0,09 N₂O from facility energy use (as CO₂e) 0,20 0,31 0,26 0,21 0,22 CO₂ emissions from car fleet 2 n/a n/a n/a n/a 1 800 GHG Scope 2 (Purchased electricity and heat), net amount 3 (CO₂) 204 100 216 700 168 300 166 800 188 100 Indirect CO₂ from facilities, gross amount 264 400 274 000 241 700 230 600 260 700 CO₂ avoided due to purchased renewable energy (tonnes) 60 300 57 300 73 400 63 800 72 600 GHG Scope 3 (covering relevant and non-relevant, but easily available categories) CO₂e emissions from purchased goods and services 4 n/a n/a n/a 2 700 000 n/a CO₂ emissions from external data centers 5 2 400 2 300 2 100 700 n/a CO₂ emissions from upstream transportation and distribution 6 n/a n/a 105 000 199 500 n/a CO₂ emissions from business air travel 7 80 300 52 600 53 000 62 000 72 300 CO₂ emissions from Upstream leased assets 8 n/a n/a n/a 33 300 n/a CO₂ emissions from use of sold products 9 13 280 000 17 275 000 16 225 000 25 481 000 n/a Biologically sequestered carbon 10 0 0 0 0 0 Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 69 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Nokia Networks Nokia Group (Continuing operations) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Other air emissions Emissions of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS), as ODP (tonnes) 11 0,04 0,04 0,08 0,03 0,03 Energy consumption (1 GWh = 3 600 GJ) Energy consumption within Nokia Purchased electricity, total (GWh) 521 497 458 425 460 District heating, total (GWh) 34 32 23 21 24 Chilled water, total (GWh) 0 0 2 1 1 Fossil gas, total (GWh) 20 24 24 21 26 Biogas, total (GWh) 0 0 0 0 5 Oil, total (GWh) <1 1 <1 <1 <1 Energy, total (GWh) 575 554 508 468 517 Direct energy, total (GWh) 20 25 25 21 32 Indirect energy, total (GWh) 555 529 483 447 485 Renewable energy (GWh) 12 205 193 204 213 231 Renewable electricity share of total electricity(%) 12 40% 39% 45% 50% 50% Energy consumption outside of Nokia Energy consumption of the sold products (GWh) 9 24 780 32 230 30 270 47 540 n/a Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 70 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Nokia Networks Nokia Group (Continuing operations) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Water (within Nokia) Water withdrawal total (thousands m3) 597 597 532 504 591 Water withdrawal by source (%) 13 Municipal water supply n/a n/a n/a 100% 97% Ground water n/a n/a n/a 0% 3% Recycled/reused water (thousands m3) 14 n/a 15 11 11 24 Recycling/reuse % of total withdrawal n/a 3% 2% 2% 4% Waste and recycling Waste and recycling within Nokia 18 Total (metric tonnes) 8 200 7 100 6 200 6 300 6 900 Reuse 1 000 1 100 800 700 700 Recycle 4 600 4 200 4 300 4 400 4 700 Energy recovery 1 000 1 000 600 900 1 100 Landfill 1 600 800 500 300 400 Utilisation rate % 19 81% 89% 93% 95% 94% Non-hazardous waste 20 7 800 6 800 6 000 6 100 6 700 Hazardous waste 400 300 200 200 200 Product end-of-life treatment (metric tonnes) Weight of equipment returned from customers for recycling n/a 5 309 3 537 1 713 n/a Weight of equipment returned from customers incinerated with energy recovery n/a 532 148 85 n/a Weight of equipment returned from customers sent to landfill n/a 68 45 37 n/a Number of returned equipment items reused/remanufactured n/a 53 734 38 410 15 901 n/a Weight of packaging materials reused in distribution hubs (metric tonnes) 4 078 3 662 3 597 2 392 n/a Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 71 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data SOCIAL AND ETHICS DATA Nokia Networks Nokia Group (Continuing operations) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Employment Number of employees 21 73 529 58 411 48 628 54 586 61 656 Number of new employees 17 228 6 757 6 270 9 839 11 302 Rate of new employee hires, % 22 24% 11% 12% 19% 21% Total number of leavers 10 534 18 584 16 278 4 939 5 934 Number of voluntary leavers 6 919 8 341 3 737 2 989 3 714 Attrition rate of voluntary leavers 22 10% 10% 8% 6% 7% Attrition rate due to involuntary leavers 22 n/a 14% 18% 3% 3% Share of employees with full-time contract n/a n/a n/a 98% 98% Share of employees with permanent contracts n/a n/a n/a 95% 95% Retention rates of employees who took parental leave 23 n/a n/a n/a 95% 94% Training & Education Amount of training days provided by Academy 24 118 600 106 800 124 600 194 300 n/a Average number of training hours per employee by Academy 10 14 19 27 n/a Percentage of employees with Personal Development Plan (PDP) in place n/a 36% 68% 78% n/a Percentage of employees that completed a performance evaluation n/a n/a 84% 99% 99% Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 72 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data SOCIAL AND ETHICS DATA Nokia Networks Nokia Group (Continuing operations) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Diversity & Equal Opportunity Share of women within workforce n/a 19% 20% 20% 21% Share of female line managers (with one or more subordinates) n/a 13% 15% 15% 16% Share of women within senior management n/a 13% 13% 14% 13% Share of women on the executive management board n/a n/a n/a n/a 0% Share of women in the board of directors n/a n/a n/a n/a 22% Number of nationalities within workforce 25 n/a n/a n/a 130 130 Number of nationalities within senior management 25 n/a n/a n/a 38 38 Number of nationalities in the executive management board n/a n/a n/a n/a 5 Share of non-Finnish employees within senior management 25 n/a n/a n/a 76% 72% Share of non-Finnish in the executive management board n/a n/a n/a n/a 80% Workplace Relations & Employee Engagement Share of employees responding to the engagement survey 84% 87% 93% 96% 94% Employee Engagement Index score 70 73 82 86 86 Occupational Health & Safety 26 Near miss incidents reported 55 141 636 630 n/a Lost-time incidents of employees 160 101 57 56 n/a Employee work related fatalities 4 2 0 0 0 Contractor and sub-contractor work related fatalities 9 10 2 8 n/a Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 73 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data SOCIAL AND ETHICS DATA Nokia Networks Nokia Group (Continuing operations) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Ethics Number of concerns reported through the ethics email and the anonymous 302 160 205 190 n/a reporting channel Number of concerns reported directly to regional compliance counsel 104 114 85 82 n/a Number of investigations by the Ethics & Compliance Office 112 139 192 152 n/a Number of employees dismissed on grounds of a violation of the code of conduct 40 28 26 22 n/a Number of employees given a written warning on grounds of violation of Code of 30 31 16 7 n/a Conduct FINANCIAL DATA (EUR million) Net sales 14 041 13 779 11 282 11 198 12 732 Operating profit 27 -300 -795 420 1 210 170 Spending in R&D 2 185 2 046 1 822 1 786 2 493 Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 74 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Notes We have most data available for Nokia defines three scopes of CO₂ emissions: from Stationary Combustion, version district heating and chilled water, as latest Networks, which represents majority of the 4.0”, by using Lower heating values. The IEA statistics (published 2013) did not have Nokia Group’s Continuing operations (88% ρρ Scope 1 direct emissions, from sources effect of greenhouse gases methane (CH4) a combined value. Prior to 2014, chilled net sales, 89% of year-end employees). owned or controlled by the company and nitrous oxide (N2O)produced during water emission factor is based on guidance n/a means we do not have data available ρρScope 2 indirect emissions, from the burning process are listed in the table as from U.S. Department of Energy Energy for that particular year or scope. Metrics CO2e (combined CH4 and N2O effect being Information Administration Form EIA-1605, consumption of purchased electricity, heat, related to Board of directors and Executive 0.3% of direct CO2e emissions from fuels Appendix N. Emission Factors for Steam and/or steam. management board are applicable only on used in stationary combustion). HFCs are and Chilled/Hot Water. Despite delay on IEA Group level and hence in these metrics n/a ρρScope 3 indirect emissions, as a refrigerants and emissions are minor fugitive country statistics/EPA eGrid statistics, data for Nokia Networks means not applicable. consequence of the activities of the emissions from facilities’ cooling systems. from previous years has not been updated Facility related data is typically (but not as a company, but from sources not owned or Nokia uses also some HCFCs as refrigerants, with new factors. The latest version of the strict rule) from sites over 3 000 m2, covering controlled by the company. but they are not included in the inventory IEA publication has been used, for example at least 80% of total facility net internal area. because they are not covered by the Kyoto using 2011 statistics for 2014. As CO2 (86% in 2014). The excluded “small sites” Protocol. These refrigerants are included typically represents over 99% of the GHG are typically multi-tenant buildings where Organisational boundaries in the published Ozone Depleting Potential emissions in electricity and heat production, energy, water and waste consumption fees We use the “operational control” approach figure. Out of Kyoto protocol greenhouse IEA indirect emission factors include CO2 only. are covered in the rent. Emissions data from (instead of equity share approach), which gases perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulphur EPA factors are for CO₂e. excluded sites has been estimated based on means we include entities based on hexafluoride (SF6) are not applicable for Nokia averages and reported under “Scope whether we can introduce and implement Nokia. 2 3, Upstream leased assets”. Some facilities’ operating policies rather than on the basis of 2014 calculation of the emissions from cars November and December consumption has financial control or economic interest. Our Scope 2 emissions is based on using the make and model of the been estimated as the invoices detailing Scope 1 and 2 and selected Scope 3 GHG Indirect CO2e (Scope 2 emissions) include vehicle, distance driven and carbon output actual usage remained outstanding at the measurements have been assured by a third emissions from purchased electricity, district per vehicle as tabulated by the EPA. (http:// time of reporting. Due to these estimations, party since 2003 and assurance will continue heating and cooling with chilled water. For www.epa.gov/greenvehicles/find/index.htm) 2013 energy and greenhouse gas figures on an annual basis. Read our assurance USA latest EPA eGrid factors are used, “eGrid Nokia Networks started fleet data tracking in are slightly updated from values published in statement (page 65). 2012, year 2009 summary tables” for 2014 late 2014 and is ready to report externally in 2013 NSN report. and for all other countries emissions are 2015. Scope 1 emissions calculated by using Internal Energy Agency’s 1 Direct CO₂e emissions from Nokia facilities (IEA) country-level emission factors. For 3 Our approach to measuring greenhouse gas include emissions from gas and oil usage 2011-2013 electricity and district heating Net and gross indirect CO2 emissions: Gross emissions follows the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) in Nokia facilities and hydrofluorocarbon used the same emission factor (“EF for emissions are emissions from purchased Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) developed (HFC) emissions. Emissions are calculated purchased electrity and heat”) and for electricity and heat calculated with IEA by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and by using the values embedded in WRI/ 2014 separate IEA statistics were used for (Internal Energy Agency) country emission the World Business Council for Sustainable WBCSD GHG Protocol Initiative calculation “Grid Electricity Generated Average Load factors and in USA with eGRID emission Development (WBCSD). The GHG Protocol tool: “Calculation Tool for Direct Emissions (Annual) (Direct)” and “heat consumed” for factors. Net emissions are gross emissions Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 75 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data reduced with CO2 avoided due to purchase for 2014 data, average 2005-2009 emission assets: Emission data from “small leased (Ozone Depleting Potential) = emission in kg of renewable electricity (certificates). Onsite factor for 2011-2013 calculations). sites” has been estimated based on Nokia of CFC-11 equivalent. renewable electricity also reduces gross average consumption per m2. These sites are emissions. 6 typically multi-tenant buildings where energy 12 Upstream CO2 emissions from transportation management service and fees are covered in Renewable (“green”) electricity covers 4 and distribution: Numbers include emissions the rent. different tracking instruments. Over years, Emissions from purchased goods and from inbound and outbound logistics. most widely used have been RES-E Guarantee services: emissions are reported based on Data is based on the top 5 logistics supply 9 of Origin certificates in Europe and Green-e data collected with CDP Climate Survey partners (LSP) delivery data (tonne-km) and CO2 emissions from use of sold products: RECS certificates in USA. In addition Nokia from Nokia Network’s biggest suppliers, transportation mode. Similar CO2 emission 2013-2014 emissions are based on energy has purchased smaller amounts of supplier representing around 25% of total purchase factors are used across the LSPs. The consumption of high-energy consuming specific instruments and generated on-site spend. Collected data is then multiplied increase in emissions between 2013-2014 products, representing over 80% of volume renewable energy. to cover 100% of spend. Around 75% of was due to increased deliveries, which led item deliveries. In 2014 use-time energy suppliers’ emissions allocated for Nokia to increased share of air freight during peak measurements are according to ETSi-TS 13 are suppliers’ Scope 1 and 2 emissions, times. 102706 for over 50% of included items. Water withdrawal is reported according to and 25% are suppliers’ Scope 3 emissions, Emission factor is the IEA global emission Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) definitions. so data partly covers emissions beyond 7 average (year 2011 value published in 2013) Tier 1. Suppliers providing transportation CO2 emissions from business air travel: for 2011-2014 value. We call this category 14 services are excluded as “emissions from Nokia Group’s air travel reporting has been typically “product use-phase emissions”. Recycled/reused water amount includes transportation and distribution” are reported consolidated in 2014. The emissions figure water recycled both for sanitary purposes in a separate Scope 3 category. Some has been extrapolated to cover 100% of 10 and for irrigation. suppliers provide both “purchased goods”, Nokia Group data, based on data collected Biologically sequestered carbon (i.e. carbon and “capital goods” and for simplicity all their from over 95% of Nokia Networks and 99% dioxide emission from burning biomass/ 18 emissions are reported under purchased of HERE and TECH air travel. The figure biofuels) and emissions from fermentation Accuracy of waste data is not as high as with goods. 2014 disclosure is based on latest includes travel by externals in cases where are not relevant for Nokia as we do not burn energy and water, as waste vendors often CDP data representing suppliers’ year 2013 travel cost is covered by Nokia and bookings or ferment biomass or biofuels on-site. We report amounts based on number of waste emissions. made through Nokia’s designated travel use biogas in fuel cells in one of our offices bins emptied and average weight for waste agencies. Emissions have been calculated type, instead of weighing each container. 5 with GHG Protocol emission factors taking 11 In factories and biggest offices most of CO2 emissions from external data centers: into account flight length and different Nokia uses no Ozone Depleting Substances the reporting is based on actual weighed data is a subset of “emissions from emission factors for long/medium/short (ODS) in its products or production. The amounts. purchased services and goods” and based on hauls and cabin classes. reported ODS figures are due to minor actual energy data collected from external leakage of ODS contained in cooling systems 19 data center service providers and IEA country 8 in facilities. Annual emissions vary due to Utilised waste includes waste that has been emission factors (2011 emission factors used CO2 emissions from upstream leased changing annual maintenance needs. ODP either reused, recycled or energy from it has Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 76 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data been utilized. Remaining waste has been 24 either sent to landfill or incinerated without Academy is providing training for Nokia energy recovery. Composting of biowaste is Networks employees and in 2014 Group recorded under recycling. Common Functions. Training provided for externals is not included in the numbers. One 20 training day includes seven training hours. The definitions for what is reported under We are not currently not able to track training hazardous and non-hazardous waste have days taken outside Academy offering. been done on global level to keep simplicity in corporate reporting. E.g. all discarded 25 batteries and electric and electronical waste Nokia Group values for number of (WEEE) are reported globally under hazardous nationalities and share of non-Finnish waste, although only different sub-categories employees are excluding HERE. of WEEE are defined hazardous in different countries. The actual waste treatment 26 is always done according to local legal Cut-off day for incidents reporting is 12th requirements. January. There can be some cases, especially from contractors, reported after the cut-off. 21 Year-end headcount as published in financial As additional country-specific information:in reporting. Year 2014 Nokia Networks value 2014 in Finland, we had 14% less diagnosed 54 760 if also including Group Common sick leave per employee, compared with Functions.Year-end headcount includes 2013. That was an estimated saving of EUR employees from SAC Wireless acquired by 1.9 million. Nokia Networks in August 2014, but these employees are not included in the other 27 social indicators presented in the table. Includes HERE goodwill impairment charge of EUR 1 209 million in 2014. 22 Hiring and attrition rates are calculated against average permanent headcount. 23 Parental leave statistics excluding HERE. Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 77 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Key economic and environmental data Nokia Group (Including Discontinued operations) These figures cover key Nokia Group to the approval for the sale received in the of the transaction; specifically, discontinued This report covers the last four years – for sustainability data 2011-2014. Extraordinary General Meeting in November manufacturing facilities located in Chennai, longer term historical records please see In September 2013, Nokia announced the 2013, Nokia Group has presented Devices India and Masan, Republic of Korea. The sale Nokia’s previous reports at www.nokia.com/ sale of substantially all of its Devices & and Services as discontinued operations, was completed on April 25, 2014. people&planet. Services business to Microsoft. Subsequent including those items outside of the scope ECONOMIC KEY DATA 2014 2013 2012 2011 Continuing Discontinued Nokia Group Continuing Discontinued Nokia Group Nokia Group Nokia Group 1) Operations Operations Operations Operations Net sales, EUR million 2 12 732 2 458 15 189 12 709 10 735 23 444 30 552 39 059 Operating profit/loss, EUR million 2 170 2 639 n/a 519 -590 -71 -2 299 -1 072 Research & development, EUR million 2 2 493 354 n/a 2 619 1 130 3 749 4 739 5 545 Paid direct income taxes, EUR million 329 307 636 244 142 386 478 718 ENVIRONMENTAL KEY DATA3 2014 2013 2012 2011 Continuing Discontinued Nokia Group Continuing Discontinued Nokia Group Nokia Group Nokia Group 1) Operations Operations Operations Operations Energy consumption, GWh 517 117 634 587 338 925 1 072 1 143 Direct CO2e from facilities, tonnes 8 700 3 400 12 100 22 300 7 900 30 200 22 200 23 900 Indirect CO2e from facilities energy consumption, 260 700 54 000 314 700 275 100 154 000 429 100 498 800 516 300 tonnes, gross 4 Indirect CO2e from facilities energy consumption, 188 100 n/a n/a 182 600 131 400 314 000 388 300 401 900 tonnes, net 4 Water withdrawal, thousand m3 591 274 865 638 990 1 628 1 689 1 906 Total waste, tonnes 6 900 5 800 12 700 7 500 21 400 28 900 38 500 58 500 Total waste utilization, % 94% 94% 94% 90% 97% 95% 96% 94% Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 78 Our responsibility Improving people’s Respecting people Protecting the Making change Independent Nokia sustainability approach lives with technology in everything we do environment happen together Assurance Report data Notes 1 3 Figures are consolidated Nokia Group data. For continuing and discontinued operations The years are not directly compatible largely in 2013 environmental data has been because of the following reasons: allocated on building level, i.e. where building was and/or will continue to be ρρIn April 2011, Nokia Siemens Networks shared between continuing and discontinued acquired the majority of the wireless operations, total consumption has been network assets of Motorola Solutions. allocated to operations having majority in From April 30, 2011, certain of Motorola the site. For 2014 discontinued data covers Solutions’ products and services and January-April data from sites belonging to approximately 6 900 employees were Devices & Services business and full-year transferred to Nokia Siemens Networks. data from major sites in India. ρρAs of October 1, 2011, Location & 4 Commerce was formed by combining the Net and gross indirect CO2 emissions: Gross NAVTEQ business with Devices & Services emissions are emissions from purchased social location services operations. As of electricity and heat calculated with IEA January 1, 2013, Location & Commerce (Internal Energy Agency) country emission business and reportable segment has factors, in USA with EPA eGrid emission been renamed as the HERE business and factors. Net emissions are gross emissions reportable segment. reduced with CO2 avoided due to purchase of renewable energy (certificates). 2 The historical comparative financials presented in this report include certain changes to previously reported information. The changes result from the retrospective application of a revised IFRS accounting standard IAS 19, Employee Benefits, and the net sales for continuing operations and Nokia Group including the HERE sales to discontinued operations (EUR 154 million in 2013, EUR 374 million in 2012 and EUR 393 million in 2011). Nokia People & Planet Report 2014 79
