2014 Sustainability Report Table of Contents 1.0 About this Report 5.0 Society 1.1 Report Profile 3 5.1 Strategy for Society 115 1.2 Message from the Chairman and CEO 5 5.2 Social Products, Services and Offers 118 1.3 ΟΤΕ Group 6 5.3 Supporting Vulnerable Social Groups 1.4 ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE 10 and Children 121 5.4 Supporting Education 124 2.0 CR Strategy and Management 5.5 Contributing to Local Communities 2.1 CR Strategy 15 Well-being and Sustainability 129 2.2 CR Governance and Management 5.6 Strengthening of Entrepreneurship 132 Structure 18 5.7 Promoting Culture 134 2.3 Corporate Governance 20 5.8 Promoting Sports 137 2.4 Risk and Compliance Management 5.9 Εmployee Volunteering 139 and Policies 22 2.5 Stakeholders 27 6.0 Environment 2.6 Materiality Analysis 35 6.1 Environmental Strategy 143 2.7 Memberships, Ratings and Awards 38 6.2 Telecommunications for the 2.8 2014 CR Performance 42 Environment 149 2.9 2014 and 2015 Goals 44 6.3 Greenhouse Gases and other Gas Emissions 150 3.0 Marketplace 6.4 Improving Energy Efficiency 3.1 Strategy for the Marketplace 52 and Emission Reduction 155 3.2 Responsible Competition 54 6.5 Resource Use and Waste 3.3 Expanding Broadband And Mobile Management 162 Internet In Greece 57 6.6 Electromagnetic Fields 167 3.4 Internet Safety and Public 6.7 Other Environmental Aspects 170 Awareness 60 6.8 Environmental Awareness Initiatives 175 3.5 Responsible Products and Services 63 3.6 Responsible Marketing 67 7.0 ΟΤΕ Group Subsidiaries 3.7 Customer Service and Satisfaction 70 7.0 ΟΤΕ Group Subsidiaries 179 3.8 Data Security and Privacy 74 7.1 Romania 180 3.9 Business Continuity Management 77 7.2 Αlbania 185 3.10 Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management 79 8.0 Indexes 8.1 Accountability Principles Standard 4.0 Employees AA1000 Index 190 4.1 Human Resources Strategy 85 8.2 United Nations Global Compact – 4.2 Employment 87 Communication On Progress (COP) 191 4.3 Health and Safety 94 8.3 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Index 194 4.4 Organization Transformation and 8.4 Independent Assurance Report 212 Effectiveness 101 4.5 Employee Development 102 4.6 Employee Benefits 107 4.7 Internal Communications 109 4.8 Employee Engagement and Satisfaction 111 About this 1.0 Report Indexes OTE Group Environment Society Employees Marketplace CR Strategy and About this Report Subsidiaries Management 1.1 Report Profile About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace The 2014 Sustainability Report is the third common Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report of OTE and COSMOTE, following the 2012 and 2013 common annual reports and the separate corporate annual CR Reports for the years 2005 to 2011. The Companies publish a joint CR Report, following the transformation of the two companies to a joint organization. This year, the CR Report is presented for a second year entirely online on a specially formulated Employees reporting platform for OTE and COSMOTE. Report Scope and Boundary Report Content Definition The Sustainability Report covers the period The content of the Report is defined according to 01 January 2014 – 31 December 2014 the following principles, guidelines and directives: (unless otherwise indicated). l The Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Society l The Report covers the operations and activity Reporting Guidelines(GRI G3.1). in Greece of OTE S.A. and COSMOTE S.A. The l The AccountAbility AA1000 Principles on two Companies have their headquarters Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. in Athens. l The United Nation’s Global Compact Principles. l Summary information on other OTE Group companies is included in the OTE Group section, The index tables for each of these standards are Environment so as to provide the reader with a complete provided in the AccountAbility Principles Standard picture of OTE Group. Moreover, information on AA1000 Index Table, the UN Global Compact – how the major telecommunications subsidiaries Communication on Progress (COP) and the Global of the two Companies in Eastern Europe Reporting Initiative G3.1. Index. approach sustainability is presented in the OTE Group Subsidiaries section. In addition the Companies took into account their Corporate Responsibility vision and the Group OTE Group l This approach represents a continuation strategic pillars for Corporate Responsibility as and integration of the scope and boundary Subsidiaries specified (presented in the CR Strategy section), approach used in the CR reports of previous the outcomes of the stakeholders’ engagement years by OTE and COSMOTE and at the same approach and sustainability issues materiality time the initiation of a process of providing analysis presented in the Materiality Analysis gradually more information on the full OTE section. The Companies have taken into account Group approach to sustainability. the statistical use data from the on-line microsite of the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report of OTE and COSMOTE, and the results of surveys Indexes carried out to obtain the opinion of stakeholders on the presentation of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2013. About this Report 3 Sustainability Report 2014 The report is addressed to the main group of Sustainability Report where possible. The data in About this Report stakeholders recognized by the Companies, the Report derives from the reporting systems which are: of OTE and COSMOTE and comprise: aggregated l Customers and prospective customers. financial and personnel data, aggregated data on customer service, summary data on regulatory l Business. actions. They also include environmental data l Science, research and education. that are calculated according to internationally l NGOs and interest groups. accepted methods on the basis of information CR Strategy and provided by the Operational Divisions of both l Media. Companies. In collecting and presenting data, OTE Management l State/Government entities. and COSMOTE have been guided by the definitions l Employees, prospective employees and and parameters of the GRI Indicator Protocols. their representatives. In certain sections, where the two Companies l Suppliers. have not yet integrated their operations, policies, l Shareholders, bondholders, investors initiatives and actions, the information is presented Marketplace and analysts. separately for each company. The issues that the stakeholders brought up and On some issues, separate policies are maintained the Companies’ response are presented in the and reported, due to the distinct nature of issues Stakeholders section. for fixed and mobile telephony. The Sustainability Report is subject to external No major re-statement of information provided in assurance, covering the AA1000 Principles earlier reports has been included. Employees Standard and specific performance indicators for OTE/COSMOTE. In addition the Report’s GRI GRI Application Level Application Level has been reviewed by GRI. The GRI Application Level for the 2014 Sustainability Report of OTE and COSMOTE is indicated below. GRI Report Data has confirmed that this report has been compiled Additional data related with the technical methods in accordance with the guidelines of GRI G3.1 A+ and the data computations are provided in the application level. Society Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Level B 1.1 Level C plus: Profile OUTPUT 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1 – 3.8, 3.10 – 3.12 3.9 – 3.13 4.1 – 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 Environment Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures on Disclosures for each Disclosures for each OUTPUT Management Indicator Category Indicator Category Approach Report fully on a minimum of Report fully on a minimum of any Respond on each core and Sector Performance Indicators any 10 Performance Indicators, 20 Performance Indicators, at Supplement* indicator with due OUTPUT & Sector Supplement including at least one from least one from each of: economic, regard to the materiality Principle OTE Group by either: Performance Indicators each of: social, economic and environment, human rights, labour, environment.** society, product responsibility*** a) reporting on the indicator or 3 Subsidiaries b) explaining the reason for its omission * Sector supplement in final version. ** Performance Indicators may be selected from any finalised Sector Supplement, but 7 of the 10 must be from the original GRI Guidelines. *** Performance Indicators may be selected from any finalised Sector Supplement, but 14 of the 20 must be from the original GRI Guidelines. Full information on the fulfillment of GRI G3.1 requirements is provided in the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Index Report Feedback Indexes Readers’ opinions and comments regarding the CR Report are welcome. Please send your feedback to the e-mail address: ote-cosmote.cr@ote.gr. About this Report 4 Sustainability Report 2014 1.2 Message from the About this Report CR Strategy and Management Chairman and CEO Marketplace 2014 was another opportunity for OTE Group to prove its sustainability and dynamics. Employees With our investments, we further contributed to Greece’s technological growth, further improved people’s communication and quality of life. We remain by far the biggest investor in telecommunications in Greece. In 2014, OTE Group was responsible for more than 60% of the sector’s domestic investments. Our 4G broadband network is currently available to more than 70% of the Society Greek population, while we were the first to carry out pilot trials for 4G+. We further improved our customers’ experience in every point of contact, and solid teamwork turn our strategy into action, aiming to be their No1 choice for integrated social responsibility into an everyday habit and telecommunication services. voluntarism into a collective matter. We have Environment created a human chain of social contribution that Our people remain our most important asset grows stronger by the day. and with our new Collective Labour Agreement, we secured employment for our personnel. We We embrace change and evolve to become better. recruited 700 new employees and launched an We treat each challenge as an opportunity to innovative Graduate Trainee programme, aiming to change and improve. We come closer to our fellow develop the leaders of tomorrow. citizens, paying back their trust in OTE. Stronger OTE Group and healthier than ever we join forces with society Subsidiaries This past year, we turned our attention towards and enhance our country’s prospects and potential. society and young people, more than ever before. Through our Corporate Responsibility programme, we contributed more than €2.8 million, for OTE and COSMOTE social and environmental initiatives. Michael Tsamaz Our customers and their needs lie at the core of all Chairman and CEO of OTE Group Indexes our decisions, leading our strategy into the future. Our investment in society remains an integral part of our business. Our employees’ expertise About this Report 5 Sustainability Report 2014 1.3 OTE Group About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE Group is the leading telecommunications provider in Greece and one of the pre-eminent providers in South East Europe, offering its customers excellent quality products and services. The organizational structure of the Group is shown in the following diagram. 2014 OTE Group Organizational Structure Employees Fixed-Line Telephony Mobile Telephone Other Operations OTE SA Greece 100% OTE GLOBE Society Greece 100% 100% OTE Sat – Maritel 54% COSMOTE Greece Greece Rom Telecom Romania 94% OTE Estate Environment 99.97% Greece AMC 30% Albania Other Operations Greece 100% 70% Zapp Cosmote OTE Group Romania Romania 100% Subsidiaries Germanos S.E. Europe Indexes About this Report 6 Sustainability Report 2014 The organizational structure of the Group is and services. In Greece, revenues of COSMOTE, About this Report available on the website of OTE (http://www.ote.gr/ incoming from mobile telephony showed en/web/guest/consumer). consistent trends of improvement in all quarters of the year. More information on the structure of OTE Group is available in the Annual Report 2014 of OTE. As a result of the voluntary retirement program in The Group consists of the parent company OTE 2013, the staff cost decreased significantly at both SA and its subsidiaries, offering fixed telephony Group and fixed telephony in Greece levels. CR Strategy and services (phone, data and leased line), television and mobile telephony in Greece and Romania, as With a more flexible organization and robust financial structure, both the functional and net Management well as mobile services in Albania. The Group is also engaged in providing additional services such as profitability were significantly strengthened. property management and education. The adjusted EBITDA margin of the Group At present, the companies in which the OTE Group improved, mainly due to the strong performance participates employ more than 22,100 workers. of fixed telephony in Greece and the ongoing cost Marketplace Group income for 2014 amounted to €3,918.4 mn, containment efforts. The net profit of the Group while its market capitalization stood at €4.5 bn. increased by 30% in 2014. During 2014 the Group’s performance was stable, Despite significantly higher investments in the mainly thanks to Greek fixed-line business, where development of technological infrastructure, the fourth quarter of 2014 revenue recorded a mainly in Greece, the adjusted free cash flow slight increase compared to last year, following for the year greatly exceeded the initial target of €500 mn. Employees 27 quarters of reduction. This achievement demonstrates the successful turnaround of Having improved its performance in all areas, fixed telephony following the continuous efforts OTE will distribute dividends for the first time in to improve customer experience, products four years. OTE Group Financial Performance (million €) 20121 2013 2014 Society Total Revenues 4,330.3 4,054.1 3,918.4 Payroll and employee benefits (914.5) (821.5) (697.1) Cost of early retirement program (123.0) (272.4) (8.4) Interconnections and roaming costs (510.5) (468.2) (473.6) Environment Depreciation, amortization and impairment (818.4) (842.5) (796.4) Merchandise costs (254.2) (276.4) (300.7) Other operating expenses (1,164.5) (1,080.0) (1,119.5) Total Operating expenses (3,785.1) (3,761.0) (3,395.7) Operating Profits (EBIT) 574.5 335.4 589.1 EBITDA 1,392.9 1,177.9 1,385.5 OTE Group as % of Revenues 32.2% 29.1% 35.4% Subsidiaries Pro forma2 EBITDA 1,515.9 1,456.3 1,421.6 as % of Revenues 35.0% 35.9% 36.3% 1 Figures adjusted to reflect only continuing operations (Bulgarian operations treated as discontinued operations) and accounting reclassifications of revenues. Indexes 2 Excluding the impact of Voluntary Retirement Programs and Restructuring Plans. About this Report 7 Sustainability Report 2014 OTE Group Economic Contribution About this Report (million €) 20121 2013 2014 Salaries and benefits (914.5) (821.5) (697.1) Income taxes paid (108.0) (121.3) (137.3) Interconnections and roaming cost (510.5) (468.2) (473.6) Merchandise costs (254.2) (276.4) (300.7) CR Strategy and Other operating expenses (Incl. rental, third party fees, non-income (651.1) (622.4) (660.1) Management taxes and regulatory charges and other) Profit attributable to owners of the parent 471.9 316.7 267.4 Sponsorships, donations and fund-raising directed to community causes 2.92 2.9 2.9 1 Figures adjusted to reflect only continuing operations (Bulgarian operations treated as discontinued operations) and accounting reclassifications of revenues. 2 Data do not include Telekom Romania Communications. Marketplace Breakdown of OTE Group Revenues 2012* 2013 2014 2013-2014 (million €) Change Fixed Line Operations, Greece 1,704.0 1,557.2 1,511.7 –2.9% Employees Fixed Line Operations, Romania 619.6 609.5 609.1 –0.1% Mobile Operations, Greece 1,524.7 1,336.5 1,251.4 –6.4% Mobile Operations, International 551.4 544.7 520.9 –4.4% Others 462.1 448.0 456.2 1.8% Intragroup Eliminations (531.5) (441.8) (430.9) –2.5% TOTAL 4,330.3 4,054.1 3,918.4 –3.3% Other income/(expense), net 29.3 42.3 66.4 57.0% Society * Figures adjusted to reflect only continuing operations (Bulgarian operations treated as discontinued operations) and accounting reclassifications of revenues. Significant Changes/Events in 2014 On 8 April 2014, OTE PLC proceeded with the full The first quarter of 2014, OTE acquired 4,526,651 repayment of the remaining balance of €364.7 mn Environment own shares at an average price of €11.60 per share debenture, which was expiring on the same date only in the context of the existing program of with the accrued interest. providing stock options to OTE Group executives. On 10 July 2014, OTE PLC issued a fixed rate As a result, on March 31, 2014, OTE held 5,724,610 debenture amounting to € 700 mn, under the shares, representing 1.17% of its capitalization. Global Medium-Term Note Programme, ending on On 6 February 2014, OTE announced its July 9 2020, with an annual coupon of 3.5%. The OTE Group participation, through its subsidiary OTEGLOBE, debentures are guaranteed by OTE. Subsidiaries in the construction of the new international ultraOn October 13 2014, COSMOTE received rights for high-speed submarine cable “Asia Africa Europe – the use of the radio frequency in the spectral regions 1 “(AAE-1). The AAE-1 submarine cable with a of 800MHz and 2.6GHz in Greece for the period from length of approximately 25,000 km, is expected 1 November 2014 to 28 February 2030. Through to be operational in 2016 and will connect Hong this investment, COSMOTE will further enhance the Kong and Singapore with the Middle East, Africa and speed and extensive coverage of its 4G network in Indexes Europe, making Greece one of the three, along with both urban and rural areas. The total amount the Italy and France, main gateways in Europe. company invested amounted to €134.8 mn. About this Report 8 Sustainability Report 2014 On October 14, 2014, OTE secured the broadcasting l Wholesale International telecommunications About this Report rights for all the matches of the European football, services to high-capacity carriers and multiincluding UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa site organizations in the broader South East League from July 2015 to 2018. European region (OTEGlobe). On December 24, 2014, the Management of l Wireless and satellite communications, OTE and the OTE Workers Federation (OME-OTE) including maritime services (OTESAT-MARITEL). signed a new Collective Bargaining Agreement. l Real estate assets management and CR Strategy and The contract established a new wage scale for new development (OTE Estate). recruits with an initial salary of €755 per month, Professional training services that cover the Management l considerably higher than that of the general employment market. With regard to current training needs of OTE Group employees, as well OTE employees and for the next three years, the as those of the wider public and private sector agreement guarantees jobs, as the company will not (OTE Academy). proceed with dismissals for financial or operational reasons, and maintains the average reduction of Marketplace 11% in the wage scale, with respect to that of 2011 as agreed under the previous agreement, and the reduced working hours of 35 per week. More information about important events can be found in the Annual Report 2014 OTE https://www.ote.gr/en/web/guest/corporate/ir/ Employees publications/annual-reports. Main Products and Services OTE Group provides integrated products and services, covering the demanding communications needs of both businesses and individuals, namely: Fixed telephony and broadband services, Society l with high VDSL speeds of up to 50 Mbps (OTE and Telekom Romania Communications). l Mobile telephony through COSMOTE in Greece, Telekom Romania Mobile Communications in Romania and AMC in Albania. Products and Environment services offered include post and pre-paid services, mobile broadband (with COSMOTE being the first company in Greece which offered 4G services), value added and roaming services, as well as a wide range of mobile devices (smartphones, tablets) and accessories. OTE Group l Television services, via satellite or broadband, Subsidiaries offering a wide range of channels and content, at the most competitive prices (OTE and Telekom Romania). l Advanced and specialized solutions and services in fixed and mobile telephony, contributing significantly to the increase of Indexes business efficiency. l B2B Electronic transactions (CosmoOne). About this Report 9 Sustainability Report 2014 1.4 OTE and COSMOTE About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE S.A. is the parent company of OTE Group and the main fixed line operator in Greece, offering broadband, fixed-line telephony, TV, data and leased line services. In 2014, the company recorded revenues of EUR 1,511.7 billion and on the 31 December 2014, it employed 6,924 employees on permanent contracts. Institutional Investors Employees 42.8% Private Investors 7.0% OTE Group Ownership Structure (31/12/2014) Own Shares Hellenic State* Society 0.3% 10.0% Deutsche Telekom Environment 40.0% * Including voting rights attached to the 4% of the share capital has been transferred to the pension fund. COSMOTE S.A., OTE’s fully-owned subsidiary, is the leading provider of mobile telephony services in Greece, focusing on innovation, quality and customer care. In 2014, COSMOTE had revenues of €1,202.2 million and on 31 December 2014, employed 2,050 employees. OTE Group Subsidiaries OTE, COSMOTE and their subsidiary companies do not receive any government financial subsidies, state aid, special tax relief or other government financial support. Indexes About this Report 10 Sustainability Report 2014 Financial Performance About this Report OTE-COSMOTE Financial Performance (million €) OTE A.E. COSMOTE A.E. 2013 2014 2013 2014 Total Revenues 1,557.2 1,511.7 1,281.0 1,202.2 CR Strategy and Payroll and employee benefits (44.5) (315.1) (98.1) (89.8) Cost of early retirement program (250.9) 0.0 (4.2) (0.9) Management Interconnection and roaming cost (140.2) (119.8) (69.0) (64.8) Depreciation, amortization and impairment (322.5) (279.4) (212.8) (200.4) Merchandise costs (30.0) (50.3) (155.0) (144.8) Other operating expenses (384.8) (444.2) (474.0) (473.2) Marketplace Economic Contribution OTE and COSMOTE Economic Contribution (million €) OTE A.E. COSMOTE A.E. 2013 2014 2013 2014 Employees Revenues 1,557.2 1,511.7 1,281.0 1,202.2 Operating costs (ex. depreciation and VES) (999.5) (916.6) (796.0) (772.6) Employee wages and benefits (444.5) (315.1) (98.1) (89.8) Payments to providers of capital (161.5) (168.0) (143.3) (143.3) Payments to the Greek government (9.7) (58.2) (88.9) (19.5) Investments for the Community (1.1) (1.3) (1.6) (1.6) Society Economic value retained (58.8) 52.5 153.1 257.1 Products and Services OTE, first in Greece in collaboration with Fon, offered OTE offers fixed telephony and broadband in 2014 the OTE My WiFi, service which allows OTE Environment services, with high VDSL speeds up to 50 Mbps, Double Play customers exclusively to connect to and television services, via satellite or broadband. the Internet via WiFi free of charge, even outside Full details of all OTE products and services are their home. This new service has come to change available on the OTE website. customers’ everyday lives, ensuring extensive WiFi coverage (the community of users of OTE My WiFi In 2014, OTE expanded its VDSL network to includes more than 200,000 hotspots in Greece and additional areas throughout Greece. A total of 367 more than 14 million points worldwide), security OTE Group local exchanges in urban areas and 2,732 outdoor and quality connection. Subsidiaries cabinets in areas such as Attica, Thessaloniki, Alexandroupolis, Komotini, Xanthi, Serres, Crete, In the field of pay-TV, OTE TV in 2014 continued Rhodes, Santorini, Samos, Nafplio, Tripoli, Sparta, its market advance by adding 100,000 new Patras, Agrinio, Corfu, Argostoli, Ioannina, Preveza, subscribers thus exceeding 353,000 subscribers at Kastoria, Grevena, Karditsa, Trikala, Galaxidi, Lamia the end of the year, while continuing its program and others, host the OTE VDSL service offering and services enrichment. The acquisition of TV Indexes speeds up to 50 Mbps. More than 1.3 million rights for the top European Football competitions, households and businesses throughout Greece UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League, have access to these new ultra high speeds. for the 2015-2018 period, and the agreements About this Report 11 Sustainability Report 2014 with major Hollywood studios such as MGM and OTE is the Greek Universal About this Report NBC-Universal for exclusive firsts are noteworthy. Service Provider With more than 80 digital channels OTE TV, of The Universal Service in the Electronic which 26 with high definition, at their disposal, Communications Sector, is the provision of a fixed the OTE TV subscribers enjoy over 50 live sports set of basic Electronic Communications services broadcasts a week, more than 500 premieres to all citizens of Greece, regardless of their and 2,000 movies in total per year, quality geographic location and at affordable prices. OTE documentaries, children programs and content for is the designated Universal Service Provider for CR Strategy and the whole family, at the most competitive prices. Greece, undertaking a notable task in challenging Management COSMOTE offers pre and post-paid billing services, times for Greece. mobile Internet services (COSMOTE is the first company in Greece which offered 4G services), value added services, roaming services, as well as mobile devices (smartphones, tablets) and accessories. Full details of all COSMOTE products Marketplace and services are available on the COSMOTE website. To meet its customers’ needs, COSMOTE, further expanded its 4G network to cover 70% of the population, thus making it the 4G network with the widest coverage in Greece in 2014. COSMOTE’s 4G network covers all urban areas with more than Employees 50,000 inhabitants, many smaller towns across the country, and all popular tourist destinations. A pioneer yet again, COSMOTE initiated in 2014 pilot testing for the upgrade of its 4G network to 4G+, in order to offer speeds of up to 300Mbps. To this end, the company fully utilized the enhanced capabilities of its network after the acquisition of the new Society spectrum at 800MHz and 2.6GHz. COSMOTE commercially launched its 4G+ network at early 2015. CosmoteBooks is another COSMOTE service. It’s the largest online bookstore in Greece, with more than Environment 2,000,000 books in print and digital form as well as toys, stationery and children’s movies, available with just one click at special prices. CosmoteBooks is available online and via special applications for smartphones and tablets. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes About this Report 12 Sustainability Report 2014 CR Strategy 2.0 and Management Indexes OTE Group Environment Society Employees Marketplace CR Strategy and About this Report Subsidiaries Management CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY About this Report STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Corporate Responsibility is embedded in our core business strategy, with our CR initiatives fully in line with our business objectives. CR Strategy and Management Corporate Responsibility Strategy CR Management We improve our performance in 4 strategic pillars: Our management is strongly MORE INFO committed to Corporate Responsibility OTE GROUP CHAIRMAN OVERSEES CR STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE Marketplace Marketplace Employees Environment Society WE STRIVE TO IMPROVE OUR CR MANAGEMENT CR Indexes PROCESS MORE INFO We participate in international CR indexes We practice sustainable development. MORE INFO Two new CR policies: Employees ΟΤΕ Group ΟΤΕ Group Since 2008 Since 2010 Since 2013 Social Charter CR Policy Stakeholders / Our stakeholders dialogue is the basis for sustainable development Society MORE INFO Environment Business Science, research State / Government Customers, prospective and education entities customers OTE Group Stakeholder mapping review & updating with Subsidiaries the participation of the Top Management Media NGO’s and interest groups MORE INFO Indexes Employees, prospective employees and Shareholders, bondholders, Suppliers their representives investorsand their representives CR Strategy and Management 14 Sustainability Report 2014 2.1 CR Strategy About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace The strategic objective of OTE and COSMOTE is to be modern, dynamic, customer-oriented, high performance companies that provide the best quality service, the best network and the best working environment and hold a leading position in the markets they operate. In order to achieve this goal the companies are based on a transformation programme, having as it’s main pillars: technology leadership, best customer experience, revenue transformation, lead in Employees core business, operational and cost optimization, as well as people strategy. The two Companies seek with each action to reinforce their sustainable entrepreneurship, cultivating simultaneously continuing dialogue with their interested parties. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 15 Sustainability Report 2014 OTE Group’s vision on Corporate Responsibility About this Report OTE Group, one of the leading telecommunications enterprises in Europe, having incorporated the principles of corporate responsibility in its operation and activities pursues its economic development, simultaneously contributing to environmental protection and the support of society. CR Strategy and OTE and COSMOTE, define their priorities on strengthening their approach to managing Corporate Responsibility in the following four corporate risks and business continuity, by Management strategic pillars that encompass the most important investing in developing responsible products issues for the operation and their stakeholders: and services, by continuing the restructuring l Marketplace of the Companies with the aid of a common They invest in the continuous improvement of corporate culture, while supporting new local telecommunications infrastructure and entrepreneurship and socially vulnerable groups Marketplace expansion of services and products, using the and strengthening the procedures and actions for best available technology solutions. They work good environmental management. with customer-oriented philosophy, to maximize Finally, in order to continuously improve their customer satisfaction, but also in a responsible performance in Corporate Responsibility, OTE and manner, launchimg innovative and sustainable COSMOTE proceeded in 2014 to: products and services and asking their suppliers to operate under the same principles. l develop the Corporate Responsibility Policy and the Social Charter of the Group Employees Employees redefine their stakeholders l l They provide a sustainable work environment for their employees, having their values as a l improve materiality analysis methodology driver, as expressed in the Corporate Conduct and finally Principles. They encourage the development of l upgrade the approach for supply chain their employees, recognize good performance, management. Society ensure equality in providing opportunities and promote cooperation. ΟΤΕ Group Corporate Responsibility l Society The OTE Group Policy on Corporate Responsibility, In a difficult time for the Greek economy and among other specifies: society, they support vulnerable social groups l The way in which it evaluated all CR issues and and communities, with a view to covering Environment areas affected by it. directly important needs. They invite employees to participate, promoting voluntary action. l The general action plan implemented by the Group and the governance structure of l Environment Corporate Responsibility to act as the basis for They aim at reducing the environmental impact successful management. of their activities, providing products and services that contribute to environmental protection also In this Policy, the basic corporate responsibility OTE Group in other sectors of the economy, and at raising principles that should be considered when Subsidiaries public awareness to adopt a more responsible planning actions of Corporate Responsibility, attitude to environmental protection. and the obligations and duties of the authorities responsible for the development, monitoring and In 2014, a year of continuing economic pressures coordinating the implementation of operations and difficulties in Greece, both companies focused through well-documented procedures, are set out. on safeguarding their operational transformation Its procedures will also make it possible to record and optimization,of their position and on creating Indexes the performance and progress achieved, to identify the base for further growth. OTE and COSMOTE opportunities for improvement and the optimal CR maintained their objective of improving their measures development, so as to respond to social performance in Corporate Responsibility, by challenges and priorities. CR Strategy and Management 16 Sustainability Report 2014 It also defines the governance structure of are developed and supplied. At the same time, it About this Report Corporate Responsibility, identifies areas of sets the rules to be followed by the entire Group, responsibilities and tasks as well as the forms on human rights, sustainable development and of cooperation on Corporate Responsibility environmental protection, equal opportunities, between the various stakeholders, and the Central health and safety and employees’rights. It has Administration of the Group and its subsidiaries. been developed in accordance with internationally accepted standards, guidelines and regulations, The Policy was developed in 2014 and was approved the International Bill of Human Rights, the CR Strategy and according to the company procedures in 2015. Core Conventions of the International Labour Organization, the guidelines of the Organisation for Management Social Charter of the ΟΤΕ Group Economic Cooperation and Development and the OTE Group declares its commitment to ethical Global Compact of the United Nations. The text is in corporate governance through the Group’s new line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Social Charter. Human Rights. The OTE Group Social Charter of the lays down The Charter is to be the guide for the conduct for Marketplace the working conditions and social standards, all employees, investors, customers and suppliers under which the Group’s products and services of the Group. Key achievements in 2014 Development of the OTE Group Corporate Responsibility Policy. Employees l l Development of the OTE Group Social Charter. l Strengthening of the substantive sustainability issues analysis process according to the approach of Corporate Risk Management of the Group. l Participation in the FTSE4Good and Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 indices. l Improvement of the communication of Corporate Responsibility performance to stakeholders, Society adopting a new interactive on-line presentation of this Sustainability Report. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 17 Sustainability Report 2014 2.2 CR Governance and About this Report CR Strategy and Management Management Structure Marketplace The new OTE Group Corporate Responsibility Policy reflects the integrated Corporate Responsibility governance structure, through which the integration of issues related to sustainable development in key business processes, is achieved. The subsidiaries of the Group develop and implement their Employees own Corporate Responsibility activities, which are harmonized with the Corporate Responsibility strategy of OTE Group. The Board of Directors of OTE is responsible for the The Corporate Responsibility Department/Fixed performance of the Group with regards to Corporate and Mobile, which falls under the Corporate Responsibility. It is the competent body, according Communications Division of the OTE Group, to the organizational structure, and represents is responsible for the implementation of CR Society the interests of OTE as a whole on Corporate strategy and programs. In addition, it coordinates Responsibility issues. The OTE Board of Directors and manages the CR activities and monitors has assigned oversight of the Group’s sustainability the implementation of the objectives and other and Corporate Responsibility issues, to the Chairman relevant actions. It participates and supports and CEO of OTE Group. the International CR Managers Network of the DT Group. The functions of the Corporate Environment Specifically the Executive Director of Corporate Responsibility Department include, inter alia, the Communications Division of OTE Group and implementation and management of regular member of the Management Team of OTE Group: communication with external experts and l Collaborates with the Chairman and CEO of stakeholders. In the new Corporate Responsibility the OTE Group to formulate strategic planning, Policy all the responsibilities of the Corporate policies and CR guidelines for the entire Group. Responsibility Department and the Corporate OTE Group Communications Division are detailed as well as l Participates in the Management Team, works the mode of cooperation with other organizational Subsidiaries with other management executives , to achieve units of the Group, as the CR issues affect all the CR targets and identify new areas of activities of companies. synergy to enhance the performance of the Group on sustainable development issues. All Group subsidiaries are responsible for implementing standards, requirements and l Acts as the focal point of communication Group Corporate Responsibility objectives at Indexes between the CR bodies and as the official local level and at the same time for keeping spokesperson of the Group on any matter the Corporate Communications Division or the related to Corporate Responsibility. Corporate Responsibility Department informed. CR Strategy and Management 18 Sustainability Report 2014 They are solely responsible for the implementation developed. These systems form the Integrated About this Report of local organizational structures of Corporate Management System, which is overseen by the Responsibility, for defining their own CR objectives Management Systems’ Steering Committee. More and tasks, for complying with legal requirements information can be found in the Environmental and Group Corporate Responsibility Strategy, and Management section. for implementing their own budget. Also, the Group’s subsidiaries are required to cooperate, The Corporate Responsibility Department within the OTE Group CR Manages Network, with coordinates the implementation of the social and environmental actions of the Companies, through CR Strategy and the Corporate Responsibility Department and participate in the International CR Managers the operation of Corporate Responsibility and Management Network of DT Group. More information on Environmental Management Sections. With the aim Corporate Responsibility performance of the OTE of being informed about trends and developments Group’s subsidiaries presented in the section in CR matters, staff of the Corporate Responsibility Subsidiaries of ΟΤΕ Group. Department participated in 2014 in events and training seminars on current and running issues of For the management of Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility, such as the details of the Marketplace issues, appropriate quality, health and safety and Social Return On Investment (SROI) method and environment management systems have been the GRI G4 guidelines. The organization structure is presented in the following graph. Boards of Directors Organisation Structure of OTE & COSMOTE Employees Management Systems Chairman & CEO Steering Committee Corporate Communications Division Corporate Responsibility Team OTE Group Society Corporate Responsibility Department Subsidiaries’ Corporate Responsibility Fixed & Mobile Representatives OTE and COSMOTE Environment Corporate Responsibility Environmental Environmental Management Section Management Section Team of OTE and COSMOTE OTE Group In order to collect information regarding the and mobilizing employees of two Companies, to Subsidiaries performance of Corporate Responsibility and to enhancing the visibility of Corporate Responsibility further disseminate the CR principles and actions within the Companies, to meeting CR objectives in different business units of the Companies, a and to creating of a common corporate CR culture. Corporate Responsibility Team OTE-COSMOTE has been created, with 50 representatives from all Corporate Responsibility KPI’s embodied in the business units. The Corporate Responsibility Team aims of personal assessment and individual operating targets executives for OTE Group Indexes is chaired by the Executive Director of Corporate Communications at OTE Group. Corporate Communications Division, and Corporate Responsibility aspects into account in the annual All members of the Corporate Responsibility Team performance evaluation process in the section on contributed significantly to raising awareness Performance Evaluation and Management. CR Strategy and Management 19 Sustainability Report 2014 2.3 Corporate Governance About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace The term “Corporate Governance” refers to a system of principles adopted by a company in order to protect the performance and the interests of shareholders and all its stakeholders. Recognizing the importance of corporate governance principles, and the benefits arising from their adoption, OTE, as a listed company, complies with all legal obligations, follows international practices and standards in this area and opts for the systematic implementation of these principles in all its activities. In particular, OTE as a large capitalization company OTE Group has established the necessary Employees listed on the Athens and London Stock Exchanges mechanisms in order to amend and update at complies with applicable national and international regular intervals its Regulations and Policies aiming law on corporate governance, incorporating to ensure compliance with existing legislation and regulations and compliance practices in its best international policies. mode of operation. At the same time, aiming at Society transparency, efficient administration and optimum The fundamental principles of OTE’s corporate operating performance, OTE follows, although not governance system comprise mainly the following: required by law, best practices for compliance. l Two-way communication between In this context, OTE complies with the Hellenic company stakeholders and the Management Corporate Governance Code (HCG Code) and the of the Company. Hellenic Corporate Governance Council (HCCG, a Environment l Transparency, and control of the Management. joint initiative of HELEX and Hellenic Federation of Enterprises) adopted in October 2013, publishing l Assurance of operational efficiency. and justifying any deviations in its Corporate OTE applies corporate governance regulations Governance Statement (principle of “comply and practices on the basis of three key priorities or explain”), which is part of the Annual Report which include: of the Board of Directors to the General Meeting the designation of the capacities of the OTE Group of Shareholders. l Members of the Board of Directors (Executive, Subsidiaries All relevant provisions and practices are Non-Executive and Independent Members) as incorporated in the company’s Articles of well as the procedures for the required audit of Incorporation, the Internal Operations Regulation, the company’s operations, the Code of Conduct of ΟΤΕ Group and other l the protection of shareholder rights, and Policies adopted by the competent corporate bodies and apply to its operations. l the enhancement of transparency and Indexes information disclosure. CR Strategy and Management 20 Sustainability Report 2014 For more information please visit the webpages of as well as of the OTE Compliance, Enterprise Risks About this Report OTE and COSMOTE: and Corporate Governance Committee, while the https://www.ote.gr/web/guest/corporate/ir/ Board of Directors of COSMOTE, until December corporate-governance 31, 2014, was supported respectively by the Audit Committee and the Remuneration and http://www.cosmote.gr/cosmoportal/page/ Management Nomination Committee. The OTE’s T13_20/section/Corporate_Governance Compensation and Human Resources Committee, It should be noted that also COSMOTE continues is responsible among others, for defining the CR Strategy and to comply voluntarily with the same corporate principles of Corporate Responsibility practices. governance standards, despite the cessation of In 2014 there was no official practice for the Management trading of its shares on the Athens Stock Exchange. evaluation of the Boards of Directors of OTE and COSMOTE and their Committees; however the Boards of Directors Companies are considering their compliance The Boards of Directors (BoD) of OTE and with this requirement of the Greek Code of COSMOTE constitute the top administrative Corporate Governance. Marketplace bodies of the companies. Their aim is to safeguard Compensation of all the Board of Directors the general interests of the companies and Members is approved by the Shareholders’ ensure their operational efficiency. The Boards’ General Assembly. The compensation of executive responsibilities include, among others, convening members of the Board of Directors is covered by General Assemblies of Shareholders, preparing employment contracts, the terms of which are and submitting the Annual Report and financial approved by the Shareholders’ General Assembly. statements to the Annual General Assembly Employees of Shareholders and setting and approving the In accordance with the provisions of Article 9, corporate strategy, while monitoring its execution. paragraph 7 of OTE’s Articles of Incorporation, The OTE General Assembly of Shareholders is also the Executive Members of the Board (in 2014, responsible for appointing the Independent – Non the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Executive Members of the Board of Directors and Officer of the OTE Group) receive no compensation the Members of the Audit Committee, according for their participation in the Board of Directors to the criteria set by the Law, taking into account Meetings or its Committees. Society corporate governance and avoidance of conflict of The Chairman and CEO, in the scope of the annual interest policies. review of the Group strategic objectives, requests Both companies have the same person as from the Boards of Directors, information and the Chairman of the BoD, who is also the CEO. The OTE views of their members on CR issues. Articles of Incorporation (Article 10.1) and the Environment COSMOTE Articles of Incorporation (Aritcle 19.1) provide that the offices of Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO may be held by the same person. ΟΤΕ’s Board of Directors, on 31 December 2014 consisted of eleven (11) members, elected for a three-year term. Of the eleven (11) members, two OTE Group (2) were Executive, four (4) were Non-Executive Subsidiaries and (5) Independent Non-Executive. The gender composition of the Board was ten (10) male and one (1) female. COSMOTE’s Board of Directors, on 31 December 2014, consisted of nine (9) members, elected for a three-year term. All membes were male. The operation of the Board of Directors of OTE Indexes is supported by OTE’s Audit Committee and Compensation and Human Resources Committee, CR Strategy and Management 21 Sustainability Report 2014 2.4 Risk and Compliance About this Report CR Strategy and Management Management and Policies Marketplace Business activities are subject to uncertainty. This uncertainty may originate outside the company or result from the company’s own actions. Often, uncertainty is synonymous with the definition of risk. By systematically tracking uncertainty, it is possible to adopt appropriate measures early on, Employees reduce risks and make systematic use of opportunities. For this reason, a well-functioning risk and compliance management system is a core element of value-based corporate management supporting efforts to secure the company’s success in a sustainable way. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 22 Sustainability Report 2014 As part of a comprehensive compliance, risk and 2.4.1 About this Report insurance management process, the OTE Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate Enterprise Risk and Insurance supports the Board of Directors and Management Management System in the performance of their tasks in managing The Risk and Insurance Management System the Group and meeting their obligations. The OTE (RIMS) at OTE Group comprises a continuous Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate process for the early identification, assessment, is responsible for the continuous development of management, communication and control of CR Strategy and the risk and compliance management systems and risks. Its key goal is to safeguard the OTE Group existence and maintain corporate success. The for the Group-wide insurance strategy. Management analysis of risks and opportunities are not just To that purpose, OTE Group has put in place: limited pure financial view but covers all Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) dimensions. l The Risk and Insurance Management System (RIMS) that supports Management The OTE Group Enterprise Risk Management in its strategic decisions, through the Department, supports decision making in risk Marketplace identification, evaluation and prioritization management issues and is responsible for the of risks, followed by coordinated and costcontinuous development of an early warning effective application of resources to monitor, system for the identification and management control, and minimize the probability and the of corporate risks. It is also responsible for the impact of unfortunate events. insurance strategy, at Group level. l The Compliance Management System (CMS), In the context of implementation of the Risk and to develop a program for managing nonInsurance Management System, the following OTE Employees compliance risk and planning preventive Group Policies are in force: measures for their avoidance with the aim of l OTE Group Risk and Insurance Management safeguarding the Group’s companiesreputation Policy. and to protecting their employees. l Global Policy on Pensions and Risk Benefits of The effectiveness and efficiency of the above OTE Group. mentioned Systems (RIMS and CMS) is Detailed information for RIMS andthe process Society monitored by the OTE Compliance, Enterprise of identification, evaluation and management of Risks and Corporate Governance Committee corporate risks, as well as the main achievements (OTE GRC Committee)1. of OTE Group ERM Department for 2014, are More information about the composition and presented in Corporate Governance Report 2014. the role of the Committee can be found in the Indicatively, in 2014 four OTE Group Risk Reports Corporate Governance Report 2014. Environment were presented in which the major corporate OTE Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance risks of OTE Group and the respective reduction Directorate on a quarterly basis prepare and submit actions were analyzed. A Carried Interim Risk its report to the OTE Compliance, Enterprise Assessment (Risk Pulse) exercise was carried Risks and Corporate Governance Committee out to assess, by the business units involved, the most critical risks, such as those described for its review, evaluation and submission to the in the Corporate Risk Register in order to spur competent corporate bodies (Audit Committee and OTE Group optimization of the mitigation procedures. In Board of Directors OTE)2. Subsidiaries addition the OTE Group Claims Management System was established for more a efficient management of the existing insurance policies of the Group, while the Corporate Risk Management Department participated in the project for the creation and establishment of a single corporate risk management methodology for the DT Group. Indexes 1 An equivalent GRC Committee with similar powers and responsibilities has been established in COSMOTE (COSMOTE CEO’ Decision No. D25/28.03.2013). Both Committees manage CMS and RIMS issues for all OTE Group Companies that have adopted such systems. 2 Similar are the obligations of the business units of theExecutive Director Compliance, ERM and Insurance OTE Group to the COSMOTE Compliance, Enterprise Risks and Corporate Governance Committee. . Relevant reports are submitted to the Cosmote Board of Directors. CR Strategy and Management 23 Sustainability Report 2014 2.4.2 l Whistle-blowing Policy. About this Report Compliance Management l Policy on Avoiding Sexual Harassment within System and Policies the OTE Group. Ensuring compliance is a priority of OTE’s and l Policy on Accepting and Granting of Benefits COSMOTE’s Boards of Directors, as well as of all (updated in 2014). companies belonging to OTE Group in Greece and l Policy on Donations and Sponsorships abroad. Compliance constitutes a solid commitment (updated in 2014). CR Strategy and to the principles of integrity, transparency, justice, professionalism, team spirit, and respect of l Events Policy (updated in 2014). Management the rules and principles, which are essential in l Anti-Fraud Policy. governing the functions of the Companies. l Insider Trading Policy (updated in 2014). To this purpose, the Management has adopted l Policy on Avoiding corruption and other and implemented a Compliance Management Conflicts of Interest (updated in 2014). System (CMS), which covers the compliance of all Marketplace personnel and Management with the legislation l Policy on Employee Relations within OTE Group. in force, the Code of Conduct and internal l Policy on Anti-Trust Law. policies of the Group. In doing so all shareholders, the Companies per see, the employees, the The OTE Group Code of Conduct and relevant customers, the suppliers and the public, benefit. policies, among others, prohibit corporate The effectiveness of the Compliance Management donations or contributions to political organizations System is based on the creation of a strategy for or persons, or the use of OTE funds or assets for Employees the development of a risk management program political purposes. In addition, the organization of and related preventive measures to address them, a company event, the acceptance or the rejection with a view to safeguarding corporate reputation of a sponsorship or donation or corporate gift, and the protection of employees and Companies of must be approved following specific rules that are the Group. defined by the Compliance Management System and are applicable to all employees. In order to provide the possibility of filing tip-offs Society regarding violations of policies, of regulations In 2014, the OTE, COSMOTE and Telekom and of the legislation in force, all companies Romania Compliance Management Systems were of the OTE Group have established a Whistlesuccessfully reviewed and certified regarding the blowing Policy and necessary communication risk area: Ant-Trust”, according to the Ass S 980 channels. Under this Policy, each employee and/ standard by independent external auditors, who or third parties (customers, suppliers, partners, confirmed the adequacy, implementation and Environment etc.) can, eponymously or anonymously, report effectiveness of the CMS procedures (Certification through the relevant communication channels, for Compliance with the “Law of Free Competition» noncompliance incidents, delinquent behavior Anti-Trust Certification 2014). The audit included: or express a concern or a complaint on possible l Review of the Compliance Management System violations of corporate policies or legislation. procedures comcerning this risk area, to ensure In the context of implementation of the that they comply with the requirements of the standard, and that the procedures adopted OTE Group Compliance Management System, the following and implemented by the companies in order to Subsidiaries Policies and Codes are in force, which are reviewed and revised at regular intervals or when a relevant ensure that issues related to legislation on free need arises because of legislation: competition are reviewed and/or approved by the responsible legal department/s. l Group Code of Conduct. l Training (eLearning and classroom trainings) l Code of Conduct for the protection of the addressd to the executives of the organizational Individual’s Right to Privacy in the handling of Indexes units dealing with competition issues, in Personal Data within OTE Group. order for them to understand issues of l Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers. Anti-trust legislation. CR Strategy and Management 24 Sustainability Report 2014 Compliance Achievements in 2014 In the scope of the correct implementation of About this Report In 2014, the responsible persons of OTE and the Compliance Management System and in order COSMOTE Compliance team, carried out the to avoid any risks arising from the cooperation with Compliance Risk Assessment Compliance for OTE suppliers, consultants and other partners, and COSMOTE. In the Group risk Landscape which a procedure has been developed as “Integrity is annually compiled by Compliance, are included Check/Compliance Business Assessment”. incidents of active and passive corruption, conflict In 2014, the above procedure has been enhanced of interest, breaches of personal data, violations and optimized as the basis for its practices for the CR Strategy and of Anti-Trust Law, incidents of abuse of privileged avoidance of corruption, and acts as the terms of internal policies of the Group. During 2014, Management information, etc. integrity checks of 662 suppliers, consultants and The Compliance Measure Plan for 2015 was partners were performed. formulated based on the results of the Compliance risk assessment held in 2014. The results of the The Compliance Training Program in 2014 included Risk Assessment and the respective Plan, were classroom training seminars and electronic educational programs (e-learning) for managerial Marketplace initially presented to the Compliance, Corporate Risk and Corporate Governance Committees in and non-managerials positions of OTE and OTE and COSMOTE and afterwards to the Audit COSMOTE. The subjects covered by the above Committees of OTE and COSMOTE and approved by training program, included avoidance of corruption the Board of Directors of OTE in December 2014. and other conflicts of interest, and compliance with the Anti-Trust Law. Employees Details on the participation of OTE and COSMOTE employees in this training program are presented in the following tables. Anti-Corruption Training Program Training session Employees in scope Number of Participation rate (%) employees trained Classroom training 717 516 71.97 E-learning 1,787 1,320 73.86 Society Total 2,504 1,836 73.32 Training program for the compliance with the Anti-Trust Law Environment Training session Employees in scope Number of Participation rate (%) employees trained Class training 209 186 88.99 E-learning 483 454 93.99 Total 692 640 92.48 OTE Group Subsidiaries Within the context of the internal communication which was posted on the corporate intranet. The of significant messages by management to all message stressed that OTE Group “apply the employees, on 9 December 2014 (International principles of the UN Global Compact human rights, United Nations Day against Corruption), in labour standards, environment and anti-corruption”. cooperation with the OTE Group Corporate Communications Division, an awereness campaign Furthermore, in July 2014, five years of the establishment and implementation of a uniform Indexes took place, addressed to all employees in the Group, which included an internal announcement Compliance Management System(CMS) across signed by the Chairman and CEO of OTE Group and the Group OTE were completed. In collaboration an e-mail to all employees of OTE and COSMOTE with the Corporate Communications Division an CR Strategy and Management 25 Sustainability Report 2014 awareness campaign was held addressed to the no cases of corruption regarding contracts with About this Report whole Group, during which the employees were business partners, which would have resulted in informed about the achievements of the CMS and the cancellation of the contract or non-renewal the certifications and distinctions received. thereof. Finally, there have been no convictions by judicial authorities for corruption against OTE, In the framework of implementing the Code of COSMOTE employees. Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, the Board members and the senior financial executives Finally, in addition to investigating tip offs received CR Strategy and signed the statements and submitted them to the via the Compliance channels, the relevant OTE Group Compliance Office, stating that they Compliance business unit investigates also cases Management have been informed about the requirements of the regarding possible violations of the company’s Code and comply with its provisions aiming at an regulatory framework, following a relevant request honest and ethical business conduct. by the OTE Group Chief Human Resources Officer. The Annual Compliance Compliance and the Further information found in Corporate Governance Statement on Conflict of Interest signed by Report 2014. Marketplace the members of the Board of Directors and the management teams of all the OTE Group companies. In 2014, OTE Group employees were in 2.4.3 scope for singning these statements. Internal Audit In 2014 the Internal Audit Directorate of OTE In 2014, the relevant channels of Compliance Group, with its renewed organizational structure, received a total of 832 tip offs/complaints, of completed successfully audits in the fixed and Employees which 58 were related to rules and compliance mobile telephony Companies and Subsidiaries policies, while the remaining 774 were, in the and agreed to requests of the Administration majority, customer complaints on technical/ for more than 200 new audits to strengthen the commercial matters, which are not related to control environment in the Group’s companies, compliance risks. In accordance with the provisions contributing directly or indirectly to their cost of the Compliance Management System, an optimization through reductions in operating investigation was carried out for each of the tip costs and strengthening the relevant checks. Society offs related to compliance issues. It should be The adoption of a common methodology noted that identifying incidents of corruption and harmonized procedures for the internal results to a series of measures (according to audits and the use of software tools for the the provisions of the OTE employees’ Internal organization of the audit work, resulted in the Regulation, internal policies and the decisions of successful certification of the OTE Group Internal Management/Committee) according to the nature Audit Directorate by an external body after Environment of the incident. conducting relevant external quality assessment. Thirty five (35) cases, out of the 58 cases, related to In addition, the Internal Audit Directorate is in compliance, were found to be not valid and twenty close cooperation with DT Group, by conducting two (22) were found, following investigation, to joint audits in the three Companies of the Group be valid and appropriate measures in each case and exchanging of auditors, thereby promoting were adopted (strict warning, employment contract communication and exchange of best practices. OTE Group termination, the submission of a Statement on Conflicts of interest, establishment/implementation of new controls or revision of existing ones) and Subsidiaries one (1) case is under investigation. The investigation of the compliance-related case of 2011 was concluded, without any findings that required disciplinary action. In 2014, there were no cases in which employees Indexes of OTE and COSMOTE were dismissed or disciplinary sanctions for corruption imposed. Also, there were CR Strategy and Management 26 Sustainability Report 2014 2.5 Stakeholders About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE, both identify their key stakeholders as those groups which have a direct impact or influence on the sustainable success of the two companies. For that reason, an ongoing dialogue with representatives of all stakeholders, without exclusions and discrimination, is the basic rule of the Companies. In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE proceeded, based on information received from communicating Employees with different organizational units of the Companies to redefine their stakeholders. At the same time, through direct communication with stakeholders, they updated the list of recognized stakeholders. Shareholders, Customers bondholders, and investors and prospective Society analysts customers Suppliers Business Environment Employees, OTE-COSMOTE prospective Stakeholders Science, research employees and their and education representatives State/ NGOs and Government interest OTE Group entitles groups Subsidiaries Media Indexes CR Strategy and Management 27 Sustainability Report 2014 In order to further improve the process, OTE and COSMOTE in addition to basic stakeholder groups, proceeded About this Report to the identification of the subgroups that make up these groups of stakeholders. The companies believe that this higher resolution will provide an opportunity for the staff responsible to better monitor the means of communication and the needs of all stakeholders. Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE Customers and prospective Business Science, research and customers education CR Strategy and Management l Youngsters and young adults l ATHEX-listed companies l CR and sustainability research l Families l Other large corporations institutions l Middle-aged people l Small and medium-sized enterprises l Public Policy and business research institutions l Senior citizens l Trade and industry associations l Universities l Small and medium-sized enterprises l Co-operation partners, subsidiaries l Schools Marketplace l Large corporations l Competitors l Student organizations and university l Telecommunications Service associations Providers l Technology and Innovation Research l Public authorities Institutions l Consumer organizations and l ICT SMEs interest groups NGOs and interest groups Media State/Government entities Humanitarian organizations and Daily and weekly newspapers State institutions Employees l l l charities l Newswires and press agencies l Embassies and consulates l Business ethics groups l TV and radio l Supervisory and regulatory authorities l Foundations l Internet, news sites and l Communities, local authorities and l Environmental protection other interest their representatives organizations Society l Social media and blogs l International organizations l Business non-governmental l Journalist associations/media groups l EU level entities organizations l Ownership and media commercial l CR related organizations executives Employees, prospective Suppliers Shareholders, bondholders, employees and their investors and analysts Environment representatives l Employees l First-tier suppliers l Shareholders l Board of Directors l Sub-suppliers l Bondholders l Management Board l Auditors and certification bodies l Financial institutions l Management Team l Consultants l Private investors OTE Group l Unions and work councils l Funds, asset managers and analysts Subsidiaries l Applicants and prospective employees l Rating agencies l Scholars and trainees/interns l Analyst organizations and l Universities/students associations l Institutional investors In finalizing the identification of stakeholders in early 2015, the Senior Management of OTE and COSMOTE Indexes participated, and the final list was approved by the Chairman and CEO of the Group. CR Strategy and Management 28 Sustainability Report 2014 2.5.1 l their views on the social and environmental About this Report performance of OTE and COSMOTE and Stakeholder possible opportunities for cooperation between Engagement Approach companies and NGOs. Both companies operate in accordance with the principles of the “ΑΑ1000 AccountAbility Principles” In addition, meetings were held with Standard, namely Inclusivity, Materiality and representatives of charitable institutions, to Responsiveness, and conduct the Companies’ exchange expertises and views on the management CR Strategy and stakeholder engagement and dialogue accordingly. and implementation of important social initiatives. All the above and those listed in Overview of Management The engagement of stakeholders in this dialogue is ensured by: Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue, show how stakeholders are involved of and form the basis l Conducting a CR stakeholder and opinion for the development of the CR objectives and the leader survey. programs of OTE and COSMOTE, to be included in l Having systematic dialogue and meetings with the business plans of both companies. Responding Marketplace various NGOs and participation in the CR events. to the concerns of NGO that support programs for children in need, for students and for new In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE, through dialogue enterprise, OTE and COSMOTE strengthened their meetings they organized, met with over respective initiatives (e.g. the “OTE-COSMOTE 30 national and international NGOs, active in Scholarship Program” educational programs, various fields such as child support, health, the OTE Telecommunications Museum and the education and environment. The first meeting “Your business.gr” service) and started new Employees was held with NGOs that support vulnerable social (eg Christmas Bazzar at the premises of OTEgroups, such as children and the second with NGOs COSMOTE supporting organizations for children dealing with environmental issues. and support of Educational Robotics Competition The issues discussed at these meetings included: for Elementary School Children). Also, OTE and COSMOTE strengthened existing and created new l the challenges NGOs face and expect to face in corporate volunteering initiatives. More details on the near future, these activities of OTE and COSMOTE, presented in Society l the ways in which the Companies could support the Society section. the achievement of their mission. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 29 Sustainability Report 2014 2.5.2 About this Report Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue The following table provides an overview of OTE and COSMOTE stakeholder dialogue, the main topics raised, and the way the two companies respond to them. Stakeholder Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised OTE’s and Group COSMOTE’s Responsiveness Customers and CR Strategy and Management prospective customers l Customer satisfaction Annual l Activation of products, Marketplace surveys quality of services Contributing to Local (in relation to costs) Marketplace l CR surveys Annual Communities Welll Tracking studies Quarterly l Technical support being and (e.g. web hosting, Sustainability l Call centers Ongoing DNS services, IPVPN) Electromagnetic l Customer account Ongoing l Commercial and Fields managers billing issues l Social media Ongoing l Mobile telephony Sales network Ongoing operations Employees l l Companies’ websites Ongoing l Improving the way Ongoing customer complaints l Key account managers are handled l Presentations on Ongoing l Safe use of services OTE systems Ongoing l EMF l Companies’ mail boxes Ongoing l Responsible Marketing l Press releases (e.g. consumer rights) Society l Corporate Ongoing l Introduction of new announcements technologies l Business Conferences Ongoing l Data security and privacy l Business Customer Ongoing l Road reconstructions, Events retaining walls etc. l Advertisements Ongoing Environment l CR Report Annual Business l Press Releases Ongoing l Corporate governance OTE Group l Economic Results Quarterly l Economic performance OTE and COSMOTE Releases l Market Presence Corporate Governance OTE Group l Roadshows Ongoing l Procurement Practices Marketplace Subsidiaries l Meetings Ongoing l Employment Human Resources l Conference calls Ongoing l Joint actions to improve l Annual Reports Annual the competitive l Presentations Ongoing environment and influence the Greek state l Trainings Ongoing policies l CR Report Annual Actions to reduce cost Indexes l and optimize coverage CR Strategy and Management 30 Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholder Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised OTE’s and About this Report Group COSMOTE’s Responsiveness Science, research and education l Meetings Frequently l Cooperative schemes Internet Security and with research Public Awareness CR Strategy and l Conference calls Ongoing organizations Research and l Ε-mails Ongoing Management l New technology Innovation l Dissemination Frequently products and services activities (workshops, Supporting Education conferences, etc.) l Communication safety l Conferences Ongoing l Technology awareness l Surveys Ongoing Marketplace l CR Report Annual NGOs and interest groups l Meetings Bi-annually l Importance of adopting CR Sustainability Report l CR surveys Annual l Internet Safety public (all sections) Conferences Ongoing education Employees l l Emails Ongoing l Support for vulnerable groups and charities l Working groups Ongoing l Social Contribution l Consultation Ongoing l EMF, Biodiversity l CR Report Annual l Environmental performance Media Society l Announcements/ Ongoing l Management/ Sustainability Report Press releases governance (all sections) l Informational material Ongoing l HR issues/labour issues l Events/Press Ongoing l Industry developments conferences and market structure Environment l Other media contacts Ongoing l Technology advances/ l CR surveys Annual network infrastructure l CR Report Annual l New product launches l TV market l Technology and telecommunications OTE Group l Business and finance policies l Culture Subsidiaries l CR Indexes CR Strategy and Management 31 Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholder Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised OTE’s and About this Report Group COSMOTE’s Responsiveness State/Government entities l Consultations on Ongoing l Implementation of Corporate Governance proposed laws and regulatory measures Compliance CR Strategy and regulatory frameworks applying to OTE Management System for telecommunication Issues of effective and Policies Management l markets regulatory adjustment Responsible l Written or verbal Ongoing l Specialized national Competition communication with goals for European regulatory and public Expanding of Digital Agenda Strategy Broadband and Mobile sector bodies l Transparency Internet in Greece Dialogue with Ongoing Marketplace l representatives of l Governance Responsible national and local l Economic growth Marketing authorities Contributing to l Energy and environment l CR surveys Annual Local Communities’ l Infrastructure Well-being and l Attendance in Ongoing construction and Sustainability associations and unions maintenance Environment l Systematic liaison Ongoing l Social security Employees with local authorities (mostly regional) l CR Report Annual Suppliers l Consultation Ongoing l Tender criteria and OTE Group and dialogue on competitions OTE and COSMOTE Society procurement policy/ l Communication on supplier code of Marketplace Strategy supplies issues conduct issues Responsible l Transparency Procurement l Attendance in sectorOngoing based unions l Market Policy and Supply Chain Economic growth Management Meetings Ongoing l l Environment l CR surveys Annual l Inserting CR criteria, including environmental l Suppliers’ evaluation Ongoing criteria l Negotiations Ongoing l Procurement best l Presentation of Ongoing practices new products l Procurement trends l Consultation and Periodic dialogue on OTE Group technical issues Subsidiaries l CR Report Annual Indexes CR Strategy and Management 32 Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholder Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised OTE’s and About this Report Group COSMOTE’s Responsiveness Employees, prospective employees and their representatives CR Strategy and Management l OTE and COSMOTE Ongoing l Labour cost CR Strategy and Intranets rationalization and Management l Decisions on all Ongoing alignment Data Security and important Company l Organizational Privacy issues effectiveness Employees l Meetings with Ongoing l Collective Bargaining Employee Voluntarism Marketplace employees Agreements l Negotiations with Periodic l Fair employment unions and work policy (diversity, councils work-life balance, nonl Emails from the Periodic discrimination, equal Chairman and CEO and opportunities) Executive Directors l Health and safety Employees l Employee satisfaction Biennial l Employee development surveys l Leadership l Employee surveys Periodic l Training results roll out and follow up process l Performance management l CR surveys Annual l Recruitment l Events Periodic l Talent management Society l Performance Annual appraisal system l Engagement and satisfaction l Trainings Ongoing l Employees benefits l Feedback tools Ongoing l Corporate volunteerism l Other surveys Annual l Strategy and all l Workshops/labs Periodic Environment corporate information l Formal company Ongoing dissemination policies/processes l Compliance issues l Newsletter (electronic) Bi-weekly l Security matters l Internal Ongoing Communication Campaigns CR Report Annual OTE Group l Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 33 Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholder Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised OTE’s and About this Report Group COSMOTE’s Responsiveness Shareholders, bondholders, investors and analysts CR Strategy and l Investor Relations Ongoing l Financial performance Sustainability Report Management Department l Short and longer (all sections) communication term outlook l Annual General Annual l Competitive environment Shareholders Meeting l Cashflow l Annual, Corporate Annual governance report l Debt issuance and repayment Marketplace and CR report l CR surveys Annual l Dividends l Participation in Ongoing l Group strategy corporate and results responsibility ratings l Outlook on labor l Private meetings Ongoing relations, regulatory decisions, economic l Conference Calls Quarterly conditions Employees l Meetings of executives Ongoing l Climate change policy l Adoption and Ongoing implementation of policies and principles l Daily collaboration Ongoing l Conferences arranged Regularly by brokers Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 34 Sustainability Report 2014 2.6 Materiality Analysis About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace In order to improve its approach to the substantive issues of Corporate Responsibility, in 2013, the CR Department proceeded to carry out a materiality analysis taking into account the principles of Operational Risk Management applicable to OTE Group. This process, which was formed and launched in 2013 and completed in early 2014, comprised two phases: l Analysis of material issues by the OTE l Analysis of material issues by the Employees and COSMOTE Management team OTE and COSMOTE stakeholders Twenty four (24) members of OTE and COSMOTE In an event, organized by an independent Management team, from different business organization, nine (9) stakeholders, coming units, participated in prioritizing OTE/COSMOTE from different stakeholder groups (e.g. the material issues for sustainable development. media, NGOs, employees, the Government, The participants were asked to use the rating customers etc.), participated in a workshop, scale developed and used by the OTE Group where they were asked to discuss OTE and Society Enterprise Risk Management Department. COSMOTE CR performance and CR report, and subsequently identify and prioritize the material issues for the companies’ sustainable operation. The stakeholders were asked to use the same rating scale used by the OTE and COSMOTE Management team. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 35 Sustainability Report 2014 This process enabled the CR Department, for the first time, to practically compare internal and external views About this Report of the companies’ material sustainability issues. The results are presented in the following graph.. Significance of Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts to Stakeholders CR Strategy and Management Marketplace Employees Significance of Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts to OTE and COSMOTE Society 1 Corporate governance 15 Employee satisfaction 2 Economic contribution 16 Social products and services 3 Responsible competition 17 Social contribution 4 Expanding broadband and mobile Internet 18 Employee volunteerism 5 Responsible marketing 19 Enabling entrepreneurship 6 Responsible procurement 20 Energy efficiency Environment 7 Public awareness of technology 21 Road transport 8 Customer satisfaction and service 22 Greenhouse gases 9 Data security and privacy 23 Water 10 Health and safety 24 Materials and waste 11 Fair employment 25 EMF 12 Employee development 26 Visual impact 13 Employee benefits 27 Noise 14 Internal communication 28 Public awareness OTE Group An examination of the graph shows remarkable The procedure for the analysis of materiality, Subsidiaries agreement between the stakeholders and the has a significant role in the overall development Companies’ Management judgment of the of the strategy of both companies. In 2014, importance of the issues. The issues related to the companies worked to further strengthen health and safety of employees are shown to be at their approach to the analysis and evaluation the top of the concern of both, while for only a few of essential corporate responsibility issues. issues, namely visual impact, as well as economic Specifically they proceeded to an initial Indexes contribution, water, energy efficiency and road identification of possible substantive issues, transport, their opinions diverge. which will be the issues list for assessment by CR Strategy and Management 36 Sustainability Report 2014 the Administration OTE and COSMOTE. The two The evaluation process of the material issues About this Report companies took into consideration: by the Companies’ Management shall be l The already recognized important issues for implemented in accordance with the Corporate OTE and COSMOTE. Risk Management Group’s approach and will be completed in 2015 under the supervision of the l The requirements of the guidelines of GRI G4. Corporate Responsibility and the Corporate Risk l The content of the GRI supplement for the Management Departments of the OTE Group. telecommunications industry. The results of the materiality analysis will be CR Strategy and used in matters of CR strategy of companies, l Important issues for the telecommunications but will also form the basis for the development Management industry, stemming from the performance of the 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report of analysts sustainability/SRI. OTE and COSMOTE. l Mapping of the main issues for telecommunications by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. Marketplace l The key issues for the ICT industry as they emerged in 2014 from analysis of the GeSI initiative. l The major issues identified by other companies operating in telecommunications. From this analysis about 75 topics originally Employees emerged, which were divided into the following 10 thematic categories: 1. Governance and Administration. 2. Digital inclusion. 3. Data Privacy and freedom of expression. Society 4. Relations with customers. 5. Role of ICT products and services. 6. Marketplace. 7. Supply chain. Environment 8. Employees. 9. Society. 10. Environment, low carbon footprint and circular economy. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 37 Sustainability Report 2014 2.7 Memberships, Ratings About this Report CR Strategy and Management and Awards Marketplace 2.7.1 Memberships Employees OTE and COSMOTE actively participate in and are informed on the trends and developments in Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. In 2014, the two Companies maintained their voluntary participation, through their membership in a number of national and international bodies, which they consider of strategic importance, both from a commercial and social point of view. An indicative list of organizations and initiatives of which OTE and/or COSMOTE are active members, is given in the following Table: Organization/Initiative Company Participation Type Society National level Association of ICT Companies in Greece OTE / COSMOTE Members. OTE is a member since 1998 and (SEPE) COSMOTE since 1997 Association of Mobile Telephony COSMOTE Founding member since 2008. The association Environment Companies (EEKT) aims to strengthen collaboration and promote issues of common interest, among mobile telephony providers in Greece Hellenic Network for Corporate Social OTE / COSMOTE Members. OTE is a member since 2001 and Responsibility COSMOTE since 2005 Hellenic branch of UN Global Compact OTE / COSMOTE Members since 2008. OTE and COSMOTE have (UNGC) committed, through their CEO, to implement, OTE Group disclose, and promote the 10 universal principles of Subsidiaries UNGC and to release a Communication on Progress (COP) report annually Federation of Hellenic Enterprises (SEV) COSMOTE Member since 2014 Council for Sustainable Development Indexes CR Strategy and Management 38 Sustainability Report 2014 Organization / Initiative Company Participation Type About this Report National level Initiative Sustainable Greece 2020 ΟΤΕ / COSMOTE Participation since 2014, as Ambassadors of Sustainability . Initiative Sustainable Greece 2020 aims to develop a structured dialogue and the creation of methodologies and tools that will support Greece's course towards sustainable CR Strategy and development at both the microeconomic and macro level Management Corporate Responsibility Institute, Greece OTE Member since 2008 Global Sustain OTE / COSMOTE Member since 2007 “SafeNet”, Greek self-regulatory body for OTE Founding member since 1999 the Internet content Road Safety Institute “Panos Mylonas” COSMOTE Member and sponsor since 2009 Marketplace “Roads to the Future” Alliance for safety COSMOTE Member and sponsor since 2009. A Memorandum and courtesy on the road of Cooperation has been signed European Level ETNO Sustainability Working Group OTE Founding member of ETNO since 1992 and member of Sustainability Working Group since 2007. OTE signed the Sustainability Charter in 2011. Employees European Telecommunications COSMOTE Member since 1998 Standards Institute (ETSI) International level GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) OTE Member since 2010 Global Reporting Initiative OTE Member and Organizational Stakeholder since 2007 GSM Association (GSM) COSMOTE Member of the World Association of Mobile Communications Services since 1997. COSMOTE Society actively participates in many of its workgroups InternationalTelecommunication OTE Associated member, since the beginning of the 90’s Union – (ITU) Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 39 Sustainability Report 2014 2.7.2 Also, in 2014, OTE responded to requests About this Report received by the company “Sustainalytics”, a Ratings premier organization in research and analysis of The business activities of OTE and COSMOTE aim environmental issues, and social and corporate at adding value to the sustainable development governance (ESG), providing services to of the Companies. The Corporate Communications international investors and financial institutions, Division of the OTE Group through its Corporate and the Generali Investments Europe, the fund Responsibility Department coordinates, monitors management company of Group Generali, one CR Strategy and and manages the requests received by the of the largest fund management companies in Companies from sustainable development Europe. The Generali Investments Europe assessed Management performance and SRI analysts. Working closely with the OTE on the basis of the 34 criteria of socially the OTE Group Investor Relations Division, as well responsible investment (SRI) methodology. as all other organizational units of the companies as appropriate, they respond fully to these request for further information. Marketplace ΟTE participates, since 2010, in the “Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)” index on climate change, completing the respective questionnaire and Since 2008, OTE meets all the requirements and notifying the required information to the platform is a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series. The of the CDP. The CDP is the largest reporting and FTSE4Good stock market index was created by Employees cooperation on climate change platform worldwide, the global index company FTSE Group, to facilitate focusing on the information needs of investors. investment in companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. In 2014 FTSE proceeded to strengthen the evaluation criteria for the inclusion of an organization in the FTSE4Good Index. OTE following a new evaluation continues to be included in the FTSF4Good index. Since 2008, OTE participates in the Corporate Society Responsibility Index CRI Greece, the organization which is run by the Institute of Corporate Social Responsibility, in collaboration with BITC (Business in the Community). In 2008-2009, OTE received the “Silver” distinction, the “Gold” distinction for the OTE in December 2013 was included in the biennium 2010-2011 and the “Platinum” one for Environment Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index, and continues 2012. The assessment for 2013 and 2014, for OTE to remain in it following the new assessment in and COSMOTE jointly, resulted in the award of the June 2014. The Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 “Platinum” distinction and at the same time in 2013 index aims to promote and support responsible they resieved the “Best Award Marketplace”, while investment. OTE is the only Greek company in 2014 they resieved the “Best Award Society”. between leading eurozone companies that participates in the index. The Euronext Vigeo OTE Group Eurozone 120 is one of the seven sustainability 2.7.3 Subsidiaries indices created by Euronext, the largest stock Awards exchange group in the world, and Vigeo, leading During 2014, OTE and COSMOTE received fifteen European rating agency groups and companies (15) awards and recognitions for their CR in sustainable development issues, to promote commitments and actions, as follows: and support responsible investments. This l At the Environmental Awards 2015, organized index includes companies that stand out for Indexes by Boussias Communications, the two their performance in environmental, social Companies were among the top 5 winners, and and corporate governance and contribute to were awarded for their overall performance a sustainable development. CR Strategy and Management 40 Sustainability Report 2014 Grand Award and three “Gold” awards in l COSMOTE has received the “Award for LongAbout this Report the categories: Term Cooperation and work on Corporate – Environmental CSR Category. Social Responsibility”, in the context of – Climate Protection-GHG Offset. participation in the ECOGEM and EMERALD research projects at the awards “Ethos l At the Enterprise Awards MONEY-George Sustainability Awards 2014” contest. Ouzounis, OTE took the following awards: l OTE and COSMOTE received the “Silver” – 1st place ward for “Best Company – 2014.” award in the category “Change management – CR Strategy and – 2nd place award for “Corporate Social Redefining culture and internal communication Responsibility – 2014”. Management – Mergers and acquisitions” at the l At the International Conference “Future “HR Excellence Awards 2014” contest. Internet Assembly 2014” (FIA-2014), OTE l At the National Customer Service Awards 2014, participating as the coordinator of the European organized by the Greek Institute of Customer research program LiveCity, received the “Best Service (EIEP), OTE won 1st place in the Demonstration Award”. Marketplace category “Customer Service of the Year/ l In the “Health & Safety Awards 2014” event, Large Team”. OTE Group received two important distinctions: l From the company P3 Communications, – A “Gold” award in the category “Health and COSMOTE has received two certificates of Safety” of the telecommunications industry. excellence for: – A “Gold” award in the category “Health and – “Best data services for smartphone”. wellness programs”. Employees – “Best mobile broadband data services”. l OTE was declared “Company of the Year” at the awards of the 16th International Conference InfoCom World. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 41 Sustainability Report 2014 2.8 2014 CR Performance About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace The key 2014 financial, environmental and social performance ratings for the two Companies are presented in the Table below. More information on performance analysis, computation assumptions or clarifications for the data presented can be found in the relevant sections of the Report. 2014 CR Performance OTE COSMOTE Employees Financial Perforamnce Total revenues (mn €) 1,511.7 1,202.2 Payroll and employee benefits (mn €) (315.1) (89.8) Total operating expenses (mn €) (1,208.8) (973.9) EBITDA (mn €) 586.4 431.8 Pro forma EBITDA1 (mn €) 599.2 432.7 Society Income taxes paid (mn €) 58.2 19.4 Fees and commissions to third parties (incl. taxes other than income taxes and (331.8) (204.2) regulatory charges) (mn €) Marketplace Environment Fixed-line subscribers 2,761,773 – Mobile telephony subscribers – 7,279,669 Broadband subscribers 1,389,871 – TV subscribers 353,482 – OTE Group Loyalty index (TRIM) 69 66 Subsidiaries Total CAPEX (incl. spectrum payments) (mn €) 222.3 198.6 Evaluation, on the basis of sustainability criteria, of suppliers 72% 95% (% of the procurement volume) Number of complaints received from customers 211,225 159,721 Indexes Percentage of complaints received from customers that were 52% 80% resolved within 2 days CR Strategy and Management 42 Sustainability Report 2014 2014 CR Performance OTE COSMOTE About this Report Employees Number of employees of indeterminant term contracts 6,924 2,050 Percentage of female employees 31% 51% Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (%) 99% 92% CR Strategy and Employee turnover as percentage of total employees 0,6% 0,6% Management Work-related fatal accidents (number of employees) 0 0 Work-related non-fatal accidents (number of employees) 37 14 Work-related non-fatal accidents (lost days) 1,8842 2713 Health and safety training (hours/employee) 0.64 1.02 Marketplace Training hours (hours/employee) 11.88 13.55 Number of complaints received regarding discrimination 0 0 requiring corrective actions Society Sponsorships Donations (incl. in-kind) (€) 1,330,087 1,612,468 Employees Number of volunteering projects 4 Employee volunteering (number of employees) 6,182 People supported (estimated) 882,933 Environment Society Electricity consumption (GWh) 250.94 157.38 District heating and fuel consumption in buildings and installations (GWh) 9.51 12.64 Fuel consumption in vehicles fleet (GWh) 28.08 8.10 Direct (scope 1) CO2 emissions (t) 9,009.75 5,309.81 Environment Indirect (scope 2) CO2 emissions (t) 171,891.04 107,804.70 Hazardous waste (t) 234.08 87.44 Non-hazardous technical waste from telecom operations (t) 1,672.54 302.73 Recycling of phone devices (mobile and fixed) and accessories (t) 23.88 6.46 OTE Group Number of measurements on EMF conducted by specialized scientific – 81 Subsidiaries personnel of the company and independent institutions For the visualization of key CR indicators of the companies for the years 2012 – 2014, see the Data Center. Notes: Indexes 1 Excluding impact of Voluntary Retirement Programs and Restructuring Plans. 2 The number of days lost refers to calendar days. 3 The number of days lost refers to working days. CR Strategy and Management 43 Sustainability Report 2014 2.9 2014 and 2015 Goals About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace 2.9.1 CR Strategy and Management 2014 Goals 2014 Performance CR Strategy and Management Employees OTE-COSMOTE: Further strengthen of the materiality IP See Materiality Analysis analysis by involving more parties in the process OTE-COSMOTE: Development of the Corporate F See CR Strategy Responsibility Policy OTE-COSMOTE: Annual Reporting according to IP See Report Profile GRI G4 guidelines Since 2014, OTE and COSMOTE are analyzing the new Society guidelines GRI G4 and took a series of actions (eg strengthening the Corporate Responsibility strategy through the development of the Corporate Responsibility Policy and the Social Charter, improving the methodology of their materiality analysis, upgrading supply chain management) that will enable Companies to move in a correct and structured way toward the adoption of the Sustainable Development Report Environment 2015 in accordance with the instructions GRI G4 OTE-COSMOTE: Enhancing the use of digital media F Following the effort made for the 2013 Report, the for performance dissemination and corporate Sustainability Report for the year 2014 is exclusively responsibility reporting available online The Report is significantly different compared to the previous ones both as regards the enriched content, the onlineoriented design and the interactive tools included OTE Group It has been designed and written based on the individual information needs of all stakeholders namely: Subsidiaries l Full Information and transparency on corporate responsibility strategy, results of operations and the performance of companies l Easy access and navigation of the user/reader l Clear presentation of the information using audio-visual material, infographics, diagrams and interactive tools Indexes l Possibility of processing quantitative data, through the use of the online tool “Data Charting Tool” l Ability to save offline the full content or individual sections of the Report Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially IP = In Progress N = Not Achieved CR Strategy and Management 44 Sustainability Report 2014 2014 Goals 2014 Performance About this Report Risk and Compliance Management OTE-COSMOTE: Alignment of all business units’ risk IP Cooperation with business units involved has already started assessments to the Group ERM Methodology, in order for the coordination and alignment of all risk assessments, to improve the effectiveness of risk management according to the Group ERM Methodology. This process will procedures, and controls by al business units continue in 2015, it is part of the implementation of the new Group ERM Methodology, and the gap analysis of the degree CR Strategy and of adaptation RIMS with standard ISO 31000 OTE-COSMOTE: Establish common risk methodology IP The implementation and establishment of the DT EU Group Management and enhance the cooperation between DT Group Risk Management Methodology in all OTE Group subsidiaries is companies to develop the group risk landscape a target for 2015 OTE-COSMOTE: Certification according to ISO ERM IP Gap Analysis and evaluation of of the degree of adaptation 31000 by the end of Q4 2014 of the Risk & Insurance Management System with standard ISO 31000 has already started in 2014. The attestation of the standard will take place in 2015 Marketplace OTE-COSMOTE: Development of a risk management IP The implementation and establishment of the DT EU Group system and methodology as part of day-to-day work Risk Management Methodology in all OTE Group subsidiaries is to all business units a target for 2015 OTE-COSMOTE: Certification regarding the F See Compliance Management System and Policies effectiveness of Anti-Trust Compliance Program OTE-COSMOTE: Process of initiation, adoption and Employees N The goal was canceled, because of the adoption of the implementation of BS 10500 (British Standard International Standard ISO 19600 Compliance Management “Anti-Bribery Management System”) Systems – Guidelines; the analysis and relative alignment of OTE Group is an objective for 2015 Internal Audit OTE-COSMOTE: The Internal Audit Department will F The Internal Audit Directorate General conducted more perform about 50 tests scheduled for 2014, giving than 80 audits in accordance with the Annual Audit Plan priority to processes that affect customers, new for 2014, giving priority to processes that influence the Society revenue sources and operating model service and customer satisfaction, new revenue sources and consolidation the new operating model Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially IP = In Progress N = Not Achieved 2015 Goals Environment CR Strategy and Management OTE-COSMOTE: Annual CS report according to GRI G4 guidelines OTE-COSMOTE: Reassessment of the materiality issues for the sustainable development of the Companies OTE-COSMOTE: Further improvement on on-line presentation of the Sustainability Report Risk and Compliance Management OTE Group OTE-COSMOTE: Attestation of the of the Corporate Risk Management System according to ISO 31000 Subsidiaries OTE-COSMOTE: Enhancing corporate risk culture through continuous action on education and updating of all business units OTE-COSMOTE: Implementation of the DT Group Enterprise Risk Management Methodology to all companies of the OTE Group OTE-COSMOTE: Conduction of an Employees Survey regarding Compiance Issues, which will be addressed to staff with responsibility position OTE-COSMOTE: Review of the procedures and operations used in Customer Service aiming at reducing incidents related to Compliance issues Internal Audit Indexes OTE-COSMOTE: According to the Annual Audit Plan for 2015, the Directorate General of Internal Audit will perform over 75 audits CR Strategy and Management 45 Sustainability Report 2014 2.9.2 About this Report Marketplace 2014 Goals 2014 Performance Internet Safety COSMOTE: Focus on safe and controlled use of IP The development of an application which is expected to be smartphones and tablets by kids available in the market in 2015 CR Strategy and OTE-COSMOTE: Enhance initiatives concerning the F See Public Awareness and Cooperation with Credible Institutions Management safe use of the Internet, in the framework of the “CEO Coalition to make the Internet a better place for kids” Data Security and Privacy Policy OTE-COSMOTE: Development of a new Identity F Security and Privacy Policy Management System (IdM) Marketplace OTE: Development of a new Data Loss Prevention IP See Security and Privacy Policy System (DLP) The system has been installed and is currently under configuration. OTE-COSMOTE: Enhancing of security measures IP Due to redesign of the overall policy and the need for threein 20 important buildings, including electronic year contracts, the project was redesigned and OTE Group is systems installation in the process of preparing a call for tender for three years Employees contracts covering more buildings Business Continuity OTE: Certification of the Business Continuity F See Business Continuity Management System Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management OTE-COSMOTE: Evaluation of suppliers representing IP See Supplier Evaluation Society 30% and 70% of the annual procurement volume of OTE and COSMOTE respectively Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially IP = In Progress N = Not Achieved 2015 Goals Internet Safety Environment OTE-COSMOTE: Enhancing Public Awareness Initiatives on safe use of technology by children Data Security and Privacy Policy OTE-COSMOTE: Development of a system for the logging of actions and Database Activity Monitoring OTE-COSMOTE: Safety Certification according to ISO27001 OTE-COSMOTE: Extension of system for the periodic monitoring of the not installation of security patches OTE-COSMOTE: Enhancing physical security measures (structural interventions/security systems) in 25 stores OTE Group OTE-COSMOTE: Enhancing physical security measures (structural interventions/security systems) in 20 important buildings Subsidiaries OTE: Installation of access control system at 4,000 telephony cabins and Outdoor Line Distribution Cabinets KW cabinets Business Continuity OTE-COSMOTE: The recording and notification of all risks related to business continuity to all Divisions Indexes Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management OTE–COSMOTE: Evaluation of suppliers representing 70% and 90% of the annual procurement volume of OTE and COSMOTE respectively. CR Strategy and Management 46 Sustainability Report 2014 2.9.3 About this Report Employees 2014 Goals 2014 Performance Employees OTE-COSMOTE: Rationalization and Harmonization F See Organizational Transformation and Efficiency and of HR policies Employee Training CR Strategy and OTE-COSMOTE: Introduce talent management F See Human Resources Management programs OTE-COSMOTE: Enhance people development F See Employee Selection and Employee Training Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially P = In Progress N = Not Achieved 2015 Goals Marketplace Employees OTE-COSMOTE: Human resources development, with emphasis (1) in Leadership programs for each hierarchical level, and (2) specially designed training and development programs for employees OTE-COSMOTE: Streamlining costs and harmonizing procedures and policies OTE-COSMOTE: Further development of talent management programs for external candidates and employees Employees OTE-COSMOTE: Harmonization of health and safety approaches 2.9.4 Society 2014 Goals 2014 Performance Society Society OTE-COSMOTE: Retaining of important CR initiatives F See Supporting Vulnerable Social Groups and Children to support children and students Supporting Education OTE-COSMOTE: Implementation of a new F See Supporting Education CRinitiative in order to address a significant need of modern society Environment OTE-COSMOTE: Further actions to support local F See Contributing to Prosperity and Sustainability of Local communities throughout Greece Communities OTE-COSMOTE: Maintaining the level of corporate F See Corporate Volunteerism volunteering initiatives to support people in need Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially IP = In Progress N = Not Achieved 2015 Goals OTE Group Society Subsidiaries OTE-COSMOTE: Conservation of important CR initiatives for the support of children and students OTE-COSMOTE: Implementation of a new Corporate Responsibility initiative to further support education – Innovation OTE-COSMOTE: Further actions to support local communities throughout Greece OTE-COSMOTE: Further systematizeation of the corporate volunteering initiatives Indexes CR Strategy and Management 47 Sustainability Report 2014 2.9.5 About this Report Environment 2014 Goals 2014 Performance Environmental Management OTE-COSMOTE: Successful completion of the 2014 F Key Achievements in 2014 round of ISO 14001:2004 audit surveillance CR Strategy and OTE-COSMOTE: Full implementation of the IT F Key Achievements in 2014 Management system developed for environmental data collection at OTE Group level Climate Change OTE-COSMOTE: A long term (2020) CO2 emissions F Key Achievements in 2014 reduction target against a 2008/2009 baseline Marketplace is to be elaborated, in line with the DT climate change strategy OTE: Reduction of CO2 emissions (scope 1 and F Indirect GHG Emissions from Energy scope 2) by 10% compared to 2008 levels Direct GHG and Non-GHG Emissions COSMOTE: Prevention of over 5,500 t CO2 F Emissions avoided due to the programs implemented were emissions due to programs implemented about 9,056 t. Energy Employees OTE: Maintenance of electricity intensity (electricity F Electricity intensity (specified as electricity consumption consumption per revenues) at around 165 MWh/mn € divided by revenues) amounted to 166 MWh/mn. € COSMOTE: Maintenance of electricity intensity F Electricity intensity (specified as electricity consumption (electricity consumption per revenues) at around divided by revenues) amounted to 131 MWh/mn. € 130 MWh/mn€ (valid for COSMOTE Group Greece) OTE: Improvement of energy performance of IP Extensive use of large diesel vehicles in difficult to access areas Society service vehicles by 5% The replacement of aged gasoline vehicles with new diesel ones delayed and it was finally implemented in December 2014 COSMOTE: Maintenance of energy performance of IP Urban travels were significantly increased compared to vehicles fleet at 2013 levels non-urban In the context of a more comprehensive planning at OTE Group, the replacement of gasoline vehicles with new more Environment efficient ones was postponed to 2015 COSMOTE: Reduction of energy use by 5% per F Energy conservation was about 9.4% base station Waste OTE-COSMOTE: Expansion of the integrated F Key Achievements in 2014 recycling program for packaging materials in 4 key Waste Management OTE Group regional buildings Subsidiaries OTE-COSMOTE: Recycling of 100% of hazardous and F Waste Management technical waste withdrawn EMF COSMOTE: Installation of 10 additional P Monitoring the Levels of EMF Radiation measurement stations The installation of two measurement stations in the greater Indexes Athens area were established in February 2015 (instead of December 2014) due to delays (by local communities) in informing local authorities for the exact installation points Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially IP = In Progress N = Not Achieved CR Strategy and Management 48 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Goals About this Report Environmental Management ΟΤΕ: Expansion of the scope of the Environmental Management System of OTE in 3 additional buildings OTE-COSMOTE: Revision/Upgrade of the IT system developed for environmental data collection at OTE Group level in order to optimize its performance Climate Change CR Strategy and OTE-COSMOTE: Contribution to the achievement of the CO2 emissions reduction target set for 2020 at DT Group level, by Management planning and implementing measures for energy conservation and CO2 emissions reduction ΟΤΕ: Reduction of CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) by 13% compared to 2008 levels COSMOΤΕ: Reduction of CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) by 3.5% compared to 2008 levels Energy ΟΤΕ: Reduction of electricity consumption in the telecom network by 1.5% compared to 2014 Marketplace COSMOTE: Energy conservation (electricity) of 2% in the telecom network ΟΤΕ: Improvement of energy performance of service vehicles by 15% COSMOTE: Improvement of energy performance of vehicles fleet by 5% Waste OTE-COSMOTE: Expansion of the integrated recycling program for packaging materials in 10 additional buildings OTE-COSMOTE: Recycling of 100% of hazardous and technical waste withdrawn EMF Employees COSMOTE: Installation of 8 additional measurement stations Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 49 Sustainability Report 2014 3.0 Marketplace Indexes OTE Group Environment Society Employees Marketplace CR Strategy and About this Report Subsidiaries Management MARKETPLACE About this Report We have a leading role in the telecommunications market, focusing on excellent customer experience. We operate with transparency, and respect the principles of sustainable development. CR Strategy and Expanding Broadband Responsible Products Management and Mobile Internet and Services We are the biggest telecommunications We invest in developing sustainable investor in Greece products and services Activation of more than 70% 2,000 Marketplace € 2bn ele teleconferences within OTE Gropup invested over the o n f er e n c e t c s past 5 years MORE INFO INFO population coverage by our 4G network Employees € 1.2bn will be invested Installation over the next and activation of 95% 4 years 62,500 new Machine-2-Machine connections population coverage MORE INFO by our ADSL network Society Data Security and Privacy Customer Satisfaction We maintain a comprehensive security Committed to providing high quality and data protection framework services 1ST place for OTE in Environment 0 the category “Customer Breaches of communications privacy and customer data 1st Services Centre of the Year” by the Hellenic Institute of Customer Service security. MORE INFO INFO MORE INFO INFO Responsible Supply Chain Management OTE Group We encourage our suppliers and partners to adopt responsible conduct practices Subsidiaries EV SEL ELOPMEN E C TIO N D T Corporate Evaluated suppliers Indexes responsibility clauses accounting for more added to our supplier than 70% of our contracts procurement value LA EV S S IFIC A TIO C N A L U A TIO N MORE INFO Suppliers’ Management Lifecycle Marketplace 51 Sustainability Report 2014 3.1 Strategy for the About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE have set as their top priority, transparent and responsible business behavior. The aim of the two companies is the continuation of their successful market performance, demonstrating customer-oriented, innovative and competitive operation characteristics, and Employees taking the lead in building the Digital Greece. The coordination of strategy and policy formulation on market issues affecting all Directorates is accomplished by the Group Business Plan, the realization of which is overseen by the CEO and the Management Committee. In the planning process of the Business Plan, among other matters, market assessments, and regulatory and commercial risks and opportunities are taken into consideration. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 52 Sustainability Report 2014 OTE and COSMOTE seek to offer “responsible” of materials and support the safe use of the About this Report products and services, with appropriate labeling Internet. Communication concerning marketing and information to provide to their customers, is carried out in accordance with applicable laws security in use, for the lifetime of products and and regulations, while at the same time the services. At the same time, they have committed Companies are constantly working to develop tools to implement data safety and security framework. and procedures to ensure the confidentiality of All products for sale, accesory products and personal information of customers. services offered, are certified and carry all CR Strategy and obligatory markings required by EU legislation, Finally, the two companies have been fully aware directives and regulations on the safe use, of the risks arising from their supply chain and Management the restriction of use of hazardous substances work toward the development of socially (with and the reduction of electronic waste. Both reference to labor practices and human rights) companies strive to enhance reuse and recycling and environmentally responsible practices. Key Achievements in 2014 Marketplace l Further development of responsible products and services (eg OTE Business Cloud, corporate fleet management services; communication solutions between devices (M2M) in cooperation with the Hellenic Electricity Distribution Network Operator et al.), as well as in supporting research and innovative programs in these areas, taking into account the catalytic role of the Information Technology and Communication (ICT) sector to protect the environment, to Employees support society and to assist economic development. l Both companies provided information to over 57,000 people regarding the safe use of the Internet and mobile telephony services. l CSR Initiatives of OTE and COSMOTE have been recognized by the public, ranking the two companies in the first places among telecommunications companies. l Certification according to ISO 9001: 2008 with respect to all OTE activities namely: Society – The Design, Development and Commercialization of Products and Communications Services – The Design, Implementation, Operation and Maintenance of Networks, Communications Systems and Information Infrastructure. – The Customer Service. – The Support Functions and the Operation of Shop. Environment l Tier III Certification (Concurrently Maintainable), for COSMOTE, for the upgrade of the existing IT Data Center, which took place without interrupting serrvice. l COSMOTE and OTE responded successfully within two days to 82% and 52% respectively of complaints received. l Compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct was included in the contract terms with suppliers. l OTE and COSMOTE have evaluated a number of their suppliers representing 72% and 95% OTE Group respectively of their annual procurement volume. Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 53 Sustainability Report 2014 3.2 Responsible Competition About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace 3.2.1 Competition and Regulation OTE and COSMOTE are firmly committed to compliance with national and European regulations of the telecommunications market in Greece and the countries where their subsidiaries operate. Moreover, the two companies are committed to working together with Employees government agencies, enterprises and other stakeholders to ensure a regulatory framework that protects all stakeholders’ interests and at the same time contributes to the overall welfare of society. OTE, since 2011, and COSMOTE, since 2006, have formed internal policies in order to inform their employees about the importance of compliance with competition rules and to systematize their relevant codes of conduct. The OTE Group Policy to comply with the legal basis of free competition sets the operating rules for the OTE Group companies and its employees, according to the free competition legislation that came into force in 2013. Society Regulatory Framework OTE remains the designated universal service provider. The provision of electronic communications On March 2014, the Hellenic Telecommunications networks and services in Greece is governed by Regulatory Agency (EETT) proceeded to a call for Environment both the European Union and national competition interestfor the provision of full or elements of the regulations, as well as by specific rules for the universal service covering national territory, while on electronic communications sector, that cover March 2015 has proceeded to call for tenders for the topics such as number allocation, licensing, tariffs, designation of universal service provider/providers. universal service provision, wholesale services Following an amendment of the timetable, the (unbundled local loop access, interconnection, submission of applications for participating in the leased lines, wholesale broadband access) and multiple-round to 25/05/2015 and the running of OTE Group privacy issues. auction on 16/07/2015. Law 4313/2014 (Official Government Gazette Additionally, in 2015 we expect market analyses Subsidiaries 261/A /12.17.2014) on “Regulating certain based on the new European regulatory framework Transport, Telecommunications and Public according to which EETT may impose “ex ante” Works issues and other provisions” introduced regulatory constraints on OTE which will have an amendments to the provisions of Law 4070/2012, impact on its business policy. In particular, for fixed telephony, OTE, unlike its competitors, is subject to Indexes which had incorporated the applicable EU Directives and Regulations for electronic regulatory constraints in terms of pricing, because, communications issues into the Greek law. according to EETT estimations, it has significant market power (SMP). In markets where the Marketplace 54 Sustainability Report 2014 required level of competition has been achieved, Regulatory Actions in 2014 About this Report the removal of regulatory obligations contributes In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE have been involved in to an environment of regulatory certainty that a number of regulatory and administrative disputes promotes investments, particularly as regards with EETT. These relate to seven (7) hearings the development of new generation networks, against OTE on the following issues: rejection of while at the same time, maintaining or imposing requests for local loops, enabling of wireless link new regulatory measures in markets, where access within interconnection and unbundled effective competition has not been achieved, local loop, changes of subscriber provider and CR Strategy and should encourage and not deter investments. In interuption of unbundled services access to the this context, OTE has already submitted to EETT Management local loop provider because of debts. Also, there proposals for the introduction of VDSL Vectoring was one (1) lawsuit against COSMOTE with respect technology that will enable subscribers to receive to competition and regulatory issues, and one internet connection speeds of up to 100 Mbps. (1) hearing against COSMOTE for portability and On tariff matters, OTE seeks to ensure rapid competition issues. approval by EETT of its submitted tariff schemes, Marketplace Additionally, there were two (2) hearings against the improvement of the model employed for COSMOTE, with the first concerning a discount the approval process for its commercial packages package of COSMOTE, and the second against and the elimination of price control obligations COSMOTE that was initiated in 2013 and was to services where adequate competition has postponed due to changes in the composition been achieved. of EETT. The major regulatory issues pending are Finally, on 23/11/2014 the new Regulation stated in the OTE Annual Financial Report 2014. Employees of Number Portability in the Greek market, as In 2014, EETT imposed on OTE only one monetary amended by EETT Decisions 696/115/11-07-2013 fine of € 40.000. OTE has appealed to the and 708/14 /20-2-2014 and 735/006 /9-10-2014, competent court, seeking annulment of that entered into force. penalty. No fine was imposed by EETT on COSMOTE. Regulatory Litigations in 2014 Actions OTE COSMOTE Society Number of fines 1 0 Number of appeals 1 0 Number of non-pecuniary penalties 1 0 Environment Value of fines (€) 40,000 0 OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 55 Sustainability Report 2014 3.2.2 l The National Code of Conduct for mobile About this Report phones and protection of users Advocacy for a Responsible COSMOTE has collaborated with other mobile Marketplace telephony providers in Greece, in order to As the new telecommunications technologies are develop a common code of conduct for crucial to future economic development, social value-added services via mobile phones and for participation and sustainability, OTE and COSMOTE the protection of underage users. The aim of this play an important role in sectoral and multifaceted Code for the mobile telephony industry CR Strategy and fora, associations and initiatives, both at national self-regulation process is to provide a uniform and at European level to promote responsible level of protection for underage users, in line Management competition, self-regulation and cooperation on with the practices in other European countries. social issues. l Association of Mobile Telephony Companies In 2014, the most important fora/organizations/ COSMOTE participates in the non-profit initiatives, in which OTE and COSMOTE participated, organization “Association of Mobile Telephony were: Companies”. The Association aims to act as an Marketplace l ETNO advisory body regarding regulatory procedures, OTE is one of 50 members and observers of the to participate in decision-making and Association of European Telecommunications legislation preparation technical committees Network Operators (ETNO). (at international, European and national level) and to cooperate with institutions and l ITU associations in other countries in bilateral The International Telecommunication Union collaborations. Its objective is to modernize and Employees (ITU) is an organization under the auspices develop the mobile industry. of the United Nations for communications technology and informatics matters. l ICT Coalition for the Safe Use of Connected Devices and Online Services by Children and Young People in the EU OTE and COSMOTE participate as members of the DT Group, in this broad alliance consisting Society of 22 companies from the Information and Communication Technology industry. The objective of the ICT Alliance is to help younger Internet users, across Europe, to make the most Environment of the “world” of the Internet and address all possible challenges and risks. To this end, in 2012, members of the ICT Alliance endorsed a set of guiding principles aiming at that the safety of younger Internet users, as an integral part of products and services developed. European Memorandum on safe use of OTE Group l mobile phones by children and teenagers Subsidiaries COSMOTE, is actively involved in consultations under the auspices of the European Commission to create a European Memorandum on safer use of mobile phones by children and adolescents. It constitutes the first Greek company to sign this European Indexes Memorandum, in February 2007, together with 15 other European mobile operators and content providers. Marketplace 56 Sustainability Report 2014 3.3 Expanding Broadband and About this Report CR Strategy and Management Mobile Internet in Greece Marketplace Despite the fact that the availability of broadband connections for fixed and mobile telephony services has reached almost 100% of the Greek territory, the penetration rate mainly in fixed broadband lines connections, is still a constant challenge as the country remains below the Employees EU average. Broadband connections in July 2014 totaled 3,026,631 (27.4% penetration of the population), compared to 2,970,913 in March 2014 (26.9% penetration). The increase during the quarter was 55, 718 lines, significantly higher than that of the corresponding period in 2013 (the increase during the second quarter of 2013 was 34,592 lines). Still, Greece as of December 2013 is in 17th place among EU countries in terms of broadband penetration, according to the statistics of ΕΕΤΤ. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 57 Sustainability Report 2014 Evolution of Broadband Connections About this Report Increase of broadband per semester Broadband lines (total) 400 3,600 3,027 CR Strategy and 2,913 3,200 2,797 Increase of broadband lines (in thousands) Increase of broadband lines (in thousands) 2,689 Management 2,464 2,560 2,352 2,800 300 2,253 2,105 2,400 1,917 2,000 200 1,600 Marketplace 1,200 100 800 400 0 0 Dec 2009 June 2010 Dec 2010 June 2011 Dec 2011 June 2012 Dec 2012 June 2013 Dec 2013 June 2014 Employees Source: EETT based on licensees’ data Key Investments in 2014 In mobile telephony, COSMOTE was the first mobile OTE and COSMOTE have the capacity, the expertise operator in Greece that offered, in 2012, 4G Society and the financial base to continue to invest in services. Because of continuous Investing in direct upgrading the telecommunications infrastructure extension of the network, the 4G network reached in Greece and contribute to achieving the Digital at the end of 2014 coverage of more than 70% of Agenda 2020 goals and the country’s transition to the country’s population. the new digital era for society as a whole and for OTE Group has announced investments of €1.2 bn Environment its citizens. over the next four years, mainly for New Generation The investments of OTE and COSMOTE are based Networks, for both fixed and mobile telephony. on estimates of market, customer and society needs and are implemented by the Trade and Technology Directorates. OTE Group investments in Greece exceeded OTE Group €2 bn in the last five years. ADSL connections are Subsidiaries available to 95% of the population. Simultaneously, OTE invests systematically in the development of the FTTC-VDSL network with fiber optic cables being installed progressively in all neighborhoods. Speeds up to 50 Mbps are already available to 1.4 million households. Indexes Marketplace 58 Sustainability Report 2014 OTE Access Lines and Traffic Statistics About this Report Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2014 Change 2013-2014 PSTN connections 2,734,260 2,532,008 2,413,174 -4.7% ISDN connections(BRA and PRA) 392,012 358,446 333,533 -7.0% Other (MSAN) 0 8,688 15,066 +73.4% Total OTE access line connections 3,126,272 2,899,142 2,761,773 -4.7% CR Strategy and Of which wholesale line rental (WLR) 63,964 47,082 35,325 -25.0% Management connections Total OTE Broadband active subscribers 1,204,980 1,286,228 1,389,871 +8.1% OTE TV Subscribers (IPTV and satellite) 119,771 255,912 353,482 +38.1% OTE Broadband active retail 1,179,174 1,261,590 1,367,388 +8.4% subscribers Marketplace Unbundled local loops (active) 1,794,558 1,907,303 2,015,940 +5.7% Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 59 Sustainability Report 2014 3.4 Internet Safety and About this Report CR Strategy and Management Public Awareness Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE’ s role, is not only to provide safe products and to offer top quality services, but also extends to informing customers and the general public on the safe use of technology. In this context, OTE and COSMOTE contribute to informing the public, and particularly to raise Employees the awareness of parents, children and teachers on the safe use of the Internet and mobile telephony services. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 60 Sustainability Report 2014 3.4.1 new technologies on everyday life. For OTE and About this Report COSMOTE, along with the knowledge and progress, Products and Services comes responsibility for the safe use of the OTE offers its customers the service “OTE Secure”, Internet and new technologies. For this reason, which consists of online security services for the the companies systematically develop integrated computer (anti-virus, anti-spam, firewall, browser actions and initiatives for the prevention and protection), as well as enriched parental control awareness of the public and also, they cooperate services that allow parents to monitor, filter and with recognized bodies who inform and raise CR Strategy and block access to websites with inappropriate content awareness of parents, children and teachers. (eg violence, adult content, weapons, drugs, Management etc.). The parental control functionality gives the Collaboration with Adolescent users the ability to adjust the level of protection Health Unit of the Second depending on the age of the children. Parental Department of Pediatrics of the Control Services are also offered by OTE TV, in both University of Athens, “P. & A. iptv and satellite platform. With these services, the Kyriakou” Children’s Hospital subscribers have the option to set the parental Marketplace Since 2010, OTE and COSMOTE cooperate with the control level of their choice to block access to Adolescent Health Unit of the Second Department specific programs, based on the parental control of Pediatrics of the University of Athens, “P. & rating level that all program in the service carries. A. Kyriakou”, supporting both research work Additionally, in satellite service, the subscribers and awareness-raising activities concerning can block access to specific channel(s) of their online safety, organized throughout Greece. The choice. Furthermore, concerning the Adult Pack (3 Adolescent Health Unit receives more than 600 Employees additional channels with adult content), a customer visitors per month, of whom 80% need advice on to subscribe to this pack must visit a retail shop or Internet safety. Annually, the Unit conducts more affiliate shop of OTE and apply in person. Finally, than 80 awareness sessions in schools, nationwide. in order to rent a film with adult content from the service “OTE Cinema on Demand”, the subscriber Through the support of OTE and COSMOTE, the must enter a personal PIN code, which was given to Adolescent Health Unit manages the helpline “ME him/her when the service was purchased (and was Ypostirizo” (800 11 800 15). This line is addressed advised to keep it away from children). All these to adolescents and their families, providing support instructions are also available in the service manual and advice on issues related to the use of the Society and in help screens on the portal service. Internet, mobile phones and electronic games (Internet addiction, web bullying, grooming, At the same time, COSMOTE enables parents to inappropriate content, privacy issues, pornography, control their children’s access to mobile services gambling, violent games, etc.). addressed only to adults, through a series of user Environment friendly parental control services developed and/ Awareness Sessions for or offered to subscribers free of charge. Specifically, Online Safety at the OTE COSMOTE pre-installs the antivirus and security Telecommunications Museum protection program “Lookout” in all Android The program addresses the best and safest ways to devices that it distributes, offers parents the option meet the challenges of the digital world and takes to block the “erotic” category – available through place since 2010 in the OTE Telecommunications OTE Group “COSMOTE my view” – which offers services Museum. The briefings are performed interactively addressed only to adults, as well as to block access Subsidiaries by specialized scientific collaborators of the to “Multimedia Information Services” by calling Adolescent Health Unit of the Second Department COSMOTE Customer Service. of Pediatrics of the “P. & A. Kyriakou“ University of Athens Children’s Hospital and are addressed 3.4.2 to students of all levels. Their content is adjusted Raising Public Awareness depending on the age and level of student Indexes knowledge and according to their interests. In 2014, The rapid development of new technologies more than 240 children participated in the briefings. and interactive media, such as the Internet and the mobile phones, shows the usefulness of all Marketplace 61 Sustainability Report 2014 Theater performances at OTE 3.4.3 About this Report Telecommunications Museum Participation in SelfThe OTE Telecommunications Museum hosted Regulatory Initiatives the play “The Farm of the Internet”, addressed Of particular importance to OTE and COSMOTE is to school groups. The students were trained their participation, as members of the Deutsche about the safe, ethical and responsible Internet Telekom Group, in the alliance of companies “ICT navigation in a pleasant way through the stories Coalition for the Safer Use of Connected Devices of the young heroes of the “farm”. More than 940 CR Strategy and and Online Services by Children and Young People students attended the show. in the EU”. Management Support of Cyber Crime Unit At the same time, COSMOTE, together with all Workshops and Conferences other mobile operators, has undertaken selfOTE and COSMOTE support, since 2011, workshops regulatory initiatives at European and national for safe navigation on the Internet, organized by level, as mentioned in section Advocacy for a the Cyber Crime Unit of the Hellenic Police. The Responsible Marketplace. Marketplace workshops, implemented nationwide, are designed to raise awareness of parents and students on safe use of the Internet. In 2014, 83 workshops were held, attended by approximately 45,000 people (including people who watched via live streaming). In addition, OTE and COSMOTE, supported the 3rd Employees Conference for safer internet navigation, organized by the Cyber Crime Unit and in which, officers of the Cyber Crime Unit, scientists and academics participated. Support of the Mobile Unit of Information, Education and Technology “Odysseas” Since 2014, OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS Society support “Odysseas”, the 1st Mobile Unit of Information, Education and Technology, which is an initiative of the Organization “The Smile of the Child” and is under the auspices of the Greek Environment Ministry of Education. In the framework of this initiative, interventions and awareness raising activities are conducted, targeted to students, parents, teachers and the public, on issues such as the safe use of the Internet. In 2014, 19 interactive interventions were implemented, in which more than 680 students of primary and secondary OTE Group education were involved. Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 62 Sustainability Report 2014 3.5 Responsible Products About this Report CR Strategy and Management and Services Marketplace ICT have and will continue to have, a significant contribution to economic growth internationally, through the development and implementation of innovative services that help increase productivity in all sectors of economic activity. Employees Undoubtedly, the use of ICT services have environmental and social impacts. At the same time, it is widely accepted that ICT services can contribute to the sustainable operation of all sectors of the economy. OTE and COSMOTE recognize the key role of ICT in environmental protection, in the support of society and economic growth, in the contribution of the sector in achieving sustainable Society development and in the opportunities offered for the further development of the Group. For this reason, OTE and COSMOTE invest in developing products and services that contribute to sustainable development and strengthen relevant research and innovation activities. 3.5.1 Sustainable Products and Services Environment As a leading telecommunications provider in Southeast Europe, OTE and COSMOTE, provide fixed and mobile telephony, and high speed and quality broadband services. Through targeted products and services, they enable customers to use broadband for the direct or indirect improvement of their activities, and for their welfare and environmental performance. Such products and services that were available in 2014, are presented below. ΟΤΕ Business Cloud Teleconference OTE Business Cloud service, a technologically (ΟΤΕ Video Conference) OTE Group Subsidiaries advanced service of cloud computing, enables OTE offers upgraded video conferencing enterprises to minimize the traditional high infrastructures to corporate clients. The new logistics and maintenance costs (hardware/ improved services (based on cloud computing) software) and at the same time significantly reduce allow businesses to make videoconferences from energy consumption. Essentially, the OTE Business anywhere, via smartphones, tablets or laptops, Cloud provides on-line services in a safe and in which the appropriate software is installed. Indexes uninterrupted utilization of IT infrastructure, giving At the same time, OTE continues to offer audio users the ability to directly access, monitor and conferencing services which in 2014 exceeded two manage their data through user-friendly tools. thousand sessions. Marketplace 63 Sustainability Report 2014 Fleet Management Simultaneously, the first phase of the project About this Report (COSMOTE e-TRACK) for “e-prescribing” has been delivered and is in The COSMOTE e-TRACK service provides monitoring operation. This is an application that generates and management capability of corporate vehicle prescriptions electronically through an automated fleet in real time, using the GPS satellite system. data entry process that uses specialized software It aims to optimize the routing of corporate and a data transmission system associated with vehicles, and thus to reduce the consumption of the participating pharmacies. One of the benefits fuel and thereby carbon dioxide emissions. for this application is the more effective control CR Strategy and and better planning of spending in the health Development of e-applications sector, while at the same time ensuring quality Management OTE and COSMOTE, invest in developing patient care. electronic applications for their clients (such as e-account applications, e-payment, e-submission e-Services in Tourism of requests from telecommunications providers, e-Services in Tourism, provided by OTE and “Your business.gr” service) that can help COSMOTE, aim at functional optimization of tourism Marketplace reduce the consumption of paper and manage businesses. These services are used in energy resources better. management, in hotel infrastructure in information systems management and maintenance, in digital The number of customers who have opted to signage, in providing value added services to guests receive their bills in electronic form continues to during their stay at the hotel, in teleconferencing increase as they enjoy the following benefits: services, etc. All services contribute to upgrading Receipt of the bill via e-mail and/or SMS of hotel facilities and services and thus to a more Employees l including all necessary information for sustainable operation. In 2014, these services have direct payment. been adopted by major hotels throughout Greece. l Payment using a corresponding code received Smart Grids via SMS and/or relevant link. A smart electricity grid which utilizes ICT is an l Protection of their personal data, using login important measure to reduce greenhouse gas information of their choice. emissions. According to the Smarter 2020 study, Society l Avoidance of filing and maintaining hard approximately 45% of the potential to reduce copy bills. emissions in the energy sector through ICT, is in using smart grids. A smart grid is an electrical l Participation in the wider effort to protect network that uses ICT (communication between the environment. machines-M2M) to collect and process information (such as energy suppliers and consumers behavior) Environment e-Services in Health in an automated way, in order to improve the OTE and COSMOTE have developed electronic energy and economic efficiency, the reliability, and services in the health sector, which are already the sustainable production and distribution used at the “Papageorgiou” Hospital in Thessaloniki of electricity. and Rea Maternity Hospital in Athens. The services refer to telemedicine, the management of the COSMOTE is engaged in developing M2M solutions. hospitals infrastucture and access to the hospital Expanding the existing cooperation with the OTE Group information systems. Also, these services are Hellenic Electricity Distribution Network Operator Subsidiaries designed to improve the services offered to patients (HEDNO) it had implemented by the end of 2014 and visitors (eg registration and hospitalization), the installation and activation of 62,500 new and administrative procedures (eg human resource M2M connections on behalf of HEDNO. COSMOTE management). The use of such services has provides a comprehensive application managing all resulted, among other things,in reducing operational M2M connections, whereby the HEDNO grid can be costs. Telemedicine services, in particular, have managed via the Internet, for the daily collection Indexes made possible the provision of medical assistance and processing of data from smart meters, which remotely, providing vital care in out of the way areas, are gradually installed nationwide. Services to and reducing the environmental impact by reducing the HEDNO include, inter alia, monitoring of each transportation needs. installed M2M connection in real time, receipt Marketplace 64 Sustainability Report 2014 of alerts (via SMS text messages or e -mail) E/M Products and Services) through international About this Report for, changes in the operational status, detailed partnerships with industry and academia, thus information on consumption per M2M connection, actively supporting research and innovation. notices if the use exceeds a predetermined threshold, etc. The benefits accruing to HEDNO The contribution to improve environmental include increased productivity, improved efficiency performance, is also of high priority for OTE and of its services and reduced unnecessary costs for COSMOTE. In this context, both Companies are maintenance and other operating expenses. involved in research activities, with the aim of CR Strategy and developping innovative products and services e-Energy or other facilities, to reduce the “environmental Management footprint” and, by extension, to enhance This is a new service that was adopted in 2014 by environmental protection. This was and still is five major enterprises of the service sector (including a priority of both the previous 7th Framework a supermarket chain and an insurance company) Programme (FP7) and of the actual H2020 context with different points of presence across Greece. The for Research and Technological Development (Main EDM (Energy Data Management) service is the result thematic area: Information and Communications Marketplace of extensive research of the Greek market needs Technologies – ICT) of the European Commission and the trends worldwide. The application provides of national initiatives financed by the Greek information in real time on energy consumption General Secretariat for Research and Technology (accessible from anywhere) and control of energy (GSRT), and occasionally of other initiatives such costs. By using the service, a company can reduce as those of the European Space Agency (ESA). its energy consumption, carbon footprint and Indicative research projects are presented below. operational costs (energy costs). Employees At the same time, two new services aimed at GERYON (Next Generation businesses with fleets are at the design and Technology Independent development stage and will soon be available Interoperability of Emergency commercially in 2015; they are related with driving Services) behavior and fuel consumption and aimed at The aim of the GERYON project was to develop improving specific fuel consumption. communication infrastructures for handling emergency situations, that enable the sending Society Specific information on social products and and receiving of multimedia information (location, services offered to clients is presented in Society/ photographs, videos), thus facilitating the Social Products, Services and Offers faster identification and coordination of those Details on products and services aiming at involved Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP), promoting business enterprising are presented in rescue teams, individuals at risk), and the direct Environment Society/ Strengthening of Entrepreneurship. intervention of rescue teams. These new, advanced services that can significantly 3.5.2 improve the way of dealing with emergencies via Research and Innovation a fully functional platform were presented at a workshop organized by COSMOTE (May 2014), in The development of innovative products and collaboration with the National Center for Scientific services is a key priority for OTE and COSMOTE. OTE Group Research “Demokritos”. To this end, both companies promote research Subsidiaries and innovation, both at European national and The new services, utilizing the capabilities of international level, with multiple potential benefits 4G and existing network infrastructures, give new to society and to their subscribers. In 2014, opportunities to rescue teams and supporting OTE and COSMOTE, have both participated in 22 units, as they allow: the direct communication innovative technological research co-funded between organizations, even if they use different programs (LiveCity, E3NETWORK, WiSE-PON, technologies appliances (TETRA, 3G/HSPA, Indexes PANDA, SECCRIT, SAT4NET, DuCoNet, DIOGENES, 4G/LTE), the sending of rich content to the FLAME, UNIFY, SPIRIT, GERYON, OpenLAB, PSAP , the automatic identification of the callers NEMESYS, TEAM, EMERALD, FLEX, VIMSEN, and emergency units located in the vicinity of CONFES, NextGenAntennas, WikiZEN, Fasmetrics the incident, the immediate contact with the Marketplace 65 Sustainability Report 2014 individual at risk and rescue teams (dynamic group started in February 2014 and will be completed About this Report conference) and the handling of emergency calls in January 2017, under the coordination of the by priority through 4G. Institute of Computer Technology and Publication “Diophantus”. The budget of the project is €3,3 m., COSMOTE was responsible for the implementation while COSMOTE’s budget is €0,42 m. and the EC and provision of emergency services over contribution is of the order of 50%. commercial LTE networks, and for the interconnection with professional mobile radio More information found in: http://www.ict-vimsen.eu. CR Strategy and networks (PMR) such as TETRA. Moreover, COSMOTE participated in defining the system specifications SPIRIT (Software-defined Management and in the development and evaluation of the energy-efficient Photonic demonstration system commercialization, and transceivers Introducing contributed to the investigation of the system and Intelligence and dynamicity in the dissemination of the project results. Terabit superchannels for flexible optical networks) The GERYON project, which is part of the 7th The research project SPIRIT aims to create an Marketplace Framework Programme of the European Union, was optical transceiver for optical fiber networks. The launched in December 2012 and was completed in new transceiver can support ultra-high data speeds May 2014, under the coordination of the University of around 1 Tbit/sec in metropolitan area networks of the Basque Country (Spain). The project budget and long-haul networks of the future, ensuring high was €3,6 m., while the budget of COSMOTE was quality and service speed for the final consumer. €0,45 m. and the EC contribution was about 50%. Innovative optical components to be implemented Employees More information found in: http://www.sec-geryon.eu. under the project will be low-power and programmable, helping to establish a new network VIMSEN (VIrtual Microgrids for management logic through specific advanced Smart Energy Networks) software without need of physical presence. In this The VIMSEN research project aims to implement an way, flexibility is achieved, reducing the time of innovative platform through which associations of implementation of new services, the maintenance small producers of ‘green’ energy will shape the smart or repair of the underlying network, as well as any Society grid of the future, contributing to the promotion of corresponding cost. The environmental benefits are renewable energy and environmental protection. to be found primarily in the low power consumption Specifically, the project will try to enable small and the related practical energy management. producers of ‘green’ energy (eg domestic OTE is involved in setting the application consumers-producers) to form associations in a scenarios of the optical transceiver, the technical Environment dynamic way, and participate in the free market requirements, the specifications of the system and the sale of energy through a new business and the overall evaluation, and is also responsible model. Expected results, include saving energy, for conducting the transceiver evaluation both in reducing the costs of electricity, balancing the test bed and in the field. In addition, OTE will production with demand and protection of the help in the utilization of the results of this research environment, with the increased penetration of work in the upcoming next generation networks renewable energy over fossil fuel plants. (NGA) to provide high quality service to end users, OTE Group COSMOTE is involved in the definition of use and in devising the new business model. Subsidiaries cases, technical requirements, specifications The SPIRIT project began in December 2013 and of the system and its overall evaluation, and is will be completed in November 2016. The project responsible for determining the architecture involves seven partners from four European of the communications support. Furthermore, countries. The project budget is €2,87 m., while the company contributes to the exploitation the OTE’s budget is approx €0,23 m., and the EC of the research results and the investigation/ contribution is of the order of 50%. Indexes development of the new business model. More information found in: The VIMSEN project, which is part of the 7th http://www.spiritproject.eu. Framework Programme of the European Union Marketplace 66 Sustainability Report 2014 3.6 Responsible Marketing About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE implement responsible practices in marketing, communicate in a clear, simple and transparent way product pricing issues and services, and provide products and services bearing the appropriate markings required by European Union legislation. 3.6.1 3.6.2 Responsible Marketing Transparency on Pricing Employees Practices OTE and COSMOTE have committed to a clear, OTE and COSMOTE comform fully with the simple and transparent communication of pricing applicable laws and regulations for communication issues in accordance with all legal requirements, and advertising. The Marketing Communications and to providing high quality service to their Strategy, Fixed-Mobile Directorate reviews all customers. The companies set prices at levels that promotional material prior to disclosure to ensure cover the costs of providing the service and meet market demands for lower rates without creating Society that the contact material complies with applicable laws, is appropriate, fair, sincere and respects barriers to healthy competition. differentiality. The two companies follow the The transparency of pricing policies, includes the Committee of Communication Control (CCC) Code immediate notification of pricing information of Responsible Marketing. within the prescribed time limits, as defined by the The two companies apply the Greek Code of regulatory framework. Information about pricing Environment Conduct for advertising and communication, in is available on the websites of both companies line with guidelines from CCC. With regard to is provided to the press, and is available in all non-compliance incidents with these instructions, customer service centers and through brochures of in 2014 CCC adopted a total of 19 decisions, at the two companies. Customers are also informed first and appeal levels, of which were 7 involving about the details of pricing and any changes OTE and 9 COSMOTE. In 5 cases for OTE and 3 thereof, through their accounts, and also about the for COSMOTE no irregularities were found, while number of options available for controlling costs as OTE Group in 2 cases for OTE and 6 for COSMOTE some a response to increased customer needs for thrift Subsidiaries modifications to advertising slogans were proposed. in today’s challenging economic environment (see table Cost Control Services below). To 2014 a €10,000 fine was imposed on COSMOTE by the General Secretariat for Consumer Affairs for Towards this goal, OTE, in 2014, has upgraded its violation of Articles 9c, 9d and 9f case 6 (unfair trade programs offering new prices, fixed for the entire practices, misleading actions, cases of misleading customer contract period, incorporating, in the commercial practices) that were related to the most popular programs, at no extra charge, the Indexes advertising campaign “COSMOTE DEALS For YOU”. This Caller ID recognition service. In all the programs, fine has been appealed. No penalties were imposed OTE now provides increased airtime for mobile by the General Secretariat for Consumers on OTE. calls . Furthermore, in developing its high speed infrastructure and driven by the growing needs of Marketplace 67 Sustainability Report 2014 its consumers, it offered special discount programs In 2014, COSMOTE offered its subscribers a choice About this Report for students through the “DIODOS” action for fixed between handset subsidy or reductions on their telephony and Internet programs. OTE also initiated tariff plans which reached 30% of their primary two new services, namely: cost. Existing programs have been enhanced l “OTE My WiFi” free internet service: OTE Double with additional features at no extra cost. For new Play customers who activate the service connections or renewal of existing one double get involved in the creation and expansion MB were offered, without increasing the cost of of a global network, created by the users the programs. Additionally, there were several CR Strategy and themselves, enabling them to connect free of commercial offerings such as: free mobile Internet charge when they are in range of the routers of (Easter, Holy Spirit, August), “3 communication Management other clients of the Fon network, worldwide. gifts to 3 friends” during the Christmas period (specific number of free SMS or free minutes of l “OTE Satellite Internet” satellite service free airtime or free MB for internet navigation), Internet: This service provides for broadband free SMS, MB for internet navigation and airtime Internet throughout, even in the most remote for all November’s weekend. or inaccessible areas of the Greek territory. Marketplace Finally, subscribers, with COSMOTE and OTE Double To business customers with “double play” and Play contracts, were given the opportunity to reduce “single play” programs, OTE offered reduced cost their COSMOTE mobile fee up to 20%. programs, and enhanced service keeping the same price for existing ones. More information on special offers provided to members of specific demographic groups and Furthermore, through its “Your business.gr” service, needs is presented in the Society/Social Products, OTE continued to enable small and medium-sized Employees Services and Offers. enterprises to obtain a comprehensive, easy and affordable solution for their presence on the Internet, which is free for the first six months, and with price fees, followed by very low rates. Cost Control Services OTE COSMOTE Society l “My OTE” Service: OTE modernized its electronic l “COSMOTE Internet On The Go” application: Users of services by enhancing online bill presentation, which personal computers with Mobile Internet access via USB allows registered customers to be informed on their modems can be informed about their data usage and set bills free of charge, and to check the statistical maximum usage limits. Customers can also see records information on their usage, in order to select the best of their data usage “Cost Control” Service: Automatically updates Environment services package for them on offer SMS notification: e bill customers are provided with an l l subscribers with free sms, when they have consumed sms notification service regarding the issue and the due 80% of their free embedded use of their program (free date of their bill in order to better budget their expenses, talk time, messages or ΜΒ) and receive reminders when payments are due “Check of remaining free usage” service: Informs OTE informs consumers, with a sound message l l subscribers with free SMS whenever they choose to, before the end of calls with high prices and about the remaining free usage of their program applies the policy of maximum call duration for l Online check of the subscriber’s remaining free air OTE Group these numbers time, SMS and MB through the new application My Customer bills: OTE bills include all information COSMOTE App Subsidiaries l on pricing changes in the same billing period. Bills l Ε-Bill: Accessibility to statistics of connections and were changed to provide more information on usage. bills direct billing information through e-mail and direct Customers are informed through their bill for every payment opportunity Split Bill: Ability to predefine the maximum invoice new or renewed service OTE examines cases of customers with exceptionally l l amount for each connection in a company. In case of high charges and compensates them when fraud is exceedance of the usage limit, a second bill is addressed being detected, and offers customers the possibility to to particular employee using the connection Indexes Additional real time check of the subscriber’s bar non authorized use of their phones There has been an early warning billing l l remaining balance through a dedicated IVR channel for acknowledgment to the users of “Your business.gr” COSMOTE Cost Control and prepaid use plans service, after the first six months free of charge period Marketplace 68 Sustainability Report 2014 Cost Control Services About this Report OTE COSMOTE l Packages of additional usage for more air time, SMS and internet usage when needed l Roaming Services: COSMOTE offered the new “COSMOTE TRAVEL PASS” service that allows postpaid subscribers to use the free airtime, data and SMS of their programs in more than 55 countries worldwide, with a CR Strategy and low daily charge depending on the destination country. At the same time, it extended the “Travel & Surf” service Management in countries outside Europe to secure Internet browsing with full cost control at very low rates (in more than 100 countries). Finally, it gave the ability to subscribers who use the 4G network to enjoy mobile Internet also abroad l Multimedia Information Services: Blocking access to Multimedia Information Services Numbers from the Marketplace subscribers. In certain categories of those numbers, the subscriber can choose to block per single destination and per direction (for Premium SMS Services) 3.6.3 as required by the EU (Sticker CE, restriction indication of hazardous substances – RoHS, indication Equipment Safety Labelling for the recycling of electrical and electronic waste, All equipment accompanying products and services, Employees and indication for the recycling of packaging paper). offered by OTE and COSMOTE, has been certified Also, this equipment complies with the regulations and bears mandatory markings required under of the International Commission for the Protection EU legislation, and complies with all directives of Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) and and regulations regarding safe use instructions, with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment restriction of hazardous substances and electronic (WEEE) and Restriction of Hazardous Substances waste. OTE Group does not market or sell any (RoHS) Regulation of the EU. It also complies with products or services that are subject το product bans the associated Greek Presidential Decrees that Society in its markets or that key stakeholders or the public inscribe them into the Greek legislation, and Directive have called for their ban. 2005/32/EC of the European Commission and the COSMOTE, pays particular attention to supply Council setting ecodesign requirements, in terms products that are safe and manufactured under of power consumption of electrical and electronic international conventions and standards. All home appliances and office equipment. The products are always accompanied inside their packaging by Environment mobile devices offered by COSMOTE, comply with EU law. The electronic and electrical equipment detailed instructions for safe use. The website of OTE sold in its stores, is appropriately labeled (eg CE) provided also many manuals in Greek and English. and meets all the regulations for electrical and Additionally OTE asks its suppliers to ensure that electronic equipment. COSMOTE is asking suppliers the equipment is marked with the distinctive CE, of components for the Specific Absorption Rate CE RoHS, recycling labeling, and markings which (SAR) value of EMF of their devices, which are indicate that the equipment complies with the OTE Group available to customers. The mobile devices sold in Greek Joint Ministerial Decision (JMD) on radiation the company’s retail network, bear the special CE Subsidiaries protection. Suppliers are required to compensate marking certifying that they have completed all OTE, for any losses due to non-compliance of the necessary equipment evaluation procedures. products supplied, with the above regulations. Moreover, they are all within the limits of safe Suppliers are required to deposit the certification exposure to electromagnetic fields, as specified of the equipment procured, related to the above by the specific absorption rate, which should not Directives, to the Retail Marketing, Commercial exceed 2 w/kgr locally, according to Presidential Indexes Purchasing and Supply Fixed and Mobile Division. Decree 44/2002 and the EU Directive 1999/5/EC. In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE received no The ancillary equipment accompanying OTE products financial penalty for non-observance of any of (ADSL/VDSL and decoders), is appropriately labeled the above obligations. Marketplace 69 Sustainability Report 2014 3.7 Customer Service About this Report CR Strategy and Management and Satisfaction Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE in recent years have put forth a huge effort for transformation, focusing in their customer experience. In customer service, especially in the difficult times we are experiencing in recent years, the human touch is of even more value and potential to change Employees everybody’s daily routine and to ensure close and constructive relationship with customers. The 1st place finish of OTE in the category “Customer Service Center of the Year Large Enterprises Group” in the National Service Award competition of the Hellenic Institute of Customer Service (HICS) for 2014, highlights and confirms, once again, the consistency and dedication of the Group in this direction. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 70 Sustainability Report 2014 3.7.1 l Adoption of uniform complaint handling About this Report procedures for the immediate reversal of Complaints Management negative impressions, for customer retention Firmly in line with the values of the Group, OTE in the network, for the enhancement of their and COSMOTE introduced a new, flexible complaint confidence, and for maintening the Group handling process in order to maintain the high corporate image. level of service which translates into a competitive advantage while enhancing customer loyalty. l Convergence of procedures for complaint management, bridging the different customer CR Strategy and In 2014 the Complaint Management Fixed-Mobile experiences between fixed and mobile. Department of the Residential Customers and SME Management l Establishment of regular communication and Services Fixed – Mobile Directorate, in keeping with cooperation with all parties involved. the promise: “Together, we are one” implemented in cooperation with other organizational units of l Implementation of the dispute resolution OTE and COSMOTE, the following actions: and effective methods of communication strategies, aiming at long-term cooperation Effective and integrated management Marketplace l with mutual benefit. of dissatisfaction notices with the aim of improving the experience for al customers. Data/Information on Complaints Management 2011-2014 Number of % solved % solved within Issues raised by complaints Complaints within 2 days 20 days* Employees 2014 OTE 211,225 52% 93% l Clarifications on Telephone bills l Activation of products/services l Resolution of Technical issues COSMOTE 159,721 (in total) 80% 96% l Billing related complaints Society (40,201 of which l Commercial Policy issues were written l Services (provisioning and and extrajudicial technical malfunction) complaints) l Coverage of related complaints 2013 Environment OTE 193,368 56% 97% l Clarifications on Telephone bills l Activation of products/services l Resolution of Technical issues COSMOTE 131,624 (in total) 74% 98% l Billing related complaints (2.5 days in l Commercial Policy issues average) (33 of which l Services (provisioning and OTE Group were written technical malfunction) and extrajudicial Subsidiaries l Coverage of related complaints complaints) Indexes Marketplace 71 Sustainability Report 2014 Data/Information on Complaints Management 2011-2014 About this Report Number of % solved % solved within Issues raised by complaints Complaints within 2 days 20 days* 2012 OTE 113,645 54% 86% l Clarifications on Telephone bills l Activation of products/services CR Strategy and l Resolution of Technical issues COSMOTE Management 29,168 of which 92% 98% l Billing related complaints were written l Commercial Policy issues and extrajudicial complaints l Services (provisioning and technical malfunction) l Coverage of related complaints 2011 Marketplace OTE 166,319 59% 89% l Clarifications on Telephone bills l Activation of products/services l Resolution of Technical issues COSMOTE 33,422 of which 61% 98% l Billing related complaints were written l Commercial Policy issues Employees and extrajudicial complaints l Services (provisioning and technical malfunction) l Coverage of related complaints * National Regulatory Authority’s Code of Conduct defines the threshold of 20 days. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 72 Sustainability Report 2014 3.7.2 About this Report Customer Surveys A number of customer surveys are conducted throughout the year, to measure OTE and COSMOTE customer satisfaction, as well as other attributes, such as perception of the companies’ social role and rating of customer services. The results are shown in the following table. Ranking OTE COSMOTE Awareness and Social CR Strategy and 2014 score: 47.1% (2nd place) 2014 score: 73.5% (1st place) Behavior Index(1): Management Recognition of companies with social initiatives in CSR, by the public Loyalty Index (TRI*M)(2) 2014 score: 69 2014 score: 66 2013 score: 70 2013 score: 66 2012 score: 72 2012 score: 66 Marketplace 2011 score: 69 2011 score: 66 Tracking Survey(3): 2014 score: 32% 2014 score: 36% with regard to Social Sensitivity 2013 score: 31% 2013 score: 42% 2013 score: 28% 2012 score: 46% 2011 score: 28% 2011 score: 33% Employees Good Call Service(3) 2014 score: 41% 2014 score: 42% 2013 score: 43% 2013 score: 45% 2012 score: 44% 2012 score: 54% 2011 score: 46% Good Service in Shops(3) 2014 score: 35% 2014 score: 40% 2013 score: 36% 2013 score: 42% 2012 score: 37% 2012 score: 53% Society 2011 score: 47% Notes (1) Awareness and Social Behavior Index (A.S.B.I.): Quantitative Tracking study through personal interviews (face to face) at respondents’ households in Greece. The ASBI index expresses the social responsibility of Greek companies and is run by third party organizations. This index refers to the assisted awareness of companies in the mobile and fixed communications industry. Citizens were asked if they have heard/read/seen something related to the initiatives of telecommunications Environment companies in corporate social responsibility. (2) TRI*M Retention Loyalty Survey, a harmonized study in all 12 European T-Mobile countries and all 7 European T-Com/T-Home countries. Range of measurement: from minus sixty six to one hundred thirty four (-66 to +134). This survey is commissioned by DT and run by third party organizations.This OTE index results from the corresponding indices for residential and business customers, taking into account the proportion of revenue. (3) This survey is commissioned by OTE and COSMOTE and run by third party organizations through telephone interviews. The geographical coverage of the OTE survey is nationwide. For COSMOTE, the survey only covered the Athens and Thessaloniki in 2011 and 2012. Τhe methodological approach for the estimation resulting in index values that are not comparable of the Awareness and Social Behavior Index was with those of previous years. Note that, in 2014, OTE Group amended in 2014. The survey is now carried out the COSMOTE index of spontaneous recognition through telephone interviews achieving better took first place with 6.3%. It is worth mentioning dispersion of the sample and more representative that COSMOTE is very recognizable to citizens Subsidiaries results. Also, up to 2013, the survey showed the who acknowledge the concept of corporate recognizability index of companies as regards social responsibility. The overall results of the social programs (as they are presented in the survey confirm that the corporate responsibility OTE and COSMOTE Corporate Responsibility performance of the two companies is appreciated reports), calculated from the total of spontaneous by the Greek society. Indexes and assisted recognizability, popularity and pervasiveness of companies. From 2014 the Also, OTE and COSMOTE maintained satisfactory calculation of the index is determined only on the ratings in the TRI * M loyalty index, with their scores basis of spontaneous recognizability of companies, remaining practically constant over the last four years. Marketplace 73 Sustainability Report 2014 3.8 Data Security and Privacy About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE are diligent as regards the security of the services and products provided and take care so that all data and information in possession of the companies are processed purely for their intended purpose and are protected from misuse. OTE and COSMOTE are committed to a framework for the safety and protection of data. Ensuring comprehensive security and extensive data protection is more than just an obligation Employees to meet statutory and regulatory requirements; it is also an explicit mark of quality for the services provided. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 74 Sustainability Report 2014 The companies have in place: In 2014, OTE received four requests from About this Report l Policy for the Protection of Communications customers related to the confidentiality of Privacy, approved by the Hellenic Authority communications/security of customer information. for Communication Security and Privacy. The COSMOTE has received, in 2014, 67 requests about purpose of this Policy is to ensure the privacy the same issues. The average response time was of communications and the protection of the 15 days for OTE and 7.7 days for COSMOTE. OTE respective communication data , through the and COSMOTE also received, 5 and 9 requests implementation of security controls in specific respectively from the Hellenic Authority for CR Strategy and areas (e.g. logical access controls, logging and Communication Security and Privacy (ADAE). In none of these cases a finding was detected. Management auditing, acceptable use, physical security controls, etc.). In 2014, 31 safety checks and security risk l Code of Conduct for the protection of personal assessments of critical systems and processes data, which is available online (https://www.ote. were realized in order to ascertain compliance gr/ote-corporate-company-portlet/documents/ with corporate security policies and procedures. Furthermore, 94,576 authorised users’ access to Marketplace confidentiality.pdf). data processing systems of the two companies l Specific policies/main safety standards, which were checked. cover areas such as: – Systems security. Safety standards for the implementation of 70 new – Company information and personal systems or services were established and controls/ data security. safety testing to confirm their implementation were carried out. Employees – Human resources security. At the same time, awareness-raising information OTE and COSMOTE, aiming at continuous and education activities related to safety improvement of safety standards and effective considerations and data confidentiality were protection of their data, have proceeded to a series carried out, including: of actions and projects for a central information security infrastructure, i.e. l “Communications Privacy and Data Protection” e-learning for all OTE-COSMOTE employees. Society l The OTE and COSMOTE security operations center was expanded in terms of human l “Information Security and Data Privacy in resources and activity undertaken. The a Shop” e-learning for all OTE-COSMOTE monitoring of notifications/alarms generated by shops managers. outdoor line distribution cabinets (KV cabinets) l Security awareness sessions for OTE-COSMOTE nationwide was centralized Supervision of Customer Care. Environment physical access alarms to detect possible breakins in OTE buildings in Attica and Euboea l Security awareness sessions for OTE-COSMOTE was also centralized. Building Incident Controller employees. l A single access rights management system l Security awareness sessions during the Business (IDM) for hits in OTE and COSMOTE systems Continuity Management Awareness Week. was implemented. l Security awareness sessions in the introductory OTE Group l A privileged access accounts management courses of all newly recruited staff. Subsidiaries system was implemented, in order to identify individuals who use these accounts to access Physical Security the systems. In 2014, an integrated security system was implemented in the new central office building l A central monitoring of corrective security of OTE Group in Paiania. Also improvement software solution (security patches) installed interventions continued in the Central on critical systems was implemented. Administration Building and other major facilities l A data loss prevention (DLP) system was also and the installation (rollout) of the access control Indexes installed in OTE. system to 1,000 additional base stations was finished. Structural physical safety enhancement Marketplace 75 Sustainability Report 2014 studies were performed for 15 critical buildings l The Department of Personal and Event About this Report and eight major OTE Group parking lots in Greece. A Protection handled 90 alarms in KV cabinets call for tenders was announced and providers were and telephony cabins and other emergencies, selected for the improvement of physical security provided security supervision at 35 events for all KV cabinets and telephony cabins, the and 14 meetings of the Governing Board. access control system in the areas related to the Also, it conducted 280 outposts inspections, “Rural” project, and selected base stations. In 2014 280 preventive scans for explosives, and interventions were continued in 50 proprietary installed satellite equipment in 18 vehicles CR Strategy and OTE Group stores in Greece to strengthen security of Management. through the installation of shutters, glass walls and Management l The Branch Security Department conducted other building security interventions. 144 security inspections in the Group’s stores Two additional interventions in stores(1) were nationwide. completed, namely: In January 2014, all security personnel of OTE l Contracting and implementation of a new attended the training course “Basic security Marketplace model for the collection of receipts in stores personnel training program”. In this training by installing smart safes in 92 shops of the module, the legal aspects of security and rights OTE Group in Greece (project CASH SAFE), issues were presented. Reference to the use of which now comprise the largest network of force, arrest – detention, testimony, event place, smart safes in Greece. A 35% savings on the and cooperation with police and state security corresponding operating costs was achieved. services were made. Implementation of a unified alarm receiving Employees l center for all 147 Group OTE stores in Greece and 50 other facilities nationwide. Within the overall redesign of security systems, the strategic planning of physical security platforms of OTE Group in Greece for the next four years was completed and approved by the Society Management Board. On a daily basis the various departments handled substantial numbers of security actions and Incidents, namely: l The Control Center for Physical Security Environment recorded and handled efficiently 3,215 physical security incidents during the year, of which 170 were designated “serious”. l The Department of Building Security Infrastructure Implementation and Access Control Security issued 3,479 access control OTE Group cards and 3,966 entrance passes to Group sites. Subsidiaries Indexes (1) Interventions were performed in ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE stores, and also in 7 stores of the Germanos chain. Marketplace 76 Sustainability Report 2014 3.9 Business Continuity About this Report CR Strategy and Management Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE, as the leading Greek telecommunications companies, consider it their obligation to both maintain their stable growth and ensure the continuous supply of quality telecommunication services, including under exceptional external conditions. In 2014, the OTE Employees Group in Greece was certified according to ISO 22301: 2012 for “Social Security – Business Continuity Management Systems – Requirements” by the BSI certification body. OTE Group is the first organization in the Deutsche Telekom Group and among the few in the world to have acquired this certification. The most important business continuity activities Business continuity is considered critical at OTE Society implemented in 2014 included: Group and therefore relevant actions and initiatives l The implementation of risk analysis and impact that cover all Group companies are designed and assessment studies, of critical buildings and implemented. Specifically: activities of OTE and COSMOTE. l Processes, procedures and system policy of l The establishment of emergency management operational continuity for the Group were Environment teams on critical buildings of OTE and COSMOTE updated and/or developed in order to create and providing them with the necessary a common business continuity culture for all equipment. Group members attended targeted Group companies. The crisis management training and participated in evacuation exercises systems are integrated into the Business in selected buildings of OTE and COSMOTE. Continuity Management Systems (BCMS) of the OTE Group. l The continued cooperation with the Greek Telekom Romania was certified according to OTE Group l authorities, the Ministries and public Agencies (General Secretariat for Civil Protection, etc.), in ISO 22301: 2012 after systematic preparation Subsidiaries dealing with potential emergencies nationwide. and review of the entire cycle of its Management System. Indexes Marketplace 77 Sustainability Report 2014 l The development of BCMS at AMC Albania l The results of the October 2013 survey About this Report is underway. regarding awareness of the Group’s employees l In 2014, 468 cases were evaluated by the in Greece, Romania and Albania in business OTE Group’s Emergency Situation Center, continuity issues and related information which is the official reference point within the were communicated to all Group employee in Group where all alerts of situations/incidents management positions. affecting or likely to affect business continuity are forwarded. Of those, 70 were classified as CR Strategy and business continuity incidents, according to the Management Business Continuity Framework, 106 cases were assessed as potentially affecting business continuity (which are included in reports submitted to the OTE Group Management, in order to limit the Group’s reaction time), while for 32 cases outbound alert notifications were Marketplace sent to the DT Center (providing travel safety instructions). Also, there were 235 total alert notifications and 248 daily observations reports. Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 78 Sustainability Report 2014 3.10 Responsible Procurement About this Report CR Strategy and Management and Supply Chain Management Marketplace Employees Supply chain management is now vital for the sustainability of all enterprises, regardless of the geographic area involved or the products/services procured. Different suppliers participate in the procurement l Work closely with the network of suppliers to process through which the management of identify quickly changes in technology and the materials, products, services, and information economy, and formulate the corresponding systems, that lead to the final product to the appropriate action and adaptation plans. Society customer is carried out. Taking into account the l Ensure the operation of suppliers according to increased pressures arising from current economic, commercial and environmental standards by environmental, financial and social conditions in reviewing their certifications. the global market, there is a compelling need to develop a supply chain management policy which l Maintain a dynamic communication network will ensure competitive products of high quality, with all parts of the supply chain in order Environment and enhance customer satisfaction. A successful to ensure preventive response to possible supply chain management strategy is an important changes/threats of the market. competitive advantage, even in the difficult current OTE and COSMOTE monitor developments in economic and political situation of Greece. the international and sectoral scene on issues OTE Group recognizes these challenges and has of responsible management of its suppliers to formulated a supply chain management policy continuously improve their approach. Indicatively, OTE Group which will allow it to: through their participation in the GeSI (Global Subsidiaries e-Sustainability Initiative) initiative, they l Avoid the risks resulting from contact with were informed of the results of a 2014 study suppliers with unethical or illegal conduct and/ commissioned by GeSI and the Electronic Industry or do not respect human rights. Citizenship Coalition (EICC), which investigated the l Maximize the quality and value of the finished similarities and differences of the Code of Conduct product at the lowest possible cost. (CoC), the Validated Audit Protocol (VAP) of the Indexes l Optimize the terms and conditions for Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) cooperation in order to improve the and the Guidelines for Sustainable Supply Chains performance of all parties involved. of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC). The JAC is a cooperative effort of the telecommunications companies to promote safe and fair working Marketplace 79 Sustainability Report 2014 conditions and responsible social and Since December 2013, the two Companies share About this Report environmental management through monitoring, a common Procurement Policy, in which all evaluation and promotion of sustainability terms and regulations under which supplies are standards and the transfer of best practices procured, are specified. The main objectives of the throughout the supply chain. Procurement Policy are: The OTE Group also cooperates with DT on supply l Optimizing the added value in terms of cost, chain management. The mode of supply chain quality and time. CR Strategy and management applied by DT was assessed very l Ensuring transparency. positively (the DT supply chain management has Complying with Deutsche Telekom Global Management l assessed as «Best in Class» from relevant rating agencies such as SAM). Procurement Policy. The common Procurement Policy pursued by both 3.10.1 companies, does not distinguish between local and non-local suppliers. However, given that the Procurement Policy Marketplace Companies operate in the Greek market, it is their OTE and COSMOTE, recognize that the diffusion of common practice to support domestic suppliers. core values and standards in the supply chain is an In 2014, 87% and 94% of the invoiced supplies important feature of responsible business conduct. of OTE and COSMOTE respectively, came from For both companies this includes efforts to companies registered in Greece. continuously increase their influence on suppliers, in order to promote ethics principles, fight against The process of OTE and COSMOTE management of corruption, ensure environmental protection and suppliers is summarized to the following graph: Employees prevent child labour. Suppliers’ Management Lifecycle l Procurement conducted according to OTE l Αssessment of overall major vendor Group Procurement Policy. performance based on cross functional criteria set/KPIs by OTE Group Management. Society l Suppliers comply with the Supplier Codes of Conduct (clause in contracts). l Self-assessment of the major vendors’ CR Evaluation of new vendors / proposals (supplier’s performance through a self-assessment sustainability performance questionnaire. l selection criteria including Integrity Check). Incorporation into the suppliers’ contracts of l Major vendors sign the Supplier Codes of Conduct Acceptance Declaration. l clauses on health and safety, anti–corruption, security policy and confidentiality. Selection Evaluation DT’s Suppliers’ Environment Assessment results Development Classification OTE Group Classification of suppliers’ based on Specify plans to work on the improvement of l l quantitative assessment results. Subsidiaries “weak” vendors. l Presentation of assessment results to OTE l Monitoring of actions and results. Group Management. l Communication to Group of excluded vendors. OTE and COSMOTE, despite the adverse economic and COSMOTE payment time has been reduced, and conditions in Greece, aim at timely payment of their it ranged from 30-120 days, depending on the type suppliers, as per their contracts. In 2014 the OTE and amount of the commission. Indexes Marketplace 80 Sustainability Report 2014 3.10.2 Additional clauses on working hours, wages, fair About this Report and reasonable terms of employment are also Suppliers Selection included, as is a clause on humane treatment, nonThe process of evaluation of suppliers’ bids and discrimination and freedom of association. selection through a tender process, is based on the following key criteria: For more information please refer to COSMOTE Supplier Code of Conduct and OTE Supplier Code l Technical specifications. of Conduct. Price. CR Strategy and l l Commercial terms. 3.10.3 Management l Contractual issues. Suppliers Evaluation l Regular auditing. The active suppliers of OTE and COSMOTE are evaluated on an annual basis. This process is l CR-related criteria (e.g. certification of coordinated by the OTE Group Process Management quality management systems, environmental and Improvement Division, OTE Group. Marketplace management systems and health and safety management, Supplier Code of Conduct etc.). The suppliers to be evaluated are selected on the basis of purchase orders (POs) issued within a CR specific requirements may be added to any 12 month period. In particular, in 2014, the tender call, following requests of the department selection of suppliers evaluated, was based on initiating the procurement procedure. All bidding all purchase orders issued during the period suppliers, in submitting their proposals are required 10.01.2012 – 30.09.2013 on behalf of the OTE, Employees to declare that they explicitly agree to adhere to COSMOTE, Germanos, Germanos Telecom Romania the OTE Group Code of Conduct which codifies OTE SA, eValue SA, e-Value Ltd, AMC,Telekom Romania Group’s will to work with environmentally friendly Communications S.A., Telecom Romania Mobile and socially responsible suppliers. Communications S.A. and ZAPP companies. Thus, The contract that successful bidders are called to all suppliers with orders worth over €2 million and sign includes specific clauses on health and safety, all suppliers providing crucial supplies (as defined anti-corruption, security policy and confidentiality by the OTE Group, ie goods and services that have Society and start from 2014 (gradualy implemented) a significant impact on products and services compliance with the OTE or COSMOTE Supplier provided to customers) worth more than €500.000, Codes of Conduct. were evaluated. In addition, all suppliers of products/services related to certified management The OTE and COSMOTE Supplier Codes of Conduct systems of these companies (ie. management describe the criteria used by the Companies systems according to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS Environment to assess their suppliers in areas such as labor, 18001, etc.), and some suppliers who did not meet health and safety, but also for environmental the above criteria but were proposed for evaluation and ethical issues. Moreover, suppliers commit of Directors of OTE, were also evaluated. to take all necessary actions to ensure that their subcontractors comply with these provisions. The All the selected suppliers were evaluated by the OTE Supplier Code of Conduct was approved and business units involved. Through this process, the came into force in 2013, while that of COSMOTE is OTE and COSMOTE Management Council and the OTE Group in force since 2008. whole management team are informed on the Subsidiaries evaluations of the suppliers based on their overall A detailed section on labour is included in both performance within the Group, the quality of Companies’ Supplier Codes of Conduct, whereby products/services, they provide, their effectiveness suppliers commit to uphold the human rights of in delivering products/services and the relationship their employees and to treat them with dignity that has been developed between them and the and respect as understood by the international companies of the Group. community. Specifically, clauses are included Indexes on freely chosen employment, prohibition Furthermore, the suppliers under evaluation of any form of forced or child labour and the are requested to submit a signed Declaration protection of young employees, among others. of Acceptance of the Supplier Code of Conduct Marketplace 81 Sustainability Report 2014 as well as a filled self-assessment sustainability Support Process Management & Improvement About this Report performance questionnaire, which is intended Department OTE Group collaborated to further to promote suppliers’ awareness on social and improve the questionnaire by integrating new corporate responsibility and to enable suppliers to questions that take into account the increasing provide information regarding their management demands of OTE and COSMOTE, and the G4 GRI systems and practices. This questionnaire includes Guidelines. The revised questionnaire will be used in questions on the following areas: corporate the evaluation cycle for the period 2015-2016. responsibility, sustainability, labor, environment, CR Strategy and health and safety, quality, and business continuity management. In 2014, the Corporate Responsibility Management Department, Fixed & Mobile, and the Financial & Supplier’s Evaluation OTE COSMOTE 2013 2014 2013 2014 Marketplace Number of suppliers 97 179 155 173 % of the procurement volume evaluated 73%(1) 73%(3) 94%(2) 95%(3) Notes (1) Computed as the value of invoices evaluated, over the total value of invoices received in the period 1/10/2011 – 30/9/2012 (including supplies of high value of products and services that affect the final products/services provided to customers, as well as supplies of high-risk products as defined internally). (2) Computed as the value of purchase orders (POs) evaluated, over the total value PO’s issued in the period 1/10/2011 – 30/9/2012 (including suppliers of high Employees value ofproducts and services that affect the final products/services provided to customers, as well as supplies of high-risk products as defined internally, excluding intercompany supplies, dealers commissions, interconnection, roaming and sponsorships – donations). (3) Computed as the value of purchase orders (POs) evaluated, over the total value PO’s issued in the period 1/10/2012 – 30/9/2013 (including suppliers of high value of productss and services that affect the final products/services provided to customers, as well as supplies of high-risk products as defined internally excluding intercompany supplies, dealers commissions, interconnection, roaming and sponsorships – donations). At the end of 2014, based on orders realized in the OTE and COSMOTE recognize that companies period 01.10.2013 – 30.09.2014, the companies of that offer high-risk products (eg mobile devices, the OTE Group, started the next assessment cycle, computer equipment, etc.) and also operate in Society which is expected to be completed in mid-2015. high risk countries (eg LDCs) are more exposed to risks regarding work safety and human rights. Foreign suppliers of OTE and COSMOTE, are large 3.10.4 enterprises that are also the suppliers of DT. Rating and Development Consequently, OTE and COSMOTE take into account of Suppliers the results of the DT evaluations and controls for Environment The rating of suppliers, performed by the involved every common supplier. Where DT detects that a business units of OTE and COSMOTE, together with supplier does not comply with the policy of the DT the completed suppliers’ self questionnaires, are Group and international standards and discontinues posted into the OTE Group’s Supplier Evaluation trade with him, OTE and COSMOTE are informed System, in order to obtain a quantified performance and they eliminate that vendor from the list of of each supplier. The performance of each supplier acceptable suppliers. In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE on Corporate Responsibility represents 10% of did not cease cooperation with any of their OTE Group the total score. The results are presented to the international suppliers as a result of DT’s ratings. Subsidiaries Group’s management. For the suppliers with a low score, the OTE Group management decides whether they remain in the list of the approved Group suppliers, whether they need to show improvement in their performance Indexes (and therefore in cooperation with them, action plans need to be agreed) or whether their cooperation with the Group is terminated (in which case the competent Group Divisions are informed). Marketplace 82 Sustainability Report 2014 4.0 Employees Indexes OTE Group Environment Society Employees Marketplace CR Strategy and About this Report Subsidiaries Management EMPLOYEES About this Report Our approach for our people is based on the Guiding Principle: “Best place to perform and grow”. CR Strategy and Our People Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Management 9,117 MORE INFO EMPLOYEES 74% aged 30-49 0 30% Marketplace 35% Complaints Women in managerial regarding positions discrimination MORE INFO 65% Organization, Transformation 41% and Eﬀectiveness 100% Employees Higher education Operational Integration at degree holders Chief Oﬃcers level Health and Safety Society We ensure a safe and healthy working environment 771 3 year Collective Labor New Employees Agreement Environment Employee Training 2,238 hrs 4,321 hrs Workpace health Workplace We invest in our people training safety training 8,367 Participations in training programs 6,308 OTE Group INFO MORE INFO Employee visits to ﬁrst aid facilities in 7 central buildings Subsidiaries MORE INFO INFO Employee Engagement and Satisfaction 2 Indexes Training program Training program Advanced Certiﬁcation Branded Customer in Telecommunication Experience Excellence Pulse Technologies 5,062 employees Surveys 1,454 ΟΤΕ technicians annually Employees 84 Sustainability Report 2014 4.1 Human Resources Strategy About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace The strategic objective of the OTE Group today is to be a modern, dynamic, customeroriented, high performance company, with a leading position in the markets where it operates.To achieve this objective, the Companies rely on a transformation program, where people development constitutes one of the most fundamental pillars. The transformation of the Companies in a socially responsible manner and the establishment of a new common corporate culture comprised the basis for the achievement of their strategic objectives in Employees relation with human resource issues. In particular, as regards Human Resources, OTE and COSMOTE advanced the functional integration of fixed and mobile operations and the formation of a common culture between the two companies, and continued the renewal and development of their employees. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 85 Sustainability Report 2014 l Organizational restructuring Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for and effectiveness About this Report employees, customers and partners, remains the In 2014 the functional integration of fixed prime priority for OTE Group. and mobile telephony activities, continued thus helping to simplify procedures, improve The Human Resources Directorate OTE Group operational efficiency and enhance the Group’s operates on the basis of a competence and roles customer-orientation and competitiveness. structure model with the following parts: (i) Human Resources (HR) Competency Centers – Refresh and development of Development Centers for HR policies, systems and CR Strategy and l human resources procedures, (ii) HR Business Partners – Contact Management Following the two Voluntary Exit Programs points of human resources with business units for OTE employees, carried out in a socially to record the needs and provide feedback to responsible manner during the years competency centers; and (iii) HR Shared Services – 2012-2013, 1,500 new job positions opened Units for the immediate and effective management in the last two years (2013-2014) in the OTE of HR services. Group. At the same time, the Group continued Marketplace to invest in the development of modern skills The Chief Officer for Human Resources, who for its employees through (re skilling and is responsible for overall human resources up skilling programs to enhance skills and management issues, is a member of the provide new knowledge , and with programs to Management Team of OTE and COSMOTE. enhance innovation and creative thinking. Operational Framework Employees The basic framework for the OTE Group’s Employee Relations policy comprises respect for human rights, fair labour practices, non-discrimination, equal treatment for men and women, and combating child or forced labour. The Group’s employees are covered by collective labour agreements. Society Key Achievements in 2014 l The functional integration of fixed and mobile telephony activities continued leading to enhanced organizational effectiveness. The functional integration has been fully implemented Environment at the General Directorate level. l The first “OTE-COSMOTE Graduate Trainee Program”, was announced and attracted 2,500 requests for participation. l Employees of OTE and COSMOTE attended 4,477 and 2,082 hours respectively of training in Health and Safety issues. l More than 1,400 OTE technicians attended the reskilling and up skilling program ACT2. More than 5,000 employees of OTE and its subsidiaries attended the training program “BC2X OTE Group Subsidiaries l for customer experience culture cultivation”. Indexes Employees 86 Sustainability Report 2014 4.2 Employment About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace To reduce operating costs and align itself with the market response to modern technological developments as well as to adapt the number of employees to the current needs of the Group, OTE implemented in previous years Voluntarily exit schemes in a socially responsible manner. During the biennium 2012-2013 two Voluntarily exit programs were offered, which were taken up by more than 3,500 employees. Employees In 2014, after the completion of these programs, the OTE Group provided employment opportunities to 771 new employees in several sectors (e.g customer service, sales representatives, specialized professionals, etc). Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 87 Sustainability Report 2014 4.2.1 About this Report Human Resources On 31 December 2014, the OTE and COSMOTE employees numbered 9.117. Workforce Diversity at OTE and COSMOTE, 2014 OTE COSMOTE Total workforce: 7,067 Total workforce: 2,050 CR Strategy and Employment type Employment type Management Full-time dependent employment, Full-time dependent employment, of Indeterminant term: 97% (6,880) of Indeterminant term: 100% (2,049) Part-time dependent employment, Part-time dependent employment, of Indeterminant term: 1% (44) of Indeterminant term: 0% (1) Dependent employment, of fixed term: 2% (143) Dependent employment, of fixed term: – (0) Gender Gender Men: 69% (4,889) Men: 49% (1,001) Marketplace Women: 31% (2,178) Women: 51% (1,049) Age Age Under 30: 1% (71) Under 30: 1% (18) Age 30-50: 68% (4,819 Age 30-50: 95% (1,957) Over 50: 31% (2,177) Over 50: 4% (75) Education level Education level Doctorate: 1% (59) Doctorate: 0.5% (12) Post Graduate: 4% (282) Post Graduate: 3% (61) University: 14% (1,021) University: 31% (642) Employees Technical: 19% (1,338) Technical: 14% (282) Secondary: 57% (4,000) Secondary: 45% (916) Compulsory: 3% (231) Compulsory: 0.3% (6) Elementary: 2% (136) Elementary: 1.6% (33) Region Region Aegean Islands: 5% (320) Attica: 89% (1,828) Attica: 56% (3,939) Crete: 1.5% (31) Central Greece and Evia: 5% (387) Epirus: 0.4% (8) Crete: 4% (305) Macedonia: 7% (139) Society Epirus: 2% (141) Peloponnese: 1.4% (29) Ionian Islands: 2% (108) Thessaly: 0.7% (14) Macedonia: 12% (878) International: 0% Peloponnese: 8% (574) (1 based in Albania) Thessaly: 3% (214) Thrace: 3% (201) Total workforce on Total workforce on Environment indeterminant term contracts: 6,924 indeterminant term contracts 2,050 Employment type Employment type Full-time: 99% (6,880) Full-time: 100% (2,049) Part-time: 1% (44) Part-time: 0% (1) Gender Gender Men: 69% (4,792) Men: 49% (1,001) Women: 31% (2,132) Women: 51% (1,049) Type of work Type of work Office: 58% (3,984) Office: 83% (1,704) OTE Group Subsidiaries Retail: 12% (827) Retail: 7% (137) Fieldwork/Other: 30% (2,113) Fieldwork/Other: 10% (209) People with special needs 360 (5%) People with special needs 26* (1%) Full-time: 6,880 Full-time: 2,049 Gender Gender Indexes Men: 70% (4,792) Men: 49% (1,000) Women: 30% (2,088) Women: 51% (1,049) Employees 88 Sustainability Report 2014 Workforce Diversity at OTE and COSMOTE, 2014 About this Report OTE COSMOTE Part-time: 44 Part-time: 1 Gender Gender Men: – (0) Men: 100% (1) Women: 100% (44) Women: – (0) Fixed term Temporary Employment:143 Fixed term Temporary Employment: 0 CR Strategy and Gender Gender Management Men: 68% (97) N.A. Women: 32% (46) Board of Directors Members: 11 Board of Directors Members: 9 Age Age Under 30: 0% (0) Under 30: 0% (0) Marketplace Age 30-50: 55% (6) Age 30-50: 56% (5) Over 50: 45% (5) Over 50: 44% (4) Notes Counting based on headcount, on 31 December 2014 *In addition, 7 employees are in the process of renewing their disability certificates. Recruitment and Departures in 2014 Employees Recruitment Departures OTE COSMOTE OTE COSMOTE Age group No % No % No % No % < 30 0 0% 1 6% 1 2% 0 0% 30-50 36 84% 15 94% 14 33% 10 83% >50 7 16% 0 0% 27 64% 2 17% Gender No % No % No % No % Society Male 11 26% 10 63% 27 64% 8 67% Female 32 74% 6 38% 15 36% 4 33% Region No % No % No % No % Environment Attica 30 70% 16 100% 33 79% 11 92% Thessaly 1 2% Thrace 1 2% Central Greece and 3 7% 1 2% Euboea Crete 1 2% OTE Group Macedonia 6 14% 4 10% Subsidiaries Ionian Islands 1 2% Peloponnese 1 2% 3 7% Abroad 1 8% Total 43 161 42 12 Departures as % of indeterminant term staff2 0.6% 0.6% Indexes Notes 1 Including 3 hires from within OTE Group. 2 Computed on the basis of the total of indeterminant term employees as of 31 December 2014. Employees 89 Sustainability Report 2014 OTE and COSMOTE operate throughout Greece. talented young people, up to 28 years of age, About this Report Although there is no officially formulated holders of postgraduate degrees, with vibrant and policy of the Group to recruit people from local dynamic personality who will be chosen through an communities, in practice domestic concept was extensive and demanding selection process. The taken into account in an effort to further support Graduate Trainees, will be hired by OTE Group and local communities and promote the welfare of for 18 months “will experience an exciting journey” employees. It should also be noted that almost with stops at the companies’ main activities, will 100% of the Chief Officers and Directors of the be exposed to a modern working environment, will CR Strategy and companies are Greek citizens. participate in modern training programs and will take part in challenging projects. Upon completion Management Employment Opportunities of the program, the Graduate Trainees will be for the Young People offered a job position in the OTE Group. As a result OTE and COSMOTE are regarded as an excellent of the high interest of participating in the program, employment opportunity for young people starting more than 2,500 applications were submitted. their career. In a survey running for the second The program’s innovation includes the gaining of Marketplace year and conducted by the Athens University firsthand experience in a large organization, as of Economics and Business and the career well as the continuing support and supervision of development company Kariera, OTE and COSMOTE Group’sthe Senior Management. were ranked as the 5th most desirable employers for all respondents aged 18-30, students and For more information visit: http://www.otegraduates of Universities and technical institutes cosmote-graduatetraineeprogram.gr/. from all over Greece. In 2013, the respective Employees ranking placed COSMOTE in 10th place. Participation in Career Events In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE participated in a series Work Experience for Students of events, organized mainly by universities, to During 2014, OTE and COSMOTE provided an support young people in vocational and career opportunity for 748 students (universities, planning (career events). HR representatives had technological educational institutes, vocational the opportunity to get in touch with students, training institutes) to fulfill their internship young graduates and professionals and discuss Society requirement toward completion of their studies, in with them about possible career opportunities, the modern workplace of the OTE Group. inviting them to express their interest in employment in OTE Group. The OTE Group companies offer students the opportunity to apply their knowledge in a real In 2014, the companies participated in the working environment, to gain work experience, following events: Environment to be trained (on-the-job training) and to develop l ALBA Graduate Business School Career skills that will help them perform better in the Forum 2014. future. Students were placed in almost all operating units of OTE and COSMOTE. During their internship, l Career Days 2014. their progress was systematically tracked. l DEREE Career Days 2014. At the same time communication with career and l Developers Day. OTE Group internship offices of universities was systematized l Cisco Academies Meeting. and projects in collaboration with specialized University land technological educational institutes Subsidiaries aboratories are under development. 4.2.2 Fair Employment OTE-COSMOTE Graduate Policy Framework Trainee Program Maintaining a workplace based on non-discrimination, Indexes In December 2014, the implementation of the fairness and integrity is fundamental for OTE and first “OTE-COSMOTE Graduate Trainee Program” COSMOTE. The framework of the fair labour policy of was announced. The program seeks to attract the companies, based on respect for human rights, is Employees 90 Sustainability Report 2014 in accordance with the following: promotion and development of employment, the About this Report l The regulatory framework in Greece and the rationalization of wage costs and the creation of EU, which prohibits the use of child labor, favorable conditions for recruitment. The Collective forced labour and involving young people in Labor Agreement regulates payroll issues, permits, dangerous jobs. benefits, compensation and working hours of the OTE staff. The new agreement covers the period l The United Nations Global Compact, which OTE from 01/01/2015 to 31/12/2017. and COSMOTE, signed in 2008. A new collective labor between the COSMOTE CR Strategy and l The OTE Group Code of Conduct and Employee management and the Union representing the on Labor Relations Policy, which recognize Management COSMOTE employees that covers the period 2015 explicitly the basic freedom of association and to 2017 inclusive, has also been signed. the right to participate in collective agreements under national legislation, and expressly In 2014, mainly due to the economic situation in prohibit unlawful discrimination or harassment Greece and the proposed changes in the Greek based on age, sex, religion, ability, background national social policy, three strikes (each lasting Marketplace or sexual orientation. one day) involving the staff of OTE and COSMOTE took place. Regarding the management of personal data in the Group, OTE and COSMOTE operate in accordance with the Code of Conduct for the Protection of 4.2.4 Human Rights. The Code has been developed Non-Discrimination, Equal in accordance with the existing national legal Opportunities and Diversity Employees framework. Also, the OTE Group operates in The OTE Group Code of Conduct includes basic accordance with the Group DT Social Charter, rules of conduct, principles and values such as which provided the guiding principles for the OTE equality, respect for diversity, integrity, ethics, Social Charter (more information is provided in the transparency, personal responsibility, which section on Corporate Responsibility Strategy). compose an operating model and lead to the For any significant change in their operation adoption of a common corporate culture. (eg. reorganization, outsourcing operation, Society The Code of Conduct is the framework guide for business interruption, expansions, new job the behaviour of all OTE Group employees. It brings positions, acquisitions, sale of all or part of the together the strong commitment of the Group company, or mergers), OTE and COSMOTE inform to respect laws and regulations, with the specific or consult the most representative trade unions obligations relating to ethical behaviour which, as appropriate, applying each time the current together with the five Guiding Principles, support legislative framework. Environment the success of the Group. The core principle of all human resources processes of OTE and COSMOTE, 4.2.3 is that all decisions and actions relating to matters Freedom of Association such as recruitment, wages, growth and employee and Collective Labour development and termination of contracts are characterized by meritocracy, transparency and Agreements non-discrimination. OTE Group In Greece, because of the national regulatory framework, there is very low risk of violating the By promoting diversity and harmonious synthesis of rights of association and participation in collective different skills, talents and experience of employees, Subsidiaries labor. The percentage of employees covered male and female, in all activities of the companies, by enterprise collective labor agreements is additional value is imparted and the development approximately 99% for OTE and 92% for COSMOTE. prospects of the companies are ensured, always with due respect to the society in which they operate. In December 2014,a new three-year collective Indexes labor agreement between OTE and the OTE As stated in the OTE Group’s Code of Conduct, Emlpoyee Federation (OME-OTE) was finalized and non-discrimination covers gender, age, signed, aiming to strengthen the sustainability religion, ability, origin and sexual orientation. and competitiveness of the company, the Both companies maintain processes and the Employees 91 Sustainability Report 2014 communication channels “Ask Me” and “Tell Me” Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate) About this Report through which employees can seek advice or report through the “Ask Me” process, 461 queries from their concerns about discrimination issues. employees, including inter alia the approval of sponsorships/donations, andthe suppliers’ and Through the «Ask me» channel, information on consultants’ integrity checks. None of these issues relating to the Code of Conduct, the Internal queries are related to discrimination issues. Policies and Regulations of OTE Group is provided. Respectively, via the “Tell Me” channel confidential In addition, OTE Group Compliance, Reporting complaints about violations of laws, policies and and Case Management Department (of the OTE CR Strategy and the Group’s internal procedures are addressed. Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate) Management received 30 complaints through the process “Tell In 2014, OTE Group Prevention, Policies Me” as shown the following Table: and Training Department (of the OTE Group Communication Channel: Tell Me, 2014 OTE COSMOTE Marketplace Total Employee Complaints 28 2 Complaints regarding Discrimination 0 0 It should be noted that the induction program for may choose one of the following options: new hires of the company “Welcome on board” For ΟΤΕ Employees l has a separate training module on Compliance Reduced work by two hours daily for two years issues, Code of Conduct and internal policies of and one hour a day for the next two years, or the companies. alternatively full leave lasting nine months (twelve months for mothers of twins). Non-Discriminatory Remunerations Compensation l For COSMOTE At OTE and COSMOTE no distinction or sex Reduced work by one hour daily for 3 years or Society differentiation on compensation is practiced. In by two hours daily for 18 months if compatible accordance with the current OTE Collective Labour with business needs or, alternatively, full six Agreement, employees’ salary is dased on their month leave or a one day leave per week for educational level and their years of employment. eighteen months. For the newly hired employees new salary scales Men are also entitled to parental leave, have been established including a minimum wage provided that their spouses have not also Environment of 755 euros. In COSMOTE, the compensation received parental leave. level is determined by the level of the position held, while the minimum wage level is adjusted In 2014, at OTE 145 women and a one (1) man according to the wage category the employee took parental leave. At COSMOTE respectively belongs to as provided in the current Collective 109 women and 3 men took parental leave. Labour Agreement. The ratio of male/female In addition, 31 women and 1 man in COSMOTE remuneration is 1:1 respectively. In addition, during took advantage of unpaid parental leave. 2014, the level of the minimum wage in relation to OTE Group Subsidiaries All working women made use of parental leave the national minimum wage in Greece, was higher they were entitled to. No employee resigned during by 76% in OTE and by 58% in COSMOTE. child care leave with pay, and all, men and women, returned to their normal duties. Parental Leave The companies provide maternity leave for Gender Diversity childbirth and parental leave for childcare. Parental Indexes In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE maintained the leave, which is considered and paid as working diversity of their workforce, especially in terms of time, is provided to working mothers or fathers representation of women in staff and managerial immediately after the end of maternity leave, who positions. In particular, women made up about Employees 92 Sustainability Report 2014 one third of the OTE workforce and half of COSMOTE workforce respectively. Regarding managerial positions About this Report of the Group, women occupy about 30% of managerial positions and 33% of positions in the OTE-COSMOTE Management Team. Governing Boards and Management Diversity, 2014 Male Female Total No % No % No CR Strategy and OTE Board of Directors 10 91% 1 9% 11 Management COSMOTE Board of Directors 9 100% 0 0% 9 CEO 1 100% 0 0% 1 OTE-COSMOTE Management Team 8 67% 4 33% 12 Direct Reporting to OTE-COSMOTE CEO 8 73% 3 27% 11 Marketplace Total 21 81% 5 19% 26 Management Levels No % No % No Chief Officers 13 81% 3 19% 16 Heads of Divisions 64 80% 16 20% 80 238 Employees Heads of Sub-Divisions 185 78% 53 22% Heads of Sections 540 68% 254 32% 794 Total 802 71% 326 29% 1,128 Note All OTE and COSMOTE executives included in levels from Chief Officers to Head of Sections are counted once. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 93 Sustainability Report 2014 4.3 Health and Safety About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for employees, customers and partners, remains a top priority for OTE Group. Health and Safety issues are considered essential for the successful and sustainable future of the Group and have a direct impact on issues such as employee satisfaction, well-being, quality of work and the corporate culture. Therefore, the OTE Group of companies act proactively in this direction, taking into account the relevant provisions of Greek law and standards as minimum requirements. The establishment and Employees improvement of a healthy and safe environment at work through a coordinated effort management and staff are a key priority of OTE, as these contribute effectively to the development and the companies’ progress. In 2014 the common OTE Group Quality, Health 4.3.1 and Safety and Environmental Policy Health and Safetywas completed. The common Policy Health and Safety Policy Society illustrates Management’s commitment to OTE Group Health & Safety Policy has as a target to implement country and EU laws and regulations , support its operational units in activities related to: to develop values for shaping a preventiveculture l Compliance with legal and regulatory for Health and Safety at work, to encourage, train requirements. and support employees’ involvement in improving l Prevention and occupational risk assessment. Health and Safety and to develop partnerships Environment in Health and Safety at work. Health and Safety l Certification of OTE Group operations, according Committees at Work (61 in OTE, 2 in COSMOTE), to the international standard for Occupational which consist of elected representatives of Health and Safety management systems employees, meet every quarter with Management (OHSAS 18001). representatives to discuss issues and processes l Consultation between Management related to the improvement of Health and Safety and employees. OTE Group at work. Health and Safety issues are not covered by the current Collective Labor agreements with l Accidents and incidents management. unions of OTE and COSMOTE. l Systematic training and communication Subsidiaries to employees regarding Health and Safety Health and Safety at Work issues are also evaluated principles, and specialized training for by employees through the Employee Satisfaction potentially hazardous tasks. Survey, which is conducted every two years and focuses on issues related to health, such as mental/ l Monitoring of application of safety measures by Indexes physical well-being and work-life balance. The employees and third parties (eg contractors). results and findings of the survey form the basis for l First aid training, preventive medical testing improvement actions within the companies. and mental health support services. Employees 94 Sustainability Report 2014 l Creation of Emergency Response Teams, training of employees. In particular, inspections About this Report including regular building evacuation drills. continued at the same level as in previous years and, at the same time, existing training programs 4.3.2 were implemented regularly and new one were Health and Safety introduced. The following table shows the performance (KPIs) of the Group on Health and Performance in 2014 Safety issues for 2014. During 2014, special emphasis was given to Health CR Strategy and and Safety issues relating to the prevention and 2014 Health and Safety Performance OTE COSMOTE Management Fatalities Employee fatalities None None Marketplace Contractor fatalities Not Available None Work-related accidents (employees) Number of employees injured Male 25 3 Female 12 11 Total 37 14 Employees Injury rate1 Male 0.59 0.30 Female 0.63 1.05 Total 0.60 0.69 Occupational disease rate2 Male 0 0 0 0 Society Female Total 0 0 Lost day rate3 Male 40.31 3.31 Female 9.20 22.77 Total 30.73 13.27 Environment Absentee rate4 687.07 608.82 Notes 1 Injury rate = (Total number of injuries/Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. The data do not include minor (first-aid level) injuries. 2 Occupational diseases rate = (Total number of occupational diseases cases/Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. 3 Lost day rate = (Total number of lost days/Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. Lost days for OTE are calculated as calendar days, while for COSMOTE lost days are calculated as scheduled work days. Lost days count begins on the day of the OTE Group injury or the next day, depending on the time of the day that the injury occurs. 4 Absentee rate = (Total number of missed absentee days/Total number of workforce days worked) x 25,000. The factor 25,000 is derived from 50 working weeks Subsidiaries for 5 days per 100 employees. This rate is not monitored per gender. Indexes Employees 95 Sustainability Report 2014 In 2014, there were no fatalities in OTE and COSMOTE, while all work accidentsoccured, were of low severity. About this Report Absentee rate was slightly increased in both companies. Seven Year Health and Safety Performance 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 OTE CR Strategy and Employee fatalities 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 Employee injuries* 28 31 29 27 33 31 37 Management Work days lost (calendar days) 1,427 2,164 1,556 1,408 2,503 1,853 1,884 COSMOTE Employee fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Marketplace Employee injuries* 16 22 28 17 19 14 14 Work days (scheduled work days) 139 178 235 218 416 207 271 * Fatalities not included. 4.3.3 Health and Safety Prevention and Awareness Employees In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE continued to give special emphasis and resources for HR prevention, information and awareness actions. The development of the annual training plan on Health and Safety issues was based on the general evaluation of the activities of the previous year, such as the results of inspections carried out by occupational physicians and safety technicians, occupational accidents, and the success of training programs. Inspections by Occupational Medicine Physicians in 2014 Society Environment Inspection hours/yr as mandated by law Real inspection hours 875 OTE Group Subsidiaries 3,562 1,113 9,737 OTE COSMOTE Indexes Employees 96 Sustainability Report 2014 Technical Inspections carried out in 2014 About this Report Inspection hours/yr as mandated by law Real inspection hours CR Strategy and Management 10,653 1,336 Marketplace 1,336 14,700 OTE COSMOTE All employees receive information and training under difficult conditions, such as those employed in order to assure the application of Health and in outdoor field work and overhead linemen/ Employees Safety standards at work. In this context, basic industrial climbers participate annually in education training is provided to all new hires and recurrent programs about the risks they face, the prevention training to all employees when significant changes measures and the control points. Also seminars occur in the tasks assigned. The training covers and information on a wide range of relevant issues the potential risks and the preventive measures are continuously provided. to be taken. Additionally, employees who work Training on Health and Safety issues of OTE employees in 2014 Society No of Trainees Instruction hours Environment 0.64 hours/employee (Average instruction on health and safety issues per employee based on the mean number of employees in the year) Issues: OTE Group 1,013 1,420 Subsidiaries l First Aid l Thermal stress 1,690 2,787 l Anti-smoking campaign Mad dog disease prevention (ΚΕELPNO) Health Safety l Issues Issues l West Nile virus prevention etc. Indexes Employees 97 Sustainability Report 2014 Training on Health and Safety issues of COSMΟΤΕ employees in 2014 About this Report No of trainees Instruction hours 1.02 hours/employee (Average instruction on health and safety issues CR Strategy and per employee based on the mean number of employees in the year) Issues: Management l Work safely (electricians) l Work safely (meter readers) Marketplace l Safety measures in field work 115 302 l l Use of portable fire extinguishers – fire safety Work safety measures – ΜΑΠ 548 1,534 l Safe use of forklifts (warehouses) Safe driving behavior Health Safety l Education overhead etc. Issues Issues l Employees First Aid Treatment Incidents in 2014 Number of visits of employees to OTE/COSMOTE First Aid facilites COSMOTE First Aid 4,534 Society clinics ΟΤΕ First Aid 1,774 clinics Data refer to the visits of workers to clinics housed in OTE’s Administration Building, and buildings YMA-NYMA, Paianias Philip Olympiad, Charles Diehl, Environment Evosmos and Aharnon OTE and COSMOTE. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 98 Sustainability Report 2014 Medical Examinations of ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE employees in 2014 About this Report OTE COSMOTE CR Strategy and Management Marketplace Visual acuity 2,935 2,069 Clinical 3,231 1,331 171 Musculosceletal 3,103 193 Vaccinations 10 Urine sample 1 examination 1,263 Spirometry checkup 107 Audiometry checkup 471 analysis Employees It is also noteworthy that in 2014, 63 OTE on the road’’ in cooperation with the driving employees and 127 employees of COSMOTE school “Iaveris Rally Academy”. received psychological support services. Society ­–­ “Earthquakes and Protection Measures” in Finally, under the Health and Safety framework, cooperation with the Earthquake Planning the Blood Donation Program in the companies was and Protection Organization (EPPO). continued. More information are presented in the –­­ “We live better without smoking” in section Employee Volunteering. cooperation with the Hellenic Thoracic Society. Environment Briefings on Health and Safety –­­ Creation of a brochure on “Instructions for Awareness the protection during heat wave conditions”. In 2014, a series of actions were also implemented l Drawing up instructions for: aiming to raise awareness of employees, namely: –­­ Making in areas of electromechanical l Publishing of 26 informative articles on the equipment in OTE Headquarters building. intranet sites (U-link και Mikrocosmos) on: –­­­ Safe use of personal protection means in OTE Group –­ ­Celebration of world or European days/ the Building Management area of the OTE Subsidiaries weeks: 18 articles. Headquarters building. ­–­ Protection and dealing with seasonal –­­­ Pedestrian safety in the underground viruses: 4 articles. parking of the Paiania building. –­­ Protection and dealing with seasonal dangers (e.g. Ebola epidemic, smog etc.): Restaurants – Canteens 4 articles. To meet the everyday needs of employees, l Events in cooperation with external bodies/ 4 restaurants and 31 canteens (9 in Athens, Indexes organizations on such issues as: 3 in Thessaloniki and 19 in the rest of Greece) operate in OTE and COSMOTE buildings. –­ ­“Safe road behavior and civility of Greeks Employees 99 Sustainability Report 2014 The management and monitoring of all relevant l Specifying assembly points in buildings. About this Report contracts are under the surveillance of HR Health l Create evacuation – rescue plans for buildings. and Safety Department, which has a full list of restaurants and canteens, monitors their operating l Organization and implementation of safety hours, and is responsible for the on line publishing training and First Aid BIC/IRT. of weekly menus in corporate intranets. l validation and operation of escape routes In 2014, the following audits by independent (easily accessible, free of obstacles, without external partner were planned and executed, under locked exit points). CR Strategy and the supervision of HR Health and Safety Department: In 2014, 13 evacuation exercises of the Group’s Management l Inspections in restaurants and canteens: buildings, involving 6,264 employees were planned ­–­ ­No of inspections: 48 in restaurants and and executed. 192 in canteens. ­– No of findings/recommendations: 187. Microbiological tests: Marketplace l ­–­ ­72 surface tests. ­–­ 6 olive oil analyses. ­­– 336 microbiological tests of meals/material supplies. ­–­ 12 water quality analyses. Employees “We live better without smoking” Program Based on the philosophy “We live better”, OTE-COSMOTE Safety and Health Team, took a series of new initiatives related to awareness, prevention and adopting a healthier lifestyle, for employees. First actions for 2014 were in relation to quitting Society smoking and the promise of a better life without it. An experienced team of recognized scientists from the Hellenic Thoracic Society and the Evanggelismos Hospital participated in workshops Environment to support OTE/COSMOTE employees in their effort to quit smoking. The program under the moto “We live better without cigarette!” implemented in the central buildings of the companies in Athens and the periphery and will continue in 2015. Training on Emergency Situations As part of the employees training for OTE Group Subsidiaries emergency situations, in 2014, the following actions were taken: l Identification of and agreement with stakeholders on the list of critical OTE Group buildings. Indexes l Defining and updating the BIC/IRT Groups (i.e.person responsible per building/situation response team). Employees 100 Sustainability Report 2014 4.4 Organization About this Report CR Strategy and Management Transformation and Effectiveness Marketplace Employees In 2014, the operational integration of fixed and mobile telephony activities continued, leading to simplification of procedures, improved operational efficiency and enhancement of the Group’s customer orientation and competitiveness. The operational integration is fully completed at the Chief Officers level while at the Division and Subdivision level it is now approaching 80%. The organizational transformation to improve Moreover, each new role of fixed and mobile operational efficiency is underway also in the telephony is analyzed and described based on Society Group subsidiaries. An example of the the existing Job Families Model (JFM)of mobile transformation is the merger through absorption telephony, which is revised and enriched in order of VoiceNet by OTE, which is now at its final stage, to provide transparency for the full understanding to provide optimal use of available expertise and of roles and responsibilities of employees and experience in specialized telecommunications managers in the integrated operations of fixed products and services. and mobile telephony. This model will act as the Environment basis for the design of modern structures and roles In late 2014, the OTE Group Executive Grading and their effective recruitment, to support the system of Top Management positions was progress of the Group’s transformation now and approved, so as to ensure objectivity and in the future. transparency in determining the importance of each position, through an internationally recognized methodology. It also provides a reliable OTE Group platform for the introduction of modern Human Subsidiaries Resources management tools in the Group. This project is expected to continue to clarify the position duties of the middle management of the Group, contributing to a more flexible and efficient administration and operation scheme. Indexes Employees 101 Sustainability Report 2014 4.5 Employee Development About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace The aim of OTE Group is to establish itself as an attractive employer who provides a work environment where every employee has the ability to perform at maximum capacity and to develop professionally. The approach of OTE and COSMOTE for the development of human resources is based on the Guiding Principle “Best Place to perform and grow.” As a modern organization focusing on the customer, the Group also supports the harmonious Employees synthesis of skills, experience and talent. However, even the most talented people need support and appropriate systems to develop professionally. Performance appraisal management and were evaluated according to the Group procedure. development, recruitment and selection of the The gender ratio for the performance appraisal right candidate for the right position, re skilling and is therefore, the same as the overall Group-wide up skilling training programs, talent management gender ratio. Society programs and leadership programs, are amongst the modern professional development and training OTE and COSMOTE performance appraisal system tools used. Emphasis is given to the creation of is adapted to the vision, mission, values, high individual development plans that include specific performance culture and specific needs of actions for the improvement, development and companies and their employees. It is designed growth of employees.As members of the DT with emphasis on strengthening the excellence in customer experience (Customer Experience Environment Group, OTE and COSMOTE offer their employees international career opportunities within the Group, Excellence) and is harmonized with OTE Group as well as best practices and knowledge sharing. Guiding Principles of Code of Conduct. Finally, it is based on parameters of specific and measurable objectives, professional competencies and 4.5.1 performance criteria, which are revised as often Performance Evaluation as necessary to reflect current standards in the and Management OTE Group telecommunications sector and the corresponding Subsidiaries OTE and COSMOTE run for all employee levels an required expertise. annual performance appraisal and development It should be noted that the adoption of Corporate process. All newly appointed managers with people Responsibility principles is taken into account management responsibilities attend, prior to the in the annual performance appraisal process annual performance appraisal process, a tailorfor all employees, by assessing their degree of made training on how to assess their employees’ involvement and participation in the companies’ Indexes performance and create an individual development efforts to develop socially responsible behaviour plan based on their needs. In 2014, a total of 129 towards the environment, society, fellow new mangers attended the training program, and employees and the market. Quantitative targets all employees of OTE and COSMOTE (i.e. 100%) Employees 102 Sustainability Report 2014 have been introduced for certain groups of Programs to Attract Exceptionally About this Report employees without position responsibilities Talented Employees (eg employees in Sales and Customer Service). In December 2014, the implementation of the first “OTE-COSMOTE Graduate Trainee Program” 4.5.2 was announced. This is a new program to attract Employee Selection prospective young employees, not older than to 28, with high quality postgraduate studies The aim of OTE Group is to select appropriate and the potential to evolve in tomorrow’s leaders CR Strategy and recruits for each specific position. How this choice of the Group (see. OTE-COSMOTE Graduate is made contributes to the formation of the Group’s Trainee Program). Management image as a modern and attractive employer. OTE Group seeks to be the employer of first choice In 2014 the design of the first program to identify and to offer all candidates a positive selection OTE and COSMOTE employees with high potential experience, whatever the outcome. was announced. This program is scheduled to start in 2015. The human resources selection process is at Marketplace the same time a development process for the Leadership Programs executives of the operational units and qualified In order to enhance the skills of managers with staff of the Human Resources Division who are group management responsibilities, leadership involved in each time in it. To this end, in 2014 a capacity development programs have been selection process training session was conducted designed and implemented. These OTE and and an internal document for external and internal COSMOTE leadership programs are based on candidate selection entitled “Structured Interview Employees the corporate values of the Group and aim at Guide” was issued. knowledge acquisition and exchange of experience In 2014, 89 positions for internal candidates were of the staff. They cover issues of guidance, proclaimed open through 18 notices posted motivation, feedback, communication and overall on the corporate Intranet (the 55 new posts human resources management. were positions of responsibility). The internal recruitment process includes internal information/ 4.5.3 Society advertisement, interview and final selection and is enhanced by the application, in collaboration Employee Education with an external consultant if needed, of specific Training is fundamental to employee development evaluation/development tests. and satisfaction, customer service and competitiveness of a company. At the same time, For the efficient staffing of a position, to be covered education constitutes the predominant means Environment either through the selection of internal or external of personal development and simultaneously an candidates or through the promotion of internal important communication vehicle for corporate candidates, OTE and COSMOTE institute Evaluation strategy, for change and for strengthening and Assessment Centers. The Centers represent corporate culture. a valid and reliable candidate evaluation process, as they ensure that all participants have the same In the context of harmonization of the Human opportunity to demonstrate their capabilities and Resources policies, a common OTE/COSMOTE OTE Group potential in relation to attitudes/professional Human Resources Training procedure was put in effect that describes all the operations required Subsidiaries qualities to be tested. Assessment Centres is an important experience for the development and for the design, implementation and evaluation of improvement of each participant, as they are educational programs offered to employees. able to receive through experiential exercises constructive feedback and to better understand their potential as well as to meet their development Indexes needs. In 2014, 52 assessment centers were run for internal OTE and COSMOTE candidates. Employees 103 Sustainability Report 2014 Participation in OTE and COSMOTE Training Programs, 2014 About this Report OTE COSMOTE Total participations: 6,6831 Total participations: 1,6842 Gender Gender Men: 72% (4,796) Men: 59% (988) Women: 28% (1,887) Women: 46% (696) Employee category Employee category3 CR Strategy and Administration: 28% (1,871) Management 2% (32) Management Expert personnel: 4% (286) Sales: 13% (220) Τechnical: 57% (3,776) Customer service: 9% (144) Finance: 5% (302) Constructions, network/IT operations Support: 5% (313) and applications: 17% (288) Other: 2% (135) Network and IT applications design and development: 20% (330) Specialists: 5% (78) Marketplace Product and services development and promotion 7% (120) Business Support: 28% (472) Employee position of responsibility Employee position of responsibility In responsibility position: 13% (869) In responsibility position: 19% (326) In non-responsibility position: 87% (5,814) In non-responsibility position: 81% (1,358) Total employees who participated in trainings: Total employees who participated in trainings: Employees 4,570 1,088 Gender Gender Men: 71% (3,230) Men: 55% (598) Women: 29% (1,340) Women: 45% (490) Notes 1 There were 3,940 additional participations in training programs for OTE employees who are not OTE employees (eg students, trainees). 2 There were 599 additional participations in COSMOTE’s training program who are not COSMOTE employees (eg employees in subsidiaries and employees Society of contractors). 3 Under the Job Family Model. Average Number of Training Hours in 2014 OTE COSMOTE Environment Male employees 13.09 18.63 Female employees 9.16 8.69 Total employees 11.88 13.55 Notes Hours per employee were computed on the basis of the mean yearly number of employees. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 104 Sustainability Report 2014 About this Report CR Strategy and Management BC2X – Branded Customer Experience Marketplace Education Program List l In an attempt to develop a human resources Excellence Program strategy for education that is not determined by It falls under the pillar of large scale individual, ad hoc needs, the new educational Re-skilling/Up skilling. It is addressed to all employees and aims at cultivating customer Employees programs are designed to follow a more targeted approach in order to meet specific needs groups. experience culture. The program was attended Moreover, following the latest trends, the emphasis by 5062 employees of OTE and its subsidiaries. of these programs is on creative thinking, l B2B Power Performance innovation, and the concept of cooperation and It falls in the category of large scale Re-skilling/ teamwork, in an experiential, interactive and Up skilling and is aimed at managers of B2B. structured manner. To better meet the relevant educational needs Society two educational products were designed and With this philosophy in mind a first “ Training implemented. The “B2B Accelerating Account and Development 2014-2015 Program List” has Management Skills”, which covers in depth been put together. The programs on the list are modern practices in Account Management and classified by thematic category depending on their “B2B Expertise-Solutions – Simplicity”, which educational goal, and are continually enriched. provides training in products and integrated The thematic categories cover areas such as Environment technology solutions for corporate customers. retraining and large scale re skilling/up skilling, talent management, leadership development, l Design Thinking Workshop management changes, commitment, creative “Fresh your Mind” thinking and innovation. It falls in the category of Creative Thinking and Innovation. The program is addressed to groups Education Topics that are involved in challenging and complex projects and aim at innovation. It strengthens OTE Group The training and skills development of the two companies cover all areas and issues. The most and encourages creative thinking in experiential Subsidiaries representative projects for 2014 are: and practical ways. The program is based on the three phases of the methodology Design l ACT2 – Advanced Certification in Thinker, namely “Infuse, creative ideas and Telecommunications Technologies apply.” Participants discover opportunities, It falls under the category of large scale connect better with their customers and create Re-skilling/Up skilling and is designed for OTE actual solutions with business benefits. The Indexes field technicians. The program was attended by program was attended by employees from 1,454 employees. groups from OTE TV and support groups of the B2B projects. Employees 105 Sustainability Report 2014 l Magenta MOOC Professional Certifications About this Report Magenta MOOC (Massive Open Online Course), OTE and COSMOTE recognize the value of the first on-line course of the DT Group, was professional qualifications from reputable open to all employees and is part of the institutions with international prestige to enhance catefory On-line courses. The 75 and 200 the employability of their employees and support supporters from OTE and COSMOTE who the acquisition of certification by their employees. took part in the program worked in teams, In this respect: along with employees from other countries, CR Strategy and companies and functions, getting exposed and l 1948 employees of COSMOTE were focusing on the latest trends of the digital age certified in ”Customer Experience” by the Management and entrepreneurship and gaining valuable SOCAP organization. experience of cooperation at the DT Group level l 119 employees OTE and COSMOTE were certified in 46 areas of specialization for Cisco, Alcatel, HP, Microsoft, CIA, CISA products. Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 106 Sustainability Report 2014 4.6 Employee Benefits About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE provide a range of benefits and programs for their employees in order to help support the daily needs of themselves and their families, the balance between work and personal life, and to deal with emergencies in their lives. The main categories of benefits are common to OTE and COSMOTE employees. Main Benefits to OTE Employees per pillar in 2014 Insurance Employees l Health insurance program for all employees and dependents l Life insurance program for all employees Group Products and Services Society l Corporate mobile phone and handset subsidy l Fixed telephony packages, internet and TV OTE for all employees, but also possibility to purchase company products at special prices Other Benefits l Provision of special prices for goods and services of other companies Environment l Promotion, through a draw, of tickets to sporting and cultural events l Staff bus for transportation of personnel to and from subway stations and commuter rail l Provision of multitrip card or e-PASS, for employees in the Paiania building l Operation of restaurants/canteens in central buildings of the company Family Cost subsidies for babysitting and toddlers OTE Group l l Saving program through the “Youth Account” program Subsidiaries l Wedding gifts l Financial support of employees l Financial rewards for graduation with high honors of employees’ children from public institutions of higher education or language training l Financial rewards for employees’ children who excel in institutions of higher education Indexes l Implement specific policies for working mothers and people with disabilities l Special support for large families l Financial support through “Fund for Mutual Help“ for health expenses l Christmas gifts to employees’ children Employees 107 Sustainability Report 2014 Main Benefits to OTE Employees per pillar in 2014 About this Report Free time – Vacation l Through OPAKE, OTE offers its employees stay in privately owned resorts and at selected hotels in Greece and abroad Athletics l Conducting internal championships in team sports’ basketball and volleyball “and participation in other enterprises’ championships CR Strategy and l Operation of fitness facilities in the Paiania building Management Main Benefits to COSMOTE Employees per category in 2014 Insurance l Health insurance program for all employees and dependents Life insurance program for all employees Marketplace l l Pension Plan Group Products and Services l Corporate mobile phone and handset subsidy l Fixed telephony packages, internet and TV OTE for all employees, but also possibility to purchase company products at special prices Employees l Ability to purchase products through the branch network with special discounts for COSMOTE employees Other Benefits l Provision of special prices for goods and services of other companies l Promotion, through adraw, of tickets to sporting and cultural events l Issuing of food vouchers l Staff bus for transportation of personnel to and from subway stations and commuter rail Society l Provision of multitrip card or e-PASS, for employees in the Paiania building l Operation of restaurants/canteens in central buildings of the company Family l Cost coverage for babysitting and toddlers Implement specific policies for working mothers and people with disabilities Environment l l Financial support of employees l Financial rewards for employees’ children who excel in institutions of higher education l Flexible working hours and the purchase coupon Christmas gift for each child, for all employees l Christmas gifts to employees’ children Free time – Vacation OTE Group l Through OPAKE, COSMOTE offers its employees stay in privately owned resorts and at selected hotels in Greece and abroad Subsidiaries Fitness and Sports l Internal 5x5 championship l Conducting internal championships in team sports’ basketball and volleyball “and participation in other enterprises’ championships l Operation of fitness facilities in the Paiania building Indexes Employees 108 Sustainability Report 2014 4.7 Internal Communications About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE aim to maintain transparent and interactive communication with their employees, through a range of media, so as to promote knowledge, teamwork, participation and mutual collaboration. The key tools used by the companies include the OTE “U-link” intranet and the COSMOTE “Mikrocosmos” intranet, emails and SMS, OTE-COSMOTE e-Newsletter, leaflets and posters, personal updates, communication campaigns, promotional activities and satisfaction surveys. In effect, the companies’ target to extend all internal Employees communication programs countrywide was achieved utilizing all available tools. To this end, for the year 2014: l Corporate Intranet sites received a total In 2014, the following internal communication of 2,800,000 visits. campaigns and promotions were implemented: l On a monthly basis, 81% on average of OTE l 2 campaigns to inform employees and encourage Society and COSMOTE employees visited U-link and their participation in the satisfaction surveys. Mikrocosmos sites. l 2 campaigns to inform and sensitize all OTE l 26 enewsletters were issued, covering Group employees in Compliance issues. more than 200 topics and enhancing the l 2 campaigns about “Recycling” aiming at dissemination of information. educating and motivating employees to recycle Environment l 115 (13% increase compared to 2013) articles properly by making use of the recycling bins about Corporate Responsibility matters, installed in 6 OTE Group buildings. were generated and published on U-link and l 2 campaigns about “Blood Donation” (MarchMikrocosmos sites. May and October-December) with the aim l The Intanet Sites were utilized for the to motivate employees to offer blood at the presentation of the analytical results of two special facilities set up in 6 OTE-COSMOTE Pulse Surveys, held in May and November 2014. buildings in Attica. 50 articles, exclusively about Human Resources An educational below the line activity about OTE Group Subsidiaries l l issues were generated and published on OTE‘recycling’, in the form of e-skill game on COSMOTE enewsletter. More information for portable tablets with useful giveaways, in health and safety aspects can be found in the 4 buildings in Attica and 2 in the province and Health and Safety Prevention and Awareness. a target audience of 6,000 employees. Moreover, in May 2014, a targeted project l A promotional “call to action” activity with the Indexes to redesign home-pages of both U-link and aim to trigger employees’ participation in food Mikrocosmos intranet sites, was carried out so as collection and charity bazaar events to support to optimize the browsing experience of employees NGOs were organized in 2 buildings in Attica, and to facilitate their access to information. with a target of 3,500 employees. Employees 109 Sustainability Report 2014 Also in 2014, the following conferences About this Report were organized: l Short Conferences (50-150 employees): B2B, Customer Experience (C2X), Technology and Operations Directorate meeting. l Large Conferences (400 employees): Management Team Meeting. CR Strategy and Finally, in October 2014, “Customer Care Week”, Management a program of activities and interactive events for call-center reps was implemented with pool of 13 activities in 11 buildings and 5 cities and a target group of 4,500 employees. Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 110 Sustainability Report 2014 4.8 Employee Engagement About this Report CR Strategy and Management and Satisfaction Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE regard the involvement, the commitment and the satisfaction of their employees, as necessary ingredients for their successful operation. Employees 4.8.1 The companies encourage their employees to communicate openly, using all available media, such Employee Engagement as meetings and presentations, workshops, internal OTE and COSMOTE believe that the employee briefings and employee satisfaction surveys, as for engagement and loyalty is crucial for the success example the following: of a company. The aim of the companies is for their employess not only to think and speak “Storytelling Lab” Society positively about the companies, but to regard A workshop for creative storytelling and in a spontaneous and heartfelt way the OTE Group presentation skills. This is recommended for as an excellent environment to work and grow. understanding how a particular strategy works OTE and COSMOTE also trying to constantly through storytelling. Participants experience a inform employees about the strategic, constructive approach, are sensitized and become technological and organizational changes made Environment spontaneous ambassadors of the strategy in their and to seek the understanding and active work environment. participation of employees. In 2014, a total of 20 workshops on storytelling for The involvement and commitment of employees employees of OTE and COSMOTE were conducted is directly related to communication. OTE on the ONE DT EUROPE strategy, for member and COSMOTE aim to create and maintain a companies of the Group DT. work environment characterized by an open OTE Group communication and dialogue culture. “Getting in Synch” For the dissemination of corporate goals and Experiential program, in which employees work Subsidiaries strategy to all executive staff a meeting of the together in groups and discuss creative strategy Management Team was held in 2014 as well. and effective cooperation. It is applicable to cases of operational integration of units, new It should be noted that Management style has a organizational structures and updating strategic decisive role in all key parameters affecting the Indexes objectives and general changes affecting one or commitment and identification of employees with more operational units. the company. Employees 111 Sustainability Report 2014 “Welcome on board” In 2014 OTE and COSMOTE carried out two About this Report for New Employees Pulse Surveys (in May and November) with the Under the banner “Welcome on board” a reception participation of employees in the November Pulse program of new employees in OTE Group was Survey reaching 70%. initiated in early 2014. The strategy and corporate The Group wide Employee Satisfaction Survey will values, the awareness of customer experience take place in April 2015 and the next Pulse Survey issues and the modern telecommunications in November 2015. technologies are some of the main themes of CR Strategy and the program, attended by 690 young employees The feedback culture which is cultivated in the (11,440 hours of training). One of its strong points companies is illustrated by the participation in Management is the support and presence of 57 speakers from 2014 of employees in other surveys such as the the operational units of the Group, which aims to Operational Safety survey, the satisfaction survey ensure a climate of teamwork, common culture carried out by the caterers of the Group restaurants and communication within the Group companies. and the thermal comfort survey in the OTECOSMOTE green building in Paiania. Marketplace 4.8.2 Employee Satisfaction OTE and COSMOTE recognize the benefits of employee satisfaction surveys conducted on a regular basis. The conducting a biennial Employee Survey and half-yearly Pulse Surveys Employees are considered important internal corporate feedback tools. In addition, these surveys are reliable diagnostic tools to identify possible changes and needed improvements and to develop action plans. The results of employee surveys are communicated through corporate Intranets and thoroughly discussed in meetings held at the Society organizational unit level. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 112 Sustainability Report 2014 5.0 Society Indexes OTE Group Environment Society Employees Marketplace CR Strategy and About this Report Subsidiaries Management SOCIETY About this Report We strive to support vulnerable groups and those most aﬀected by Greece's economic crisis. CR Strategy and Supporting Society / We support those who need us more SOCIAL CON MORE THAN Management 4 IN TR 32 42% Vulnerable social 70 groups and children € 2,8 TION 22% Education 54, IBU 6% Entrepreneurship Marketplace 9% Culture 7% Sports SO D 13% Local Community IA L TE R NGOs SUPPO C MORE INFO Supporting Education / We develop and participate in education initiatives Employees MORE INFO About 480 senior citizens trained through the Access to the Digital World training program More than € 374,000 in Scholarships and Society 12,129 Honorary Distinctions awarded, through our People visited the ΟΤΕ Scholarship Program Telecommunications Museum Environment Employee Volunteering Social Products and Services We promote employee volunteering We facilitate our customers' well being MORE INFO 6,182 Employees participated OTE Group in four CR initiatives Over 22,000 320,000 Subsidiaries Social products and services Calls in Help Lines for senior and visually supported by OTE impaired citizens 2,912 Indexes Over € 2.6m 700 -% Discounts for vulnerable groups Blood units Employees ran for collected a good cause MORE INFO Society 114 Sustainability Report 2014 5.1 Strategy for Society About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace During these challenging times for Greece’s economy and society, OTE and COSMOTE support vulnerable social groups and local communities, aiming to cover directly their most pressing needs. Specifically, the two companies implement their own social programs and simultaneously participate in a series of social initiatives aiming to contribute to the communities where they Employees operate. They invest in developing the skills of future generations and in enhancing the digital capabilities of senior citizens, they provide assistance to children and young people in need and they offer special products and services for vulnerable social groups. Simultaneously, in order to improve the management of corporate responsibility issues, they systematically evolve internal mechanisms and processes of social contribution. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 115 Sustainability Report 2014 Some illustrative procedures, implemented by the needs of interested parties, new initiatives for About this Report companies include the following: the society are proposed, while data, related to l The Chairman and CEO, as well as the Senior measuring the impact of programs on society, Management, monitor the goals and the are collected. Corporate Responsibility strategy and are l The companies’ strategic approach, regarding systematically informed on the progress of the society programs and stakeholder engagement most important on-going programs. on these issues, covers 100% of their operations in Greece. CR Strategy and l All sponsorships and donations are approved by the Chairman and CEO, after the evaluation Management by the OTE Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate. l A systematic dialogue with the stakeholders is ongoing. Taking under consideration the Marketplace The costs for the application and implementation of these programs are presented in the following table. Type of Expenditure (€) OTE COSMOTE Total Sponsorships/Donations in kind 324,736 183,745 508,481 Financial support (via donations & sponsorships) 991,538 1,354,305 2,345,843 Total Social Contribution 1,316,274 1,538,050 2,854,324 Employees TV/Radio Fundraising OTE“I Offer” Service COSMOTE 13,813 74,418 88,231 Total 1,330,087 1,612,468 2,942,555 OTE and COSMOTE, through donations and sponsorships (financial and in kind), supported vulnerable social groups and children, education activities, entrepreneurship, culture, sports and local communities. Culture Sports Society Local 6% 13.5% Communities Entrepreneurship 4.3% 6.8% Education Environment Social Contribution 24% OTE Education Vulnerable 1,316,274 20% Social Groups Sports and Children 7.9% 39.8% OTE Group Culture Vulnerable Social Subsidiaries 5.8% Groups and Social Contribution Children COSMOTE 45.4% Entrepreneurship 1,538,050 5.7% Local Communities Indexes 20.8% Society 116 Sustainability Report 2014 The amounts of the companies’ social contribution The companies’ major goal, is to try to measure, About this Report include only donations and sponsorships (financial where possible, results from the application of and in kind) and have not taken into account their these programs, in order to evaluate and review operating costs for the design and implementation their social contribution in the future. of actions, and the cost of OTE and COSMOTE services and products associated with these OTE and COSMOTE estimate that, in total, actions. To better inform all interested parties, about 882,933 people have benefited from the the amounts presented in this Report include the companies’ actions to support vulnerable social groups, children, education activities, culture, CR Strategy and amount of the companies’ contribution (financial and in kind) to vulnerable social groups, children, sports and entrepreneurship. Finally, it should be Management education, entrepreneurship, culture, sports noted that the companies have taken initiatives and local communities. In previous years, the contributing to the well-being and sustainability of companies stated only the amounts corresponding local communities in all regions of Greece. to the support of vulnerable social groups, children and education. Vulnerable Social Groups Marketplace and Children Education 30% 23% Employees Beneficiaries 882,933 Entrepreneurship 4% Sports 11% Culture Society 32% Key Achievements in 2014 Support of vulnerable social groups, children and education with more than €1.8 mn by both Environment l companies (financial and in-kind support). l The companies have supported over 70 institutions, which provide care to vulnerable social groups and children. l OTE offered discounts of more than €2.6 mn to the elderly and to people with disabilities. The companies have provided more than 22,000 fixed and mobile telephony products, specially OTE Group l designed for senior citizens and people with impaired vision. l Through the OTE-COSMOTE Scholarships Program, 50 Scholarships and Honorary Distinctions Subsidiaries were awarded, reaching the amount of €374,360. l In total, 6,182 employees, of both companies, participated in four CR initiatives. l All modern communication infrastructure, needed for conducting underwater research in the Antikythera shipwreck in the scope of the “Back to Antikythera” project, is installed in the island of Antikythera. Indexes Society 117 Sustainability Report 2014 5.2 Social Products, Services About this Report CR Strategy and Management and Offers Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE, contribute to improving the quality of life of vulnerable social groups, people with disabilities, senior citizens and students, through the use of new technologies. In Employees particular, they provide special products, services and discounts in order to facilitate access and communication of these groups. At the same time, the companies implement and support actions and social contribution programs, through the use of telecommunications products and services. 5.2.1 People with Special Needs, the Elderly and Socially Vulnerable Groups Society OTE and COSMOTE pay particular attention to equal opportunities and facilitate access for people with disabilities through specific products, services and discounts. In 2014, OTE provided discounts amounting to €2,649,044.71 to the elderly and to people with disabilities. Environment Focus Product/Service 2014 Reach Elderly people Fixed and Mobile Telecommunications’ products 22,775 units and accessories, specially designed for the elderly and for people with sight problems OTE discount for the elderly (aged 65+) 19,806 people OTE Group People with disabilities OTE discount on telecom services 19,261 people Subsidiaries OTE Instant Alert Service (includes elderly people) 830 people COSMOTE MobiTalk serviceoffered free of charge 432 active users COSMOTE Voice e-mail serviceoffered free 709 active users of charge COSMOTE 50% discount on SMS charges and 358 people videocalls for customers with hearing problems NGOs/Institutions OTE Prepaid Calling Cards and COSMOTE Top up 10,894 Prepaid Calling Cards and Indexes cards, with total value of € 50,776, provided to top up cards NGOs and Correctional Facilities Society 118 Sustainability Report 2014 COSMOTE Services for Visually connections to students, at attractive prices, About this Report Impaired People with 16,700 students benefited from this l MobiTalk discount. In the same context, COSMOTE, in In collaboration with the Institute for order to contribute to the comprehensive Language and Speech Processing, COSMOTE coverage of students’ major telecommunication offers MobiTalk service to people with vision needs throughout their studies, has also made problems, which aims to facilitate the use of available special offers and discounts. More mobile phones by these individuals. Through than 30,000 students have benefited from the CR Strategy and the use of this software, all information shown COSMOTE offers for students with a tariff plan. on-screen, as users navigate the various Management l In the scope of action “GET ON BOARD III” menus, is vocalized. This service is offered free OTE, COSMOTE and Germanos approached of charge. approximately 85,000 students and l Voice e-mail offered them substantial discounts on This service provides to people with sight telecommunications and digital products. In problems the ability to manage easily their addition, more than 50,000 students won gifts, Marketplace e-mail. Through voice recognition technology, through instant win one to one promotion, users are able to listen and respond to their such as Student Packages (including Smart TVs, e-mail through voice commands, and to Notebooks, Game consoles, Multi-purpose office hear the list of incoming messages, free of printers), Smartphones, Tablets, 250€ worth charge. At the same time, users can forward prepaid cards, and thousands more gift items. and delete emails. Employees 5.2.2 5.2.3 Students Public Helplines, Services Students continue to occupy a special place in and Offers the Corporate Responsibility program of OTE Yet another year, fixed and mobile services were and COSMOTE. The objective of both companies used for making free emergency calls. In 2014, is to help students gain access to technology, the European emergency number 112, operated by providing them with the necessary tools for their ΟΤΕ in Greece, received 2,758,729 calls, of which Society development: 35,885 were re-directed to national emergency l In 2014, OTE continued to offer broadband numbers (100, 199, 166, 108, 197, 1056)*. OTE continued to provide telecommunications infrastructure and financial support for the operation of the Environment following helplines for vulnerable social groups, and especially for children in need: Calls received Helplines in 2014 SOS 1056 of “The Smile of the Child” NGO (15 years of support) 283,369 calls 116000 European Hotline for missing children, “The Smile if the Child” NGO (7 years of support) 7,151 calls OTE Group 11525 Advice Helpline of “Together for Children” NGO, (5 years of support) 6,103 calls 116111 helpline of the “European Helpline for support of Children and Youth” 15,092 calls Subsidiaries (6 years of support) 80011 80015 helpline “MEYpostirizo” of the Adolescence Health Unit (7 years of support) 2,000 calls 1018 National Suicide Prevention Hotline of “KLIMAKA” NGO (6 years of support) 6,577 calls Indexes * Note that the ability to communicate via 112 to 197 lines (Social Aid Lines) and 1056 (National Hotline for Children SOS of “The Smile of the Child” NGO) was operational also in previous years, but as the number of incoming calls was not large, they were not recorded separately but were added to calls to the 166 line. Since 2014, after consultation with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, under whose responsibility the 112 line operates and the rise of the number of calls asking to be connected to these lines, the tracking and reporting of the 2 groups of lines is done separately. Society 119 Sustainability Report 2014 “Televoting” Service ΟΤΕ – “I Offer” COSMOTE DEALS for YOU About this Report Service COSMOTE COSMOTE has proved in practice that it is For the 9th consecutive year, COSMOTE collaborated addressing the needs of its consumers, by with the other two mobile operators (VODAFONE adapting appropriately its services and creating and WIND HELLAS) to provide the service “I Offer”, innovative ones. with the aim to provide substantial support to social institutions and NGOs. Through this service, these COSMOTE was the first provider in the Greek institutions make use of short messages (SMS) to market that offered “2 FOR ONE”, an affordable CR Strategy and carry out radio and TV marathons. Specifically, the entertainment program, aimed at rewarding service operates three 5-digit numbers dedicated its customers. Since 2008, COSMOTE has been Management exclusively to charity contributions. The activation collaborating with leading companies in the of the service requires the timely filing of an entertainment industry and covers – in the most application and the submission of the required economic manner – the leisure and entertainment documents, by the NGO requesting the service needs of all social groups, by using an extremely activation. The person who wishes to contribute simple and easy mechanism, namely by sending an Marketplace sends an SMS with a word related to the content SMS. In 2012, aiming to meet even more customer of the charitable purpose, at a cost of €1 plus VAT, needs, the “2 FOR ONE” program was expanded and to the predetermined digit number. The total gross, given a new name: “COSMOTE DEALS for YOU”. proceeds from the use of the service, is given to In 2013 and 2014, the “COSMOTE DEALS for YOU” the charitable institution that made use of the was further enhanced to meet wider needs and service. In 2014, the “I Offer” service was activated desires of COSMOTE’s subscribers, both through the more than 15 times and the total amount of money enrichment of the package with more exclusive Employees collected by COSMOTE and provided for charitable offers in areas of high interest to consumers, such purposes, reached the amount of €74,418. as travel, food/drink and culture, but also through OTE, for many years, provides the “Televoting” wider geographic coverage of the offers. At the service and cooperates, among others, with NGOs, same time, the SMS cost for participation in the actively and substantially supporting the work program was reduced by 50%, to only €0.50. It is of these institutes. The “Televoting” services’ worth mentioning that participation in the program is increasing year by year. In 2014, 8% more unique Society enhanced Service Numbers – series that OTE provides, are also used in the conduction of radio users participated in the program, compared to and TV marathons. More specifically, OTE subscribers 2013. More than 390,000 participants/unique calling the Televoting service, and listening to a users sent more than 780,000 SMSs, while more recorded message, are charged automatically, than 335,000 participants/unique users took according to OTE’s official tariffs. OTE provides the advantage of the offers, through the redemption of Environment “Televoting” service, supporting the charitable 490,000 codes. work of NGOs, through financial contribution, by the incomes collected by the use of the service. In 2014, the “Televoting” service was used by approximately 27 institutions and the extra amount of money raised during the marathons and offered by OTE, amounted to €13,813. OTE Group Subsidiaries Offers for Unemployed and Pensioners COSMOTE, focusing on subscribers who belong to specific social groups that are heavily affected by the economic crisis, supports the unemployed and pensioners, by providing a discount on their Indexes monthly fee, since 2010. This offer was warmly received by the Greek society, thus it is further extended in 2015. Society 120 Sustainability Report 2014 5.3 Supporting Vulnerable About this Report CR Strategy and Management Social Groups and Children Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE, in 2014, supported more than 70 NGOs and institutions caring for vulnerable social groups and children. The companies provided support through financial Employees contribution or by offering free telecommunications products and services, such as fixed and mobile connections, call centers, internet services, OTE TV, OTE Prepaid Cards, as well as by offering basic necessities, such as clothes, food, medicines, etc. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 121 Sustainability Report 2014 An indicative list of institutions that received support from OTE and COSMOTE, in 2014, is presented below: About this Report l “Together for Children”*. l “Hellenic Children’s Village” in Filyro. l “The Smile of the Child”. l Pan Hellenic Association of Parents, Guardians l Association of Parents of Children with and Friends of visually impaired people with Cancer “Floga”. additional special needs “Αmymoni”. l Friends of Social Pediatrics “Anoixti Agkalia”. l “Amymoni” Association Thessaloniki. Association for the Psychosocial Health of CR Strategy and l l Cerebral Palsy Greece. Children and Adolescents, “A.P.H.C.A”. Hellenic Society for the Protection and Management l Rehabilitation of Disabled People (ELEPAP). l Institute of Child Health. l Association for the care of people with l Centre for Artistic and Pedagogical Muscular Dystrophy diseases “MDA Hellas”. Training “Schedia”. l Association of Social Responsibility for Children l “Agapi” Association. Marketplace and Youth (SKEP). l Special Olympics Hellas. l “Make-A-Wish” Greece. l Gentle Carousel. l Pan-Hellenic Association for the Protection, l Workshop for Special Vocational Education and Information and Assistance of Children with Training of Xanthi. Heart Disease “Child’s Heart”. l Archdiocese of Athens philanthropic “Pediatric Trauma Care” Association. organization “Mission” (Apostoli) Employees l l Charitable Association “Kivotos Agapis”. l Food Bank Greece. l “Dikaioma sti Zoi” Organisation (Right to Live). l K.Y.A.D.A. (Hospitality and Solidarity Centre of l Parent – Teacher & Friends’ Association for the Municipality of Athens). children with heart diseases of N. Greece l “Klimaka” NGO. “Children’s hearts”. l “Diogenis” NGO. Society l Institution for the Child “PAMMAKARISTOS”. l Scientific Mastological Society – l “Melissa” Orphanage for Girls. Healing –Support “Ε.Μ.Ε.Ι.S.” l “Ark of the World”. l “Agia Sophia” Children’s Hospital. l “Merimna” The Society for the Care of Children l National association of OTE employees and and Families Facing Illness and Death. pensioners parents of handicapped children. Environment l Vocational Training Center “Margarita”. l Panhellenic Association of Women with Breast l Athens Municipal Creche. Cancer “Alma Zois”. l Lighthouse of the World (Faros tou Kosmou) l Scouts of Greece (SOMA HELLINON Institution. PROSKOPON – SHP). l Workshop of Special Vocational Training and l Adolescent Health Unit (2nd Department of OTE Group Rehabilitation for People With Intellectual and Pediatrics, “P. & A. Kyriakou” Children’s Hospital). Subsidiaries Associated Disabilities “Panagia Elesousa”. l 50+ Hellas NGO. Indexes * The Association «Together for Children» is an is a non-profit organisation, comprising 10 member-organizations that work in the field of child welfare: Cerebral Palsy Greece, Children’s Home Foundation, Social Work Foundation “Hatzipaterion” – Rehabilitation Centre for Children with Cerebral Palsy, “Hara” Centre for Individuals with Special Needs, Merimna’s Friends Foundation, Friends of the Child, Panhellenic Juvenile Diabetes Union (P.J.D.U), “PNOE” Friends of Children in Intensive Care, “Friends of Theotokos” Association, ELIZA-Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Children. Society 122 Sustainability Report 2014 Day of Love – Day of Inspiration this offer, more than 480 children, hosted in the About this Report In March 2014, OTE and COSMOTE celebrated 15 facilities of the aforementioned institutions and years of ongoing support to children in need at a their families, can watch their favourite children’s special event, that was held in the framework of and sports programs in OTE TV. “Day of Love – Day of Inspiration” to honour 17 In November 2014, OTE TV held a special event non-profit organisations and the 4,500 volunteers, held in the Children’s Pediatric Oncology Unit working to improve the living conditions of more “Marianna V. Vardinoyannis – Elpida” with honorary than 150,000 children. In addition, in order to guests actress Carmen Rouggeri and four athletes CR Strategy and further sensitize the companies’ employees and of the Greek National Football Team of 2004, to promote volunteering and the importance Management Angelos Basinas, Dimitris Papadopoulos, Giourkas of the contribution, 11 companies’ executives Seitaridis and Stelios Giannakopoulos. Carmen visited institutions for children and participated in Rouggeri entertained the children by reading them educational activities and also, more than 140 OTE a fairy tale to the accompaniment of music, while Group employees attended the event. the four athletes played table football with them and all together, distributed to the children a fairy Marketplace The companies, over the years, have supported more than 40 NGOs caring for children, with more tale book and a soccer ball, as gifts. than €5.5 mn. Children from NGOs watched the Christmas Bazaar at the premises Cirque du Soleil’s show “Quidam”, of OTE-COSMOTE to support actions with ΟΤΕ as its grand sponsor for children For the third consecutive year, OTE presented Employees OTE and COSMOTE hosted at their headquarters, in Cirque du Soleil in Greece and its new magical two main buildings in Athens, a two-day Christmas show “Quidam”, that traveled for the first time ever bazaar for 7 NGOs that provide care to children, in to Thessaloniki after the Athens performance. OTE, order to support their work. Over 2,500 employees for yet another year, gave joy to children supported participated in Collection of Food Supplies program, by NGOs, by offering them free invitations for this visited the bazaar and purchased their Christmas unique show. Overall, more than 500 children and gifts from the kiosks of the following NGOs: “The representatives from 8 institutions in Athens and Thessaloniki attended this special show. Society Smile of the Child”, Cerebral Palsy Greece, Hellenic Society for the Protection and Rehabilitation of Invitations, for the performances of Cirque du Soleil Disabled People (ELEPAP), Association of Parents in Athens, were distributed to children from the of Children with Cancer “Floga”, Friends of Social following NGOs: “The Smile of the Child”, Elefsina Pediatrics “Anoixti Agkalia”, Hatzikyriakio Childcare Love Centre, “Ark of the World”, Association of Parents Institution and “Make-A-Wish” Greece. In total, of Children with Cancer “FLOGA” and Child Protection Environment throughout 2014, the amount of about €14,500 Foundation “Hatzikyriakio”. Similarly, the “Quidam” was collected by the NGOs, during the bazaars held performances in Thessaloniki were attended by to support 12 organisations in total. children and representatives from the following Meanwhile, Cosmotebooks.gr e-shop, in cooperation organizations: SOS Children’s Village in Plagiari, with publishing companies Patakis, Metaichmio, “Melissa” Orphanage for Girls, “Hellenic Children’s Psichogios, Papadopoulos, Dioptra, Kastaniotis, and Village” in Filyro and “The Smile of the Child”. OTE Group Minoas, donated 362 books to all these institutions. Supporting “Gentle Carousel Greece” Free OTE TV Services for The “Gentle Carousel Greece” is a non-profit Subsidiaries Children’s Associations organization that has trained miniature horses In the framework of the OTE Group’s Corporate which visit and spend time with children and adults Responsibility Program, OTE TV provides free belonging to vulnerable social groups and aims to services and equipment to the Children’s Pediatric provide them psychological support and improve their condition. OTE, in 2014, covered the costs for four Indexes Oncology Unit “Marianna V. Vardinoyannis – Elpida”, the Association of Parents of Children with Cancer visits of these miniature horses to three organizations “FLOGA” and to the community homes of the and institutions. The program included visits to the Organization “The Smile of the Child”. Through hostel of the Association “Floga”, two visits to the institution “Open Door” and a visit to PIKPA Voula. Society 123 Sustainability Report 2014 5.4 Supporting Education About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace Training and development of “technological” skills is essential, both for the young and for people of all ages. OTE and COSMOTE implement and support programs and actions in this direction, in order to reduce the digital divide and to train the youngsters. The companies plan, implement and participate in initiatives for the education of children and the youth of the country, in order to help them: Employees a) cope with the major educational challenges, b) prepare for professional and personal development, c) and utilize the unlimited possibilities of technology and Information society. At the same time, OTE and COSMOTE support the academic community and the Universities of the country by providing support for research and for connection to the market, by attracting Society talented students and by offering scholarships. Furthermore, focusing on the education of children and young people and in particular on the information and communication technology fields, OTE offers comprehensive educational programs and activities for children of all ages at the OTE Telecommunications Museum. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 124 Sustainability Report 2014 Scholarship Programs – Students Competitions – Educational Programs 2014 About this Report Program Company Contribution OTE-COSMOTE Scholarships Program: ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE 50 Scholarships and Honorary Distinctions for students who face financial and social (20 Scholarships with full support for the whole difficulties duration of their studies-and 30 Honorary Distinctions financial awards) Hellenic Educational Robotics Competition ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE l Financial support for the implementation of CR Strategy and for Primary School Children the competition Participation costs coverage for 150 groups Management l l Gifts to the 3 winning teams of the competition l Promotion of competition from OTE TV channels Graduate Trainee Program ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE 10 talented young people, holders of postgraduate degrees, will participate in the 18month program Marketplace “Access to the Digital World” Program ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE l Financial support for the implementation of the program l Technological equipment for the conduction of the program Scholarship Program at the American Farm OTE-COSMOTE 3 scholarships awarded School of Thessaloniki: students from SouthEast Europe (Greece, Albania and Romania) receive Employees scholarships at the “Dimitris Perrotis” College, in fields such as agro-tourism, the food industry and environmental protection Greek Mathematical Society Competitions ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE Support of four national Competitions, with the (“Thalis”, “Εuclides”, ‘Αrchimides” National participation of over 95,000 Elementary, Middle Competition for elementary school students) school and High school students Scholarships at the Department of Banking ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE 2 scholarships awarded to post-graduate Society and Financial Management of the University students with exceptional academic performance of Piraeus 8th South Eastern European Mathematical OTE-COSMOTE Support of the Greek Team in Mathematical Competition for University Students with Olympics held in Romania International Participation (SEEMOUS) Work Experience and Skills Development Environment ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE l Internship for 748 students in OTE Group Offered to Students l 80 pupils and students participated in COSMOTE’s Students Visit program PC Donation Program ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE Computer and other technological equipment offered to schools and NGOs National Student Competition “ LYSIAS” ΟΤΕ l Financial support for the conduction of the OTE Group competition Subsidiaries l Gifts for the 12 winners l Hosted LYSSIAS platform on the OTE server Educational Programs at the ΟΤΕ ΟΤΕ Organization of educational programs concerning Telecommunications Museum telecommunications, focusing on children, adolescents and families, offered free to the public and school groups Indexes Panhellenic Competition of Student newspapers COSMOTE Gifts for the 15 winners of the competition organized by the newspaper “ΤΑ ΝΕΑ” The Public Awareness Section of the Environment Chapter presents additional information on environmental educational activities for children. Society 125 Sustainability Report 2014 OTE-COSMOTE 2014 competition was to develop children’s’ talent, About this Report Scholarships Program imagination and scientific skills, through the With the OTE-COSMOTE Scholarships Program creation of a complete robotic construction-model. marking in 2014 its 13th year of implementation, As part of their sponsorship, OTE and COSMOTE 20 Scholarships and 30 Honorable Distinctions, developed a series of promotional and amounting to €374,360, were awarded to communication actions of the competition, while 50 young men and women, providing them great OTE TV was serving as the Communication Sponsor assistance for their studies. It is worth pointing out of the project. In addition, the two companies CR Strategy and that the Scholarships Program was enhanced in covered the cost of 150 entries and offered the 2014, by increasing the number and the amount of Management rewards for the winning teams. Honorable Distinctions. The contest is part of a wider effort to spread More specifically, in 2014, OTE and COSMOTE the new educational method STEM (Scienceoffered 20 Scholarships of €20,0001 and Technology-Engineering-Mathematics) and its 30 Honorary Distinctions of €3,0002 each, to incorporation in the student instruction and Marketplace first year students, for their studies in University education system in Greece. departments of Tertiary Education Institutes in Greece. Since the beginning of the program, PC Donation Program in 2002, a total of 166 Scholarships and For the 9th consecutive year, OTE and COSMOTE 313 Honorable Distinctions have been awarded, continued to contribute to the technical worth more than €2.94 mn. In 2014, over 1,500 equipment of schools and non-profit organizations students have expressed their interest and more through the “PC Donation Program”. In particular, Employees than 1,000 students applied to the program. In both companies have delivered, in the last addition to the financial aid, the scholarship and two years, 125 refurbished computers and honorary distinctions recipients of the academic other technological equipment. Apart from its year 2013-2014 also received free connection social contribution, this action contributes to to an OTE Double Play 24Mbps Unlimited Plus environmental protection, as the re-use of the Program, tablets and smartphones, free of charge computers conserves raw material and reduces monthly fee on COSMOTE Cost Control Student electronic waste. Society contract plan, combined with a waiver of the monthly fee on COSMOTE Internet On The Go “Access to the Digital World” Student, for the official duration of studies for each Program faculty and free access to the ΟΤΕ TV Full Pack The “Access to the Digital World” program was services for a year. initiated in 2012, in the Municipality of Ilioupolis, in cooperation with the NGO “50+ Hellas”. With Environment Support of Educational this program, OTE and COSMOTE seek to promote Robotics Competition for lifelong learning and enhance accessibility to Primary School Children the digital world of people 50 years of age and OTE and COSMOTE sponsored the 1st Pan-Hellenic over, an objective embedded in their corporate Educational Robotics Competition, for primary responsibility strategy to support education and school children, organized by the nonprofit combat the digital divide. organization WRO Hellas, with the valuable OTE Group assistance of the Pan-Hellenic Informatics’ Teachers The program offers free courses on the basics of Subsidiaries Association (PEKAP), under the auspices of the computer and internet use to people older than Ministry of Education & Religious Affairs. 50 years with no previous computer experience. Two and four hour seminars are also offered on The competition under the theme “My town” is touch technology programs with smartphones and addressed to children 8-12 years old from all over tablets, but also on learning about Skype and social Greece. It was launched in late October 2014 and media (Facebook, etc). OTE and COSMOTE provide Indexes was completed in March 2015. The target of the 1 Legal taxes, excises, deductions, and any other expenditure necessary for receiving each scholarship shall burden each recipient separately. The net amount will be paid to the scholar in three (3) equal installments. 2 Legal taxes, excises, deductions, and any other expenditure necessary for receiving each honorary distinction shall burden each recipient separately. The net amount will be paid in a lump sum within a reasonable time frame. Society 126 Sustainability Report 2014 all the necessary equipment such as computers, Doryforakias, Fryktoridis, Captain Thales in About this Report smartphones and tablets and the technical support Telecommunications Museum”, “Guess what”): of the program. attended by 1,195 parents and children. During the academic year 2013-2014 (the second l The technology workshop “Explorer in year of implementation) 24 groups, with 20 people Telecommunications Museum”, for children per group, received computer and internet lessons. 8-13 years: attended by 1,500 students. Each group attended 2-hour classes twice a week l Awareness session for Internet Safety: attended for 6 weeks. In addition, 76 hours of seminars were CR Strategy and by 243 students. offered. Approximately 480 people with an average “The Internet Farm” a theatrical play for Management l age of 64 years participated. Attendance in the program was impressive as 88% of participants Internet safety: attended by 943 students. completed the program without absences. l Innovative programs for parents with children 7-14 years “Bullying, Learning Difficulties, On the third year of implementation (2014-2015), Adolescence”: attended by 685 visitors. the program is to be extended to the municipality Marketplace of Agios Dimitrios in Attica. l Eight-days full of events, experiments, art workshops and special tours targeted at the Educational programs at the ΟΤΕ whole family, in the scope of the International Telecommunications Museum Museum Day: attended by 300 people. The Telecommunications inventions of mankind l Two temporary exhibitions, “From the morse from antiquity to the present day, in its attempt to telegraph to the red phone” in the Science overcome the barriers of space and time, compose Center and Technology Museum “Noesis” Employees the collection of the OTE Telecommunications in Thessaloniki (April-August 2014) and Museum, a museum unique for ITC and among “Christmas Telecommunications Stories” at the few technology museums in Greece. The the National Research Foundation in Athens museum was founded in 1990 and has a collection (December 2013): attended by more than of more than 4,500 ITC exhibits and rich archival 8,000 guests. material. It includes early telephones, morse Although the majority of visitors to the museum telegraphs, wireless communication systems, early Society are school groups, by organizing special events and telefax devices, telex, fiber optics, a collection of innovative programs in the period September 2013 old telegrams, the first Greek television studio – August 2014, the percentage of individual has and exhibits on the development of mobile now reached 13% of the total visitors. telephony. A key activity of the Museum is its daily program of guided tours to school groups and The OTE Telecommunications Museum, is a individual visitors. At the same time, it organizes member of ICOM (International Council of Environment museum-pedagogical programs, concerning Museums – Greek Section), of CECA (International telecommunications, specially tailored for children, Committee for Education and Cultural Action) and adolescents and family groups. of CIMUSET (International Committee of Museums and Collections of Science and Technology). During the period September 2013 – August 2014, the Museum received a total of 12,129 visitors, a Work Experience Offered to considerable increase compared to previous years. Students and Skills Development OTE Group During this period, the Museum implemented Subsidiaries During 2014, OTE and COSMOTE provided an specialized educational programs, by category and opportunity to 748 students (from universities, age group and carried out events and exhibitions, technical colleges, vocational training institutes) to such as: complete their studies by doing internships in the l Guided tour entitled “From Telecommunication OTE Group modern workplace. inventions of the ancient Greeks to the satellite and mobile telephony“: attended by Among students who are starting their career, Indexes 7,563 visitors. OTE and COSMOTE is regarded as an excellent employment opportunity. The companies offer l Visual Art Workshops for parents and students the opportunity to apply their knowledge children 5 to 10 years old (“Tilefonoulis, Society 127 Sustainability Report 2014 in a real working environment, to gain work OTE-COSMOTE Graduate About this Report experience, to be trained during the work (on-theTrainee Program job training) and to develop skills that will help In December 2014, the implementation of the them perform better in the future. More information first “OTE-COSMOTE Graduate Trainee Program” are presented in the section Human Resources. was announced. The program aims at attracting In the same spirit, COSMOTE continued its Students young, highly talented graduates no older than Visit program, through which 180 pupils and 28, with vibrant and dynamic personality and students from 4 high schools and universities, holders of a postgraduate degree to be selected CR Strategy and visited the company to attend training programs through an extensive and demanding selection process. More information are presented in the Management on career guidance, technology and science, and to be informed about the technology of Base Stations section Human Resources. and the operations of the company. Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 128 Sustainability Report 2014 5.5 Contributing to Local About this Report CR Strategy and Management Communities Well-being and Sustainability Marketplace Employees OTE and COSMOTE seek to improve the living conditions and the viability of local communities in which they operate. The approach of both companies is twofold: on the one hand to try to meet the demands of local communities and on the other, to assume as their primary responsibility the protection of local communities from any negative impact that may result from their activities, particularly those concerning environmental issues. To protect and support local communities, OTE and COSMOTE endeavor, so far as possible, to measure the positive and negative effects on local communities of their overall operation and activities. Society All possible impacts associated with the activities In addition, OTE and COSMOTE organize and of OTE and COSMOTE, are addressed through the conduct training sessions for issues related to Environmental Impact assessments, which are mobile telecommunications, electromagnetic fields prepared and submitted by the two companies and the role of telecommunications in modern Environment for approval by the competent authorities. Public society. These seminars are designed for secondary consultation is one of the stages of the licensing school and university students, associations, local process and all the comments received during the communities and municipalities. So far, more than consultation are taken into account as appropriate. 5,530 residents, of 30 cities throughout Greece, have attended these sessions. OTE and COSMOTE work on the basis of engaging local communities in all of their operations and Moreover, in 2014, OTE, through its two Technical strive to maintain and expand their presence Regional Divisions (Northern and Southern in local communities across the country. In this Greece), supported the provision of fixed OTE Group Subsidiaries context, they have set up a special section for telecommunication services, at a local level, in community relations (Community Relations their region. OTE is in constant dialogue with local Section, Corporate Communications Division OTE institutions, organizations, services, business and Group), through which the companies analyze and residential customers, to identify additional needs assess the needs of local communities. Following of local communities. These needs are taken into these assessments, the companies design and account in the design and implementation of Indexes implement specific sponsorship programs for the operational and corporate responsibility program of financial support of local authorities, sports clubs, the company. cultural events, etc. Society 129 Sustainability Report 2014 Through this process, OTE and COSMOTE cover nearly to 2013 and at the same time they supported About this Report 100% of identified needs of local communities, of residents of areas, affected by natural disasters. which about 10% address the needs of vulnerable In order to meet the increased requests from local groups of the local communities. communities, to contribute to the improvement of the living conditions of the residents of Greek rural Programs in the Periphery areas and to the viability of local cultural identity, In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE further supported local OTE and COSMOTE, in 2014, chose to support communities, increasing by 15% the funds for the 104 events in local communities. The following CR Strategy and implementation of relevant actions, in relation table shows an indicative sample. Management Organisation – Event Company Description/Impact “The Mill of Elves” Trikala OTE-COSMOTE OTE and COSMOTE supported, for the 4th year, the Christmas events of the Municipality of Trikala, entitled “The Mill of Elves”. Over 500,000 children and adults visit the Christmas theme park every year Marketplace “Merkoureia” – Municipality Neapolis-Sykies, OTE-COSMOTE OTE and COSMOTE sponsored, for yet another Thessaloniki year, the largest theatrical institution of Northern Greece, which attracts the interest of the public for 19 consecutive years. Each year, this theatrical institution hosts summer productions of the regional public theater companies and the two national theater companies, the National Theatre and the National Theatre of Northern Greece Employees International Chess Tournament in Crete ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE OTE and COSMOTE supported in 2014, the International Chess Tournaments, which take place every summer in Rethymnon and Chania 9th International Festival of Aegina ΟΤΕ Over the last 9 years, OTE is the main sponsor of the International Festival of Aegina, organised since 2006 Society “Αrmata”, Spetses COSMOTE COSMOTE, for the 5th year, supported the combined celebrations of Panaghia Armata (Virgin Mary of the “Armata”) and the anniversary of the great Naval Battle of Spetses (September 8, 1822) Foundation of Thracian Art and Tradition, COSMOTE From 2009 until 2014, COSMOTE collaborated with Xanthi the Foundation of Thracian Art and Tradition, to Environment create computer labs for people with disabilities and vulnerable social groups who face difficulties in accessing educational opportunities Hellenic Rescue Team (HRT) COSMOTE COSMOTE is continuing to support HRT to meet the rescue needs of victims of natural disasters, by providing free telecommunications services (SIM cards) for operational coordination and rescue centers OTE Group in Thessaloniki, Corfu, Patra, Heraklion and Kos Subsidiaries 11th Naoussa International Film Festival COSMOTE COSMOTE, for the second year, supported the 11th International Film Festival in Naoussa. The festival includes the projection of 215 films, from 50 countries Aeschylean Festival COSMOTE COSMOTE, for the first time, supported the cultural events entitled Aeschylia , organised by the Indexes Welfare Corporation of the Municipality of Elefsis, which highlight the Elefsina’s history Society 130 Sustainability Report 2014 Organisation – Event Company Description/Impact About this Report 1st International Symposium COSMOTE COSMOTE sponsored the 1st International “Water Wastewater and Environment: Water Symposium entitled “Water, Wastewater Traditions and Culture” and Environment: Traditions and Culture”. The Symposium was held at the University of Patras during the celebration of the World Day for Water. Support of Natural Disasters’ In the same context, OTE did not charge the CR Strategy and Victims monthly fees for all fixed lines, internet and OTE TV services for the period from 26/01/2014 up Management OTE and COSMOTE stood by the victims of the earthquake in 2014, in the regions of Cephalonia to 28/02/2014, to all residential and business and Ithaca, helping them to cover the increased customers with home address/registered office needs for communication. More specifically, in the Prefecture of Cephalonia. Additionally, OTE COSMOTE offered daily, to all of its residential, gave the chance to customers who requested business, hybrid and prepaid service subscribers, temporary interruption of dial service up to Marketplace 1,500 minutes of voice calls – in addition to 31/03/2014, not to be charged the monthly their contracted program – for the period from fees for the whole time that the connection was 29/01/2014 to 28/02/2014, while, for the same disconnected (up to 6 months). Additionally, until period, all disconnections due to lack of payment 30/09/2014, no reconnection fee was charged to were recalled. those customers requesting reconnection. Finally, the line transfer fee from the damaged buildings to temporary accommodations and also, from Employees temporary back to a permanent residence, until the end of 2014, were not charged. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 131 Sustainability Report 2014 5.6 Strengthening of About this Report CR Strategy and Management Entrepreneurship Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE, recognizing the needs of modern enterprises, provide the most effective and integrated communication solutions, but also a well-organized network of personalized Employees service. In this context, OTE and COSMOTE constantly strive to enrich their portfolio with new telecommunications solutions, to meet specific business needs. OTE and COSMOTE support and strengthen youth entrepreneurship through innovative programs, support small businesses by developing specialized services, and also promote entrepreneurship through the support of new initiatives and conferences. Program “Your advertisement, our solution for businesses to ensure their presence advertisement”, of the service on the Internet and is free for the first few months. Society “Your business.gr” The service was rewarded in the e-Bizz Awards OTE has, for yet another year, demonstrated in event of 2014, with “The best growth initiative practice its support to SMEs and freelancers. e-business” award. With the ‘Your advertisement, our advertisement’ It should also be noted that in the newsletter that Environment program, it gave the opportunity to 10 subscribers is sent out on a bi-monthly basis to subscribers of the service “Your business.gr” to win free of this service, an additional 10 customers of promotion (for 3 days) of their professional activity the service were showcased, providing valuable in the larger nationwide TV channels in the country. publicity for their websites and enterprises. More than 1,000 companies participated in the program and winner determination resulted 4th Action “Our world is you”: Promotion of New Entrepreneurship OTE Group from five consecutive weekly draws and subsequent reviews by a special committee of OTE The 4th action under the program “Our world is management. The traffic to the websites of the you”, built on the idea of Mr Iraklis Papadopoulos Subsidiaries winners was increased dramatically, immediately on how to support creative people and innovative after their TV promotion, and in some cases by business ideas, started in 2013 and ran until more than 2,000% on a monthly basis, while, in April 2014. COSMOTE, in cooperation with the other cases, there was an increase in the number Greek Management Association, the enterprise organization Found.ation and OTEAcademy, created Indexes of hits of almost 9,000%. “COSMOTE StartUp”, a program aimed at promoting It should be noted that, the service “Your business. entrepreneurship, opening up opportunities and gr” is a comprehensive, easy and affordable developing new ideas. Society 132 Sustainability Report 2014 In 2014, the action was brought to its conclusion Experience beyond limits at the About this Report by an “Investors Day” event, during which the TEDx Kalamata 10 project teams that participated in the action In June 2014, OTE and COSMOTE supported the presented their integrated business proposals, TEDx Kalamata event. The event, held at the which were put together during the 3 month ancient theater of Ancient Messini, was attended duration of the “COSMOTE StartUp” Program. by important personalities from around the world. During the event the teams had the opportunity to come in contact with Greek investment companies, COSMOTE, as a major sponsor of the event CR Strategy and private investors and investment groups from and in cooperation with OTE, covered all the abroad, who listened with great interest to their telecommunications needs of the event. As part Management business proposals. The investment community of the upgrade of the local network, OTE Group was represented by T-Venture, Hub: raum, Eleven designed and implemented a special project to Capital, LaunchHub, Bethnal Green Ventures, develop a broadband access network in Ancient PJ Tech Catalyst Fund, OpenFund, Odyssey Venture Messini, providing fixed broadband services of high Partners, IQbility, Attica Ventures, Seed Innovative quality that reach even the most inaccessible and Marketplace and Dimitri Vranopoulos. small settlements of the region. For the first time on a global level, through the OTE infrastructure, open wifi network coverage at an archaeological site was freely available to the public. At the same time, COSMOTE enhanced its mobile network in the region, providing hightransfer rates that reached up to 75 Mbps. OTE TV, Employees as a media sponsor, promoted the event through its communication channels. Live streaming of the event was provided by the OTE Group network. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 133 Sustainability Report 2014 5.7 Promoting Culture About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE consistently support activities that contribute to the preservation of cultural heritage and to the improvement of the quality of life. With technology as a vehicle, education as a compass, and culture as a destination, OTE and COSMOTE actively demonstrate their interest in the protection of cultural heritage and the promotion of contemporary art creation. Employees The aim is not only the material support of culture, but also the dissemination and development of a mindset that embraces culture, contributes to national prosperity, strengthens society, and places mankind and its achievements at the center. And in 2014, OTE Group expressed and demonstrated this through its many sponsorships throughout Greece, which were implemented with the expertise and the innovative products of the Group. In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE, supported 13 culture related actions. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 134 Sustainability Report 2014 Technology was the Protagonist the exhibition after its close, OTE and COSMOTE About this Report in the New Underwater Research supported the development of a 360 online virtual at Antikythera tour, that will be uploaded onto the official website The first phase of the underwater research project of the museum, after the closing of the exhibition. for the Antikythera shipwreck, entitled “Back to Antikythera”, was successfully completed with the Restoration of National decisive contribution of the technology provided. Observatory of Athens, Lofos Nymfon, Thiseio CR Strategy and OTE and COSMOTE installed the necessary An important cultural contribution of OTE and modern communication infrastructure on the COSMOTE is the restoration of the historic Management island of Antikythera, in order to meet the “Doridis” telescope of the National Observatory telecommunications needs of the members of the of Athens which was built in 1870. The expert research team to ensure the effectiveness of their technical staff of OTE undertook the repair of all work and the visibility of their research findings in the electrical and mechanical components of the Greece and abroad. historic telescope, as well as the restoration of the Marketplace During the underwater excavation, conducted structural elements of the building that houses the under the direction of the Department of telescope, in cooperation with COSMOTE. Underwater Antiquities of the Greek Ministry of Culture and Sport, a copper spear, a bronze ring Getting acquainted the new and a lead boat anchor were found. world of artistic production at the Onassis Cultural Centre OTE and COSMOTE actively participated in the OTE and COSMOTE support the extensive activities Employees collaboration of the State, the business world of the Onassis Cultural Center, which has staged and the scientific community to promote the more than 90 productions of plays, music, visual culture of Greece, an invaluable asset for Greece’s arts, lectures and conferences aimed at the development. The next generation networks of OTE promotion of Greek culture, as well as education nullified the distance between this historic place programs with tours, interactive games for and the world, forever. children, workshops and seminars for adults, school groups, young people and families. Society Temporary Exhibition “The Antikythera Shipwreck: The artistic digital mapping of the neighborhood in the Ship, the Treasures, Neos Cosmos, where the Onassis Cultural Center the Mechanism”, National is located, was a unique creative inspiration and Archaeological Museum of Athens technological innovation. It is a mobile telephony Since it opened to the public at the National application, supported by OTE and COSMOTE and Environment Archaeological Museum, in April 2012, the entitled “Soundscapes – Landscapes”. Through the temporary exhibition “The Antikythera Shipwreck: use of a tablet or smartphone, it guides the user on the Ship, the Treasures, the Mechanism” was a virtual cultural walk around the surrounding city visited by more than 370,000 people, and because streets with the use of sound and images. of this unflagging interest of the public, its duration was extended twice. OTE and COSMOTE not only Summer Events Program at the provided support for this internationally-acclaimed Athens Concert Hall Garden OTE Group exhibition, they also created a special mobile OTE was the sponsor of the summer events Subsidiaries application that enabled the visitors to take a program which took place at the Concert Hall guided tour of the exhibition, which constituted garden, for a second consecutive year. The program an innovation in museum guided tours in Greece. included concerts by well known and beloved The companies also created an internet corner artists, in the unique atmosphere of the green in the museum for free internet access, as well garden in the heart of summer. as a special interactive educational activity for Indexes children up 15 years and older that connects the pioneers of ancient Greece and the new generation of the 21st century. In order to assure access to Society 135 Sustainability Report 2014 Fairy-tale holidays at the Athens About this Report Concert Hall with Eugene Trivizas With the financial support of OTE, the New Year’s children’s story book, “Twelve to Twelve”, by the famous author Eugene Trivizas, was brought to life at the Athens Concert Hall during the Christmas and New Year holiday season. The magic of the musical play based on a dream, took the audience CR Strategy and on a journey throught the gates of the galaxy, where the old and the new year meet every New Management Year’s Eve. This new project was presented for the first time to the public during the period of 18 to 30 December 2014. OTE Athens Choir Marketplace The Mixed OTE Athens Choir, was formed 47 years ago. In 2012, the choir members were renewed and under the guidance of conductor Dimitri Bouzanis, performs contemporary works by Greek and foreign composers. In 2014, the choir participated in a series of Employees concerts and festivals throughout Greece, including, indicatively, the following: l “Spartacus” by Aram Khachaturian, at the Herode Ancient Theater in Athens, together with the Bolshoi Ballet Orchestra and the conductor Pavel Sorokin. Society l 6th Jamboree of OTE Choirs at the Komotini Concert Hall, to support the activities of the Association for the Assistance of Persons with Mental Retardation of Rodopi “Saint Theodore.” l The Concert of the Cultural Sports Organization of the Municipality of Agios Nikolaos in Crete, Environment jointly with the Children’s Choir of the Arts Conservatory of Crete. l The Christmas Concert for Solidarity and Love of the Cultural Center of OTE employees of the Prefecture of Corfu, jointly with the “Galilee” Children’s Choir of the Parish of Kynopiaston, OTE Group to support the Special Education Centre for Subsidiaries Disabled persons “Melissa”. Indexes Society 136 Sustainability Report 2014 5.8 Promoting Sports About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE actively support Greek sports and major sports clubs and institutions, aiming to promote participation and a healthy competitive spirit. The two companies, in 2014, supported a total of 15 sports teams in Attica and 43 sports teams, clubs and sporting events nationwide. In order to cover the full sports spectrum, OTE and COSMOTE, in 2014, supported football, basketball and handball teams, as well as chess, ski and fitness clubs, swimming academies, bicycle races and initiatives aimed at encouraging people to cycle. Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 137 Sustainability Report 2014 “Podilatodraseis” Program • Social Contribution About this Report The “Podilatodraseis” program, implemented by During the Athens Bike Festival, which was held OTE and COSMOTE, aims to encourage the use of at Technopolis in the Gazi District of Athens bicycles in urban environments and the creation of on 19-21 September 2014, OTE and COSMOTE a cycling culture. The program’s activities include organized numerous activities, such as cycling the creation of infrastructure and increasing for a good cause. For the 4th consecutive year, awareness for the citizens. the companies were present, encouraging the public to pedal on stationary bike thus assisting • Creation of Infrastructure CR Strategy and the Panhellenic Association of Women With More than 56,000 bicycle rentals have been Breast Cancer “Alma Zois”. More than 7,000 Management facilitated, 870,000 kms were travelled and people participated. more than 120 tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) Moreover, on the occasion of the inauguration emissions were saved through the automated of the Bike Sharing System in the city of bicycle rental system, supported by OTE and Rethymno Crete, OTE and COSMOTE invited COSMOTE in five municipalities (Komotini, all citizens to pedal for a good cause, by Karditsa, Kavala, Ioannina and Rethymno). Marketplace participating in bike ride around the city, to In addition, OTE and COSMOTE have installed benefit the “Agapi” NGO. the first automated bicycle parking spaces, In response to the participation of citizens located in seven different areas in the northern in both of these events, OTE and COSMOTE and southern suburbs of Athens (The Mall provided the amount of €10,000 to these two Athens, Golden Hall, Marina Flisvos etc.). non-profit organizations. • Informing Citizens Employees OTE and COSMOTE, since 2012, have conducted educational seminars and recreational activities for cycling, in 42 cities throughout Greece, attended by 43,000 people. Among other actions, the two companies have implemented the training seminar for adults “I take a test bicycle ride through my city”, as well as the Society educational programs to promote safe cycling for children: “Learn how to ride a bike my child“ and “When I grow up I’ll be good cyclist”. OTE and COSMOTE support organizations and events such as the Athens Bike Festival, the Environment most important event in the country for cycling, which attracts more than 30,000 participants each year. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 138 Sustainability Report 2014 5.9 Εmployee Volunteering About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace Throughout the year 2014, OTE and COSMOTE supported, developed and promoted a number of corporate volunteering programs and actions, offering to its employees the opportunity to actively express their social solidarity. With their positive attitude and contribution, most employees demonstrated, through corporate and individual actions, their sense of responsibility in addressing current social problems. Overall, 6,182 OTE and COSMOTE employees, participated in four Corporate Responsibility initiatives, in 2014. Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 139 Sustainability Report 2014 Employees participating in volunteer initiatives of OTE and COSMOTE in the last years About this Report 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 3,421 3,603 2,339 4,905 6,182 OTE and COSMOTE strive to provide the appropriate campaign in order for employees to buy their means, so that any voluntary employee contribution gifts from charitable organizations and to collect be effective and well-targeted, in order to offer food for those in need. More information about CR Strategy and maximum support to local communities. the NGOs Christmas Bazaars are presented in the Management section Supporting Vulnerable Social Groups. In this context, for the year 2014, OTE and COSMOTE continued the Blood Donation program Voluntary actions of OTE and COSMOTE, for employees, organizing the 50th and 51st implemented in 2014, were addressed to donation days, under the communication campaign employees of both companies. message “Your participation saves”. Marketplace OTE-COSMOTE Volunteer Blood The companies also called on employees to take Donation Program part in the 32nd Original Athens Marathon, under The Blood Donation program for employees the communication campaign message “Run for began in 1976. In 2014, a total of 2,912 units of a good cause”, and to actively participate in the blood were collected from employees of OTE and “Earth Hour” event. COSMOTE, out of which, 1,091 units were allocated Moreover, in 2014, for the first time, within the to meet the needs of employees and their families, Employees Christmas holidays spirit, OTE and COSMOTE while the remaining 1,821 were allocated to organized a “give & take” of love and solidarity support society requirements nationwide. Units of Blood Donations in the last 5 Years by OTE and COSMOTE 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total 3,214 3,189 2,845 3,136 2,912 15,296 Society 32nd Athens Classic Marathon Experiential activities with people OTE and COSMOTE invited their employees to take with disabilities in cooperation part in the 32nd Original Marathon Athens and run with the Association of Social for good cause. Over 700 employees responded, Responsibility for Children and Youth Environment by participating voluntarily in all three races. This high participation rate resulted in the sum of In the context of corporate volunteering and €15,000 pledged by OTE-COSMOTE companies, awareness towards social issues (or active for the support of two non-profit organizations, citizenship), on Sunday September 28, 2014, “Diogenis” and “Klimaka”, that support homeless 70 OTE-COSMOTE employees and their children, people and vulnerable social groups. had the opportunity to “see the world differently”. The Association of Social Responsibility for OTE Group Collection of Food Supplies Children and Youth (SKEP), through a series of Subsidiaries For the second consecutive year, employees experiential activities, offered parents and children were given the opportunity, within OTE-COSMOTE the possibility to get acquainted with young people headquarter premises, to bring food for people with disabilities, to experience their everyday and families in need. In total, 1,382 kg of food difficulties and obstacles, but also to discover their and 1,037 food packages were collected, in order gifted personalities, aiming to support their social to support the “Food Bank Greece” NGO and the integration and safeguard their rights. Indexes Hospitality and Solidarity Centre of the Municipality of Athens (K.Y.A.D.A.). Society 140 Sustainability Report 2014 6.0 Environment Indexes OTE Group Environment Society Employees Marketplace CR Strategy and About this Report Subsidiaries Management ENVIRONMENT About this Report We aim to reduce our environmental footprint, we utilize telecommunications to enable sustainable development, and work to raise environmental awareness. CR Strategy and Integrated Environmental Management Management NEW ENVIRONMENTAL EN IM PL ON RESOURCES TIFIC A TIO E M E N T A TI MANAGEMENT ID N DATABASE Marketplace ISO 14001 certiﬁed Environmental Management System MO NIT O RING 6 COMPANIES 95 USERS EV A L U A TIO N 258 INDEXES Employees TAR MORE INFO G E TIN G Energy – Climate Change / Energy consumption monitoring and reduction 11% Decrease in direct 1.3% GHG emissions Society 5% Decrease Guarantees of Origin for 100% electricity consumption Energy conservation resulted in €5.6m Decrease in indirect (from PPC SA) economic beneﬁt in energy GHG emissions consuption MORE INFO MORE INFO Environment Waste Managmenet Electromagnetic radiation We strive for the eﬃcient use of natural resources Accredited EMF Laboratory according to EN ISO /IEC 17025 F 3.200 ENT O tO and the Pedion 24 EMF measurement program M MANAG ASTE 10% Hazardous E FW 57m OTE Group 5% Other measurements in the 11% General Pedion 24 program Subsidiaries since 2006 12% Paper MORE INFO 62% Tecnical 218 measurement stations 71 218 71 200 210 measurements 190 80.3t 9.3t 200 165 by COSMOTE 150 Indexes Recycling program in buildings: 80.3t Τake-back program in retail stores: 9.3t telephone 100 86 77 82 71 0 paper and packaging appliances and 50 49 measurements materials accessories exceeding mandatory 0 0 0 0 0 0 limits MORE INFO 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Environment 142 Sustainability Report 2014 6.1 Environmental Strategy About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE acknowledge that businesses with a leading role need to combine financial growth with environmental awareness in all aspects of their operations. OTE and COSMOTE realize fully that, though low, there are environmental impacts associated with Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) activities. At the same time, OTE and COSMOTE are also aware that ICT offer a number of opportunities for supporting sustainable Employees development and production in many activities and sectors. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 143 Sustainability Report 2014 The objective of OTE and COSMOTE environmental includes the Environmental Management Systems About this Report strategy is to reduce the environmental impacts (EMS) certified according to ISO 14001:2004 from their activities while providing products and standard at OTE and at COSMOTE. Utilizing the services that enable increases in productivity framework of the Environmental Management and environmental protection in other sectors of System, OTE and COSMOTE analyze all activities, economic activity, and in parallel to raise awareness products and services with reference to applicable of all citizens on acting more responsibly on the legislative requirements and their impact on the issue of environmental protection. environment, and try to improve environmental CR Strategy and performance by setting goals, specifying To this end, an integrated environmental policy and appropriate key quantitative performance Management management scheme has been formulated that indicators (KPIs) and taking cost-effective actions. OTE and COSMOTE Environmental Strategy OTE and COSMOTE Focus Areas Reduce own Environmental Marketplace Energy EMF Climate Change Biodiversity Footprint Raw Materials & Waste Visual Impact Water Noise Corporate Fleet Employees Communication Issues Employees Customers Suppliers Internal Communication Campaign X Recycling Programmes at OTE X X Raise Stakeholders’ and COSMOTE Retail Stores Environmental Awareness World Environment Day Campaign X X WWF’s Earth Hour Campaign X Society Promotion of Environmental Programmes through X X Sponsorships Supplier Evaluation Methodology X Teleconferences to Business Customers Environment Enabling Role of ICT OTE Business Cloud Products and Services Fleet Management E–applications for Customers OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 144 Sustainability Report 2014 6.1.1 About this Report Environmental Policy The commitment of OTE and COSMOTE to protect the environment is stated in their integrated Quality, Health and Safety, and Environmental Policy, presented below and is realized through measures and initiatives already implemented, adopted or planned. OTE Group Quality, Health & Safety and Environmental Policy CR Strategy and We, at OTE Group, inspired by our VISΙON, MISSION and STRATEGIC PRIORITIES, strive to enhance Management our successful customer-oriented philosophy, our competitive positioning and the provision of technologically advanced products and services. As a responsible corporate citizen, we aim at delivering value to our stakeholders and believe that quality, health and safety and environment constitute crucial concerns embedded in our company’s culture. In this context, we expect our senior management to act as role models. Marketplace Aiming at Business Excellence, we therefore commit ourselves to: l Continually improving our operations and performance by setting, monitoring and reviewing our objectives with the intent to meet and, where possible, to exceed the expectations of our stakeholders. l Acting with foresight and comply with the requirements laid down by applicable legislation, or even exceeding these, where we can. Require our personnel, and our contractors and suppliers, to actively participate in achieving our Employees l objectives, regarding the quality of our operations, occupational health & safety and environmental protection, by implementing all relevant regulations and programs adopted. l Strive to find innovative approaches for our operations, products and services, adopting preventive approaches to reduce our environmental impact & pollution, and avoid potential injury and ill health of our personnel, partners and the general public. l Keep the public, our personnel and our stakeholders informed on quality, environmental and Society occupational health & safety issues. l Voluntarily protect the public through the principles and recommendations laid down in the EMF policy, including transparency, information, participation and promotion of science. l Fully comply with the requirements of our Integrated Management System and continuously improve its effectiveness. Michael Τsamaz Environment Chairman and CEO of OTE Group OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 145 Sustainability Report 2014 6.1.2 performance results, customers’ and employees’ About this Report feedback/complaints, periodic reviews and Environmental Management follow up actions from previous management The management of environmental aspects is reviews of the EMS and the improvements overseen by the Chairman of the Board of Directors deemed necessary to enhance its effectiveness. and CEO. To assist him a high level Steering Furthermore, the OTE Group Management Committee has been established in the framework Systems Steering Committee may take of the Integrated Management System in place decisions concerning companies (subsidiaries) CR Strategy and (Quality, Health and Safety, and Environment). The of the OTE and COSMOTE Group regarding the Executive Director Corporate Communications, OTE Management Systems’ strategic guidelines. Management Group has been appointed as the Environmental Management Officer. The Committee is supported l The Environmental Management Officer and the the EMS Team which is composed of members of EMS Team members, among others, identify relevant OTE and COSMOTE Organizational Units. the environmental aspects of the activities, products and services of OTE and COSMOTE, l The responsibilities of the Committee with identify the environmental programs, monitor Marketplace respect to the EMS, include, among others, the their effectiveness and propose remedial approval of the EMS documentation including actions for improvement and analyse the objectives, KPIs and targets set (as well as data needed to determine the environmental the environmental programs to achieve these performance of OTE and COSMOTE. objectives/targets), EMS audit results, EMS Employees Environmental Management System Chairman and Chief Executive Officer OTE Group Management Systems Steering Committee • OTE Group Chief Information Technology Officer • OTE Group Chief Human Resources Officer • OTE Group Chief Technology & Operations Officer Executive Director Corporate Communications • OTE Group Chief Financial Officer OTE Group Environmental Management Officer • Executive Director Corporate Communications Society OTE Group • Representatives of each Management System • Anyone deemed necessary (depending on the Corporate Responsibility Senior Manager, Fixed & issue considered) Mobile Acting Environmental Management Officer Environment Environmental Management Teams of OTE and COSMOTE Environmental Management Manager • Representatives from selected Organisational Units of OTE and COSMOTE OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 146 Sustainability Report 2014 Priorities in Addressing Environmental Impacts of OTE and COSMOTE Activities About this Report OTE and COSMOTE have established procedures for identifying the environmental aspects of their activities and assessing the associated environmental impact. The assessment takes into account the nature of the activity, the company, society and environmental vulnerability, and the frequency of occurrence and the probability for a given impact to occur in view of applicable legislative requirements and business concerns. CR Strategy and Management Activity Environmental OTE and COSMOTE Response Aspect Hazardous ENVIRONMENT / Waste Management Telecom Infrastructure Waste Marketplace EMF ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Technical ENVIRONMENT / Waste Management Waste ENVIRONMENT / Greenhouse Gases and Support of Telecom Operation Energy other Gas Emissions Consumption ENVIRONMENT / Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction Refrigerants ENVIRONMENT / Ozone Employees Office–related Offices, Shops, Warehouses Waste ENVIRONMENT / Waste Management Wastewater ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption Waste ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Vehicles Disposal Waste Management Water ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption Society Colour Code Risk Priority No relevant risk potential, no need for action Minor risk, longterm need for action Medium risk, midterm action needed Environment High risk, immediate action needed Immediate danger – STOP, immediate action needed OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 147 Sustainability Report 2014 6.1.3 About this Report Key Achievements in 2014 Highlights of the environmental performance of OTE and COSMOTE in 2014 include the following: l OTE and COSMOTE passed successfully in 2014 their ISO 14001:2004 surveillance audit. l OTE and COSMOTE participate in the DT group climate change strategy, adopted by the CR Strategy and DT Board of Management in 2013. The decision adopted sets a reduction target for the DT group CO2 emissions of 20% by 2020. OTE and COSMOTE Group, despite the significant expansion of its Management network (Network Modernization, New LTE implementation etc.), has set as a first priority target, the transition to a more energy efficient network leading to CO2 emissions reduction. In this, and aiming to contribute to the achievement of the DT adopted target, specific actions are planned and implemented on a year to year basis. OTE and COSMOTE have secured from PPC S.A., their electricity provider Marketplace l for 2014, Guarantees of Origin (GOs), assuring that for the total electricity consumption of OTE and COSMOTE, from PPC S.A., an equivalent amount of energy has been produced from Renewable Energy Sources. l The IT application for the environmental data collection and reporting developed in 2013, became fully operational at OTE Group level during 2014 and was utilized in the context of the various reporting activities (e.g. in the compilation of this CR report). The decrease, compared to 2013, of total energy consumption of OTE and COSMOTE in 2014 Employees l by 1.3%. l The decrease, compared to 2013, of direct greenhouse gas emissions from energy consumption (scope 1) in 2014 by 11% (1,850 t CO2 eq). l The decrease of indirect greenhouse gas emissions from electricity and district heating (scope 2) consumption in 2014 by 5% compared to 2013 (14,000 t CO2 eq). The scope of the internal recycling program for paper, packaging materials, ink cartridges, Society l small electric and electronic appliances, home batteries and light bulbs in OTE and COSMOTE buildings was expanded (October 2014) to include 4 additional (to the Central Administration Building and the office complex in Paiania) key regional buildings. l The office complex in Paiania is the first building in Greece that has been awarded LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification at gold level. The primary concerns Environment of its design were flexibility, adaptability to climatic conditions, and the creation of a ‘’building intelligence’’ through the integration of automation and control systems. In addition, the building has been awarded a Class “A” energy efficiency certificate according to the Greek Building Energy Accreditation Scheme (while legislative requirement for new buildings is Class “B”). In 2014, total energy consumption remained at 2013 levels (4.38 GWh in 2014 and 4.5 GWh in 2013), significantly reduced compared with the previous situation of occupying “conventional” buildings. OTE Group Subsidiaries In the context of environmental management: l Environmental protection expenditures for 2014 amounted to €944,000 and cover waste treatment, management and disposal, environmental impact assessment studies, external certification of environmental management systems and measurements on electromagnetic fields. l Efforts to ensure that OTE and COSMOTE activities are in full compliance with environmental legislation and Indexes minimize any associated fines as well as the number of non-monetary sanctions imposed have continued. The fines (related to the environment) imposed in 2014 amounted to €25,000, while no non-monetary sanctions or complaints were brought before dispute resolution mechanisms. The aforementioned amount of fines is expected to decrease, due to administrative discounts or other available judicial procedures. Environment 148 Sustainability Report 2014 6.2 Telecommunications for About this Report CR Strategy and Management the Environment Marketplace Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) have played and will continue to play a significant role in global economic growth both for developed and developing economies. Employees The fact that the increased use of ICT products 30% decrease, as part of an agreed global effort. has undoubtedly an environmental impact Lately (October 2014), the European Council is widely acknowledged, yet it is also widely endorsed a binding EU target of an at least 40% acknowledged that ICT products can enable a domestic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions better environmental performance in all sectors by 2030 compared to 1990. of economy that would allow for a decoupling OTE and COSMOTE are fully aware of the ICT enabling Society of emissions growth from economic growth. The Smarter 2020 study by Global e-Sustainability role in environmental protection and economic Initiative (GeSI), estimated that: growth and its contribution in achieving the necessary GHG emissions reduction but also of the opportunities l The own footprint of the ICT sector is projected it offers for the development of companies. In this, to rise to 1.27 Gt CO2 eq by 2020. OTE and COSMOTE are providing products and services that enable their customers to take full advantage Environment l The abatement potential enabled through the use of ICT applications in different sectors of of the high quality broadband services for direct and the economy is 7 times higher (9.1 Gt CO2 eq). indirect improvement of both their operations and environmental performance. These products and l The exploitation of this potential could yield activities cover a broad range of applications such as: $1.9 trillion in savings for consumers and businesses. l De-materialization that is substituting or eliminating the need for an emissions – OTE Group l 29.5 million jobs would be created worldwide intensive product, process, etc. as a result. Subsidiaries l Data collection and communication, that allow Realizing this potential, enabled by ICT products for better decision–making through real–time and services, becomes imperative. As the goal data analysis, communication, feedback, and of keeping global temperature increase below learning. (e.g. smart grid). 2°C compared to pre-industrial levels, requires all countries to make an additional effort, cuts of l System integration that enables better Indexes 80-95% by 2050 by developed countries have use of resources (e.g. in fleet, supply chain been agreed. The European Union (EU) has management). set already as its target the reduction of GHG More related information is presented in the emissions by 20% in 2020, with a view to move to section Sustainable Products and Services. Environment 149 Sustainability Report 2014 6.3 Greenhouse Gases and About this Report CR Strategy and Management Other Gas Emissions Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE recognize the importance of Climate Change impacts. The associated risk for OTE and COSMOTE fall under three broad categories: Employees l Regulatory Risk the principles and methods described in the GHG Mainly related to changes (increase) of Protocol developed by the World Business Council electricity prices (and the subsequent increase for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the of the operational cost of OTE and COSMOTE) World Resources Institute (WRI). due to the fees/levies/burdens imposed to the electricity generation sector in the context of 6.3.1 the EU emissions trading scheme. Direct GHG and Physical Risk Society l Non-GHG Emissions Changes in the temperature (increased In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE total direct GHG temperature) would result in additional cooling emissions from energy consumption (scope 1) were needs and therefore increased electricity estimated at 14,551 t CO2 eq. This corresponds consumption, while extreme weather events to a decrease of about 11% compared to 2013. Environment (e.g. floods) and forest fires could affect the GHG emissions from electricity generators and infrastructure of OTE and COSMOTE and may space heating present a decrease of about 20% lead to network disruption. and 40% respectively, compared to 2013, while l Reputation Risk GHG emissions from road transportation increased Financial implications are related to a potential by 2%. The substitution of diesel by natural gas loss of market share as a result of consumers’ in the Central Administration and the YMA-NYMA OTE Group behavior reaction against companies with buildings (2014 was the first full year of natural gas consumption in both buildings), space consolidation Subsidiaries inadequate policies as regards climate change. and rationalization, favorable weather conditions, More information on climate change related the reduction of the number and/or the operating risks identified can be found in the latest (2014) hours of the installed electricity generators (mainly response of OTE to the Carbon Disclosure Project. in COSMOTE network) as well as their systematic OTE and COSMOTE implement a comprehensive maintenance are among the factors that contribute to the overall emissions reduction. Indexes program for inventorying greenhouse gases (GHG) and other gas emissions on the basis of Environment 150 Sustainability Report 2014 Direct GHG Emissions from Energy for OTE and COSMOTE About this Report OTE COSMOTE GHG Emissions (in t CO2 eq) CR Strategy and 7,042 6,833 Management 6,814 6,444 5,370 12,823 12,158 10,207 9,955 9,181 Marketplace 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employees Vehicles 38% COSMOTE Direct GHG OTE Direct GHG Emissions 2014 Emissions 2014 Society Buildings 4% Buildings Environment Network Vehicles 17% 58% 77% Network 6% Notes (1) “Buildings” include fuel consumption for space heating and small quantities of diesel used for electricity generators. (2) The CO2 emission factors applied have been agreed within the DT group to facilitate harmonized reporting, and derive from the GHG protocol. (3) The non-CO2 (CH4 and N2O) emission factors derive from Tier 1 methods described in the 2006 IPCC guidelines. (4) As of 2013, energy consumption in buildings (space heating, office electric/electronic appliances, etc.) where joint occupancy of OTE and COSMOTE OTE Group occurs, is allocated (after subtracting consumption items directly related to either company) between the two companies on the basis of their staff share at that location. This applies to the Central Administration building and the new office complex in Paiania. Subsidiaries (5) Global Warming Potential (GWP) values have been revised in order to be inline with the decisions of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and of the European Commission. GWP values used are included in the Annex III of Decision 24/CP.19. Time series have been recalculated. Indexes Environment 151 Sustainability Report 2014 With respect to other air emissions (non–GHG) the − Transformers and capacitors which could About this Report following are noted: have been a significant source of PCB (Polychlorinated biphenyls) emissions due l Emissions of typical air pollutants (NOx, SO2, to leakage, have been decommissioned, PM10 and VOCs) are mainly related to road disposed of and replaced by new ones transportation (main source for OTE) and the that do not contain PCB, inline with the use of electricity generators to support the provisions of Directive 96/59/EC. operation of the telecom network (main source − Lead emissions decreased from 22.4 kg in CR Strategy and for COSMOTE). 2008 to 10 kg in 2014 as a result of the Emissions of Persistent Organic Pollutants Management l gradual renewal of the vehicle stock (during (POP) and Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) are 2014 the remaining vehicles running on of minor importance for OTE and COSMOTE as: leaded gasoline were withdrawn). Other Gas Emissions for OTE and COSMOTE in 2014 Marketplace OTE COSMOTE 1,625 Employees 1,359 880 Society 3,556 2,470 2,217 84 379 NOX S02 PM10 VOC Environment (*10kg) (kg) (kg) (*10kg) Notes (1) SO2 emission factors for oil products derive from national legislation (2) The emission factors for NOx, PM10 and VOC derive from the EMEP/EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook http://www.eea.europa.eu/ publications/emep-eea-emission-inventory-guidebook-2009 OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 152 Sustainability Report 2014 6.3.2 To cover scope 2 emissions due to electricity About this Report Indirect GHG Emissions consumption, OTE and COSMOTE have secured from Energy Guarantees of renewable Origin (GOs) which OTE and COSMOTE indirect GHG emissions from when taken into account reduce the effective Energy (scope 2 emissions due to electricity scope 2 GHG emissions to about 57,700 t CO2 eq. consumption and district heating) for 2014 were In total, if GOs are not taken into account, OTE estimated at 280,980 t CO2 eq (OTE: 172,723 t and COSMOTE scope 2 emissions decreased by CO2 eq, COSMOTE: 108,257 t CO2 eq), presenting a CR Strategy and 6.3% from 2008 (OTE: – 9.3%, COSMOTE: 1.0%). decrease of 4.8% compared to 2013. The majority Changes in scope 2 GHG emissions depend on Management of OTE and COSMOTE scope 2 GHG emissions are changes in electricity consumption but also attributed to the operation of the fixed and mobile reflect changes of the fuel mix used for electricity telecom network (about 86% of total emissions). generation in Greece. Indirect GHG Emissions from Energy (Scope 2) for OTE and COSMOTE without Marketplace GOs Secured Fixed Telecom Network Buildings ΟΤΕ Mobile Telecom Network Buildings COSMOTE GHG Emissions (kt CO2 eq) Employees 12.3 12.4 14.3 13.6 12.8 104.4 100 98.9 99.4 23.5 22.3 95.5 22.3 25.3 27.5 Society 172.8 172.2 161.5 156.8 145.2 Environment 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Notes (1) The term “Buildings” describes Offices including Data Centers, Warehouses and Shops. (2) For consistency reasons among the DT Group companies, CO2 emissions are estimated on the basis of the emission factors developed by the International Energy Agency. (3) The non-CO2 (i.e. CH4 and N2O) emission factors for electricity refer to 2012 and are also applied for 2014. These factors derive from the latest Greek OTE Group National GHG emissions inventory and EUROSTAT data on gross electricity generation. (4) As of 2013, energy consumption in buildings (space heating, office electric/electronic appliances, etc.) where joint occupancy of OTE and COSMOTE Subsidiaries occurs, is allocated (after subtracting consumption items directly related to either company) between the two companies on the basis of their staff share at that location. This applies to the Central Administration building and the new office complex in Paiania. (5) Global Warming Potential (GWP) values have been revised in order to be inline with the decisions of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and of the European Commission. GWP values used are included in the Annex III of Decision 24/CP.19. Timeseries have been recalculated. Indexes Marketplace 153 Sustainability Report 2014 6.3.3 l Overnight stayingsnew About this Report In hotels during business travels. Other Indirect GHG Emissions OTE and COSMOTE are extending the scope of their l Employee commutingnew emissions inventory so as to include estimates for For the estimation of GHG emissions from the major sources of indirect (scope 3) emissions employee commuting, a questionnaire was associated with their operation, and to get a better developed and uploaded to the intranet of both understanding of their overall emissions profile. companies in order to determine the transport means used and the average distance needed. CR Strategy and The indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions of OTE and There were about 800 valid responses, on the Management COSMOTE for 2014 were estimated at 12,673 t basis of which it was found that private car is CO2 eq. The emission sources quantified are the the main alternative used (about 52% of the following: employees, including company cars) for an l Business air travels average distance of 34 km per day. This category includes all travels made and l Solid waste disposal. invoiced by OTE and COSMOTE. Domestic flights Marketplace Treatment and disposal of municipal, industrial for OTE are reported for the first time and and other solid waste is not only related to therefore changes compared to 2013 cannot land availability but also produces significant be assessed. The utilization of teleconference amounts of methane (CH4) due to the gradual infrastructure developed, represents a major decay of the degradable organic component of action for reducing transportation activity and the waste disposed. Calculated emissions may the associated environmental impacts. be considered as the expected emissions during Other business travelsnew Employees l the lifetime of the waste disposed, as a result GHG emissions from road (car rental and busses, of the activity (i.e. waste disposal) that took only for COSMOTE) and maritime transportation. place in the current year. Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions for 2014 Solid waste Employee Society disposal commuting 983% Air travel 6,35372% 1,28733% Environment COSMOTE OTE Indirect Emissions: Indirect Emissions: 3,906 t C02 8,768 t C02 Solid waste OTE Group disposal Other Other Subsidiaries 3374% Employee business business commuting Air travel travels and hotels 1,62619% travels and hotels 2,31559% 2065% 4525% Notes (1) In case the effect of Radiative Forcing Index is excluded, GHG emissions are 542 t CO2 for OTE and 429 t CO2 for COSMΟΤΕ. Indexes (2) For the calculation of GHG emissions from maritime transport the emission factor proposed by GHG Protocol is applied (http://www.ghgprotocol.org/ calculation-tools/all-tools). (3) GHG emission from solid waste disposal are calculated according to the Tier 1 approach descrbed in 1996 IPCC Guidelines, using country specific parameters for the national inventory of GHG emissions of Greece. Environment 154 Sustainability Report 2014 6.4 Improving Energy Efficiency About this Report CR Strategy and Management and Emissions Reduction Marketplace The contribution of OTE and COSMOTE in mitigating the environmental problems associated with energy use (climate change, scarcity of energy sources, atmospheric pollution, etc.) Employees consists of adopting practices to monitor and then reduce energy consumption and the associated emissions, and of developing products and services that contribute to such reductions in various sectors of the economy. 6.4.1 Energy Consumption Society Energy consumption covers operating needs of telecommunication infrastructure (fixed and mobile), buildings and vehicles (service and company). In 2014, total energy consumption of OTE and COSMOTE amounted to 467 GWh, representing a decrease of 1.3% compared to 2013 (473 GWh). In terms of primary energy source used, this energy consumption is equivalent to 58 GWh of direct energy consumption (or 208 TJ, all of which came from non-renewable primary sources) and 916 GWh of indirect (or 3,299 TJ, by allocating to OTE and COSMOTE the energy consumption needed for the production of the electricity Environment and the district heating consumed) energy consumption. The later is reduced to 513 GWh if GOs are taken into account. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 155 Sustainability Report 2014 OTE and COSMOTE Energy Consumption in 2014 About this Report Energy Comsumption (in GWh) CR Strategy and Management 36.2 138.8 211.1 Marketplace 13.6 8.5 58.5 Road Electricity Space Electricity Electricity Electricity Transportation Generators Heating in Buildings for Mobile for Fixed Network Network Employees Gasoline Lignite 44% 62% Natural Gas 10% Society Direct Energy Indirect Energy Consumption by RES Consumption by Primary Source 11% Primary Source in 2014 in 2014 Environment Natural Diesel Gas 18% 46% Diesel Heavy Fuel Oil 2% 7% Notes (1) Energy consumption is based on actual consumption data for most months of 2014, which are extrapolated to the end of the year due to data OTE Group provision arrangements within the DT group. (2) Indirect energy consumption by primary source is estimated on the basis of 2013 values. Subsidiaries (3) Road transportation includes service and company vehicles. Indexes Environment 156 Sustainability Report 2014 In 2014, total energy consumption of OTE 6.4.2 About this Report amounted to 289 GWh, representing a decrease of 1% compared to 2013 (292 GWh), while total Renewable Energy Sources energy consumption of COSMOTE (178 GWh) Reduction of electricity consumption growth rate decreased by 1.5% compared to 2013 (181 GWh). and its eventual transformation to a reduction of Detailed information on the energy consumption the electricity consumption to the extent that is of OTE and COSMOTE for the period 2008 – 2014 is technically and economically feasible, as well as available for download here. covering electricity demand directly or indirectly CR Strategy and by Renewable Energy Sources (RES) represent the l Electricity consumption for network operations key priorities of OTE and COSMOTE. In this context, Management makes up the largest part of the total energy OTE and COSMOTE: consumption of OTE (211 GWh) and COSMOTE (139 GWh). l Have secured from PPC S.A., their electricity provider for 2014, Guarantees of Origin − The total electricity consumption of OTE (GOs), assuring that for the total electricity in 2014 (250.94 GWh) remained at 2013 consumption of OTE and COSMOTE, from PPC levels (0.3% decrease), and is below the Marketplace S.A., an equivalent amount of energy has been 2008 electricity consumption value. As produced from Renewable Energy. a result, the electricity intensity of data transferred including collocation (i.e. l Are systematically investing in increasing their electricity divided by data volume in bits) RES capacity: was reduced by 12% compared to 2013. − COSMOTE has installed PV and small wind − For COSMOTE, electricity consumption of turbine systems in order to support base Employees the network operation (base stations and stations located in remote rural areas not backbone network) in 2014 (139 GWh) connected to the grid and operating with increased by 1% compared to 2013 (due diesel generators. In 2014, 16 base stations to the installation of new base stations), were supported by PV and small wind turbine while electricity consumption in buildings systems. Total electricity generation from (including data centers and shops) these systems amounted to 251.6 MWh. decreased by 0.8% compared to 2013 (from − COSMOTE has installed Batteries Hybrid Society 18.7 GWh in 2013 to 18.6 GWh in 2014). systems in order to support base stations l Road transportation represents the largest located in remote rural areas not connected (non–electricity) fuel consuming activity of to the grid and operating with diesel OTE. Although, fuel consumption for the OTE generators. In 2014, 25 base stations were vehicle fleet (28.1 GWh) increased by 1.5% supported by Batteries Hybrid systems. compared to 2013, consumption growth rate − OTE operates two roof-top photovoltaic Environment was restricted (from 9% in 2013/2012 to 1.5% systems of 222 kWp total capacity in 2014/2013) as a result of the renewal of the (172 kWp at the facilities of the central vehicle fleet that is in progress. warehouse in Parnitha and 50 kWp at an OTE building in Ilioupoli, Athens). Electricity l In 2014, the energy consumption of the generation from these PV systems electricity generators (used as the main amounted to 334 MWh in 2014 (equivalent electricity supply in isolated areas where grid to avoiding CO2 emissions of about 230 t). OTE Group connection is difficult or impossible and / or Subsidiaries as back–up units in cases power disruptions) operated by COSMOTE decreased by 25% 6.4.3 (from 15.6 GWh in 2013 to 11.7 GWh in 2014). Energy Conservation Reducing the number and/or the operating Energy conservation and rational use of energy hours of the electricity generators due to represent key options for economically feasible connection of base stations to the electricity improvement of the environmental performance of Indexes grid, but also due to the use of RES, have OTE and COSMOTE. Interventions can be grouped in contributed to this reduction. to the following three broad categories: l Energy conservation in Telecom Networks. Environment 157 Sustainability Report 2014 l Energy conservation in Buildings and Stores. As a result of the measures OTE and COSMOTE About this Report l Energy conservation in Transport. have adopted since 2008/2009 (base year for OTE and COSMOTE, under the DT climate change The effect of measures designed and implemented strategy) and were implemented in 2014, is evident (given that services provided did not electricity conservation reached 42.4 GWh and decrease in 2014 compared to 2013) in the diesel oil conservation (for electricity generators performance of OTE and COSMOTE, as: and space heating) amounted to 4.5 GWh. The Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) from avoided GHG emissions associated with the energy CR Strategy and l energy consumption in 2014 decreased by conservation achieved is estimated at 30,600 t CO2 eq (about 10% of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions of Management 1,850 t CO2 eq compared to 2013 (a reduction of 11% compared to 2013 scope 1 emissions). OTE and COSMOTE in 2014). The overall economic effect (benefit) of the measures implemented l Indirect GHG emissions from energy (scope 2) on the operational cost of OTE and COSMOTE is in 2014 decreased by 14,000 t CO2 eq estimated at €5.6 million. compared to 2013 (a reduction of 5% Marketplace compared to 2013 scope 2 emissions). Given the developments in the ICT sector (4G mobile network, VDSL lines, TV services, etc) this result is quite significant. Energy Conservation Results and GHG Emissions Avoided in 2014 Employees Energy GHG Emissions 30 20 17.4 GHG emissions avoided (kt C02 eq) Energy Conservation (GWh) 25 16 20 12 Society 15 7.6 8 10 4.2 25.3 11.1 Environment 5 6.1 4.5 4 1.4 Electricity Fixed Electricity Mobile Electricity Space Heating telecom (OTE) telecom (COSMOTE) Buildings & Electricity Generators OTE Group Subsidiaries Indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) avoided are estimated at 4,755 t CO2 eq. This reduction was estimated taking into account paper recycling, reduction of paper use and teleconferences for the operational needs of OTE and COSMOTE. Indexes Environment 158 Sustainability Report 2014 About this Report IT System for the Collection and Reporting of Environmental Data Environmental Resources Management (ERM) database Monitoring and improving environmental performance is a complex task for OTE and COSMOTE. At the same time the increasing demand for transparency on corporate information published, creates additional requirements. In this context, an IT system, entitled Environmental Resources Management (ERM) database, was CR Strategy and developed (as a web application) aiming at: (a) enhancing and accelerating internal data collection process, (b) strengthening quality control checks, (c) ensuring the timeliness submission of necessary Management information under the various reporting requirements (both internal and external) and (d) the harmonization of data collection processes at OTE Group level. Marketplace Employees Society Four different types of user accounts have been defined and for each type of account specific responsibilities have been assigned (data owner and 3 levels of control, the third being at OTE Group Environment level). Functions provided by the database include the (a) calculation of simple indices, (b) generation of totals at companies’ level, (c) monitoring of trends, (d) provision of comments/explanations on deviations when exceeding the threshold of ± 10%, (e) uploading of appropriate documentation and (f) generation of reports in predefined formats. The IT application has been made available to organizational units of ΟΤΕ, COSMOTE and GERMANOS in Greece, Telekom Romania Communications S.A., Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. and Albania Mobile Communications (AMC). In total, 95 user accounts have been defined and 258 different OTE Group Subsidiaries data items are included, aggregated into 19 data categories. During the last quarter of 2014, 4 e-learning courses were held for all organizational units at OTE Group that have access to the application. Indexes Environment 159 Sustainability Report 2014 Energy Conservation Measures About this Report Measure Scope Description – Result Smart metering systems in base station Telecom network 420 systems were installed by the end of 2014 sites with large energy consumption (COSMOTE) Free cooling systems The total number of such systems already installed is 1,814 (COSMOTE) Replacement of old equipment CR Strategy and In 2014 OTE and COSMOTE replaced 123 and 157 old rectifier units respectively. On average, Management efficiency improved from 75% to 93% Indoor Power Supply Units with A/C The installation of these systems aims to reduce direct to battery cabinet energy consumption through the increase of internal temperature of Base Station (set point from 26oC to 30oC). The total number of systems installed at the end of 2014 was 196 Marketplace Modernization of OTE telecom network The transformation of the fixed network to VDSL, the removal of PSTN ports and the deactivation of associated equipment including AC units is in progress. Although the switch to VDSL will increase electricity consumption, a positive net benefit is expected Rational use of buildings and Employees Telecom network – Consolidation (geographical and spatial) of the space consolidation Buildings hardware necessary for network management In 2014, the building area used by OTE was reduced by about 3% compared to 2013 Maintenance of electricity generators Telecom network COSMOTE implemented a maintenance program for 696 generators (for both 24-hour and emergency operation), aiming to ensure their proper operation Energy retrofit of buildings Buildings/Stores Emphasis is given in the selection of materials Society with improved thermal characteristics and in the installation of energy efficient equipment Remodelling of the OTE retail stores Energy retrofit of Data Centers Energy conservation measures aiming to improve Environment the performance of the installed equipment Building Management Systems (BMS) Installation of BMS in key buildings Natural gas As of November 2013, the Central Administration Building of OTE and the YMA– NYMA building are connected to the natural gas distribution network. They are the first OTE OTE Group buildings connected to the natural gas network in Attica, and among the largest OTE buildings Installation of VRV systems Replacement of central heating and cooling Subsidiaries systems (in OTE buildings) with new Variable Refrigerant Volume (VRV) systems that achieve a large reduction of energy consumption and operational expenses Fleet renewal Indexes Road transport 125 aged service vehicles were replaced (December 2014) by new diesel light duty vehicles (1400 cc, EURO 5) with CO2 emissions of less than 140 g/km. In addition, 300 new diesel vehicles were purchased in December 2014 Environment 160 Sustainability Report 2014 Measure Scope Description – Result About this Report Teleconferences Mobility In 2014, 25,000 hours of audio-conferences and 31,500 hours of video-conferences were carried out Help-desk, call centers Road transport At national level, about 38% of calls for fault correction (ADSL, fixed telephony and Land Loop Unbundling connections) were resolved by phone, resulting in a reduction of transportation CR Strategy and activity corresponding to 24% of total 2014 service transportation activity Management Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 161 Sustainability Report 2014 6.5 Resource Use and About this Report CR Strategy and Management Waste Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE recognize the scarcity of natural resources and consider a more efficient use of these resources a priority for sustainable development. In order to achieve this, the Employees principle “Reduce – Reuse – Recycle” is followed, aiming to reduce the production of solid waste that inevitably emanate from any corporate activity. Monitor Material Used Reduce Materials Used + Recycle Materials Reuse Materials + = Proper Material Disposal Reduce Environmental Footprint Society In this context, the key principles of OTE and Special treatment of waste that contaminate Environment l COSMOTE policy regarding resource use and waste the environment (e.g. electronic equipment, management are: lead batteries, and materials that contain l Monitoring of materials used and waste generated. substances detrimental to the environment). l Reduced use of materials whose production l Development of products and services that has an impact on the environment. contribute to sustainable resource management and the reduction of waste generated. OTE Group l Recycling of used material (e.g. paper). Enhancement of public awareness to increase Subsidiaries l l Reuse of materials either internally or participation in recycling practices. through collaboration with authorized waste management entities. Indexes Environment 162 Sustainability Report 2014 6.5.1 About this Report Waste Generated Solid waste generated by the activities of OTE and COSMOTE are classified into: l Waste considered hazardous thus requiring specific treatment (e.g. lubricants, stationary engines batteries). CR Strategy and l Technical waste associated with material Management and equipment used for the provision of telecommunication services and products (e.g. cables, metals, electronic and telecommunication equipment) and used products (e.g. phones and related accessories, portable batteries, etc.) collected through the Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE retail network. l Paper. l Residual waste that include typical municipal solid waste from OTE and COSMOTE buildings but also packaging materials from warehouses Total solid waste generated in 2014 amounted and waste related to office operation (e.g. ink to 3,200 t. It should be noted that interannual Employees cartridges). changes of waste generated vary with equipment lifetime and the schedule in place for the l Other waste (waste streams not included in the modernization of fixed telecom network. above-mentioned categories). OTE and COSMOTE Solid Waste Generation 2010-2014 Society Hazardous Technical Paper Residual Other Quantities (in t) Environment 74 296 498 4 520 158 10 113 352 OTE Group 719 468 325 4,063 400 Subsidiaries 684 621 1,425 1,105 1,213 1,975 681 684 509 340 322 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Indexes Environment 163 Sustainability Report 2014 Technical Technical About this Report 53.6% 63.3% COSMOTE Solid Waste OTE Solid Waste Generated in 2014 Generated in 2014 (564 t) (2,643 t) CR Strategy and Paper Management 11.9% Hazardous 8.9% Hazardous Other Paper 15.5% Residual Residual 12.6% 18.9% 6.0% 9.3% Marketplace Notes The main categories in which solid waste generated are classified have been changed compared to previous Corporate Responsibility reports. More specifically, the category Hazardous includes both technical and non-technical hazardous waste. It should be noted that since OTE and COSMOTE recycling, with zero spills. Waste lubricant oils from are not actually manufacturing any products vehicles maintenance are collected and managed but provide telecommunications services, use by the associated car service companies. In the Employees of materials is restricted to packaging (for the context of the recycling program for light bulbs in products placed in the market). buildings, 1.09 t were recycled. 6.5.2.2 6.5.2 Technical Waste Waste Management l In 2014, an amount of 1,516 t of metals OTE and COSMOTE have developed a widespread and cables as well as 100% of the OTE and Society network for the monitoring, collection, storage COSMOTE electrical and electronic equipment and management/recycling, which covers the withdrawn from service (430 t of waste that whole country and they work together with includes telecommunication and IT equipment) certified waste management companies to ensure was forwarded to authorized management the proper management of generated waste. entities. Recovered materials (e.g. copper) can All activities related to waste management are be used as raw materials for the production of Environment managed through the Environmental Management other goods resulting in conservation of natural System of OTE and COSMOTE, which is certified resources. It should be noted that quantities according to ISO 14001:2004 standards. recycled vary with equipment lifetime and the Existing recycling programs cover the whole of schedule in place for the modernization of fixed hazardous and technical waste and about 80% of telecom network. office paper consumption. Solid waste disposed l As of June 2013, a common recycling program OTE Group accounts for about 15% of the total waste for mobile phones, fixed phones, phone generated. Detailed information on the waste accessories, home batteries and ink cartridges generated / managed for the period 2008 – 2014 is implemented in ΟΤΕ, COSMOTE, GERMANOS Subsidiaries is available for download here. retail network. It is worth mentioning that quantities collected (and forwarded for 6.5.2.1 recycling) are not limited to OTE and COSMOTE Hazardous Waste products, while OTE and COSMOTE products are In 2014, 14.5 t of lubricants (associated with the also collected in collection points established operation of the electricity generators) and 306 t within other retail outlets, and therefore it is Indexes of lead batteries (100% of quantities withdrawn for not possible to estimate the percentage of both categories), were collected and forwarded for products sold that are actually reclaimed. Environment 164 Sustainability Report 2014 In 2014, 6.5 t of phone devices and mobile 2015 all bills sent to customers are printed on About this Report telephony accessories were gathered through FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), certified paper, the COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network confirming the adoption of Environmental and (corresponding to 16.4 kg per collection point) Social Awareness Principles. and 2.8 t were gathered from the OTE retail network (i.e. 22.5 kg per collection point). In 6.5.2.4 addition, 21 t of phone devices were collected Residual and Other Waste by the OTE technical staff during on–site visits l At the moment, no specific management CR Strategy and to customers. practice is in place for typical household waste. Quantities generated (470 t in 2014. Management The NGOs Athens Union for the Protection of OTE: 377 t, COSMOTE: 93 t) are directed to the Forests and Callisto – Environmental Organization Municipal Solid Waste Landfills for disposal. for Wildlife and Nature received a €1,000 donation for every ton of recycled fixed and mobile phone l During 2014, the program for the alternative devices that have been gathered in the context management of packaging materials entering of the common recycling in OTE, COSMOTE and the OTE and COSMOTE warehouse in Parnitha Marketplace GERMANOS retail network during the first year of (as well as in regional warehouses) continued its implementation (in total 7.6 tons for the period to operate with substantial results. In total, June 2013 – May 2014). 97.35 t of packaging material were delivered for recycling (24.29 t cardboards, 8.51 t plastic, 6.5.2.3 38.89 t wood and 25.66 t of mixed recyclable Paper materials), while 13.14 t were forwarded for energy recovery and 62.73 t of non-recyclable Employees In order to reduce paper consumption, OTE and COSMOTE develop and implement IT applications materials were directed to disposal. for intra OTE and COSMOTE operations as well as for l Environmental impacts of ink cartridges services provided to customers. Initiatives such as: disposal are related to the potential hazardous l The option of sending electronic bills to substances that they may contain and to the customers. slow decomposition rate of their constitutive parts. In this context: The use of customers’ electronic signature Society l at ΟΤΕ, COSMOTE, GERMANOS retail network – COSMOTE has put in place a practice (for contract renewals, address changes, that calls for yearly targets for refilled ink deactivations etc.), where available. cartridges. The target for 2014 was for refilled cartridges to account for 30% of ink l The option to renew air time by using cartridges bought. The target was surpassed, e-voucher is offered to COSMOTE pre-paid as 40% of the cartridges bought were refills Environment customers. (of the 4,500 new ink cartridges bought, l The electronic submission and handling of 1,810 were refills). In 2014, 1,827 pieces applications made by telecommunication were sent for recycling. operators (1.56 million applications). – In 2014, 6,881 spent ink cartridges were l The program “Work Force Management (WFM)” collected from OTE offices and forwarded concerning Technical Field Operations, the for recycling. 2014 was the first year of OTE Group scope of which was expanded in 2014 to full implementation of the program for ink cartridges management that establishes an Subsidiaries include activities related to business customers. annual target for refilled ink cartridges. The Resulted in savings of 113.5 t paper. target of 25% was surpassed as out of the In 2014, office paper consumption amounted to 13,100 new ink cartridges bought, 6,900 192.9 t (OTE: 151.6 t, COSMOTE: 41.2 t), while were refills. paper recycling reached 155.7 t (OTE: 143.4 t, l Additionally, 158.3 t of scrapped vehicles Indexes COSMOTE: 12.3 t). The use of recycled paper were forwarded to authorized end-of-life accounts for 40% of total consumption. management entities, while a program for the Note that OTE and COSMOTE have started management of end-of-life tires has been put necessary arrangements, so that by the end of in place since 2010. Environment 165 Sustainability Report 2014 OTE and COSMOTE are implementing a product l Paper, cardboard and plastic are the packaging About this Report packaging monitoring program for their products materials used by COSMOTE (21,972 kg and distributed in the market, and participate in systems 15,085 kg respectively). The average weight of for the management of packaging materials waste COSMOTE packaging was 3.3 g per unit (for a as foreseen by national and European legislation. total of 11.4 million units). l Paper and cardboard represent the main In view of the above, it becomes clear that it is not packaging materials used by OTE (140,760 possible for OTE and COSMOTE to know the actual CR Strategy and kg), while the use of plastic is limited (2,287 quantities of their packaging materials reclaimed kg). The average weight of OTE packaging (for and recycled, as it is the responsibility of these Management routers, decoders, etc.) is about 43 g per unit systems to do so. (for a total of 3.3 million units). Recycling Program in Buildings Marketplace ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE implement an internal recycling program in buildings, which in its first phase covered the Central Administration and the Paiania buildings. Since October 2014, four new buildings joined the program. The program, which encourages the recycling of packaging materials (plastic, aluminium, tetrapack), paper, ink cartridges (but also light bulbs, small electric and electronic appliances, portable batteries and phone devices, mobile and landlines, with their accessories), is based on the sorting-atsource principle, with centralized waste collection and management. Employees Society Environment The equipment installed in the 4 additional buildings includes 55 recycling points for 5 streams (plastic, aluminum, mixed packaging, ink cartridges and batteries), 7 demonstration recycling stations for OTE Group 6 streams (the above-mentioned plus small electric and electronic appliances), and 900 paper recycling Subsidiaries bins in offices. The program is expected to generate reliable data on waste generation and recycling in buildings and to enhance the environmental awareness of OTE and COSMOTE employees. Plans to expand the program at 10 additional main buildings are currently under development. In 2014, 80.3 t were recycled, of which 72.8 t paper, 4.2 t plastic, 3.1 t tetrapack and 0.2 t aluminum. Indexes Environment 166 Sustainability Report 2014 6.6 Electromagnetic Fields About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace Potential health effects of man–made electromagnetic fields (EMF) have received particular attention during the last 30 years. In this context, international scientific organizations have issued guidelines regarding exposure to EMF and a relevant legislative framework has been developed. OTE Group has adopted an EMF policy in which its commitment to contribute to public Employees protection through actions aiming to increase transparency, awareness, participation and scientific knowledge, is set out. 6.6.1 recommended by the scientific community, as well as with the latest national limits set by Law Following by Design the 4070/2012 which are only 60–70% of ICNIRP Precautionary Principle limits, in all points with free public access. OTE and COSMOTE recognize public concerns Society about potential consequences of electromagnetic l For every OTE wireless telecommunication radiation on health issues. Even though: station and COSMOTE Base Station, a radio emission study and an electromagnetic − relative research, conducted and assessed background study (in some cases) is conducted by the World Health Organization did by specialized OTE and COSMOTE personnel, not indicate any such correlation for for an area of up to a radius of 50 meters and Environment telecommunications equipment and 300 meters respectively to ensure that all OTE − certified measurements estimate the and COSMOTE Stations operate within legal percentage of EMF intensity attributed to limits. The corresponding studies form part mobile telephony Base Stations to be less of environmental impact assessment studies than 30% of the total EMF background in (where needed) or the so-called Standard populated areas Environmental Commitments, conducted and OTE Group it is the policy of OTE and COSMOTE (based on submitted to responsible authorities. Transparency, Information, Participation and Subsidiaries The amount COSMOTE spent on programs Promotion of Science) to respect and adopt the concerning EMF in 2014 was about €300,000. precautionary principle and apply it in a number of practices. Thus: In addition, all products placed in the OTE and l The levels of electromagnetic fields, in all COSMOTE retail network bear all necessary labels Base Stations, comply with the suggested foreseen by national and EU legislation while all phones sold operate within electromagnetic field Indexes limits of the World Health Organization and the International Commission on Non–Ionizing safety limits (expressed in Specific Absorption Rate Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), which are already – SAR units). A list of SAR values for all handsets is approximately 50 times stricter than the levels available in printed version at all network stores. Environment 167 Sustainability Report 2014 6.6.2 measurement stations (with suitable detectors for About this Report electromagnetic fields) covering all Greece. The Monitoring the Levels of measurement stations operate on a 24 hour basis. EMF Radiation Measurements are obtained and stored on-line COSMOTE has established and operates an and are accessible to the public at the program’s EMF measurement program, called “Pedion24”, website (www.pedion24.gr). The public’s interest developed in association with the Laboratory of in these measurements is high as evidenced by Mobile Radio Communications at the National the high visitation rates of the “Pedion24” program CR Strategy and Technical University of Athens, the Radio website (200 visits per day on average). Communications Laboratory at the Aristotle Management University in Thessaloniki and the ICT Laboratory The number of stations has increased every year at the University of the Aegean. since 2006 (22 measurement stations), and 8 new stations were added in 2014 bringing the total to 6.6.2.1 218. Of the nearly 57 million measurements taken COSMOTE Initiatives to date, none has been found to exceed legal limits. The objective of the program “Pedion24”, In 2014, 71 further ad hoc measurements were Marketplace coordinated by the head of COSMOTE EMF Control conducted by specialized scientific personnel of and Measurement Section (EMF Manager), is to COSMOTE (scientific personnel of Environmental continuously and openly inform the public about Electromagnetic Fields Measurements Laboratory), the levels of electromagnetic fields in the vicinity and 10 more by independent institutions of mobile telephony Base Stations, including all (Universities, Greek Atomic Energy Commission) other EMF sources such as radio transmitters, at COSMOTE request. Public exposure safety limits televisions, radars and other telecommunication were not found to be exceeded in points of free Employees applications. The program initiated at the end public access, in any of these measurements. of 2005, has been fully operational since 2006. The COSMOTE Environmental Electromagnetic Recently, the Internet and Telecommunications Fields Measurement Laboratory (established in Systems, Services and Security Laboratory at the 2005), a part of EMF Control and Measurement University of Piraeus joined the program. Section has been accredited according to EN ISO/ The program utilizes a full set of measurement IEC 17025 standards since February 2012. Society equipment and leading edge technology “PEDION 24” Program Measurement Stations (number) Measurements in Excess of the Limit (%) Ad Hoc Measurements (number) Limit Environment 210 218 200 188 190 155 165 106 OTE Group Subsidiaries 107 86 82 77 71 49 Indexes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Environment 168 Sustainability Report 2014 6.6.2.2 Briefings and presentations were also conducted About this Report ΟΤΕ Initiatives by staff employees to students from schools and OTE’s EMF Measurement Laboratory has Universities. In 2014 such briefings were conducted been established in 2008 to carry out EMF to 180 students from 4 schools and Universities, as measurements in accordance with national and well as to 700 employees of OTE Group. international guidelines and standards so as to Overall more than 1,600 leaflets were distributed ensure that OTE operations are in compliance with at information events to students, NGO’s, local suggested limits of the World Health Organization CR Strategy and communities, customers, etc. and ICNIRP, as well as with the latest national limits To improve outreach, an e–mail address, for Management set by Law 4070/2012. questions regarding electromagnetic fields The laboratory developed an Antenna Anechoic information, is available in the COSMOTE’s Chamber, in order to analyze the effect of EMF corporate website (emfinfo@cosmote.gr). radiation in wireless (WiFi) interface of the xDSL broadband terminals that are provided to OTE Information regarding mobile telephony, especially Marketplace customers, to evaluate the resilience of the above issues regarding EMF, is also routinely disseminated terminals to EMF radiation interference and to to OTE and COSMOTE employees so that they carry out EMF measurements of the wireless are fully aware of the issues and take them into interface on physical level. consideration in the performance of their duties and in contacts with the customers and the OTE intends to ensure that its customers are general public. supplied with optimized terminals in terms of EMF radiation safety and performance. 6.6.3 Employees Informing Society and Employees With a view to raise public awareness on potential consequences of electromagnetic radiation on health issues, COSMOTE issued Society and distributes through its commercial network the following leaflets: l “Pedion 24 – Continuous Measurements of Electromagnetic Radiation Programme”, where Environment the way the respective measurement and assurance program functions are described. The leaflet was distributed to over 500 citizens. l “How mobile telephony works”, distributed to over 1000 citizens. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 169 Sustainability Report 2014 6.7 Other Environmental About this Report CR Strategy and Management Aspects Marketplace The environmental strategy of OTE and COSMOTE includes the monitoring of their environmental performance and the development, where necessary, of environmental Employees programs not only for material issues but for all identified environmental aspects of their operation, to the extent possible. 6.7.1 Ozone OTE and COSMOTE are replacing old cooling systems operating with ozone depleting substance (ODS) as refrigerants, in accordance with legislative provisions in force. Fire suppression systems already use suppressants with zero ozone depleting potential (ODP). The ODS (i.e. R22) quantity being replenished in the Society existing cooling systems for 2014 amounted to 296.1 kg. In total, the quantity of R22 replenished, decreased by 70% compared to 2013. Currently, hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) blends are utilized either for substituting ODS or for installation in new cooling systems. The quantity replenished for 2014 was about 5 t of refrigerants, which is equivalent to GHG Environment emissions of about 10 kt CO2 eq (decreased by 40% compared to 2013). These emissions account for about 3% of the GHG emissions from energy use (both scope 1 and scope 2). With a view to repair any potential leakages, a monitoring and maintenance program is in place. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 170 Sustainability Report 2014 Quantities of Refrigerants Replenished About this Report 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 A. OTE R22 (kg) 3,516.40 2,981.33 731.00 718.00 70.00 R407C (kg) 2,173.50 3,077.50 3,990.00 4,197.80 2,865.00 R410A (kg) 95.00 258.00 515.00 596.50 40.00 CR Strategy and R134a (kg) 14.00 22.60 211.00 21.00 Management R417A (kg) 799.00 2,590.00 2,346.00 2,801.00 1,490.00 R422 (kg) 209.50 416.00 145.00 R404 (kg) 367.00 20.00 B. COSMOTE Marketplace R22 (kg) 172.30 266.00 337.00 273.00 226.10 R407C (kg) 462.00 681.00 471.60 362.00 346.80 R410A (kg) 159.00 433.00 191.00 122.00 126.70 R134a (kg) 24.00 0.00 Employees R417A (kg) 6.00 14.00 R422 (kg) 48.00 Notes (1) Ozone depleting potential (ODP) is measured as R11 (CFC-11) equivalent. The ODP value for R22 is 0.055. (2) Quantities replenished in 2010 for OTE include the regions of Attica, Northern Greece and Southern and Western Greece. (3) Global Warming Potential (GWP) values have been revised in order to be inline with the decisions of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and of the European Commission. GWP values used are included in the Annex III of Decision 24/CP.19. Timeseries have been recalculated. Society 6.7.2 Water Consumption Since telecommunications operations have no specific need for water use, OTE and COSMOTE consume water (acquired solely from public water companies which are responsible not only for water supply but also for the Environment sustainable uptake of water from the available water resource systems) exclusively for employees’ hygiene, plant irrigation and office/stores cleaning. Thus, water sources are not significantly affected by OTE and COSMOTE activities. Water consumption in 2014 was 167,913 m3, which corresponds to a 3% decrease compared to 2013 (173,228 m3). OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 171 Sustainability Report 2014 Water Consumption About this Report OTE COSMOTE OTE Consumption per employee COSMOTE Consumption per employee 200 Water Consumption (in thousands m3) Water Consumption (in m3) per employee 20.19 24.8 CR Strategy and 20 150 21.3 21.8 28.3 26.3 Management 18.32 15 15.00 14.69 13.64 100 13.64 10.28 12.89 10 10.53 9.94 Marketplace 50 5 163.9 144.1 147.6 144.9 141.6 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 Wastewater from OTE and COSMOTE operations operating in NATURA sites are fully licensed by Employees refers to domestic wastewater, which is directed the Hellenic Telecommunications and Posting to the available wastewater networks and is Committee and listed in its website. All buildings/ treated according to area–specific processes in installations/telecom lines that are currently in the municipal wastewater facilities. No planned or use and/or installed by OTE and COSMOTE are also unplanned water discharges to the environment as registered and relevant information can be found at well as no significant spills occurred during 2014. DG Technology and Operations offices. Society In this context, OTE and COSMOTE are committed to 6.7.3 minimize any potential impact that their activities Biodiversity (fixed and mobile telecommunication installations and offices) could have on biodiversity. In this vein it Environment OTE and COSMOTE are aware of the high value of biodiversity for Greece and recognize the close should be noted that: relationship between biodiversity, sustainable l Potential impacts are mainly related to the development and human well-being. At the same operation of installations on isolated areas necessary time, the provision of high quality telecommunication for the reliable provision of telecommunication services everywhere and at any time necessitates services (energy consumption, EMF emissions) and the operation of a geographically extensive network infrastructure works for upgrading/ maintaining OTE Group of telecommunication installations (base stations telecommunication network (waste generation). Subsidiaries and wireless communication stations) including, l All potential impacts are addressed in the inevitably, in NATURA 2000 sites. Environmental Impact Assessment studies carried In 2014, there were 487 COSMOTE base stations out and submitted for approval to the designated and 96 OTE base stations installed in 190 and 94 authorities as foreseen by national legislation in NATURA sites respectively, covering a total area of force. In these studies special reference is made 2.406 ha and 24.9 ha respectively. More information to protected areas (NATURA, SPA, RAMSAR, Indexes on the Greek NATURA 2000 sites (e.g. location, CORINE, IBA) and areas of high biodiversity value maps, area, protected species, etc) can be found that are near to OTE and COSMOTE activities. in the website of the Ministry of Reconstruction of The contents of these studies and the approval Production, Environment and Energy. All stations process, that includes a public consultation phase, Environment 172 Sustainability Report 2014 are specified in the relevant legislative acts. l The majority of the installations are small, About this Report These studies, on the basis of current scientific without permanent personnel and with limited knowledge, conclude that impacts on biodiversity transportation activities at the operational stage. are not material, and therefore there are no protected and/or restored habitat areas that are affected by the operation of OTE and COSMOTE. Number of OTE and COSMOTE Base Stations in Natura Sites per CR Strategy and Administrative Region Management OTE COSMOTE 80 70 Marketplace 60 50 40 Employees 30 20 10 Sterea Ellada Peloponnese Southern Aegean Crete Central Macedonia Ionian Islands Thessalia Epirus Western Macedonia Western Greece Northern Aegean Attica East. Macedonia Society & Thrace Environment 6.7.4 l For the installation of new telecommunication infrastructure necessary for the provision of Visual impact communication services, all efforts are made, Telecommunications companies have relatively to the extent that is technically feasible, small visual impact on the environment. However, to minimize the visual intrusion produced, to minimize whatever impact may exist: especially in urban areas by appropriate OTE Group l The size of new Base Stations being built now arrangements and constructions that blend Subsidiaries has been decreased. well with the surrounding environment. l Efforts are made to collocate Base Stations l Appropriate modifications are also applied to in common installations with the other two existing telecommunication infrastructure. mobile telephony companies so as to reduce overall visual impact of mobile Base Stations. Indexes Environment 173 Sustainability Report 2014 Number of 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 About this Report New Base Stations(1) 70 150 233 323 119 107 145 New base stations collocations 4 2 10 25 0 2 1 Special constructions OTE 18 8 6 2 2 4 (2) 4 (2) COSMOTE 40 50 110 147 82 70 114 CR Strategy and Notes Management (1) Information for licensed COSMOTE Base Stations in Greece is available at the EETT website (2) Concrete foundation for satellite antennas. 6.7.5 Noise The noise impact of OTE and COSMOTE is Marketplace insignificant, as it is restricted to (a) the operation of electricity generators that are necessary on cases of power outage or when there is no reliable electricity supply, (b) ventilation systems (e.g. supply and exhaust units) and (c) the outdoor air-conditioning units located in building roofs, facades and open spaces (e.g. cooling towers). Employees l The operation of electricity generators in urban areas is in line with all provisions foreseen by legislation. In special cases, where sound levels from generators should be reduced, OTE and COSMOTE make soundproofing constructions or install hybrid systems, to reduce the operating hours of the generators, or replace old units with new, more advanced ones that operate at Society lower noise levels. l In order to reduce noise levels from ventilation and/or cooling systems to the levels foreseen by legislation, soundproofing constructions Environment are placed or old units are replaced with new, more advanced ones that operate at lower noise levels. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 174 Sustainability Report 2014 6.8 Environmental Awareness About this Report CR Strategy and Management Initiatives Marketplace In the context of its corporate responsibility strategy, OTE Group designs and implements environmental training and awareness actions addressed to its employees and customers, and Employees the society. 6.8.1 l The official announcement (October 2014) concerning the expansion of the scope of the Employees’ Awareness internal recycling program in four additional OTE and COSMOTE, as part of their Environmental buildings (for more information see Waste strategy, aim to enhance awareness and increase Management) was accompanied with an internal engagement of their employees in initiatives Society awareness action, in the context of which toward the common objective of environmental employees had the opportunity to participate protection and sustainable development. and learn information and hints on recycling. Examples of such initiatives in 2014 include: l The reception program for new employees l On the occasion of the World Environment Day: (entitled “Welcome on board”) that includes a specific section on Corporate Responsibility and Environment − The results of the Environmental Programs in place were announced in OTE and Environmental Management. In 2014, 690 new COSMOTE Intranets and in the OTE website employees attended the program. (Microsite), and information concerning l Participation in WWF’s “Earth Hour”. the recycling programs in buildings and l Continuation of the recycling program for home stores was communicated (video, e-mail, electric and electronic devices of employees, in distribution of promotional material). ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE buildings (OTE: 552 kg and OTE Group − Employees and the public participated in a COSMOTE: 293 kg). Subsidiaries series of environmental activities organized by 44 employee cultural centers of OTE in various areas of Greece for the 5th consecutive year, such as cleaning beaches, lakes, forests, etc., as well as bike rides, races, tree–planting, collecting and sorting Indexes waste into recyclable and non-recyclable categories for further action. Environment 175 Sustainability Report 2014 6.8.2 cartridges and phone devices implemented in About this Report the OTE, COSMOTE, GERMANOS retail network Public Awareness was intensified. The special importance of An important objective of the OTE and COSMOTE everyone’s contribution to the protection environmental strategy is to increase customers’ of the environment is underlined by both awareness on ways to reduce their own companies on the occasion of the celebration environmental footprint, through their active of the World Environment Day through participation. To this end: targeted communication actions. With a video CR Strategy and l A number of e-services are offered to customers specifically designed for this purpose, the (e.g. OTE Video Conference, OTE Business companies inform the public and employees of Management Cloud, “yourbusiness.gr” service for website the Group on the multiple benefits of recycling, development) that result in reductions in paper and on how a little effort from everyone can consumption, transportation activity, etc. bring about a significant result. The campaign was available on the Facebook and Youtube l Customers are offered the option to buy on– pages of OTE and COSMOTE (facebook.com/ line services and devices, through the internet Marketplace cosmote, facebook.com/ote.gr, www.youtube. e–shops, which are available in OTE and com/cosmote, www.youtube.com/otegr) and COSMOTE corporate websites. on the companies’ official websites. l The implementation of the joint recycling program (started in June 2013) for batteries, ink Recycling Initiatives at OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS Retail Network Home Appliances Batteries – OTE (kg) Employees Home Appliances Batteries COSMOTE & GERMANOS (*10 kg) Ink Cartridges (pieces) Society Environment 6,031 5,450 2,588 1,944 2,955 5,306 4,477 3,893 4,292 3,884 1,524 1,066 1,771 1,246 3,087 2013 2014 OTE Group 2010 2011 2012 Notes Subsidiaries (1) As of 2013, the initiative for ink cartridges recycling concerns OTE, COSMOTE, GERMANOS retail network.. (2) Home batteries collected from customers at OTE, COSMOTE,GERMANOS retail network are included in the category “Technical waste” following reporting arrangements within the DT group. Indexes Environment 176 Sustainability Report 2014 At the same time, OTE and COSMOTE actively l In order to increase schoolchildren awareness About this Report participate in events addressing and enhancing of environmental protection, OTE and environmental responsibility such as: COSMOTE supported, in 2014, educational l The “Podilatodraseis” program (a Bike actions initiatives through the continuation of Program). With the aim to make the bicycle strategic partnerships with two NGOs part of citizens’ daily activities in the city (The Athens Union for the Protection of Forests centers, OTE and COSMOTE systematically and Callisto–Environmental Organization implement (as of 2012) the “Podilatodraseis” for Wildlife and Nature), which are active in CR Strategy and program. It is an innovative program which organizing environmental educational programs for school communities, regarding in particular Management includes development of infrastructure necessary for the advancement of bicycle forest and wild life protection. Additional usage (Bike Parking and Bike Sharing), support to the activities of these NGO was educational activities, and providing support to provided through the common recycling significant bicycle–oriented organizations (Bike program in the OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS Festival). For more information see section retail network, as OTE and COSMOTE donated Marketplace Promoting Sports. to both NGOs €1.000 for every ton of mobile and fixed phone devices (including their Aiming to promote bicycle use among their accessories) collected during the first year of employees, OTE and COSMOTE have shaped the program implementation (7.6 t for the (available since July 2014), a bike parking area period June 2013 – May 2014). at the Central Administration Building for those who wish to commute by bike. Employees Schoolchildren Awareness on Environmental Protection NGO Type of Sponsorship Athens Union for l More than 1,100 adults and 2,200 children participated in the activities organized. The Forests' Protection educational program of Athens Union for Forests’ Protection, which continued from previous years, includes a tour in the Aesthetic Forest of Hymettus as well as sessions Society of creative activities for children. The program aims to familiarize children with nature and the forest and to develop an environmental-friendly attitude. l A number of family – company voluntary programs for reforestation, cleaning of paths and forest roads, maintenance of the Aesthetic Forest were organized. Callisto-Environmental l The educational courses “We and our forest” and “The forest animals go to school” Organization for Wildlife was attended by 17 schools (717 students). and Nature Environment l Seven environmental education workshops entitled “We and our neighborhood. The nature of the city, the nature in the city” took place. l An educational visit/tour in the forest of Sheikh Sou for OTE and COSMOTE employees, with their families, was held on October 2014. Overall, 50 people (parents and children) participated. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 177 Sustainability Report 2014 7.0 ΟΤΕ Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Environment Society Employees Marketplace CR Strategy and About this Report Subsidiaries Management 7.0 OTE Group Subsidiaries About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE Group Corporate Communications Division works on building and implementing the OTE Group CR strategy and framework for all OTE Group companies active in fixed-line and mobile telephony operations, as put forth in the CR Strategy and the CR Governance and Management Structure sections. In this context, OTE Group fixed-line and mobile telephony subsidiaries are tasked with Employees implementing OTE Group-wide CR strategy and goals. They bear responsibility for deciding on their own CR organization structures, developing and performing their local CR activities, and reporting on their performance. OTE Group international operations are focused in Romania and Albania. In Romania, OTE Group offers fixed-line and mobile telephony services mainly through Telekom Romania. Full details on Telekom Romania two operators, Telekom Romania Mobile Communications and Telekom Romania Communications, performance are available Society on their website. In Albania, OTE Group offers mobile telephony services through AMC. Full details on the company’s performance are available on its website. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 179 Sustainability Report 2014 7.1 Romania About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace In 2014, Telekom Romania Communications (formerly Romtelecom) and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications (formerly COSMOTE Romania), the two major telecom operators in Romania, have officially joined forces, under a new and dynamic telecommunications brand, Telekom Romania, offering complete, innovative and customized mobile and fixed communication services to approximately 10 million customers. Through the two operators Telekom Romania The two companies are currently working on the Employees provides a full range of telecommunication preparation of their first joint annual CR Report, to services that include 3G and 4G mobile voice and be published in 2015. mobile data services, traditional fixed telephony, high speed internet and television on multiple CR Strategy and Management technology platforms, including IPTV, as well as Telekom Romania has aligned its CR strategy with cultural and specialized content programs in order that of the OTE Group. Both operators under the to offer a complete entertainment experience. Telekom Romania brand are in contact with OTE Society For business customers, the new brand provides Group Corporate Communications Division to further access to turn-key IT&C solutions, which support streamline actions, facilitate a homogeneous companies to become more competitive. understanding of CR by all OTE Group employees and offer high value services to stakeholders. For this merger, 2,000 people worked on over The companies have identified the following five 100 projects for 68,000 hours – the equivalent of CR pillars: Strategy and Management, Marketplace, Environment 35 years of work – in just 4 months, to complete Human Resources, Society, and Environment. changes involving aspects of marketing, sales, IT, HR and real estate, including a joint website and a Telekom Romania’s objective is to operate in single contact center. a responsible way, to be accountable for the potential impact of their operations and at the Fully integrated products and services, designed same time, to improve its competitiveness and to deliver “best in class” experiences to customers ensure its growth. OTE Group are now offered under the “T” trademark of Telekom Romania. Subsidiaries Corporate Responsibility, from the organizational perspective, is part of the Corporate Communication Besides an integrated customer approach, Telekom Romania Division, which reports directly to the Romania also offers its employees a uniform companies’ CEO. working environment. Thus, more than 500 training sessions have been delivered to the employees – a Employees of both companies have to follow the total of 1,855 training hours – introducing the new Compliance Management System and the Code of Indexes brand, its core values and philosophy of Innovation, Conduct of the OTE Group. Awareness and training Simplicity and Competence, and boosting campaigns regarding the Compliance Management employee commitment in order to deliver on the System components, targeting all employees, promise of the new Telekom Romania brand. OTE Group Subsidiaries 180 Sustainability Report 2014 are deployed on a yearly basis. In 2013, Telekom consideration in its decision making process, within About this Report Romania Communications received a certification the spirit of “business as usual”. Both operating for its Compliance Management System, which was entities hold several management system also acknowledged, within OTE Group, as a “best certifications in the areas of quality, environment, practice” on integrity checking. health and safety, information security etc. Telekom Romania aims to integrate principles of Telekom Romania has identified its group of responsible operation in its management practices, stakeholders and monitors closely their opinion, in order to ensure that they are taken into through internal and external surveys. CR Strategy and Management In recognition of their performance, Telekom Romania and/or the 2 companies that it comprises now received the following four awards in 2014: l Following an evaluation by national and international jury, Telekom Romania has been awarded with the Gold Price at the Romanian PR Awards, 12th edition, in the Corporate Communication Marketplace category, for the corporate communication rebranding campaign (Telekom Romania and V+O Communication). l The Telekom Romania digital campaigns developed with GMP Group received awards at 4 categories at Internetics 2014, the most important digital competition in Romania. The categories are: Mobile Apps (for Hai! application), Mobile Campaigns, Digital Brand Experience and Services (for the Experienţe Împreună digital campaign). Employees l The Telekom Romania Wholesale division, the division responsible for Romanian and foreign telecom players, has been selected for the second consecutive year, as a finalist of the Global Carrier Awards event, the most prestigious telecom carriers event global-wise. l Todor Dimitrovski, the marketing manager of Telekom Romania, has been named by Forbes Romania the best marketing manager in Romania and was interviewed about the principles guiding the success of a marketing professional. Telekom Romania Communications and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications were awarded Society l an “Oskar” mention in the “Capital Weekly” for the project involving the construction of a broadband infrastructure in rural areas, reaching 783 localities with 137,000 households and about 400,000 inhabitants. Environment The key CR performance indicators of Telekom Romania operating entities’ performance in 2014 are presented in the following table. Telekom Romania Telekom Communications Romania Mobile Communications Financial Performance OTE Group Total Revenues (mn €) 609.1 439.4 Subsidiaries Payroll and Employee Benefits (mn €) (97.1) Non Disclosable Total Operating Expenses (mn €) (649.8) (441.7) EBITDA (mn €) 149.2 103.7 Pro forma EBITDA (mn €) 159.9 105.6 Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 181 Sustainability Report 2014 Telekom Romania Telekom About this Report Communications Romania Mobile Communications Marketplace Fixed-line Subscribers 2,180,642 – Mobile Telephony Subscribers – 5,953,517 CR Strategy and Broadband Subscribers 1,232,075 – TV Subscribers 1,414,408 – Management Employees Number of Employees of Indeterminant Term Contracts 5,472 1,018 Percentage of Female Employees (%) 38 55 Marketplace Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (%) 100 0 Employee Turnover as a Percentage of Total Employees (%) 4.11 23.78 Work-related Fatal Accidents (number of employees) 0 0 Work-related Non-fatal Accidents (number of employees) 7 1 Work-related Non-fatal Accidents (lost days)* 610 65 Employees Health and Safety Training (hours/employee) 21.32 8.08 Training Hours (hours/employee) 8.03 10.03 Society Sponsorships – Donations (incl. in-kind) (€) 180,000 61,701 Number of Volunteering Projects 6 6 Society Working Hours Invested to Organize and Run Volunteering Initiatives 240 130 Employee Volunteering (number of employees) 287 178 People Supported (estimated) 296,976 115,974 Environment Environment Electricity Consumption (GWh) 133.04 85.85 District Heating and Fuel Consumption in Buildings and Installations (GWh) 26.57 0.88 Fuel Consumption in Vehicles Fleet (GWh) 38.07 6.98 Direct (scope 1) CO2 Emissions (t) 12,692.24 1,934.82 Indirect (scope 2) CO2 Emissions (t) 66,659.04 41,295.00 OTE Group Hazardous Waste (t) 72.71 65.43 Subsidiaries Non–hazardous Technical Waste from Telecom Operations (t) 7,369.65 5.80 Recycling of Phone Devices (mobile and fixed) and Accessories (t) 12 0.029 Number of Measurements on EMF Conducted by Specialized Scientific – 14 Personnel of the Company and Independent Institutions * Lost days are counted as calendar days. Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 182 Sustainability Report 2014 Marketplace Codes. Conformity to the Codes is a criterion of the About this Report The companies’ objective is to follow a vendor evaluation and selection process. management approach based on the principles Telekom Romania seeks to be the preferred choice of transparency and ethics, while, at the same of customers by cultivating a mutual, sincere and time, to contribute to the responsible operation of trustful relationship with them. For this reason, the marketplaces where they conduct business. it closely monitors its performance on satisfying They focus on the following Marketplace areas: their customers through a series of surveys, which Corporate Governance, Responsible Competition, are carried out via telephone interviews on a CR Strategy and Responsible Marketing, Responsible Procurement, representative sample of the public. Public Awareness, Customer Satisfaction, and Data Management Security and Privacy. Employees The Boards of Directors are responsible for The companies’ objective is to create a workplace making any decision regarding the administration, which is safe, fair and facilitates the professional and management, resource utilization and any other personal development of their employees. They focus on the following Human Resources areas: Marketplace issue, which may assist in achieving the companies’ corporate objectives. The Boards of Directors Health and Safety, Fair Employment, Labor Rights, oversee the organizations’ activities on economic, Employee Development and Employee Benefits. environmental and social performance, including The Telekom Romania group of companies relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or employs 6,493 employees, while through its compliance with internationally agreed standards, business activity it has indirectly contributed to the codes of conduct and principles. creation of a significant number of jobs in Romania, Employees Telekom Romania adheres to the OTE strategy in which is an important part of economic growth. offering information to assure a safer internet for Having as a priority to offer its employees a safe children. In this respect, it runs communication workplace, Telekom Romania focuses on ensuring campaigns for internal and external audiences and suitable work conditions and follows health and participates in events to promote the safer use of safety rules. Hence, it identifies labor risks via internet. In addition, both companies participate documented Occupational Risk Assessments. in the “CEO Coalition to make the internet a better Society These studies allow Telekom Romania to eliminate place for kids”, as members of the Deutsche or to limit the respective risks, by taking suitable Telekom Group and strive to implement protective actions, such as training employees and providing measures for children. appropriate corrective actions. It is worth To ensure that the companies’ communication mentioning that, during the last year, no fatal material is consistent with legal requirements, and only eight non-fatal workrelated accidents Environment appropriate, fair and sincere, accurate and occurred (which resulted in 675 lost days). respecting people’s differentiality, in terms of age, In 2014, 6,656 employees of both companies took gender, race, religion and physical or mental status, part in health and safety trainings, totaling 126,427 the Brand and Communication Division Romania training hours. reviews all advertising messages and campaigns, To create a homogeneous corporate culture, before releasing them to the public. Telekom Romania has established a systematic OTE Group Telekom Romania is the largest group of companies dialogue with its employees through internal Subsidiaries in the Romanian market and, therefore, it can communication processes, utilizing various means, significantly influence the responsibility of their such as the intranet, e-mails, weekly electronic suppliers’ operations. For this reason, it strives to newsletters, SMS messages, informative leaflets deploy CR principles, having aligned the Suppliers’ and posters. In 2014, both companies took part in Codes of Conduct to OTE and COSMOTE guidelines, the “Pulse Survey”, an employee satisfaction survey in the frame of which it expects its partners and that was conducted within the OTE Group. Indexes suppliers to be socially and environmentally sensitive, operate according to respective legislation and internationally agreed regulations, and respect the principles and aspects of their OTE Group Subsidiaries 183 Sustainability Report 2014 Society Environment About this Report Telekom Romania’s objective is to align its business Safeguarding the quality of the environment is success with the prosperity and the quality of a major concern of Telekom Romania. In that life for all citizens in Romania. In this respect, it respect, it strives to minimize the environmental focuses on the following Society relevant areas: impact of its operations and to raise awareness Social Products and Services, Social Contribution, of its employees and fellow citizens on acting Economic Development, Volunteering, Business more responsibly on the issue of environmental Enterprising and Digital Divide. protection. Environment areas of concern and CR Strategy and attention include: Energy Use and Climate Change, Telekom Romania recognizes the need to support Resource Use and Waste Management, Ozone, Management financially social organizations, which support people Water, Environmental Awareness, Biodiversity, EMF, in need, by focusing on education, children’s rights, Visual Impact and Noise. communities’ development and sports. The total spending in 2014 exceeded the amount of €240,000. Telekom Romania’s commitment to protect the environment is also expressed in the company’s Telekom Romania tries to involve its employees, Marketplace environmental policies and is put into action customers, suppliers and business partners in through the development of environmental various initiatives and programs that respond to programs and campaigns, as well as through the the Romanian social needs. Aiming to mobilize application of environmental management systems its employees, increase their awareness of social certified according to ISO 14001. needs and to promote responsible and active citizenship, it cultivates volunteerism through Within this framework, Telekom Romania analyzes various actions, such as planting of trees, sports its main activities and operations with regard Employees events, blood donations and volunteering for to their impact on the environment and tries to children’s hospitals. In 2014, 465 employees improve its environmental performance by setting volunteered for such events. goals, specifying indicators and implementing respective programs. Additionally, it collects The companies also offer support to Romanian various materials for recycling, such as paper, NGOs for fundraising, through the operation of plastic, lubricant oils, IT and telecommunication SMS and telephone lines, where customers equipment, mobile phones, accessories, batteries, Society can text or call to offer monetary support for cables, ink cartridges, etc. In parallel, Telekom humanitarian causes, thus facilitating relief for Romania companies implemented actions to thousands of people in need. encourage stakeholders to reduce, reuse and Telekom Romania, in view of its legal obligations recycle resources. Finally, they have implemented and corporate responsibility, makes all efforts to programs for monitoring the levels of EMF in their Environment ensure its business continuity, so as to be able network, and for reducing the electricity and water to provide services at an acceptable level, even consumption. Telekom Romania is in the process of when facing unanticipated events. To this end, the streamlining its EMF Policy with the DT EMF Policy. companies have implemented Business Continuity Management Systems, certified under the ISO 22301 international standard requirements. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 184 Sustainability Report 2014 7.2 Albania About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE Group operates in Albania through AMC, offering mobile telephony operations. AMC is in the process of developing its annual 2014 CR Report, to be published in 2015. CR Strategy and Management In the course of the year, several occasions have AMC as reflected in its everyday operations abides been used to cascade the CR commitment down to a well-established CR strategy, documented also to individual employee level. Examples include Employees in its CR report. The Corporate Affairs Department the communication campaign about recycling is responsible for issues and programs of the AMC of mobile handsets, the messages to employees Corporate Responsibility effort. It reports to the about saving electricity used by PCs and lighting, CEO, works closely with all other Departments and their involvement in actions to collect and within the company, and participates in OTE and properly dispose trash and waste. DT CR Managers’ Networks. Society The key CR performance indicators of the company’s performance in 2014 are presented in the following table. AMC Financial Performance Total Revenues (mn €) 81.5 Environment Payroll and Employee Benefits (mn €) Non Disclosable Total Operating Expenses (mn €) Non Disclosable EBITDA (mn €) 29.8 Pro forma EBITDA (mn €) 29.8 Marketplace OTE Group Fixed-line Subscribers – Subsidiaries Mobile Telephony Subscribers 2,056,413 Broadband Subscribers – TV Subscribers – Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 185 Sustainability Report 2014 AMC About this Report Employees Number of Employees of Indeterminant Term Contracts 452 Percentage of Female Employees (%) 60% Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (%) 0% Employee Turnover as a Percentage of Total Employees (%) 5% CR Strategy and Work-related Fatal Accidents (number of employees) 0 Management Work-related Non-fatal Accidents (number of employees) 0 Work-related Non-fatal Accidents (lost days)* 0 Health and Safety Training (hours/employee) 3.07 Training Hours (hours/employee) 15.63 Marketplace Society Sponsorships – Donations (incl. in-kind) (€) 110,900 Number of Volunteering Projects 1 Working Hours Invested to Organize and Run Volunteering Initiatives 80 Employee Volunteering (number of employees) 35 Employees People Supported (estimated) 1,000 Environment Electricity Consumption (GWh) 19.43 District Heating and Fuel Consumption in Buildings and Installations (GWh) 7.57 Fuel Consumption in Vehicles Fleet (GWh) 1.27 Direct (scope 1) CO2 Emissions (t) 2,330.15 Society Indirect (scope 2) CO2 Emissions (t) 77.73 Hazardous Waste (t) 29.14 Non–hazardous Technical Waste from Telecom Operations (t) 2.23 Environment Recycling of Phone Devices (mobile and fixed) and Accessories (t) 0 Number of Measurements on EMF Conducted by Specialized Scientific Personnel of the Company 4 and Independent Institutions * Lost days are counted as calendar days. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 186 Sustainability Report 2014 Marketplace attended 1,344 hours of training on various topics, About this Report The company operates according to its ISO 9001 such as emergency preparedness, emergency certified Quality Management System, offering high drills, fire protection, tower climbing and working quality services to its customers. at heights, working with electrical equipment and installments, first aid, store security, and Aiming at a safer digital workplace and online occupational health and safety awareness. experience, in 2014, AMC employees were informed on technical and organizational security Special attention is paid to the sales force. A total of 1,714 training hours have been devoted to CR Strategy and measures to protect data and participated in an internal awareness quiz about data protection. sales employees (170) exclusively. All of them Management have participated in training modules on the tools In the framework of responsible procurement, AMC they use routinely (e.g. the upgraded EPOS, SAP, runs annually the “Supplier Performance Evaluation” SMPOS), on the new offers, products (e.g. Deezer, process, which involves the evaluation of its most Evernote) and services launched during the year important suppliers’ and partners’ quality of goods (e.g. Vitamina – the best AMC package dedicated and services delivered, and their commitment to the to youth), and on how to successfully handle Marketplace protection of the environment, health and safety, promotional activities. and corporate responsibility. This process leads to higher standards of products and services and A number of training hours has been offered to our motivates suppliers to improve their performance partners as well, including the staff of our network and their own corporate governance initiatives. of distributors, our data entry partners and our promotional agencies. The evaluation process, run in 2014, covered Employees 17 OTE Group suppliers and 22 local suppliers. The participation of AMC employees in the 2014 The suppliers had to return a self-assessment Pulse Survey was high and the results on employee sustainability questionnaire. In addition they were satisfaction were again quite positive. evaluated internally by the respective departments requesting/receiving the designated products Society and services. This process was coordinated by the As a socially responsible operator, AMC tries to OTE Group and the results of the evaluation are make technology available to those groups of Society incorporated in the Group’s results and announced society without access to it. AMC is interested in to all Group companies. The results and any identifying and helping marginalized groups and consequent remediation measures to be adopted especially those with particular needs, offering its are then discussed by the Senior Management. technology to fulfill these needs. In 2014, AMC supported the initiative of Down Employees Environment Syndrome Albania Foundation, the first such AMC considers its employees as the core of organization that cares for children with Down the company. In view of that, it provides to its syndrome in Albania. It donated the whole ICT employees training and focused instruction, to infrastructure – and the technical expertise obtain and retain all necessary expertise required needed – for the newly-established center of the to assure quality service. Foundation. It is thanks to this contribution that the A series of training sessions on project specialized workers of this center can consult the OTE Group management, leadership and people management latest world developments and conduct their daily Subsidiaries have been offered to employees. In addition, activities in a manner to better benefit its young focused technical training on issues such as patients. In addition AMC covered all the necessary Cisco network device interconnection, auditing therapeutic treatment needs for the children environment management systems, international hosted by the Center for a 6-month period. security management, tower climbing and In its effort to contribute to improved health rescue procedures, IFRS and National Accounting services to social groups in need, AMC in Indexes standards has been provided. collaboration with the Ministry of Health, Additional training has been provided on health provided to three public health clinics in remote and safety issues. In total, 668 employees areas of North Albania, necessary medical OTE Group Subsidiaries 187 Sustainability Report 2014 equipment and the IT infrastructure to maintain During the last year, AMC re-evaluated the About this Report a fully functional and detailed database of their environmental impact of its activities by patients, affording them the ability to connect in examining environmental impacts under three real time with more specialized hospitals in their different scenarios in normal, abnormal and region in case of emergencies. emergency situations. In this exercise AMC invited representatives from its customers and the Noting that mobile telephone services reduced the community to participate aiming at both ensuring feeling of isolation that elderly often feel, AMC, on transparency and increasing environmental New Year’s Eve, provided the residents of the Tirana CR Strategy and awareness among its major stakeholders. Elderly House and the people who visit frequently Management the Elderly Daily Center in Tirana with free mobile In 2014, AMC supported the “Green Line” headsets together with SIM cards and free talk organization, which during May – June 2014 time to enjoy the benefits of telecommunication. organized a series of environmental awareness meetings with local authorities and inhabitants AMC has also donated a number of office in several areas of the country. The awareness multifunction devices (fax, printer, phone in one) meetings included efforts to collect detritus from Marketplace to various education and cultural institutions. beaches on the coast. AMC’s employees also joined this campaign and participated in collecting waste Environment from the central streets of Durres (Albania’s second Since 2012, AMC has in place an Environmental largest city). Management System (EMS) which is certified according to the ISO 14001:2004 standard. Through this certified EMS, it ensures the Employees capability to follow and document its efforts to keep the environmental impact of its activities under control, to look for ways to address any environmental problems and to systematically search for ways to improve it in a coherent, efficient and sustainable manner. Society The performance of the implemented environmental programs further demonstrates AMC’s achievements in safeguarding the environment. In 2014, AMC introduced two new environmental programs to monitor the consumption of natural resources, i.e. fuel and Environment water, in order to be able to set SMART targets for the following years. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 188 Sustainability Report 2014 8.0 Indexes Indexes OTE Group Environment Society Employees Marketplace CR Strategy and About this Report Subsidiaries Management 8.1 Accountability Principles About this Report CR Strategy and Management Standard AA1000 Index Marketplace Coverage Principle Applied Methods Report Location Level Inclusivity Employees Identification of key CR Stragey Fully stakeholders and dialogue Materiality Analysis to understand key issues Stakeholders Stakeholders Engagement Approach Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue Materiality Society Identification of issues CR Stragey Fully which are important to Materiality Analysis the company and its stakeholders Stakeholders Stakeholders Engagement Approach Environment Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue Responsiveness Responsiveness to key CR Stragey Fully issues and transparency Materiality Analysis on performance OTE Group Stakeholders Subsidiaries Stakeholders Engagement Approach Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue Indexes Indexes 190 Sustainability Report 2014 8.2 United Nations Global About this Report CR Strategy and Management Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) Marketplace Employees “In 2015, Climate Change along with the post-2015 Agenda for the UN Millennium Development Goals are critical for the global effort regarding sustainable development. OTE Group driven by the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact, contributes to the challenge and invites all its stakeholders to follow suit”. Michael Tsamaz Chairman and CEO of OTE Group Society Since 2008, both OTE and COSMOTE support the UN Global Compact, the largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative in the world, and abide by its ten universal values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Environment The 2014 Sustainability Report of OTE and COSMOTE includes a detailed presentation of the Companies’ priorities, activities, goals and outcomes, structured in a four pillar approach, concerning the employees, the market, the environment, and the society. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 191 Sustainability Report 2014 UN Global Compact 10 Principles: actions recorded in 2014 Sustainability Report About this Report Coverage Issue Principle Report Location Level Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection CR Strategy Full of internationally proclaimed Compliance Management System CR Strategy and human rights and Policies Fair Employment Policy Framework Management 2. Ensure not to be complicit in CR Strategy Full human rights abuses Compliance Management System and Policies Procurement Policy Marketplace Suppliers Selection Suppliers Evaluation Classification and Development of Suppliers Fair Employment Policy Framework Labour Standards Employees 3. Uphold freedom of association CR Strategy Full and effective recognition of right Suppliers Selection to collective bargaining Suppliers Evaluation Fair Employment Policy Framework Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements Society 4. Elimination of all forms of CR Strategy Full forced and compulsory labour Suppliers Selection Suppliers Evaluation Fair Employment Policy Framework Freedom of Association and Collective Labour Agreements Environment 5. Effective abolition of child labour CR Strategy Full Suppliers Selection Fair Employment Policy Framework 6. Elimination of discrimination in Non-discrimination, Equal Full employment and occupation Opportunities and Diversity OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 192 Sustainability Report 2014 Coverage Issue Principle Report Location About this Report Level Environment 7. Support a precautionary Environmental Policy Full approach to environmental Greenhouse Gases and challenges Other Gas Emissions Improving Energy Efficiency and CR Strategy and Emissions Reduction Resource Use and Waste Management Management Electromagnetic Fields Other Environmental Aspects 8. Undertake initiatives to Environmental Strategy Full promote greater environmental Telecommunications for the responsibility Marketplace Environment Greenhouse Gases and Other Gas Emissions Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction Resource Use and Waste Management Environmental Awareness Employees Initiatives 9. Encourage development and Responsible Products and Services Full diffusion of environmentally Telecommunications for the friendly technologies Environment Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction Anti-Corruption 10. Work against corruption in all Compliance Management System Full Society its forms including extortion and Policies and bribery Contribute to broader development goals Environment Expanding Broadband and Mobile Full Internet in Greece Internet Safety and Public Awareness Responsible Products and Services OTE Group Society (whole section) Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 193 Sustainability Report 2014 8.3 Global Reporting Initiative About this Report CR Strategy and Management G3.1 Index Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE Sustainability Report is based on the requirements defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). GRI has confirmed that the 2014 Sustainability Report of OTE and Employees Cosmote has been compiled in accordance with the guidelines of GRI G3.1 A+ application level. Additional indicators that we have taken into account in the Sustainability Report 2014, but whose coverage fulfillment is not compulsory for level A+, are printed in grey. Society 8.3.1 Profile GRI Summary Description Status Notes Environment Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Most senior decision-maker F Message from the Chairman and CEO statement 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities F Message from the Chairman and CEO CR Strategy OTE Group CR Governance and Management Structure Subsidiaries Compliance Management System and Policies Enterprise Risk and Insurance Management System Materiality Analysis 2014 CR Performance 2014 and 2015 Goals Environmental Policy Telecommunications for the Environment Indexes Greenhouse Gases and Other Gas Emissions Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 194 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report Organization Profile 2.1 Name of organization Π Report Profile 2.2 Brands, products and/or services Π OTE and COSMOTE 2.3 Operational structure of Π OTE Group organization 2.4 Headquarters location CR Strategy and Management Π Report Profile 2.5 Countries of operation Π OTE Group 2.6 Ownership and legal form Π OTE Group OTE and COSMOTE Marketplace 2.7 Markets served Π OTE Group 2014 CR Performance 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Π Report Profile OTE Group OTE and COSMOTE Employees 2014 CR Performance 2.9 Significant changes in reporting Π OTE Group period 2.10 Awards received in reporting period Π Awards Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 195 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Π Report Profile 3.2 Date of most recent report Π Report Profile 3.3 Reporting cycle Π Report Profile CR Strategy and 3.4 Contact point about the Report Π Report Profile Management 3.5 Process for defining Report content Π Report Profile CR Strategy Materiality Analysis 3.6 Boundary of the Report Π Report Profile Marketplace 3.7 Limitations on boundary or Π Report Profile scope of Report 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries Π Report Profile and outsourcing 3.9 Data measurement techniques Π Report Profile Employees 3. 0 Effects and reasons of Π Report Profile restated information 3.11 Significant changes in Report scope, Π Report Profile boundary, methods 3.12 GRI Content Index Π Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Index 3.13 External assurance policy Π Independent Assurance Report Society Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 196 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure F CR Governance and Management Structure Corporate Governance 4.2 Whether BoD Chair is also CEO F Corporate Governance CR Strategy and 4.3 Defining independent F Corporate Governance Board members Management 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders F Employees have the opportunity to raise issues of and employees to communicate concern to them, in an official dialogue with the Board, with the Board through the official representatives of the employees. Non-discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Marketplace 4.5 Linkage between executive F Corporate Governance compensation and organization Performance Evaluation and Management performance 4.6 Board processes to prevent F Corporate Governance conflicts of interest Performance Evaluation and Management 4.7 Procedures for determining F Corporate Governance Employees Board members expertise https://www.ote.gr/web/guest/corporate/ir/corporategovernance/board-of-directors 4.8 Internal statements of mission, F CR Strategy codes and principles Compliance Management System and Policies Strategy for Society Environmental Strategy 4.9 Board governance of F CR Governance and Management Structure Society sustainability performance Corporate Governance 4.10 Evaluation of Board’s F Corporate Governance sustainability performance Environment 4.11 Precautionary approach F CR Strategy CR Governance and Management Structure Compliance Management System and Policies Enterprise Risk and Insurance Management System Health and Safety Policy Environmental Policy OTE Group Greenhouse Gases and Other Gas Emissions Subsidiaries Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction Resource Use and Waste Management Electromagnetic Fields 4.12 External charters, F CR Strategy codes and principles Memberships 4.13 Memberships in associations F Memberships Indexes and advocacy bodies Advocacy for a Responsible Marketplace Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 197 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged F Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Approach Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue 4.15 Stakeholder identification and F Stakeholders CR Strategy and selection for engagement Stakeholder Engagement Approach Management Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder F Materiality Analysis engagement Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Approach Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue Marketplace Customer Surveys Employee Satisfaction 4.17 Topics and concerns raised by F Stakeholder Engagement Approach stakeholders Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 198 Sustainability Report 2014 8.3.2 About this Report Economic Performance Indicators Summary Description Status Notes ECONOMIC Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and Economic performance F OTE and COSMOTE 2014 CR Performance Management Strategy for the Marketplace Business Continuity Management Strategy for the Society Market presence F OTE and COSMOTE Marketplace 2014 CR Performance Strategy for the Marketplace Business Continuity Management Indirect economic impacts F OTE and COSMOTE CR Strategy Employees 2014 CR Performance Strategy for the Marketplace Business Continuity Management Strategy for the Society Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 199 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report ECONOMIC Disclosures on Management Approach EC1 Direct economic value generated F OTE and COSMOTE and distributed Strategy for the Society CR Strategy and EC2 Financial implications due to F Responsible Products and Services climate change Telecommunications for the Environment Management Greenhouse Gases and Other Gas Emissions EC3 Coverage of organization’s defined F Employee Benefits benefit plan See also Provisions for Pensions, Allowances and Other Employee Benefits in the Annual Financial Report 2014 OTE Marketplace EC4 Government financial assistance F OTE and COSMOTE EC5 Entry level wage compared to F Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity minimum wage EC6 Locally based suppliers F Procurement Policy EC7 Local hiring Employees F Human Resources EC8 Infrastructure investments and F Expanding Broadband and Mobile Internet in Greece services benefiting the public Responsible Products and Services Strategy for Society Telecommunications For the Environment Biodiversity Society Electromagnetic Fields EC9 Indirect economic impacts F Enterprise Risk and Insurance Management System Expanding Broadband and Mobile Internet in Greece Responsible Products and Services Strategy for Society Environment Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 200 Sustainability Report 2014 8.3.3 About this Report Environmental Performance Indicators Summary Description Status Notes ENVIRONMENTAL Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and Materials F Environmental Strategy Resource Use and Waste Management Management Energy F Environmental Strategy Improving Energy Efficiency and Reducing Emissions Water F Environmental Strategy Marketplace Water Consumption Biodiversity F Environmental Strategy Biodiversity Emissions, effluents and waste F Environmental Strategy Greenhouse Gases and Other Gas Emissions Employees Resource Use and Waste Management Ozone Water Consumption Products and services F Environmental Strategy Greenhouse Gases and Other Gas Emissions Resource Use and Waste Management Society Electromagnetic Fields Other Environmental Aspects Compliance F Environmental Strategy Electromagnetic Fields Transport Environment F Environmental Strategy Greenhouse Gases and Other Gas Emissions Energy Consumption Energy Conservation Overall F Environmental Strategy Electromagnetic Fields Index Key: F = Fully OTE Group Subsidiaries P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes Indexes 201 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report ENVIRONMENTAL Disclosures on Management Approach EN1 Volume of materials used F Waste Generated Waste Management EN2 Recycled materials CR Strategy and F Waste Management EN3 Direct primary energy consumption Management F Energy Consumption EN4 Indirect primary energy F Energy Consumption consumption EN5 Energy conservation F Energy Conservation Marketplace EN6 Initiatives for energy efficiency and F Telecommunications For the Environment renewables Renewable Energy Sources Energy Conservation EN7 Initiatives for reducing indirect F Other Indirect GHG Emissions energy consumption Energy Conservation Employees Waste Management EN8 Total water withdrawal F Water Consumption EN9 Effect of water withdrawal F Water Consumption EN10 Water recycled and reused F Water Consumption EN11 Land assets in or adjacent to F Biodiversity Society protected areas EN12 Impacts on biodiversity F Biodiversity Following by design the Precautionary Principle Monitoring the Levels of EMF Radiation Environment EN13 Habitats protected or restored Π Biodiversity EN14 Strategy for biodiversity Π Biodiversity EN15 Endangered species Π Biodiversity EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions Π Direct GHG and Non-GHG Emissions Indirect GHG Emissions from Electricity and District OTE Group Heating EN17 Other greenhouse gas emissions Π Other Indirect GHG Emissions Subsidiaries EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Π Renewable Energy Sources gas emissions Energy Conservation Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes Indexes 202 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report ENVIRONMENTAL Disclosures on Management Approach EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting F Ozone substances EN20 NOx SOx and other air emissions F Direct GHG and Non-GHG Emission EN21 Water discharge F Water Consumption CR Strategy and EN22 Waste by type and disposal method F Waste Generated Management Waste Management EN23 Significant spills F Waste Management Marketplace Water Consumption EN24 Waste deemed hazardous under F Waste Management Basel Convention EN25 Impacts of discharge and runoff F Water Consumption on biodiversity EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Employees F Renewable Energy Sources environmental impacts Energy Conservation Waste Management Electromagnetic Fields Ozone Water Consumption Biodiversity Noise Society Visual Impact EN27 Packaging materials F Waste Management EN28 Non-compliance with F Key Achievements in 2014 Environment environmental regulations EN29 Environmental impacts of transport F Direct GHG and Non-GHG Emission Other Indirect GHG Emissions Energy Consumption Energy Conservation in Transport OTE Group EN30 Environmental protection F Key Achievements in 2014 expenditures Subsidiaries Following by design the Precautionary Principle Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes Indexes 203 Sustainability Report 2014 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators Summary Description Status Notes SOCIAL: Labour Practices Disclosures on Management Approach Employment CR Strategy and F Human Resources Strategy Human Resources Management Employee Benefits Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Labor/Management relations F Human Resources Strategy Freedom of Association and Collective Labour Marketplace Agreements Occupational health and safety F Human Resources Strategy Health and Safety Policy Health and Safety Performance in 2014 Health and Safety Prevention and Awareness Training and education Employees F Human Resources Strategy Employee Development Employee Education Diversity and equal opportunity F Human Resources Strategy Human Resources Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Equal remuneration for men and women F Human Resources Strategy Society Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 204 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report SOCIAL: Labour Practices Disclosures on Management Approach LA1 Workforce by employment type, F Human Resources region, gender LA2 Employee turnover F Human Resources CR Strategy and LA3 Benefits for full time employees F Employee Benefits Management LA4 Coverage of collective F Freedom of Association and Collective Labour bargaining agreements Agreements LA5 Minimum notice periods on F Fair Employment Policy Framework operational changes Marketplace LA6 Workforce represented in joint F Health and Safety Policy H&S Committees LA7 Occupational diseases, lost days F Health and Safety Performance in 2014 and fatalities LA8 Training on serious diseases F Health and Safety Prevention and Awareness Employees LA9 Trade union agreements on F Health and Safety Policy Health and Safety LA10 Training per employee by gender F Performance Evaluation and Management and category Employee Selection Employee Education LA11 Programs for lifelong learning F Performance Evaluation and Management Society Employees Education See also Provisions for Pensions, Allowances and Other Employee Benefits in the Annual Financial Report 2014 OTE LA12 Performance and development F Employee Development reviews by gender Environment Performance Evaluation and Management LA13 Governance bodies by diversity F Human Resources criteria Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Minority groups are not considered a material issue for OTE and COSMOTE operations in Greece LA14 Basic remuneration ratio by gender F Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity LA15 Parental leave return and retention F Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity OTE Group Subsidiaries rates by gender Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes Indexes 205 Sustainability Report 2014 Summary Description Status Notes About this Report SOCIAL: Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Investment and procurement practices F Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management Procurement Policy Suppliers Selection CR Strategy and Suppliers Evaluation Management Classification and Development of Suppliers Non-discrimination F CR Strategy Human Resources Strategy Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Freedom of association and Marketplace F CR Strategy collective bargaining Suppliers Selection Suppliers Evaluation Human Resources Strategy Fair Employment Policy Framework Freedom of Association and Collective Labour Employees Agreements Child labour F Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management Procurement Policy Suppliers Selection Suppliers Evaluation Human Resources Strategy Society Fair Employment Policy Framework Prevention of forced and compulsory labor F CR Strategy Suppliers Selection Suppliers Evaluation Human Resources Strategy Environment Fair Employment Policy Framework Freedom of Association and Collective Labour Agreements Security practices F Data Security and Privacy Indigenous rights Not Not Relevant Assessment F Compliance Management System and Policies OTE Group Fair Employment Policy Framework Subsidiaries Suppliers Evaluation Classification and Development of Suppliers Remediation F Fair Employment Policy Framework Indexes Suppliers Evaluation Classification and Development of Suppliers Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 206 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report SOCIAL: Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach HR1 Investment agreements and human F Compliance Management System and Policies rights screening Procurement Policy Suppliers Selection CR Strategy and Suppliers Evaluation Classification and Development of Suppliers Management The P.D. 178/2002 on employees’ right protection is taken into consideration in significant investment agreements HR2 Supplier screening on human rights F Compliance Management System and Policies Procurement Policy Marketplace Suppliers Selection Suppliers Evaluation HR3 Employee training on human rights F Compliance Management System and Policies Data Security and Privacy Internal Communication HR4 Incidents of discrimination F Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Employees HR5 Freedom of association and F Suppliers Selection collective bargaining Suppliers Evaluation Fair Employment Policy Framework Freedom of Association and Collective Labour Agreements HR6 Child labour in operations and F Procurement Policy Society supply chain Suppliers Selection Suppliers Evaluation Fair Employment Policy Framework HR7 Forced labor in operations F Suppliers Selection and supply chain Suppliers Evaluation Environment Fair Employment Policy Framework Freedom of Association and Collective Labour Agreements HR8 Human rights training of F Data Security and Privacy security personnel HR9 Human rights of indigenous people OTE Group Not Not relevant Subsidiaries HR10 Human rights reviews or risk F Materiality Analysis assessments Compliance Management System and Policies Suppliers Evaluation Classification and Development of Suppliers Fair Employment Policy Framework HR11 Grievances filed on human rights Indexes F Suppliers Evaluation issues Classification and Development of Suppliers Fair Employment Policy Framework Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 207 Sustainability Report 2014 Summary Description Status Notes About this Report SOCIAL: Society Disclosure on Management Approach Local Communities F Strategy for Society Contribution to Local Communities Well-Being and Sustainability CR Strategy and Electromagnetic Fields Management Corruption F Compliance Management System and Policies Public Policy F CR Strategy Compliance Management System and Policies Strategy for the Marketplace Marketplace Advocacy for a Responsible Marketplace Anti-competitive behavior F Competition and Regulation Advocacy for a Responsible Marketplace Compliance F Compliance Management System and Policies Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 208 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report SOCIAL: Society Disclosure on Management Approach SO1 Local communities engagement F Stakeholder Engagement Approach and impact programs Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue Health and Safety Policy CR Strategy and Strategy for Society Management Contribution to Local Communities Well-being and Sustainability Biodiversity Electromagnetic Fields SO2 Coverage of corruption risk F Compliance Management System and Policies assessments Marketplace SO3 % of employees receiving F Compliance Management System and Policies anti-corruption training SO4 Incidents of corruption and F Compliance Management System and Policies actions taken SO5 Public policy and lobbying positions Employees F Advocacy for a Responsible Marketplace SO6 Political donations and contributions F Compliance Management System and Policies SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive F Competition and Regulation conduct SO8 Fines and sanctions for regulatory F Competition and Regulation non-compliance Society Responsible Marketing Practices Equipment Safety Labelling Data Security and Privacy SO9 Negative impacts on local F Contribution to Local Communities Well-being and communities Sustainability Environment Biodiversity Electromagnetic Fields SO10 Prevention and mitigation of F Contribution to Local Communities Well-being and negative impacts Sustainability Biodiversity Electromagnetic Fields OTE Group Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 209 Sustainability Report 2014 Summary Description Status Notes About this Report SOCIAL: Product Responsibility Disclosures on Management Approach Customer Health and Safety F Strategy for the Marketplace Equipment Safety Labelling Resource Use and Waste Management CR Strategy and Electromagnetic Fields Management Product and service labeling F Strategy for the Marketplace Equipment Safety Labelling Electromagnetic Fields Marketing communications F Strategy for the Marketplace Marketplace Responsible Marketing Practices Equipment Safety Labelling Customer privacy F Strategy for the Marketplace Data Security and Privacy Compliance F Strategy for the Marketplace Employees Responsible Marketing Practices Equipment Safety Labelling Data Security and Privacy Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 210 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Summary Description Status Notes About this Report SOCIAL: Product Responsibility Disclosures on Management Approach PR1 Health and Safety impacts in F Equipment Safety Labelling products life cycles Resource Use and Waste Management Electromagnetic Fields CR Strategy and PR2 Non-compliance with H&S F Equipment Safety Labelling regulations for products Management Resource Use and Waste Management Electromagnetic Fields PR3 Product information F Equipment Safety Labelling Electromagnetic Fields Marketplace PR4 Non-compliance with product F Equipment Safety Labelling information standards PR5 Customer satisfaction F Complaints Management Customer Surveys PR6 Marketing standards F Responsible Marketing Practices Employees Equipment Safety Labelling PR7 Non-compliance with F Responsible Marketing Practices marketing standards Equipment Safety Labelling PR8 Complaints regarding customer F Data Security and Privacy data security Society PR9 Fines for non-compliance with F Responsible Marketing Practices product regulations Equipment Safety Labelling Data Security and Privacy Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 211 Sustainability Report 2014 8.4 Independent Assurance About this Report CR Strategy and Management Report Marketplace Independent assurance statement by Deloitte Hadjipavlou Sofianos & Cambanis S.A. (‘Deloitte’) to the management of Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. (‘OTE’) and COSMOTE Mobile Telecommunications S.A. (‘COSMOTE’) on the 2014 common Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2014. Scope of our work and the assurance standards we used Employees The Corporate Responsibility team of OTE and COSMOTE engaged us to: 1. Provide Type 2 moderate (limited) assurance in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (‘AA1000AS’): – Inclusivity – how they identified and engaged with stakeholders to gain a full understanding of issues; Society – Materiality – how they assessed the relative importance of each issue; and – Responsiveness – how they responded to stakeholder issues and how this is reflected in the common Sustainability Report 2. Provide limited assurance on the following selected key performance data : – ΑNumber of complaints received from customers (fixed and mobile), Complaints Management. Environment – Percentage of complaints received from customers, that were resolved within 2 days, Complaints Management. – Loyalty index (TRIM ), Customer Surveys. – Suppliers evaluated on the basis of sustainability criteria (% of the procurement volume), Suppliers Evaluation. OTE Group – Number of students supported in the framework of OTECOSMOTE Scholarships Program and total Subsidiaries value of the financial support (€), Supporting Education. – Corporate Responsibility expenditure for 2014 to support education, vulnerable social groups and children, Strategy for Society. – Number of corporate employee volunteering activities, Employee Volunteering. – Number of employees (FTE 31/12), Human Resources. – Work-related non-fatal accidents (number of employees and lost days), Health and Safety Indexes Performance in 2014. Indexes 212 Sustainability Report 2014 – Work-related fatal accidents (number of employees), Health and Safety Performance in 2014. About this Report – Percentage of male and female employees, Human Resources. – Percentage of the employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (%), Fair Employment Policy Framework. – Average number of training hours per employee and total number of the employees participated in training, Employee Training. – Number of training hours per employee for health and safety issues, Prevention, Training and CR Strategy and Awareness of Health and Safety Issues. Management – Number of complaints regarding discrimination that required corrective actions, Non Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity. – Employee turnover (departures) as a percentage of the total number of employees, Human Resources. – Electricity consumption (GWH), Energy consumption. – Fuel consumption in buildings and installations (GWH), Energy consumption. Marketplace – Fuel consumption for vehicles fleet (GWH), Energy consumption. – Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions (t CO2 eq), Direct GHG and non-GHG emissions. – Indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions (t CO2 eq), Indirect GHG emissions from Energy. – Hazardous waste (lead batteries and lubricant oils) (t), Hazardous Waste. Employees – Recycling of non-hazardous technical waste from telecom operations (metals & cables and electrical & electronic equipment) (t), Technical Waste. – Recycling of phone devices (mobile & fixed) and accessories (t), Technical Waste. – Number of measurements on EMF conducted by specialized scientific personnel of COSMOTE and independent institutions, Monitoring the levels of EMF radiation. Our scope of work was limited to OTE’s and COSMOTE’s activities in Greece. We carried out a Type 2 moderate (i.e. limited) assurance in accordance with AA1000AS. A Type 2 engagement requires us to report on the Society nature and extent of adherence to AA1000 APS. To achieve moderate-level assurance we have used the criteria in AA1000AS to evaluate adherence to AA1000APS in combination with our robust evidence-based and quality-assured approach to professional and independent assurance. We carried out limited assurance on the selected key performance indicators in accordance with the Environment International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). To achieve limited assurance, the ISAE 3000 requires that we review the processes, systems and competencies used to compile the areas on which we provide assurance. This is designed to give a similar level of assurance to that obtained in the review of interim financial information. It does not include detailed testing of source data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls. Our key assurance procedures To form our conclusions, we undertook the following procedures: OTE Group l Analysed and tested on a sample basis the processes related to stakeholder identification and Subsidiaries engagement, including review of a sample of engagements and the outcomes of engagement. l Reviewed the process that OTE and COSMOTE used to identify and determine material issues to be included within the common Sustainability Report. This included a review of external media coverage and peer reporting on Corporate Responsibility in 2014 to corroborate issues identified by OTE and COSMOTE. l Interviewed a selection of OTE and COSMOTE executives and senior management who have operational Indexes responsibility for Corporate Responsibility issues, including the OTE and COSMOTE Corporate Responsibility team, to understand the governance structures used for managing Corporate Responsibility, the Indexes 213 Sustainability Report 2014 engagement with stakeholders on Corporate Responsibility issues, as well as the implementation of About this Report Corporate Responsibility related policies and initiatives in 2014 and the monitoring of these activities. l Analysed and reviewed on a sample basis the key structures, systems, processes, procedures and controls relating to the collation, aggregation, validation and reporting processes of the selected Corporate Responsibility performance indicators. l Reviewed information and explanations about the Sustainability Report’s assertions regarding Corporate Responsibility performance in 2014; and CR Strategy and l Reviewed the content of the common Sustainability Report against the findings of the aforementioned procedures and, as necessary, provided recommendations for improvement. Our independence and competencies in providing assurance to OTE and COSMOTE Management l We complied with independence rules and policies, which are in conformity with the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants promulgated by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA). These policies preclude us from taking financial, commercial, governance and Marketplace ownership positions which might affect, or be perceived to affect, our independence and impartiality, and from any involvement in the preparation of the report. We have confirmed to OTE and COSMOTE that we have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year and in particular that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair our independence and objectivity. l Our team consisted of a combination of qualified Accountants with professional assurance qualifications and professionals with a combination of environmental, Corporate Responsibility and stakeholder Employees engagement experience, including many years’ experience in providing Corporate Responsibility report assurance. Roles and responsibilities The Corporate Responsibility team of OTE and COSMOTE has prepared the common Sustainability Report for the intended audience of stakeholders, as outlined in the “Stakeholders” section. The team, who collect and organize the Sustainability Report data, is also responsible for the preparation of the common Sustainability Society Report and for the information and statements contained therein. The Executive Directors are responsible for approving the common Sustainability Report data, determining the Corporate Responsibility targets and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived. Our responsibility is to independently express conclusions on the subject matters, as defined within the scope of work above, and in accordance with our letter of engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we Environment might state to OTE and COSMOTE those matters we are required to state to them in this statement and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than OTE and COSMOTE for our work, for this statement, or for the conclusions we have formed. Our observations and recommendations OTE and COSMOTE have made the following key improvements in managing and reporting their Corporate OTE Group Responsibility performance during 2014: Subsidiaries l Developed a common Policy on Corporate Responsibility, which specifies the areas affected by the requirements of Corporate Responsibility and how Corporate Responsibility performance is assessed. l Developed a Social Charter, which sets the rules to be followed by the entire Group on human rights, sustainable development and environmental protection, equal opportunities, health and safety and employees’ rights. Indexes l Upgraded their communication with stakeholders through the interactive display of the Sustainability Report on the internet. Indexes 214 Sustainability Report 2014 To improve future management and reporting of Corporate Responsibility in accordance with AA1000APS we About this Report make the following recommendations to OTE and COSMOTE: Inclusivity: l OTE and COSMOTE Management are engaged in a process of dialogue with the stakeholders for the development of an integrated and consistent Corporate Responsibility related strategy. Incorporating gradually the dialogue process in the policies and procedures followed by OTE and COSMOTE, would promote a more structured engagement approach with the stakeholders. CR Strategy and Materiality: OTE and COSMOTE have established a process for determining materiality, which is applied across the Management l organization on an ongoing basis. The evaluation of material issues, also taking into consideration the targets set by the new Group Policy on Corporate Responsibility, would lead to a more complete understanding and better prioritization of the material Corporate Responsibility issues. Responsiveness: Marketplace l OTE and COSMOTE have established a process for responding to the issues which are of concern to their stakeholders. The evaluation of the responsiveness to the important material issues, would assist in enhancing the response of OTE and COSMOTE to the needs and expectations of their stakeholders. The observations and recommendations have been taken into account in forming our conclusions on the common Sustainability Report, as set out in this statement. Our conclusions Employees Based on the scope of our work and the assurance procedures we performed we conclude that: 1. OTE and COSMOTE have implemented the methods described in the “Accountability Principles Standard AA1000 Index”, that adhere with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as set out in the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 (‘AA1000APS’); and 2. Based on the assurance work we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the specific Corporate Responsibility performance indicators defined above, are materially misstated. In the event of any inconsistency in translation between the Greek and English versions of the common Society Sustainability Report, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the Greek version prevails. Athens, 25 May 2015 Environment Paris Efthymiades Partner Deloitte Hadjipavlou Sofianos & Cambanis S.A. Assurance & Advisory Services OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 215 Sustainability Report 2014 Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. COSMOTE – Mobile Telecommunications S.A. 99, Kifissias Ave., 151 24 Maroussi, Athens, Greece www.ote.gr, www.cosmote.gr
