Progress: Responding to Global Challenges 2014 Citi Global Citizenship Report Citi’s mission is to serve as a trusted partner to our clients by responsibly providing financial services that enable growth and economic progress. Our core activities are safeguarding assets, lending money, making payments and accessing the capital markets on behalf of our clients. We have 200 years of experience helping our clients meet the world’s toughest challenges and embrace its greatest opportunities. We are Citi, the global bank — an institution connecting millions of people across hundreds of countries and cities. Citicorp Net Revenues Citigroup Net Revenues Citigroup Net Income Total Revenue: $71.0 billion* $76.4B $76.9B $13.7B $69.2B 15% 23% $7.5B $7.3B 19% By Region 45% By Business 53% 24% 21% North America 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Global Consumer Banking Asia ICG Banking Latin America Europe, Middle East and Africa ICG Markets and Securities Services 2 * Results exclude Corporate/Other Progress This report provides an overview of Citi’s strategic citizenship policies, programs and the work we have done in the last year to empower cities, economies, people and sustainable growth. Citi Invests Citi Partners Citi Acts Through our core We partner with Our values are business activities and clients, governments, exemplified in our philanthropic efforts, NGOs and community actions and how we we lend, facilitate and groups to inform our put our resources to invest in products, citizenship efforts and work. At all times, services and projects bring to life ideas and we strive to earn, that enable economic actions that serve deserve and maintain progress real needs in the most the public’s trust and effective ways possible produce the best outcomes for clients, employees, partners and communities 3 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFOMANCE Progress 05 Views on Citizenship from CEO Mike Corbat About This Report We report annually on our citizenship performance. This report covers our 06 Economies fiscal year 2014, which coincides with the calendar year. In addition to our 2014 performance, we highlight our progress over time, including both global and 20 Cities regional data where possible. All reporting and performance data is limited to information on the owned and 29 Sustainable Growth operated facilities of Citigroup Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. This reporting supplements information published in our 2014 Annual Report. 45 People For more information on the citizenship initiatives described here and how Citi responds to global challenges around the world, please visit www.citigroup.com/ 57 Integrity citi/about/global_citizenship.html or contact: Elizabeth Patella 72 V  iews from Brandee McHale, Global Public Affairs President of the Citi Foundation Citigroup Inc. 399 Park Avenue New York, NY 10022 citizenship@citi.com 73 Performance Summary 4 Views on Citizenship from CEO Mike Corbat How does Citizenship work connect to What are you seeing in the communities and Citi’s business? cities in which Citi operates? Citi’s mission is to enable progress. Through our We are living during a period of unprecedented core business practices and philanthropic work, we urban growth, and the challenges facing are privileged to serve people in more than 100 cities and the people living in them cannot be countries and jurisdictions, as provider, partner, underestimated. Access to financing, innovation employer and neighbor. and new partnerships are needed now more than ever, and Citi is well positioned to help finance and Our citizenship approach has three key elements: scale solutions with impact. Invest, Partner and Act. We work with companies, governments and institutions of all shapes, sizes, One of the most pressing issues we see globally scale and scope to lend, facilitate and invest in is the widening wealth gap exemplified by tens of products and services that power the global millions of unemployed young people around the economy. world. In 2014, we launched Pathways to Progress, a three-year $50 million commitment designed We recognize that we don’t have all the answers to jump-start the career readiness of 100,000 and that collaboration is essential. We partner low-income youth in 10 U.S. cities. Benefiting with a variety of companies, nonprofits, NGOs and nearly 25,000 youth in its first year, the program governments to drive innovation, expand access is helping young adults set educational and to financial education and opportunity, support career goals, develop the necessary skills for a urban growth and inclusive communities and 21st-century economy, and contribute to the future foster economic growth. economic competitiveness of our cities and our We understand that without trust, we cannot country. succeed. We strive to act with integrity and to meet and exceed our responsibilities in all that we What does it mean to be a good do. When we don’t, we hold ourselves accountable. corporate citizen? At Citi, it starts and ends with trust. Without the Why is Citi focused on its Citizenship efforts trust of the people and communities we serve, during a time of challenge for the industry and we simply cannot do our jobs. People trust Citi transition within the company? with their money and that trust is the necessary 2014 was an important chapter in our story of foundation of our business. In return, we work transformation across the firm. By any measure with our employees to meet and exceed the Citi has become simpler, smaller, safer and highest standards of ethical behavior at all times. “Given the pace and scale of global stronger since the financial crisis. We have Banks are still recovering from the loss of trust challenges and opportunities, from returned to our roots and are focused on providing resulting from the financial crisis. Over the last banking services to consumers and institutions providing access to basic banking year we focused on strengthening our culture with an emphasis on reliable execution and of trust with stakeholders by building a globally services for the two billion people strong ethics. Given the pace and scale of global consistent approach to ethics training and setting who lack it, to training the workforce challenges and opportunities, from providing global standards for suitability and sales practices. access to basic banking services for the two billion of tomorrow, Citi has a unique We combine that trust with a deep commitment people who lack it, to training the workforce of to the communities we serve beyond our business capacity to support economic tomorrow, Citi has a unique capacity to support economic progress in the communities where activities. That commitment comes to life in the progress in the communities where leadership role we play in tackling entrenched we operate around the world. These efforts are economic, social and environmental challenges we operate around the world.” critical to our business strategy. facing cities and communities around the world. 5 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 Progress: Economies Banks are necessary to help people safeguard their cash, deposit paychecks and pay bills. But the modern financial system facilitates economic progress in many other ways. As a global financial institution through our core business Citi’s efforts to enable economic progress are broad and activities, we provide financial support and services to diverse, but a core element of all our work is partnership with governments, companies and institutions of all shapes, sizes, local market participants who can help inform our thinking, scale and scope. In 2013 alone, Citi underwrote more than business activities and community efforts. We combine what $100 billion for projects ranging from schools to water mains they know about their respective markets and community to highways. Citi also supports the foundation of local econoneeds with our experience, scale and expertise to figure mies­­­—consumers and small businesses. In fact, in 2014 we lent out the best and most efficient way to advance economic $9.2 billion to small business in the United States, more than progress. doubling the support we provided five years ago. Citi is committed to the communities we serve beyond our business activities, providing the tools, platforms and technologies that expand financial inclusion and empower the workforce of tomorrow. We recognize there are few issues more pressing than economic inequality, and we are doing our part to help more people participate in the economic growth happening around the world. 7 In Conversation: Bob Annibale, Global Director, Citi Inclusive Finance and Community Development, and Elizabeth Littlefield, President and CEO of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) As the U.S. government’s development finance microfinance and inclusive institutions, in 25 With 2 billion people still outside the institution, OPIC stimulates private capital countries. Through these institutions over mainstream financial system, how can we flows into low-income countries. How do Citi and 1.2 million people are accessing financial scale and expand financial inclusion? OPIC partner to expand financial inclusion? services, of which 97 percent are women. EL — We are seeing a shift from microcredit alone Elizabeth Littlefield — The vast majority of the to the recognition that poor people want and world’s poor do not have access to any kind As a commercial bank, what is Citi’s motivation deserve and will pay for a very wide range of of financial services. We also know that small, for focusing on financial inclusion in developing financial services from a wide range of institutions. medium and even micro enterprises are a huge countries? I am most excited about mobile banking, which driver of job creation in these economies. One BA — We’re in 100 countries. So the need and the I think is going to be transformative to financial area that we have been successful in partnering opportunity that financial inclusion brings is really systems throughout the world. with Citi is to build financial systems in poor apparent to us. It is right where we live, where countries that will truly serve the majority of their we work and operate. To us, financial inclusion How would you sum up the value of OPIC’s work populations. is about equity, and it’s also about stimulating with Citi in empowering progress? growth and economic development. Whether it’s Bob Annibale — Together, we are working with EL — This partnership has enabled us to accomplish a small shopkeeper with an idea, a cooperative, small and large institutions that expand financial things we could never do individually and has had a credit union, community group, or a large access and go much deeper — the last mile, often — huge impact on the lives of many people. I’m very business, we have to find ways to give them than many banks could do. We recently celebrated proud to have been part of it. access to capital. a major milestone in our long-standing partnership providing just over $400M of financing to See the full video conversation Read more about Citi Inclusive Finance 8 Investing in Our Youth The Challenge Our Progress Many youth lack the skills, training and Together with our partners, Citi and the financial capabilities needed to thrive Citi Foundation are helping to prepare in a 21st-century economy. Worldwide, the workforce of tomorrow, connect 2014 Performance Highlights around 75 million 15-24-year-olds are young people to job opportunities and »» Citi Foundation launched Pathways unemployed­—almost three times the build their financial know-how. to Progress, a three-year, $50 proportion of the adult labor force. In 2014, the Citi Foundation invested million initiative to boost the career more than $22 million in 62 countries readiness of 100,000 young people and territories to support these efforts. in 10 U.S. cities. »» Globally, more than 173,000 young people took part in Citi Foundationfunded programs that helped them build positive financial behavior and acumen. 9 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Pathways to Progress Building Young People’s Citi Acts In March 2014, the Citi Foundation Financial Capabilities Junior Achievement, global: In 2014, with $4.3 million in grant support from the Citi launched Pathways to Progress to boost In addition to the right job-related Foundation, this longtime partner engaged the career readiness of 100,000 young skills and training, financial education more than 200,000 youth across 52 people in 10 major cities across the and responsibility are a much-needed countries through its financial education United States. foundation for youth to thrive in and entrepreneurship programs. This flagship initiative builds upon our longtime today’s economy. Agent Penny, China: Over 42,000 8-to-12efforts to support youth economic opportunity year-olds took part in this school-based Activities range from college savings and planning program during 2014, hosted by the through college savings and readiness programs, programs for children as young as five and their Shanghai Better Education Development by directly addressing the root causes of youth families (see Citi Acts) to mortgage-related educaCenter, with support from the Citi unemployment. We partner with a wide range of tion programs for young people buying their first Foundation. Three in four (75.9 percent) stakeholders including urban policymakers, private home. Through 2014, more than 173,000 young participants developed a personal budget sector organizations and community leaders people took part in Citi Foundation-supported after taking part, compared to 12.7 percent nationwide. programs that helped them adopt or maintain beforehand. Pathways to Progress national partners include positive financial behaviors (see Citi Acts for 2014 Points of Light, the Corporation for National highlights). Aflateen, Uganda: 7,500 young people and Community Service, the Cities for Financial in schools and youth community groups In addition, through two financial capability are receiving financial education and Empowerment Fund, the Network for Teaching innovation funds — one U.S.-focused and one related mentoring through this Citi Entrepreneurship, iMentor and Management international — the Citi Foundation supports Foundation program. Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT). The program nonprofit-led programs providing youth and identifies and recruits promising young people other consumers with tools and mentoring to from low-income families to take part in entrepreadopt good financial practices. The Center for neurship training, leadership and service opportunities, mentoring relationships and summer jobs. Financial Services Innovation and Innovations Citi Partners for Poverty Action test new strategies in the MLT has been a longtime partner, and this year Kindergarten to College, United States: United States and globally respectively. the Citi Foundation invested $1 million to launch Through 2014, Citi’s pioneering partnership MLT Ascend, an initiative that pairs nearly 1,000 with the City and County of San Francisco low-income, first-generation undergraduates on the nation’s first universal child college across the United States with coaches or alumni savings account program has led to families from the career development organization. saving over $1 million of their own money. From coast to coast, Citi volunteers in the 10 target Teach Children to Save Day, cities (see graphic on page 11) to help prepare United States: More than 500 Citi these young people for success. They act as Consumer Banking employees volunteered mentors, success coaches and workshop facilitain after-school classrooms across the United tors, helping participants to become college ready States, teaching 8,138 children in grades and develop an entrepreneurial mindset as well as K-12 about responsible money habits. leadership and workplace skills. 10 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Pathways to Progress Citi Acts Summer Jobs Connect (SJC) established Miami’s first summer youth employment Year 1: Progress Year 1: Approach & Impact program as part of Pathways to Progress, Entrepreneurship providing seasonal jobs for 114 young 24,662 Youth Reached 41,750 Hours of people. The program combined summer employment with financial education and 100,000 Business Skills opening of bank accounts, to create a Target to Reach Training Delivered platform for their future financial success. “The young people completed their summer Service/Leadership jobs having learned the value of a dollar — $15M Amount Invested and began taking steps towards economic 1,200 Youth self-sufficiency. Summer Jobs Connect $50M Target to Reach Engaged in introduced the participants to the world of Service Projects work that will empower them towards long-term successful job outcomes.” 6,195 Citi Volunteer Hours Mayor Tomás Regalado, City of Miami Mentorship 5,760 Students Received One-on-One Mentorship Pathways to Progress Locations Summer Jobs 1,850 Summer Jobs Created Boston Newark New York Chicago San Francisco St. Louis D.C. Los Angeles Dallas Miami 11 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE “I applaud the Citi Foundation and its partners for putting the needs of our children first and coming together on Pathways to Progress. The innovative partnership among these organizations will help our nation’s young people succeed inside and outside the classroom while strengthening and building a thriving middle class.” Arne Duncan, U.S. Department of Education Secretary 12 Driving Financial Inclusion The Challenge Our Progress A third of the world’s people are not Citi has spent decades supporting integrated into the mainstream economy, innovative products, tools, technologies unable to access affordable and safe and research to bring more people into 2014 Performance Highlights financial products and services to the banking mainstream, building our »» Through its long-standing partnersafeguard their cash, deposit the money knowledge, experience and insight with ship with the U.S. Government’s they earn and pay their bills. To build on each new project. At the same time, we Overseas Private Investment various financial inclusion efforts to date, have continually expanded our partnermore collaboration, program innovation ships with governments, communities, Corporation, Citi has invested and technology development and NGOs, microfinance institutions (MFIs) $406 million distributed to more deployment is needed. and others to create, broaden and scale than 1.2 million micro-entrepreneurs solutions that work. — 97 percent of whom are women — through 44 microfinance institutions in 25 countries. »» Citi structured a first-of-its-kind $500 million bond with the InterAmerican Development Bank to fund education, youth, and employment programs across Latin America. 13 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Scaling Inclusive Finance Financing Opportunity in Latin America In exploring new approaches, we partnered with Despite great progress in expanding the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to financial access around the world, two launch a groundbreaking $500 million Education, billion people still have no relationYouth and Employment (EYE) bond. This first-ofa-kind instrument enables investors to finance ship with formal financial services. programs across Latin America that support early Instead, they operate within a cash-only childhood care, primary and secondary education, economy, which makes them vulnerable vocational training and job placement. We see the to theft, loss and limited transparency. four-year bond as a promising model that enables investors to participate in financing innovative Bringing financial services to people who don’t projects that align with their values and lead to have access to these types of services is central to greater social and economic inclusion. both our core business activities and our citizenship efforts. Accelerating Inclusion through With this in mind, Citi Inclusive Finance (formerly Electronic Payment Systems Citi Partners Citi Microfinance) adopted a broader focus on Citi also helped found the Better Than Cash “The EYE bond is an innovative financial inclusion across our global activities in Alliance, a coalition of public, private and NGO 2014. Our goal, across the company, is to build a partners working to accelerate the transition to instrument designed to bring new generation of scalable services and teche-payment systems globally. To date, the partneradditional resources and nologies that expand access to financial services ship has secured 16 member commitments from awareness to bear on three in low-income and underserved communities. governments including Peru, Kenya, Colombia key priorities for Latin America Citi’s many partners in this endeavor include and the Philippines, along with development governments, institutional clients, microfinance organizations like the U.S Agency for International and the Caribbean. The proj­ institutions and nonprofit organizations, as well as Development (USAID) and the World Food ects that will benefit from wireless carriers, mobile-banking platforms and Programme to digitize their payments for people these investments will contrib­ technology providers. living in poverty. The Alliance has also tested pilot ute to improving the quality of programs including a peer learning exchange, One of our biggest impacts in scaling inclusive produced case studies on best practices, and led children’s education, increasing finance has come through our decade-plus collabodiscussions at 28 events on the need for transiproductivity and enhancing the ration with the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC). In 2014, we created a new tioning to electronic payments. skills of young people entering $220 million loan framework that will expand Citi is providing technical support and leveraging the job market.” access to financial services for small businesses our longtime electronic payments expertise, while Luis Alberto Moreno, President, IDB and underserved communities. the Citi Foundation has committed $1.5 million over three years to launch the alliance. links to READ MORE OPIC Interview Better Than Cash Alliance 14 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE “The Better Than Cash Alliance helps the world’s poorest families join the modern economy and realize the benefits of a more transparent, inclusive, cash-light world. I’m optimistic that this Alliance will help usher in a new era of opportunity for some of the most vulnerable people on earth.” Raj Shah, USAID Administrator 15 Citi Acts As a complement to our efforts to recruit U.S. veterans, we support programs that connect them to financial guidance and services. In 2014, Citi Salutes, our company-wide initiative to support service members, veterans and their families, funded 19 VeteransPlus national outreach events that provided over 3,000 veterans and their family members with financial coaching. We also launched a free e-book with NBC News—Operation Money, A Financial Guide for Military Service Members and Families, which provides actionable advice Supporting Innovation For the past 10 years, the Citi Foundation has supported and rewarded innovative entrepreneurs on reducing debt and making the most of To bring more than two billion people through the Citi Micro-entrepreneurship Awards. military benefits. into the economic mainstream, Citi and The annual program has provided awards of We support veterans who seek to reinvent our partners need to think, act and $9 million in cash prizes to 6,000 outstanding themselves as entrepreneurs through the microentrepreneurs in more than 30 countries. Realizing Your Dream competition, in invest in new ways. We are investing in Scaling financial inclusion worldwide demands partnership with the Institute for Veterans and programs that scale our impact and Military Families at Syracuse University innovative, data-driven solutions and pooling of empower more people to participate in (IVMF). Funded by the Citi Foundation, the ideas, resources and best practices. Citi undereconomic growth. stands this, and our foundation funds research competition provides veterans that graduate that furthers effective solutions, and supports from the IVMF’s entrepreneurship training In 2014, Citi hosted the Latin America Citi Mobile networking forums that bring together key program with up to $25,000 in seed funding Challenge, a global initiative that invites technolofinancial inclusion practitioners around the world. to start or expand their own businesses. gy developers to reimagine digital banking in the financial industry, attracting over 150 participants. In 2014, the Citi Foundation supported two major Among the 11 winners was POS Móvil, a mobile pieces of research: the Microfinance Banana Skins start-up in Guatemala that created a software Report by the Centre for the Study of Financial that replaces cash and checks with secure digital Innovation (CSFI), charting key risks facing the payments using SMS phone technology. POS Móvil microfinance industry, and Innovative Financing connects unbanked retailers to Citi corporate for Development from the Global Development clients and microfinance institutions, providing Incubator, which looks at how a common language them with working capital, a secure payment and vision for leaders in both the public and system and other products such as insurance. private sectors is helpful when exploring innovative and scalable financing opportunities. links to READ MORE Micro-entrepreneurship Awards Microfinance Banana Innovative Financing for A Financial Guide for Military Skins Report Development Service Members and Families 16 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Supporting Small Businesses and Consumers The Challenge Our Progress To advance economic progress, financial Small businesses and consumers are institutions have an important role to the foundation of local economies. From play in providing people with affordable commercial banking services that allow 2014 Performance Highlights and responsible lending that helps small entrepreneurs to launch and grow their »» Citi served tens of thousands of businesses and consumers progress businesses to helping individuals responsmall businesses throughout the while remaining financially resilient. sibly manage their credit and debt, we’re U.S., lending $9.2 billion. enabling progress. »» Citi was named as the top U.S. affordable housing lender by Affordable Housing Finance for the sixth consecutive year. 17 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Investing in Supporting Small Businesses Globally From Africa to Asia and Eastern Europe, Citi Citi Invests Small Businesses provides microfinance solutions and funding for Citi funded the NYC Craft Entrepreneurship programs that support small business developProgram, a partnership with the peer-toIn addition to lending, we also partner peer e-commerce website Etsy and the NYC ment and success. with nonprofits and local governments Department of Small Business Services to In 2014, the Citi Foundation partnered with to provide entrepreneurs with access provide lowand moderate-income TechnoServe, a nonprofit that promotes business entrepreneurs with marketing, business to training, business counseling and solutions in the developing world, to support 185 planning and managment skills to successother services. small businesses in Côte D’Ivoire, Nigeria, South fully grow their enterprises. Citi provided Africa and Uganda. The Citi Foundation provided 500 creative talents with entrepreneurship Supporting Skills Development $650,000 in funding to help women and young courses tailored to their unique small In 2014, Citi supported the launch of the Virtual people from low-income communities refine business needs. Counselor Network (VCN) BusinessSource, an their business plans and learn financial manageinitiative that connects small business owners ment skills. LATAM’s portfolio included a $160,000 to counseling services offered by the City of Los In 2014, we partnered with Grameen America grant to support 60 women-led small businesses Angeles. Virtual counselors provide real-time to help provide over 7,000 women entreprein Central America. expertise on issues ranging from business plan neurs in Harlem, New York, with small business Other Citi Foundation grants during the year loans through 2020. Citi offers savings development to intellectual property rights. enabled: accounts with no service fees to help women Supporting Diverse Small Businesses »» The Turkish Grameen Microcredit Program to build financial identity and save while Grameen Citi supports programs such as Bridges to provide approximately 300 low-income, female America provides them with microloans to Business Success, a collaboration with the small business owners with loans and compregrow their businesses. To date, Citi has opened University of Southern California (USC), the City hensive business training. 12,162 savings accounts for Grameen members. of Los Angeles, and others that provides »» The Moscow Impact hub to provide social impact minority-owned small businesses with training, businesses, including those benefiting vulnerable tools and networks needed to compete for governwomen and orphans, with business advice and Citi Acts ment contracts. In New York, Citi works with the training. Information technology can transform the nonprofit Interise to empower some 100 minority prospects of small businesses. In 2014, the Citi and women-owned businesses through business »» The Polish program Business in Women’s Hands Foundation partnered with the Syngenta planning and support as well as access to networks to provide women entrepreneurs in Warsaw with Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture to that help them scale their businesses. the training and mentoring to launch their own develop a network technology that connects We also provided seed funding to support the small businesses. thousands of microenterprise farmers to launch of Capital Access Centers (CACs), a pilot corporate suppliers. The platform delivers program with the City of Chicago. The program real-time technical assistance to farmers and helps small businesses seeking loans of $25,000 allows them to share information on product to $250,000 and provides mentorship, referrals pricing with other market participants. and other business support services. Currently available in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Guatemala and Peru, the aim is to expand the technology to Puerto Rico in 2015. 18 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Empowering Consumers Supporting Credit Card Holders Citi is the world’s largest credit card issuer, Citi Partners Citi provides a full range of services with 139 million accounts, $375 billion in annual Citi is a founding member of the Asset Building Policy Network, a coalition of the to help more people participate in the purchase sales, and $142 billion in average receivables across Citi® Branded Cards and Citi Retail nation's preeminent civil rights and advocacy economic growth happening around organizations committed to coordinating Services. Individuals and businesses use this credit the world. savings and asset building policy and daily to make purchases that support their families, homes, businesses and personal lives. advocacy efforts at a national level. Enabling People to Buy and Keep Homes Citi has long been a leading U.S. provider of affordWe offer a variety of programs to support card able housing. In 2014, we processed $25.2 billion holders facing financial challenges. These include Citi Invests of U.S. mortgage originations, serving the needs of options to modify original loan terms, reduce In 2014, Citi launched the Access Account, thousands of homeowners. interest rates, or extend the loan duration. We a checkless banking account with low or also provide customers with a free online resource Citi supports programs that help consumers avoidable monthly charges and no overdraft www.usecreditwisely.com that offers tools such to purchase new homes and assists mortgage fees that serves many customers' needs as financial calculators and advice to help card holders at risk of losing theirs. Through the Citi with convenience and simplicity. holders avoid delinquency. Office of Homeownership Preservation (OHP) we A proprietary Citi survey, conducted with a help U.S. homeowners in difficulty find alternative In line with our efforts to help small businesses nationally representative sample of U.S. solutions to foreclosure. grow, we offer small businesses custom programs consumers (not limited to Citibank that combine rewards from business banking and In 2014, we continued our foreclosure prevention customers) in August 2014, found that 38 credit cards. and intervention efforts through our Road to percent of U.S. consumers pay monthly bills Recovery Program, hosting 10 events around the through digital channels; 65 percent do not country and helping 648 families. We also supportown a checkbook or avoid writing paper ed the National Community Stabilization Trust and checks; 31 percent of lower-income NeighborWorks America to provide training and consumers say overdrafts could lead them certification for their housing counselors. In addito financial trouble. tion, OHP joined 68 events in 54 cities targeting The account is a unique offering designed homeowners in distress through partnerships with for individuals who want more control over organizations like Hope Now, an alliance of governtheir finances while leveraging Citibank's ment, private and nonprofit organizations. We advanced digital banking capabilities. funded several conferences bringing practitioners together to share best practices and solutions. Citi continues to take part in governmentsponsored programs that help homeowners, and has been a major participant in the Federal Home Affordable Modification Program for six consecutive years. links to READ MORE Use Credit Wisely Asset Building Policy Network 19 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities SUSTAINAble growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Progress: Cities In 1950, there were two urban areas with more than 10 million people — New York-Newark and Tokyo. Today there are 28 megacities, and in the next 10 years the UN estimates that number will increase to 37. The strength and vitality of these cities depends on bringing the best expertise that Citi and our partners across addressing core urban eco­system needs, such as housing, private and nonprofit sectors can offer to facilitate essential social services, energy, economic empowerment, financial and inclusive public services. inclusion and infrastructure. Financial institutions play a critical role in addressing all of these needs, and Citi is comFrom the time of our founding name of City Bank of New York, mitted to enabling urban economic progress in many ways. originally chartered by New York State in 1812, our investment in cities has been core to who we are as a company. Citi for Citi works to strengthen the financial security of low-income Cities — our commitment to providing urban solutions and residents, from investing in affordable housing to expanding strengthening cities around the world — reflects the work of access to financial services in partnership with city agencies. many parts of our global business and our commitment to We support urban growth through our direct investment in addressing the needs of cities today, while also working with infra­­structure projects that revitalize neighbor­hoods and partners to anticipate and prepare for the needs of tomorrow. connect citizens to much-needed services. We create new partne­rships and alliances at the local level, collaborating with local governments, businesses, NGOs and community groups to revitalize cities. And we push the limits of existing approaches, investing in innova­tive uses of technology and Links to READ MORE UN Estimates for Megacities Citi for Cities 21 In Conversation: Jonathan Simon, Director, Global Public Sector Group, Citi, and John Rossant, Founder and Chairman, New Cities Foundation Why is the future of cities such a global priority As a partner to the New Cities Foundation, Citi Citi for Cities has had a real on-the-ground and what is the New Cities Foundation’s role? also brings tremendous regional know-how to the impact. Can you give some examples? John Rossant — As recently as 1980, there were table. If we go to Indonesia or Kenya or China, Citi JS — I think of the role we played in bringing LED less than 800 million urban residents. Today there teams are there on the ground and they really lighting to the city of Detroit, following the city’s are almost 4 billion, and that’s accelerating. New understand what’s happening across major urban bankruptcy filing in 2013. With 40 percent of their Cities Foundation was created to bring together centers. streetlights out, you can imagine what that does stakeholders involved in urbanization — public and to the safety of a community. Citi stepped up with private sector leaders, academics, urban planners, How does Citi for Cities work? its own capital and worked with local partners to architects and others around the world. We give Jonathan Simon — Citi for Cities is our approach bring light back to several neighborhoods. these leaders a platform to find better solutions to to helping cities solve problems — providing the In another public-private partnership, in Panama, the big challenges from this rapid urbanization we kind of thought leadership, access to capital and we were involved in establishing the Panama City are experiencing. innovative ideas and solutions that will improve Metro line, where we brought in the export agency the citizen experience. We leverage the breadth of to really work with the municipality to build this What role do you think Citi can play in the firm, marshalling resources that can get to the train system. supporting this urban transformation? scale needed to help cities and our clients around JR — There’s a big need. The world needs to put in the world. See the full video of Jonathan Simon and trillions of dollars of infrastructure over the next 20 years to keep up with urban growth. We need John Rossant in conversation to look at all sorts of innovative public-private partnerships and new financing models. 22 Supporting Inclusive Cities FPO Image to come The Challenge Our Progress Around the world, local governments As a global bank, our reach allows us to are looking for partners to address do things that others cannot. Our efforts entrenched challenges to urban progress support modern infrastructure, stimu2014 performance highlights and help them provide tools and late local economies, enable public »» Citi supported improved municipal solutions to connect citizens to services. services to run smoothly and efficientservices in major U.S. cities; in ly, help connect citizens to resources and New York City, we provided over improve people’s quality of life. From financing tens of thousands of affordable $1.7 million to expand financial homes in cities across the U.S. to helping inclusion in low-income communito bring street lighting to neighborhoods ties through the development of in Detroit, we leverage our many areas new and innovative services of business expertise to expand financial provided by city agencies. security and support social inclusion and economic growth. »» Citi helped construct and preserve over 30,000 units of affordable housing in cities across the United States. 23 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Investing in Urban Services in darkness. Following the largest municipal bankruptcy in history, Detroit struggled to finance Citi Partners As cities expand, strong public services Through Partners in Progress initiatives, the upgrades needed to repair its crumbling streetlight Citi Foundation is exploring new ways to are vital for ensuring that all citizens network. Over the past two years, Citi has commitaddress urban poverty through a collective ultimately benefit from urban growth. ted $60 million of its own money and underwrote impact approach. Working in partnership with bonds raising $185 million to finance streetlight Given the scale and complexity of the Low Income Investment Fund (LIIF), the repairs. As a result, the Public Lighting Authority challenges facing cities, it’s when public of Detroit is installing a system of 65,000 energy “Community Quarterback” model uses a and private resources and expertise single organiz­ation to serve as lead systems efficiency LED lights across the city. inte­grator within a community, bringing come together that the most creative Developing Metro System in Panama together people and organizations that work and effective solutions emerge. across sectors such as affordable housing, This past year we also built on our long-standing presence in Panama, raising $862 million for education, health care and workforce The Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City Central America’s first urban rail system, the development. In 2014, Citi and the Citi Foundation provided over Panama Metro. Citi worked with the local governWith funding from the Citi Foundation, LIIF $3 million in contributions to the Mayor’s Fund to ment to enhance its existing social programs to provided $3.5 million to 14 community groups Advance New York City—an integrated effort to ensure that any economic displacement of local across the United States to foster collaboradevelop new and innovative municipal services businesses was mitigated and managed in line with tion. Community Solutions in the Brownsville that support financial empowerment and asset international standards. The Panama Metro has section of Brooklyn, New York City, brought building, especially for low-income residents. We already reduced some workers’ commute times together a multiagency team to launch the supported eight programs across city agencies, from two hours to a little more than 20 minutes “5,000 Jobs Campaign,” which aims to have engaging with government leaders to ensure that and it transports 30,000 commuters per hour—a 5,000 residents employed by 2017. all New Yorkers are connected to the support they figure expected to rise by a third over the next need to strengthen their household finances and two decades. build assets. The programs include connecting affordable housing applicants with financial counseling, supporting tax preparation for low-income residents and providing naturalization services “Recognizing that there is no ‘one size fits all’ solution to improving designed to reduce legal and financial barriers economic opportunity, the Partners in Progress program leverages to achieving citizenship for low-income lawful permanent residents. the capacity of high-performing local organizations to lead and coordinate across sectors and stakeholders to achieve shared goals. Turning the Lights On in Detroit The Citi Foundation is a uniquely innovative funder to invest in this Lighting is a municipal service that is vital for keeping communities safe. In Detroit, as many idea that is aimed at nothing short of transforming neighborhoods as 40 percent of the city’s streetlights were out and lives across the country.” in recent years, keeping entire neighborhoods Nancy O. Andrews, President and CEO of the Low Income Investment Fund links to READ MORE Partners in Progress 24 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Family Assets Count education opportunities and benefits and, in turn, We invest in platforms and tools that empower improve the economic vibrancy of cities nationwide. municipal officials, community groups and the In 2014, Citi partnered with the mayors of Los private sector to develop programs that strengthAngeles, Chicago and New York City as well as the en family finances, make households more resilient Center for Popular Democracy and the National to unexpected financial shocks and better position Partnership for New Americans to launch Cities families to build long-term assets. for Citizenship, a program designed to encourage FamilyAssetsCount.org, a partnership between Citi higher rates of naturalization among millions and the Corporation for Enterprise Development of legal permanent residents. Partner cities are (CFED), uses technology and never-before-available committed to expanding qualified immigrants’ Citi Partners local data about household assets and what is access to naturalization and financial capability “Citi has been a valuable partner in helping referred to as “liquid asset poverty” to highlight programs, as well as legal assistance, microloans us strengthen the financial security and household financial vulnerability. Its research and financial counseling. capability of our city’s most vulnerable revealed that 45 percent of households in major Citi has pledged more than $1 million to the populations.” U.S. cities are living in a state of persistent program, and in 2014 was named a White House Julie Menin, Commissioner, New York City financial vulnerability with almost no savings to Champion of Change for promoting innovative Department of Consumer Affairs cover emergencies or plan for the future. In 2014, solutions to securing citizenship for eligible legal FamilyAssetsCount.org catalyzed new investments permanent residents. Since the program’s launch, and forged innovative public–private partnerships 11 additional cities have joined—Atlanta, Baltimore, to bolster household finances in cities around the Boston, Chattanooga, Denver, Milwaukee, country, including Boston, Chicago, Miami and Nashville, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Seattle and Sacramento. In 2015, the Family Assets Count Washington, D.C. program will continue to drive the formation of programs and policies around the country that help create more economically resilient families and cities. Advancing Financial Inclusion through Citizenship Cities thrive when all their residents have equal opportunity to make progress. Today, 8.8 million legal permanent residents in the U.S. are eligible for​ citizenship—52 percent of whom are low-income residents. Making the dream of citizenship a reality for these men and women would improve their prospects for higher-paying jobs, access to 25 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE “Cities for Citizenship will help us create more inclusive cities. From increased economic activity to larger voting and tax bases, the advantages of citizenship will not only expand opportunity to our immigrant families, but to all New Yorkers and residents nationwide.” Bill de Blasio, Mayor of New York City 26 The City Accelerator The New Cities Foundation Citi Acts Citi and the Citi Foundation use technology In 2013, Citi became the first financial services and collaboration to drive innovation in urban In 2014, Citi sponsored awards designed to member of the New Cities Foundation, a leading services. In 2014, the Citi Foundation and Living cultivate creative solutions that address global nonprofit organization dedicated to generCities launched the City Accelerator—a $3 million urban and social challenges in cities ating and scaling ideas and solutions through program fostering innovation among city governworldwide. We worked with the Mayor of events, research and urban innovation projects. ments to address the pressing challenges facing London’s office to support Citymart’s Living Through the partnership, Citi has engaged their residents. The first three U.S. cities selectLabs Global Awards: Cities Pilot the Future, its global network and expertise in a dialogue ed—Louisville, KY, Nashville, TN, and Philadelphia, held at the Cities Summit in London, which about innovative approaches to solve pressing PA—focused on embedding innovation into the brought together leaders from 30 worldurban challenges. In June, a delegation from Citi fabric of city government. In each case, municipal leading cities. Over 185 companies, social attended the New Cities Summit held in Dallas, TX, leaders receive assistance including coaching, entrepreneurs and research centers where leaders from across business, government, technical support and implementation resources submitted solutions to urban challenges. academia and civil society convened. to adopt tools to help them better address the The London winner was KiWi Power, a small needs of residents. business whose mobile energy savings app alerts homeowners to peak energy use »» Louisville is breaking down silos to streamline hours and reminds them to switch off municipal government, including enhancing “We want to push beyond the status appliances. Citi presented a prize of over systems to help improve mental health and quo and empower employees $30,000 to help bring KiWi Power’s substance abuse services and citizens alike to participate in invention to market. »» Nashville is engaging multiple city agencies to the work of innovation. We are both strengthen service delivery mechanisms that will energized by and grateful for the help lead to financial efficiencies support of the Citi Foundation and »» Philadelphia is testing innovative methods to Living Cities, which will aid us provide tax relief and payment assistance to low-income residents greatly in this broader effort.” Greg Fischer, Mayor of Louisville 27 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Citi Invests For eight of the last nine years, Citi has been recognized as America’s top affordable housing lender by Affordable Housing Finance magazine. In 2014, our lending volume was $3.2 billion. Revitalizing Urban Affordable Housing As the leading affordable housing lender in the Neighborhoods U.S. we provide permanent financing, investment Whether it is affordable housing or direct banking and construction financing to various nonprofit and commercial affordable housing investment in infrastructure projects, projects. In 2014, we supported more than 30,000 Citi partners with governments and housing units for U.S. families, seniors and vetercommunity organizations to foster ans through debt and equity. financial inclusion in and revitalize urban In addition to financing traditional affordable communities. They complement our housing, Citi develops strategic partnerships business strategy of providing municipal to build and preserve such housing throughout the country. An example of that commitment financing, advisory services and techis our long-term effort to preserve affordable nologies that lower costs and increase homes in New York City, one of the world’s access to banking. most expensive housing markets. In 2014, Citi structured and arranged financing totaling $758 million to support the Community Preservation Corporation (CPC) in New York State, a nationally recognized leader in affordable housing finance. Citi’s financing provided CPC with the capital to restart its affordable housing loan operations and continue to serve New York State’s most distressed neighborhoods and vulnerable citizens, including those with disabilities, the homeless and those living with HIV/AIDS. 28 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Progress: Sustainable Growth Companies of all sizes are increasingly focused on the environmental impact and sustainability of their businesses. Not as an afterthought, but as a series of challenges and opportunities integral to their business. As a global bank with extensive experience in environmental in projects that provide environmental solutions. In 2007, Citi finance and environmental and social risk management, Citi committed to directing $50 billion to climate-friendly projects helps clients navigate these evolving issues and advance over 10 years. We met that goal in 2013, three years early, and approaches that work. this year we built on it by doubling our commitment. We empower sustainable growth in three key ways. We advise From enabling communities to adapt to climate change on and finance projects focused on environmental solutions impacts, to directly financing infrastructure improvements and reducing climate change impacts. We help our clients that increase access to clean water and manage waste, understand and manage risk associated with the impacts of to supporting green, affordable housing projects in lowtheir business on the environment and communities. Lastly, and-moderate-income communities, Citi is empowering we manage our own operations and supply chain to minimize sustainable growth. Citi’s environmental impact, reduce costs and reflect best practices. With the launch of our new Sustainable Progress strategy, we attached a very clear, measurable commitment that will track our progress: a goal to lend, invest, and facilitate $100 billion Links to READ MORE Sustainable Progress Strategy 30 In Conversation: Mindy Lubber, President, Ceres, and Val Smith, Director of Corporate Sustainability, Citi What is the focus of Citi’s new five-year What makes Citi’s strategy unique compared to This is an opportunity to align our various sustainability strategy and how will it empower other companies? sustainability activities toward commonly held progress? Mindy Lubber — Citi is helping to catalyze $100 goals, to really leverage our expertise in the Val Smith — Citi is working to advance billion toward renewable energy, energy efficiency, capital markets, and to partner with our clients to environmental and social progress and conduct financing green bonds, green real estate. This kind do some new and exciting work. business in a way that creates value both for our of down payment, as I see it, sparks enthusiasm company and for future generations. In early 2015, and interest around the world. It speaks to what What message does Citi’s approach send about we launched a new sustainability strategy that sets we have seen at Ceres in our 10-year relationship creating financial return for investors while out priority thematic areas where we believe we with Citi. It is a caring company, a visionary addressing environmental challenges? can make the most difference — Combating Climate company, looking at climate change and wanting to ML — Citi is a major bank and it’s not going to do Change, Championing Sustainable Cities and have an impact. this if it’s not going to make money. When Citi Engaging People and Communities. makes a bold, innovative announcement like this, How does Citi’s sustainability strategy align others are going to follow. Its voice is heard in a It includes an ambitious goal to work with clients with its business strategy? very different way than scientists’ voices, or NGO across sectors to lend, invest and facilitate $100 VS — Our sustainability strategy is not a standvoices, might be heard. billion over the next 10 years toward environmental alone. It is embedded in our businesses and really solutions and climate change reduction activities. spans across the whole company. View a video about our $100 billion environmental finance commitment 31 Scaling Solutions for People and the Environment The Challenge Our Progress Environmental challenges and We look for solutions that are clientinefficiencies threaten the economic centered, scalable and have the potenprogress of cities and individuals. tial for global impact. We partner with our Cities and communities recognize the clients and leverage our global talent to increasing risks brought on by these conduct business in a way that creates global and local trends, such as climate value for our company and for future 2014 Performance Highlights change, wasteful energy use and water generations. »» Citi developed a five-year strategy, scarcity. To address these challenges, launched in early 2015, that includes financing and other expert support a goal to lend, invest and facilitate from innovative private sector partners is needed. $100 billion to environmental solutions and climate change reduction activities over the next 10 years. »» Citi conducted environmental and social risk management (ESRM) screens on 405 client transactions. »» Citi achieved certification to U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standards of 41 Citi offices, bank branches, and data and operations centers around the world. 32 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Citi’s Sustainability Framework Citi Partners C40 is a network of 75 of the world’s biggest cities—from New York and London Environmental Environmental Operations and to Beijing, Johannesburg and Tokyo—that Finance and Social Risk Supply Chain share best practices and knowledge to Management counter and adapt to climate change. Citi works with member city governments on climate change mitigation efforts and Lending, investing Collaborating with Managing our global identifying ways to build urban resilience to and facilitating $100 our clients to manage facilities and supply climate impacts. In 2014, we provided billion over 10 years environmental and chain to minimize expert climate finance research and support to help C40 cities address the sustainable to activities focused social risks and impacts direct impact, reduce infrastructure financing and implementaon environmental associated with our costs and reflect best tion needs necessary to achieve climate solutions and reducing products and services practices action goals. the impacts of climate “Citi’s ongoing partnership with C40 Cities change globally is helping global cities overcome their climate finance challenges. Support from Citi at our biennial Mayoral Summit in Johannesburg in February 2014 was a great addition to the success of this event. The Citi team chaired our financing session and Engagement and Engaging with stakeholders and our prepared a ‘primer’ document, supporting Transparency employees to achieve sustainable cities to reduce the complexity of their infrastructure investments, which was also progress, and reporting on the results outlined to C40 cities through a detailed of our strategy and goals webinar presentation.” James Alexander, Head of the Finance and Economic Development Initiative, C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group. links to READ MORE Annual Report Form 10-K $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal Progress 33 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Environmental Finance Following in April 2014, Citi worked with Ceres, a nonprofit organization that advocates for sustaincommercial and industrial properties in the United States, averaging 1.1 megawatts each. The facility Citi Sets $100 Billion ability leadership, to create a multistakeholder utilizes a structure that provides tax equity for Environmental Finance Goal engagement process to gather feedback on our roughly Climate change is a global challenge that we new five-year sustainability strategy. The diverse 40 projects. take into account for our business (see pages 90 group included NGO sustainability leaders, our In June 2014, Citi coordinated the $600 million and 302 of our 2014 Annual Report Form 10-K), clients, socially responsible investors and maininitial public offering of Abengoa Yield, a the broader economy, and society. Citi has long stream investors. Stakeholder recommendations renewables-led yield co formed by Abengoa. recognized this challenge and channeled financing included: Abengoa Yield will act as a vehicle for Abengoa to address it. Having met our $50 billion climate »» Greater disclosure on how the sustainability to own, manage and acquire contracted energy finance goal in 2013, three years ahead of schedframework links to Citi’s broader business assets, including renewable energy, conventional ule, we are now focused on our new $100 billion strategy power and transmission lines. environmental finance goal. »» Clearly linking the sustainability framework to Energy Efficiency Financing The new target includes activities supporting Citi’s existing environmental and social policies, We are leading the way in designing new vehicles clean water, waste management and green urban such as the ESRM Policy and updated Human to finance energy efficiency for corporations, state infrastructure as well as renewable and efficient Rights Statement and local governments and homeowners, as well energy generation. Building on the methodology »» Setting specific targets and describing as to pool project financings. For example, Citi developed for our $50 billion goal, we will measure the intended impacts of our engagements in is a leading collaborator on the Warehouse for progress through rigorous accounting of our priority areas. Energy Efficiency Loans (WHEEL), a national, U.S. financing and investing activities. We will report public-private financing platform that brings lowerthe results on an aggregate basis, beginning with Products and Services cost capital to public residential energy efficiency our 2014 activity. Financing Clean Energy loan programs. Serving as the capital markets During 2014, our financing activities toward the Clean, renewable energy sources, such as solar partner, warehousing and aggregating loans, we new goal included support for renewable energy, and wind, provide a bridge from fossil fuels to a loware working with state and local governments energy efficiency, municipal water conservation, carbon economy. Citi helps clients worldwide access (including Pennsylvania, Kentucky and New York), sustainable transportation, affordable green new sources of capital for clean energy projects. the Department of Energy, and various nonprofits housing, energy-efficient mortgages, and green We also invest in client efforts to develop projects, to facilitate adoption of this approach. bonds. In total, we helped to raise and direct technologies and services that reduce greenhouse nearly $23.6 billion to such projects and activities. gas and other emissions. For example, we helped Green Bonds The pie charts on page 35 show the breakdown by finance Berkshire Hathaway Energy’s $2.75 billion, Green bonds — bonds dedicated to activities that technology and financial product type. 579 MW Solar Star project in California, which have environmental benefit — are an exciting innobegan supplying electricity to the grid in late 2013 vation with the potential to significantly expand Sustainability Strategy—Engaging Experts and is set to become fully opera­tional in 2015. environmental financing worldwide. To support In early 2014, Citi engaged in an environmental the development of this market, Citi partnered During 2014, Citi also supported SunEdison with materiality assessment with stakeholders to identiwith three other banks to develop the Green Bond an innovative $160 million facility to finance a fy key environmental issues that would inform the Principles, announced in 2014. The Principles pool of distributed generation solar projects for development of Citi’s approach to sustainability. Continued on p. 36 links to READ MORE Warehouse for Energy Annual Report Form 10-K Green Bonds Principles Efficiency Loans 34 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Citi Invests Breakdown of $23.6B in Environmental Finance Activities in 2014 By Region By Environmental Category By Business Category Amount % Category Amount % Category Amount % North America $9.5B 40 Wind $5.8B 25 Banking and Capital Markets $11.5B 49 Europe, Middle East, Africa $9.2B 39 Solar $3.1B 13 Green Bonds $9.5B 40 Asia Pacific $0.7B 3 Sustainable Transportation $2.3B 10 Public Finance $1.7B 7 Latin America $0.1B 1 Water Quality & Conservation $0.8B 3 Consumer/ $0.4B 2 Other/Global $4.0B 17 Green Housing $0.6B 3 Commercial Banking Total $23.6B Energy Efficiency $0.3B 1 Commodities $0.2B 1 Citi Operations $0.2B 1 Citi Operations $0.2B 1 Multiple Categories* $10.4B 44 Other $0.1B <1 Total $23.6B Total $23.6B * Includes transactions such as some green bonds and yield cos that bundled together multiple environmental Public Finance technologies. Consumer/Commercial Banking Commodities Other/Global Multiple Citi Operations Categories* Other Latin America Wind Asia North Pacific America ByByEnvironmental Business Banking and By Region By Business Category Capital Markets Solar Sustainable Transportation Europe, Middle East, Africa Water Quality & Conservation Green Bonds Green Housing Energy Efficiency Citi Operations 35 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE are a set of voluntary guidelines for the issuance well-being. The glass reduces unwanted passive Citi Invests of Green Bonds, and encourage transparency, heat gain in warmer months and permits passive disclosure and integrity in the market. We are now heat in colder months, helping buildings improve »» Citi is the only U.S. bank listed on the working with clients to issue both green and social operational efficiency and reduce up-front capital Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, impact bonds, issuances that are designed to and ongoing energy costs. and was also included in the FTSE4Good attract new investors. Index and the UN Global Compact 100 Financing Energy Infrastructure Index. During the year, Citi also underwrote the auto Beyond financing renewable energy in the U.S., indus­try’s first asset-backed green bond issuance. »» Citi helped raise $1.325 billion in bonds Citi is also supporting clean energy infrastructure Citi worked with Toyota Financial Services to for Berkshire Hathaway Energy’s Solar projects in developing countries. In 2014, Citi develop the $1.75 billion offering, net proceeds Star power plant between 2013 and pledged to source $2.5 billion in capital toward from which will fund retail finance and lease 2015, the first series of which was named Power Africa, a multistakeholder partnership that contracts for Toyota’s portfolio of qualifying green Solar Deal of the Year by Environmental aims to double the number of people who have vehicles. In 2014, Citi also underwrote the largest Finance Magazine and North American access to electricity throughout sub-Saharan bond issuance in the City of Spokane’s history—a Solar Deal of the Year by Project Finance Africa. The program will add more than 30,000 green bond specifically issued to help clean up the Magazine. megawatts of clean and efficient electricity Spokane River. Funding will be used to address »» Citi was ranked as the top U.S. bank in generation to the grid, increasing access to 60 the city’s sewer overflow issue by decoupling Newsweek Global Green Rankings. million new homes and businesses. Citi is one of household wastewater from stormwater. several private sector players partnering with the U.S. government, public and private sector The UK Green Investment Bank, created by Financing Clean Water agencies, and the governments of Ethiopia, Ghana, the government to back environmental In 2014, Citi underwrote a $184 million refunding Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria and Tanzania to accelerate projects on commercial terms, made its first bond for the Virginia Resources Authority, for clean energy infrastructure and investment in the foray into the financial services sector in deposit to the Virginia Clean Water Revolving world’s poorest continent. 2014, supporting our efforts to increase Loan Fund. The fund offers below-market interest energy efficiency at our London data rates to local governments for projects that help Business Units Engaged center. The UK Green Investment Bank is improve water quality and mitigate future water Business units across Citi engaged in these financing a combined cooling and power problems throughout the Commonwealth. efforts include Alternative Energy, Municipal system and other efficiency improvements Urban Innovation Initiative Securities, Citi Community Capital, Operations, that will cut the data center’s energy use by Citi’s Urban Innovation Initiative delivers Export Agency Finance, Commodities, Asset a tenth, reducing our running costs and strategic investments and forms partnerships Finance, Capital Markets Origination, and Citi greenhouse gas emissions. with emerging companies and organizations Mortgage. Our Citizenship and Sustainability addressing pressing urban issues such as energy functions collaborate with business units to efficiency. One such partnership is with View, Inc., support these efforts and help maximize their a company that uses a smart glass technology impact. Our partnership in developing these that automatically tints windows in response to approaches extends beyond local governments sun glare and solar heat, preserving views and and agencies to country-based and state-based significantly improving occupant comfort and green banks, and environmental NGOs. links to READ MORE Virginia Clean Water Revolving View Dynamic Glass Loan Fund 36 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Managing Our keep up the highest standards, in 2014 we finalized an updated ESRM Policy, including the following Environmental and key elements: Social Risk »» Incorporating new Equator Principles (EP) requirements: The Equator Principles are the Citi prudently manages risk across our ESRM gold standard. New requirements cover business, including helping our clients project-related corporate loans and bridge loans, In Memoriam: Shawn D. Miller understand and address the ­social risks as well as strengthened risk management on This past November, Citi lost a dear friend and impacts of their projects. climate change, human rights and Indigenous and colleague, Shawn D. Miller, Global Head of Peoples. EP transactions are also now subject to Environmental and Social Risk Management. Citi’s Environmental and Social Risk Management Shawn was a pioneer and an architect of the expanded year-end aggregate reporting require(ESRM) Policy covers a wide range of sensitive field of ESRM through his work at Citi, the ments, found on pp. 39 and 40. issues—from biodiversity protection to emissions International Finance Corporation and the and waste guidelines, and community engagement »» Revising our Areas of High Caution and Special Equator Principles Association. and consultation. It prohibits the financing of Focus (AHCSF): We included a new AHCSF on Since joining Citi in 2004, Shawn tirelessly transactions that directly or indirectly involve Conflict Risk, targeting transactions where supported responsible finance, environmental forced labor, harmful child labor and illegal logging, competition over land or other resources sustainability and human rights in business. among other undesirable activities. might induce conflict. We also introduced a He constantly improved and expanded Citi’s We evaluate the projects we finance against prohibition for directly financing any mining approach to ESRM, leading the industry while our rigorous and long-standing ESRM Policy projects within World Heritage Sites. Our other doing so. It was Shawn’s belief that the which is based on internationally recognized and AHCSFs include Critical Habitat, Areas of High strongest platform for sustainable finance is sector-specific standards. In emerging markets, Conservation Value, Significant Cultural Heritage where environmental impacts are properly these standards include the International Finance Value, Indigenous Peoples, and Large-scale minimized, mitigated and managed, and local Corporation’s (IFC) issue-based Performance Resettlement. community interests taken into account. Standards and its 63 sector-specific EHS »» Oil Sands and Shale Risk Review Processes: Shawn was an integral contributor and Guidelines. In addition, our internal Sector To address the heightened risks associated influential force in the development of the Standards trigger corporate-level reviews of with unconventional oil and gas practices, we Equator Principles, representing Citi as clients active in sensitive sectors, including developed sector-specific questionnaires to Chair of the EP Association Steering forestry, palm oil, nuclear, mountaintop removal guide due diligence conversations with any client Committee from 2010 to 2012. mining, oil sands and shale. active in shale or oil sands developments. These processes help us evaluate client performance His achievements and contributions have 2014 Progress made a significant and lasting impact on the on a number of key environmental and social We are dedicated to maintaining our industrybroader field of Environmental and Social indicators and better understand our clients’ leading position in helping to manage the environRisk Management in the financial sector. His operations, evolving regulatory standards, mental and social impacts of client activities. To passion and commitment to sustainability political trends, and public sentiment. In 2014, we undertook 47 risk reviews. will be deeply missed. links to READ MORE EHS Guidelines Environmental Policy Framework Environmental and Social Risk Management Website 37 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE ESRM Performance Case Study: Declining a Coal Transaction Citi Acts We carefully assess ESRM-covered transactions, In 2014, Citi considered taking an equity stake in Citi Transactions Assessed for categorizing each transaction by risk, based on the a large operational coal-fired power plant in the Environmental and Social Risk IFC’s environmental and social risk categorization United States. The facility had a sizable unlined system (A, B, C). In 2014, we screened 405 transcoal ash storage pond, which is not considered 2012 Total 353 actions at the marketing stage for environmental best environmental practice, and had been subject 51 173 66 63 and social risk, of which 54 were categorized as to allegations of contamination of the local “A”. In these cases, use of proceeds is likely to have groundwater. Coal ash contamination has generat“significant adverse social and/or environmental ed much public debate in recent years, and in late 2013 Total 443 impacts that are diverse, irreversible, or unprece2014, the EPA finalized a rule to update national 44 217 101 81 dented.” To see breakdowns of our 2014 screened coal ash disposal requirements. transactions by region, sector and product type, While the plant met all current governmental 2014 Total 405 see the Performance Summary on page 77. regulations, Citi ESRM felt that the transaction During the year, we held ESRM in-person and represented outsized environmental and franchise 54 179 82 90 webinar training sessi­ons for 916 bankers and risk and declined to give approval. Category A risk managers across the company. Project Category B Finance and Export and Agency Finance units received in-depth training on the updated Equator Category C Principles; commercial bankers taking on added Not Categorized* responsibilities under the Citi-wide ESRM Policy *Forestry and palm oil annual reviews, transactions received introductory ESRM training; and other below ESRM Standard financial thresholds, and general corporate purposes transactions. internal audiences attended ESRM awarenessraising sessions. In 2014, we reviewed and closed two transactions Citi Partners that fell under our Mountaintop Removal Mining Citi engages with banking regulators across Risk Review Process. We did not finance any the world to offer advice as they develop transaction subject to the Carbon Principles sustainable banking regulatory frameworks during the year. Data on transactions where we and policies. Examples include the Green conducted human rights due diligence in 2014 is Credit Guidelines in China, the Nigerian included in the Performance Summary. For more Sustainable Banking Principles, and those on our human rights policy and approach see our of the Peruvian Superintendent of Banks. In Progress: Integrity section. 2014, we helped organize a sustainable finance workshop in Thailand that brought together representatives from the Bank of Thailand, domestic banks and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). links to READ MORE Performance Summary Respecting Human Rights 38 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Equator Principles Implementation Citi Invests As a co-founder of the Equator Principles (EP), 2014 Projects Covered by the Citi is committed to advancing this gold-standard Equator Principles global framework for managing environmental and social risks in the financing of projects. In 2014, 2014 EP-Covered Project Finance Loans 2014 EP-Covered Project-Related Corporate Loans we applied the expanded requirements of Equator Principles III to all relevant transactions. Category A 8 Category A 7 Compliance with EP is fully integrated into Citi’s 1 2 credit policy and processes. Implementation is a joint responsibility of our dedicated ESRM unit, Category B 12 Category B 8 bankers, and credit risk managers, with advice from qualified independent consultants as needed. 4 3 The ESRM unit reviews projects initially in the Reviewed* Reviewed marketing stage to determine EP category and Total 20 Total 15 Category C 0 Category C 0 EP requirements, and during the due diligence Funded** Funded phase reviews independent consultant EP reports 0 Total 5 0 Total 5 to assess EP compliance. Bankers manage client relationships, communicating EP requirements to Total project capital costs of funded In 2014, there were no EP Bridge loans. clients and ensuring that required EP covenants project finance loans is $6.8B are included in loan documentation. Senior credit * Project finance loans are typically reviewed in the marketing phase (“greenlight”) and may not reach risk managers are responsible for approving the funding stage for a number of reasons not 2014 EP-Covered transactions at the credit approval stage, including directly tied to environmental reviews. Project Finance Advisories ** Funded loans closed in 2014 may have been confirmation that transactions are on track for EP reviewed in previous years. Total 5 compliance. A summary of 2014 EP transactions is to the 3 right, and full EP III required reporting is on the Reviewed following page. Mandated links to READ MORE Equator Principles 39 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Citi Invests 2014 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles III continued  iti received an Independent Accountants’ C Report from KPMG LLP related to the below EP III data reporting. 2014 Funded Project 2014 Funded Project-Related 2014 Mandated Project Finance Advisories Finance Loans Breakdown Corporate Loans Breakdown By Sector A B C Total By Sector A B C Total Total 3 Infrastructure 1 1 0 2 Chemicals 1 0 0 1 Power–Wind 0 3 0 3 Manufacturing 0 1 0 1 By Sector Mining 1 0 0 1 Infrastructure 1 By Region A B C Total Oil and Gas 0 1 0 1 Oil and Gas 1 U.S. and Canada 0 4 0 4 Power–Thermal 0 1 0 1 Power–Solar 1 Latin America 1 0 0 1 Europe 0 0 0 0 By Region A B C Total By Region Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 0 U.S. and Canada 1 1 0 2 Americas 1 Asia and Oceania 0 0 0 0 Latin America 1 2 0 3 Asia and Oceania 1 Europe 0 0 0 0 Africa 1 By Country Designation A B C Total Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 0 Designated 0 4 0 4 Asia and Oceania 0 0 0 0 Non-Designated 1 0 0 1 By Country Designation A B C Total By Independent Review A B C Total Designated 1 1 0 2 Yes 1 3 0 4 Non-Designated 1 2 0 3 No 0 1 0 1 By Independent Review A B C Total Yes 2 2 0 4 No 0 1 0 1 links to READ MORE KPMG Assurance Letter 40 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Reducing Our Citi Acts The chart below shows our progress across each Operational Footprint of the goals during the year. To drive sustainable progress worldwide we need to lead by example. That means From a 2005 Baseline Achieved doing everything we can to reduce the 25% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 20% GHG emissions impacts of our facilities on the local 40% reduction in waste stream to and global environment by conserving landfill 40.1% energy, water and other resources, influ20% reduction in water consumption 17.6% encing employee and supplier behavior 15% of global real estate portfolio LEED 13.3% and investing in green building design. certified 20% improvement in portfolio energy As part of our Sustainable Progress strategy, Citi 17.6% efficiency has established new environmental footprint goals for 2020, including 35 percent reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 30 percent Regional Operational Environmental Performance, 2014 reductions in energy and water use and 60 percent GHG Total Energy Total Water reduction in waste to landfill, all against a 2005 Emissions Consumption Consumption Total Waste baseline. The initiative also includes a longer-term Region (mt) (GWh) (m3) (mt) 2050 GHG emissions reduction goal of 80 percent; North America 454,983 1,018 3,145,270 27,061 both the 2020 and 2050 GHG goals were created Latin America 144,117 376 1,484,604 13,101 using a climate science-based methodology. Asia Pacific 215,642 343 895,310 9,100 We are currently on track to meet our 2015 Europe, Middle East & Africa 109,510 251 524,029 6,626 global operational environmental goals. Set in 2010, these goals address key performance areas including reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste generation, water conservation, GHG Emissions (Scope 1 & 2) by Region in 2014 LEED building, and improving energy efficiency. Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Annual targets drive progress across Citi’s nearly Region CO2e CO2e CO2e 12,000 locations. North America 22,070 432,913 454,983 Each year, we measure our operational environLatin America 1,753 142,364 144,117 mental footprint—carbon emissions, energy use, Asia Pacific 2,180 213,462 215,642 water consumption and waste (generated and Europe, Middle East & Africa 5,430 104,080 109,510 diverted from landfill)—and analyze the data to optimize performance. links to READ MORE Sustainable Progress Strategy 41 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Reducing Emissions, Modeling Efficiency In 2014, we achieved a nearly 18 percent reduction Citi Invests Citi invests and acts around the world to shrink our in energy use compared to 2005. To meet our 20 percent reduction goal by 2015, we are continuing Data centers are crucial to our ability to climate footprint and lead by example as a global to construct high-performance buildings, invest in deliver the products and services our corporation. We reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) retrofits and use efficient equipment and technolocustomers rely on. They house thousands of emissions by investing in new equipment such as gies. In 2014, 32 Citi-managed buildings had been servers and data storage and networking LED lighting, by improving the performance of certified with the Energy Star label. equipment, accounting for nearly 27 existing infrastructure, and through site-specific percent of Citi’s total energy use globally. projects, such as power generation from natural Renewable Energy Our efficiency efforts have resulted in: gas. And we partner with our employees and suppliers to make the cities and communities Citi invests in renewable technologies and purchas»» 50 data center facilities eliminated since where we work more climate-friendly. es Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) to offset 2008, while increasing the number of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with virtualized servers to 46,600 Through these means, we met our goal to reduce the power used to run our operations. In 2014 we operational Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 25 »» Global server use increased to 56 percent purchased 104,259 wind renewable energy credits, percent in 2013, two years ahead of schedule. (from 55 percent in 2013), and global offsetting nearly 100,000 metric tons of GHGs. To maintain our momentum we established an storage use improved to 52 percent (from interim goal to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG In January 2015, Citi ranked 19th in the Green 48 percent in 2013)* emissions by 25 percent by 2015, and achieved a Power Partnership list of Fortune 500 companies, and 49th in the National 100 list, published by the »» 2,700 legacy servers replaced with new 20 percent reduction in 2014. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). energy-efficient servers, reducing energy We are transparent about our climate change use by 460 kilowatts while increasing efforts and have submitted a response to the processing capacity Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2003. In »» 8,500 new virtual servers supported 2014, Citi received a B for climate performance business growth while preventing the and a 94 out of 100 for transparency. installation of 6,700 physical servers. We follow the GHG Protocol for measuring and This resulted in an energy savings of reporting our GHG emissions, most of which are 3,400 kilowatts. indirect (Scope 2) and result from the generation * In 2014 the measurement metric changed from of purchased electricity. We also report Scope 3 percent of storage allocated to percent of storage CO2 emissions from employee air and train travel, used. as well as project-financed thermal power plants. Citi requires that all energy projects receiving financing meet our ESRM Standard. In 2014, Citi did not fund any project finance loans in the thermal power sector. links to READ MORE Carbon Disclosure Project Managing Our Environmental and Performance Summary Submission Social Risk 42 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Reducing Our Water and Waste Footprint Engaging our Employees and Supply Chain Water scarcity is a growing global concern. To Our people and suppliers are vital partners in model sustainable operations, we are working hard reducing Citi’s global impacts on the natural to meet our 2015 goal of reducing water consumpenvironment and making our vision of sustainable tion by 20 percent from 2005 levels. In 2014 we cities and communities a reality. At our offices and cut water consumption by almost 18 percent, or banking facilities, our employees support and lead nearly 1.3 million cubic meters, by adopting innovaenvironmental initiatives, and we work with our tive water efficiency measures. suppliers to promote sustainability throughout our During the year, we also surpassed our 2015 goal value chain. to reduce waste to landfill by diverting 40 percent Green Teams compared to 2005 volumes. Our commitment to sustainable growth is seen in our employee green teams, which act as global Showcasing Green Building ambassadors for our environmental initiatives. Green buildings are a powerful illustration of With more than 1,700 members globally, in 2014 our environmental commitment and add value Citi employees volunteering at Mile End Park we added teams in Costa Rica, Peru, Ecuador, the to urban neighborhoods and city skylines. Citi’s in London. Philippines, Poland and Ireland, bringing the total ambitious goal is to achieve LEED certification for to 24. These volunteer groups promote sustain15 percent of our global real estate portfolio by 2015. We nearly reached that goal in 2014 at over able work practices and behavior through awareCiti Acts ness campaigns, recycling initiatives, speaker 13 percent certification, or 249 LEED-certified projGreen team-led sustainability successes in series and volunteer programs around the world. ects globally. In 2014, we LEED-certified more than 2014 included: 1 million square feet for a total green floor space of In Mississauga, Ontario, the local green team »» 108 educational events around the world nearly 8 million square feet. established a waste diversion program to pick up used batteries, wooden pallets and electronic »» More than 4,311 hours dedicated to As part of our Sustainability Progress strategy, sustainability efforts by employee devices at our site. By making drop-off bins more we are seeking LEED Platinum certification for volunteers accessible and enhancing awareness through our 388/390 Greenwich Street facility in New social media and improved team communications, York City, which will become the company’s global waste diversion increased to 60.5 percent from 41 headquarters once it is fully renovated. For a percent in 2013. regional breakdown of our LEED buildings, see the Performance Summary. links to READ MORE Performance Summary 43 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE program, see our Statement of Supplier Principles and the Citi Standards for Suppliers. Sustainability and The tools we use to drive sustainability progress in Governance our supply chain include: Consistent across our business, we »» Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire (CRQ): operate with a high degree of accountdetermines how well current and potential ability, and we are open and transparent suppliers are managing governance, environabout how we tackle environmental and mental sustainability and supplier diversity. social issues. »» Environmentally Preferable Purchasing Toolkit: Oversight of Citi’s sustainability performance is identifies environmentally preferable qualities provided by our Board’s Nomination, Governance for products and services and provides suggestand Public Affairs Committee, which includes an ed bid and contract language. annual review of Citi’s sustainability policies and Citi employees volunteering at the Library of Hope in Thailand. »» Sustainable Paper Guidance: provides initiatives. Our cross-business Environmental and environmental specifications for office paper Social Policy Review Committee (ESPRC) of senior Earth Week 2014 and stationery. managers provides guidance on all sustainability, In celebration of Earth Week 2014, Citi hosted environmental and social risk, and human rights »» Supplier Diversity & Sustainability Risk and nearly 150 events across 66 cities in 18 countries. policies and programs. Among the most impactful of these was the launch Control Framework: defines regulated risks in Citi’s supply chain, and associated monitoring Our Corporate Sustainability team, working across by our Dining & Conferencing Department of and reporting requirements. business units and regions, sets Citi’s sustainabila sustainable line of disposable food-service ity strategy in partnership with the businesses products at New York staff dining locations. In 2014, we enhanced our CRQ toolkits to one and manages and monitors its imple­mentation. This eliminated the use of foam products, replacglobal standard, and collected over 280 responses, Our company-wide Environmental and Social ing them with alternatives made from renewable of which 65 percent were from top suppliers Risk Management (ESRM) Policy is managed by resources and other environmentally compostable based on spend in the North America region. We the ESRM unit, which is part of Independent Risk and sustainable materials. In total, this effort also expanded the questionnaire to Colombia and Management. Citi’s Realty Services unit manages has so far diverted nearly 230,000 lbs. of landfill are currently rolling it out globally in eight other operational footprint and environmental goals, waste. international locations in 2015 across all regions. and our Procurement Services group oversees In line with Citi’s sustainability framework, we supply chain sustainability. Sustainable Supply Chain collaborate with suppliers to improve their We work with our thousands of suppliers all over environmental and social performance, manage the world to build and improve sustainable cities risk and better assess the GHG emissions in our and communities. Citi’s Supply Chain Sustainability supply chain. In particular, we focus on paper and program looks to create mutually beneficial paper-based products, disposal of IT hardware and supplier relationships that achieve environmental, e-waste disposal, and travel and logistics. social and governance objectives. For more on this links to READ MORE Statement of Supplier Principles Standards for Suppliers Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk 44 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Progress: People Citi serves as a trusted partner to our clients, and that trust is earned by the people who make up our firm. Our people drive our business and client engagement, and our work is made better by employees who bring diversity of thought, ideas and experience to their roles. We focus on attracting and retaining a talented and diverse employee base, developing their potential and rewarding their successes. We strive to create a culture of inclusion and well-being and an environment that allows every individual to thrive at work and contribute to their communities. This approach is ingrained in all that we do and we are constantly working to improve. We take these responsibilities seriously and understand that our firm-wide success is rooted in the individual success of the talented individuals who make up Citi’s global employee base. Links to READ MORE Global Community Day Event Map 46 In Conversation: Chad Griffin, President, Human Rights Campaign (HRC), and Ana Duarte McCarthy, Chief Diversity Officer, Citi The Human Rights Campaign (HRC) is the Ana Duarte McCarthy — We joined the business military veterans, people with disabilities and the leading U.S. advocacy group for the lesbian, gay, coalitions on the Employment Non-Discrimination LGBT community. As a company that spans nearly bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community, Act and in support of equitable tax. Both of those 100 countries we also face cultural nuances. Our and a longtime Citi partner. How do you work sent a message from Citi that this was critical for value of respect and inclusion is a global one and together for workplace equality? us to support our talent and to ensure that we we will continue to ensure that this is the common Chad Griffin — More than a decade ago, HRC treat all employees fairly. experience of our employees. At the same time created an index so that we could measure we need to be understanding and respectful that companies on how they treat employees ­— what Beyond legal rights, how else can companies cultural norms may be somewhat different in types of benefits, of protections were granted to create an inclusive work environment? another country. same-sex partners. Citi has scored a perfect 100 CG — It’s about diversity, inclusion and for 11 years now and we are working with a lot of engagement. We have to have a diverse workplace See the full video of Chad Griffin and other companies to get them to where Citi is. When but also ways that we engage a diverse workforce. Ana Duarte McCarthy in conversation a company like Citi leads the way, it makes it far easier for others to walk through that door. Citi has made a diverse, inclusive workforce a priority. What changes and challenges have you We’ve also worked with corporations around the encountered? country to provide coalitions to win state and ADM — When we think about diversity as a talent federal legislative battles. Every single time, mix, we’ve had a strong commitment to focus not business has been key to our success. only on gender, race and ethnicity, but also on 47 Valuing Our People The Challenge Our Progress Skilled and talented individuals have To attract diverse, talented and globalmany choices when it comes to careers ly minded individuals, we offer opportuand employers. With the financial nities for professional development and 2014 performance highlights services sector still recovering from the community engagement within a culture »» Over 14,000 employees participated loss of reputation suffered during the of inclusion and collaboration. in our 107 employee–led networks, economic crisis, recruiting and retaining top talent can be challenging. Today’s organized by affinity group across employees seek out companies that not 20 countries. only offer professional opportunity but »» Ninety-six percent of our people also are good corporate citizens. received job-related training. »» More than 15,000 employees in 55 countries opted for flexible working arrangements. »» More than 70,000 employees, families and friends in 479 cities and 93 countries took part in our 2014 Global Community Day events. links to READ MORE Global Community Day Event Map 48 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Building a Diverse, minority senior management increased from 23.8 Citi Partners percent in 2013 to 24.5 percent in 2014. 21st-Century Workforce To help us grow our vibrant employee base in Asia, during 2014 we entered a new Addressing Unconscious Bias Building and retaining a diverse partnership with Community Business, a In some countries, we face a challenge balancing workforce requires continual assessrespect for local customs, values and legislation leading nonprofit focused on corporate ment and adaptation. Citi partners with with our principles as a company that views diversity and inclusion based in Hong Kong, to develop diversity strategies and enhance organizations and academic institutions diversity as a business imperative. Our approach is to work closely with our local teams to promote best practices that focus on gender, LGBT that are expert in areas including flexible and generational inclusion. our diversity and inclusion programs to employees. working, veteran hiring and workplace To promote inclusion beyond our own We also partner with local civil rights groups to equality for minorities, women, LGBT influence human rights progress. business, Citi also supports Community individuals and people with disabilities. One approach we use to tackle unconscious Business’ LGBT Workplace Inclusion Index perceptions is corporate theater, with managers for Hong Kong, launched in November 2014. In 2014, we rolled out Citi Inclusion Recruiting in learning about female and diverse employees’ The first of its kind in Asia, the index allows North America, building our recruiters’ capacity experiences through role play workshops. In 2014, participating Hong Kong-based companies to identify strong diverse candidates and monitor we expanded the successful program beyond India to benchmark and promote their efforts in progress through a transparent recruiting to Mexico and Japan. creating inclusive environments for LGBT dashboard. We trained 250 recruiters on how to individuals. Top-ranked companies will be build awareness about the impact of unconscious announced in 2015. perceptions, implemented a toolkit and intranet support site, and established a dedicated veteran “Diversity within Citi reflects the “Citi’s active engagement has positioned it recruiting team. as an employer of choice in Asia,” says Fern diversity of the clients and commu­ Ngai, CEO of Community Business. “As a Expanding Our Talent Pool nities that we serve across the new member of Community Business’ Recruiting talented women and minorities, and globe. As the world evolves, so too Diversity & Inclusion in Asia Network (DIAN), helping them further their careers with us, is Citi has aligned itself with other like-minded should the various viewpoints, ideas a company-wide priority. In the last year, we leading companies committed to creating increased the number of female and diverse and experiences that inform our more diverse and inclusive workplaces. candidates considered for senior positions. A business. This requires constant We are delighted to support Citi along scorecard introduced in 2013 by the CEO produced diligence, and we continue to build this journey.” results in 2014, when we achieved diverse slates a diverse and inclusive environment for 70 percent of these positions, surpassing our 58 percent threshold for the year. at Citi that attracts great talent and In addition, Citi’s female global representation at enables individual and firm-wide the senior management level rose to 23.3 percent success.” in 2014, up from 22.9 percent in 2013. Our U.S. Mike Corbat, Chief Executive Officer, Citigroup links to READ MORE Community Business Partnership 49 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Citi Invests Investing in Tomorrow’s Female Leaders Target Participation Program group 2008–2014* Women Managing 173 women in Leading Citi Directors 27 countries Women’s Directors 639 women in Leadership 51 countries Development Program * Some women have attended more than one program. Developing and Developing Citi Leaders In 2014, leadership training programs for our In 2014, 96 percent of Citi Rewarding Talent current and next-generation leaders reached employees averaged 45 hours Today’s workplace requires skilled, adaptover 9,180 managers. New offerings included a client-focused change management course for of training. able workers and engaged employees senior managers, and an individual leadership who help drive success in a competitive program for senior employees without direct global marketplace. To support our reports. We also held Citi Forums, led by our CEO, business strategy, we invest heavily in other senior leaders and outside experts, for an the learning and development of our additional 4,386 managing directors and directors worldwide to build their capabilities and promote employees. regional action on our business priorities. Training for the Global Marketplace Citi Women Training approaches include on-the-job experiCurrently, 52.4 percent of our workforce is female, ence, manager feedback and physical or virtual as is much of our customer base. Recognizing classroom instruction. In 2014, we invested $230 this, we provide comprehensive support of female million in learning and development programs, employees, clients, customers and communities. providing more virtual classroom opportunities Since 2008, 761 female employees participated in and new online learning channels such as massive our company-wide advancement programs (see open online courses (MOOCs). chart), designed to develop, retain and promote To help people reach their potential, we hold female high achievers. Since its 2008 launch, year-end performance reviews for all employees, Women’s Leadership Development Program including executives, as well as less formal midyear graduates have generally outpaced their peers development conversations. in promotions and have stayed at Citi in higher numbers. 50 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Our Inclusive Culture and online in almost 30 languages. Overall satisfaction levels remained virtually the same, at 73 percent Citi Acts Environment compared to 74 percent in 2013. »» Tens of thousands of our employees in Latin America and Europe, the Middle Diversity at Citi is a bottom-up as well East and Africa (EMEA), took part in as a top-down commitment. A growing Diversity Week events including lectures, number of employees participate in Promoting Health workshops and arts performances. self-organized, self-led groups based on shared interests or identity—women, and Wellness »» We hosted 236 events in 173 cities across 89 countries to mark International Promoting employee health and wellmilitary veterans, people with disabilities, Women’s Day, around the theme of ness is both good citizenship and good “Connecting Women, Inspiring Change, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender business. Our global health strategy, Live Making Progress.” More than 500 (LGBT) individuals, parents and employWell at Citi, provides targeted medical and customers and tens of thousands of ees of different generations and cultural employees attended events from London health promotion programs that support backgrounds. to Lusaka, Seoul and New York City. employees to live healthier while helping These Employee Networks, as we call them, also »» Our 14 Pride networks and their 2,000 manage our company’s healthcare spend. provide opportunities for community involvement, members collectively won the prestigious professional development and volunteerism. In 2014, we continued to roll out our global stan“LGBT Employee Resource Group of the dards to support disease and illness prevention, Year Award” bestowed by Out & Equal In 2014, the total number of Employee Networks promote healthy nutrition and exercise, advocate Workplace Advocates. grew from 92 to 107, with some 14,000 members not smoking, help employees manage chronic across 20 countries and 47 cities. New networks conditions, and encourage life/work balance. Citi placed 18th in the Hay Group manageincluded the first established by Citi country offices in Asia (Hong Kong, India and the Through 2014, Live Well at Citi was locally tailored ment consultancy’s 2014 global survey of Philippines) and in Latin America (women’s groups and adopted in the U.S., UK, Canada, Mexico and Best Companies for Leadership, based on in Honduras and El Salvador). Our London office across Asia Pacific. Citi also received the American responses from 17,000 individuals at 2,100 also launched the first military veterans group Heart Association’s (AHA’s) Platinum or Gold Level organizations. outside the United States. Fit Friendly Company Award for the third straight year, highlighting our corporate leadership on Acting on Employee Feedback promoting a strong culture of health and wellness. By acting promptly on employees’ feedback we can be a more effective company. Our main vehicle for taking the temperature of our global workforce is the annual confidential opinion survey, Voice of the Employee (VoE). In 2014, 87 percent of active direct employees completed the survey, available links to READ MORE Citi Diversity 2014 U.S. Workforce Diversity Data 51 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Promoting a Global Health and Fitness Culture Citi Acts Citi Acts In 2014, Live Well at Citi sponsored three major With managers’ approval, employees In 2014, our comprehensive health and health campaigns to encourage employees to shed worldwide can switch to a flexible work fitness facilities and programs included: sedentary lifestyles: arrangement. A dedicated web portal »» 33 countries took part in a monthlong awareness»» 17 global fitness centers, available to provides support tools and training courses 50,000 employees, of whom 30 percent raising program, Nourishing Your Heart, with for both managers and flexi-workers. In were members. events including webinars, lunch-and-learns, 2014, around 15,000 employees across 55 aerobics, yoga and walks with senior leaders. countries chose formal flexible work plans, »» 783 health and well-being programs and many more adjusted their schedules to provided by professional health and »» More than 18,000 employees, including our CEO, accommodate short-term needs. fitness staff to 42,000 employees. took part in our annual Global Fitness Challenge, earning points through walking, cycling, running We also offer childcare services to more »» 22,000+ free flu shots, reaching or swimming, which Citi converted into donations than 100,000 employees in Canada, Europe more than 29 percent of eligible U.S. to International Rescue, Project Hope and CARE and the U.S. employees. International. »» 20 U.S. locations offering biometric »» Seventeen hundred employees in New York City screening, reaching 5,240 employees. turned out for the American Heart Association’s »» 24 countries, with 190,000 employees, annual Wall Street Run & Heart Walk, for which launched programs supporting Find Citi was the lead financial sponsor. We also had Your Balance, a new global energy and the greatest number of participants, who collecresiliency campaign aimed at supporting tively raised over $165,000. Employees at local emotional well-being through resources events around the country raised an additional including motivational speakers and $300,000. webinars. Monitoring Disease Outbreaks »» 18,720 miles walked or run by our North Live Well at Citi Health Services and its pandemic America Fitness Center members at 15 team continually monitor new and outgoing locations during a two-week ”Citi on the infectious disease outbreaks globally, updating Move” challenge. our medical clinics, HR team and business units Citi locations around the world also offered as needed. In 2014, we provided guidance and free health programs such as flu vaccinasupport on the Ebola outbreak, working closely tions and blood pressure, blood sugar and with Citi’s Nigeria Country Officer and leadercholesterol screenings. U.S. employees also ship in West Africa to respond to the country’s took advantage of smoking cessation outbreak, and advising HR, business leadership programs, nutrition counseling, cancer and communication teams globally. screenings and mammography. 52 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Empowering Employees to Citi maintains a global, online event management system that connects employees to local volunCiti Partners Support their Communities teer opportunities with nonprofit partners, and In 2014, we held seven Citi Skills Marathons around the world including in London, The volunteering spirit runs deep at Citi, provides training tools and other resources. We Mexico City, New York City and Warsaw with give eligible employees one paid day off a year to demonstrating an empowering common employee volunteers donating more than volunteer. In 2014, we began digitizing training purpose that connects our employees to materials and resources to help recruit and 1,500 hours of service to over 40 nonprofit their colleagues and communities. The organizations. These done-in-a-day events empower volunteer champions. These will launch connect small teams of seasoned professkills and reach of our workforce also set in 2015 via the Citi Volunteers intranet site. sionals from Citi with local nonprofit us apart as a company, allowing us to partners to address the critical needs of Global Community Day 2014 catalyze measurable social, economic and Our flagship Citi Volunteers initiative is the annual their organization. Apart from the rewards environmental progress around the world. Global Community Day. Held for the ninth year of giving back, volunteers benefit from in June 2014, the event drew more than 70,000 exposure to nonprofit partners as well Citi offers a wide range of volunteer opportunities Citi colleagues and their family and friends. Our as opportunities to hone their leadership that harness the enthusiasm and passion of our volunteers served 63,293 meals, built or renoskills and expand their networks with diverse employees and meet the pressing needs vated 1,388 homes, mentored 31,000 youth and Citi colleagues. of our local communities. Hands-on opportunities range from neighborhood revitalization and delivered 22,500 hours of financial education. hunger relief projects to veterans support, (See map on page 55 for regional highlights.) disaster relief and nature conservation. Through the work of the Citi Foundation, including our Pathways to Progress initiative, employees can Citi enabled more than 900,000 offer their professional skills through volunteering volunteer hours in the communi­ as financial educators and college and career ties where we do business. More mentors. The Foundation’s partnership with the Taproot Foundation leverages employees’ skills by than 70,000 employees, families connecting Citi volunteers with community groups and friends across nearly 500 cities and NGOs in need of specific professional support. participated in Global Community Day. Employees take the lead in our year-round volunteering efforts, using Employee Networks, green teams and volunteer councils to promote community engagement and harness colleagues’ interests, enthusiasm and expertise. 53 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE “Citi and the Citi Foundation have done a wonderful job creating a culture of service. Research shows that effective employee volunteer programs like Citi’s not only increase morale and productivity but also empower employees to solve problems and create real impact in the communities where they work and live.” Tracy Hoover, CEO, Points of Light 54 54 United Kindom North America Middle Asia East Pacific Africa Latin America Global Community New York City Citi CEO Michael Corbat joined Argentina More than 1,600 volunteers took Cameroon Eighty volunteers helped out at a local Day Highlights more than 4,000 volunteers in 50+ activities including renovating parks part in events that included helping families reduce their water and energy district hospital in Douala, assisting with blood donations, refurbishing and schools, supporting military consumption from nonrenewable the pediatric ward and distributing veterans and coaching and mentoring sources. medication to patients. young people. Guatemala Taiwan California More than 700 volunteers supported Marking Citi’s 50th anniversary in More than 1,400 Citi volunteers a 24-hour push to rehabilitate and the country, 3,800 volunteers helped joined events including building a construct seven public schools in entertain 500 orphans and underprivi4,000-square-foot community garden Guatemala City. leged children at a local theme park. at a Los Angeles school and renovatUnited Kingdom Japan ing homes for low-income families. Nearly 2,300 volunteers supported 90 More than 700 Citi colleagues and Canada service projects in Belfast, Edinburgh their families rolled up their sleeves Food banks and local parks were and London, including restoring for activities including park and beach among sites where 700 Citi volunteers community playgrounds and providing cleanups and recultivating abandoned congregated for meal making, tree academic and career mentoring. land. planting and environmental cleanup Middle East Vietnam activities. More than 900 volunteers turned More than 600 volunteers took part Mexico out to collect and distribute basic in tree-planting activities to protect More than 3,800 volunteers taught necessities to low-income children coastlines and spread environmental basic financial knowledge to children in Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, awareness. at 91 events across 63 cities. Kuwait, Lebanon, Morocco, Pakistan, Qatar, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates. 55 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Citi Acts In 2014, the Citi Foundation donated $500,000 to support the American Red Cross (ARC) in providing vital resources such as trucks, medical supplies and food to disaster-hit communities in the United States. The ARC responds to over 70,000 disasters across the country in a typical year. »» In the Philippines, we launched a two-year Responding to Disasters Typhoon Haiyan Disaster Recovery Program with As a global company with global longtime community partner Gawad Kalinga citizenship responsibilities, our efforts to and the local municipal government to support empower communities extend to those low-income families in the coastal town of Tanauan, Leyte. The program is jump-starting impacted by natural disasters around the local economy by establishing four livelihood the world. activities, and creating a culture of community Citi and the Citi Foundation work with expert resiliency through a disaster risk reduction U.S. and international humanitarian aid partprogram that will be scaled to other vulnerable ners, including the American Red Cross, to areas. fund integrated disaster readiness, relief and »» In the U.S., our support enabled vulnerable rebuilding programs. Our goal is to provide communities stricken by Hurricane Sandy to long-term support to vulnerable communities receive counseling on foreclosure prevention in disaster-prone regions, helping them become and connected families in the process of rebuildmore resilient. We also engage our employees in ing their homes and livelihoods to asset-building relief efforts, providing channels for them to make support programs. financial contributions and, when appropriate, organizing volunteering opportunities when disaster strikes in countries where we operate. In 2014, the Citi Foundation’s efforts focused on long-term rebuilding support in the Philippines and on the U.S. East Coast, and totalled $1.86 million in grants to community-based programs and partner relief agencies. 56 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Progress: Integrity As a global bank, people trust us with their money. Whether it is individuals, companies or governments, a personal level of trust is core to every interaction. That trust is our license to operate as we work to facilitate economic progress around the world. Understanding this, we ask our employees and all those who work on Citi’s behalf to meet three tests in making decisions: that they be in the clients’ interests, create economic value, and are always systemically responsible. We are committed to fostering a culture of ethical decision making and we encourage our people to speak up when they see something that doesn’t look right. Every day, Citi strives to meet and exceed our responsibilities to our clients, shareholders, regulators, communities and global partners through strong governance, thoughtful and frequent engagement, and by doing business according to the highest standards of professional and ethical conduct. These capabilities create an obligation to act responsibly, do everything possible to create the best outcomes, and prudently manage risk. If we fall short, we will take decisive action and learn from our experience. 58 In Conversation: Mark Carawan, Chief Auditor, Citigroup, and David Miller, Professor, Princeton University and Business Ethics Specialist Citi recognizes ethical conduct as fundamental Mark Carawan — When we look at ethics and Does following high ethical standards always to business success. How do you define ethics? culture within Citi, one of the things we’ve been pay for companies? David Miller — As a professor of business ethics, focusing on is to start right at the very beginning. DM — It’s the million-dollar question. You might the definition I use is that ethics is the art and How do we deal with our customers? Do we treat lose a deal by walking away from something that discipline of discerning the right, the good, and the them fairly? Do we practice responsible finance? Is just doesn’t quite fit with responsible finance as fitting action to take and having the creativity and this approach the good, the fitting and the right? you think about it. On the other hand…if you think courage to do it. It’s not rigid. There are habits, beyond quarterly results, over time data shows you have to think, to have certain processes and Can you give examples of how business units that doing the right thing pays. disciplines in place. at Citi demonstrate a healthy ethical culture? MC — At Citi we are absolutely convinced that MC — The number one characteristic is openness, ethics pays. It is exactly what we need to do to Citi has a very wide geographic footprint. How and having people within the organization seeking provide confidence to the marketplace, to our do you embed ethics into the different cultures to do the right thing…when no one is looking. For customers and to our employees, that we are and people who make up a large multinational example, being the person who says, “This is the focused on doing the right thing. corporation? way we can help achieve the right outcome for DM — One of the big challenges for organizations how we sell this product so that people have better See the full video of Mark Carawan and is not to take ethics for granted. You can have a clarity and transparency.” million auditors and compliance officers — that’s David Miller in conversation. not going to make it an ethical organization. It’s about culture; it’s about what people say as well as what they do. 59 Conducting Business to the Highest Standards The Challenge Our Progress We are a global bank operating in At Citi, our mission is to create the best 2014 Performance Highlights a global economy. Developing and outcomes for our clients with financial maintaining trust requires consistently solutions that are creative and responsi»» Citi’s Board of Directors established meeting expectations responsibly. As ble. To do this we must meet and exceed an Ethics and Culture Committee the financial services sector continues the highest standards of business behavdedicated to overseeing Citi’s to recover and rebuild its reputation, ior at all times. Fostering a culture of efforts to foster a culture of ethics strengthening public confidence and ethical conduct and decision making has throughout the firm. trust will be essential to the future of been, and continues to be, a top priority our company and our sector. for our company. »» Citi introduced robust new Code of Conduct training and developed and championed a firm-wide effort to underscore the importance of acting with integrity and the highest ethical standards in all that we do. 60 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE “Credibility is the currency that allows us to meet our goals.” Mike Corbat, Chief Executive Officer, Citigroup 61 Conduct and Culture Our Employees Citi Acts As we strive to enable economic progEvery day, Citi employees demonstrate Throughout 2014, Citi, with the oversight of the Board’s Ethics and Culture Committee, ress around the world, we understand their commitment to operating with developed and championed a series of that our reputation is critical to inspiring integrity through interactions with company-wide ethics and culture initiatives. confidence in our investors and clients, clients, shareholders, communities, »» Provided in-person training to nearly and integral to our success. As a result, global partners and each other. Citi 5,000 of our most senior managers we expect our employees and represenencourages an open culture and strives designed to foster ethical decision tatives to conduct business according to provide a safe work environment in making and underscore the importance to the highest professional and ethical which everyone is treated with respect of escalating issues. For 2015, Citi has adapted and is rolling out this training standards, and to abide by the values and dignity at all times. to around 40,000 senior employees and principles expressed by Citi’s policies Our Code of Conduct globally. and procedures as outlined in our Code Our employees’ daily actions and decisions are »» Updated the internal Citi Ethics Office of Conduct, as well as all applicable laws guided by the Citi Code of Conduct, and we update website, providing employees with and regulations. easier access to resources, including an our policies and procedures as necessary to reflect We conduct business in compliance with legal, best practices. In addition, the business practices ethical decision-making tool, the Code of regulatory and human rights requirements in committees for each of Citi’s businesses and Conduct and ways to report concerns. the countries in which we operate. Upon learning regions review business activities, sales practices, »» Launched an ethics video series that of any investigations regarding our business product design, potential conflicts of interest and features insights and illustrative examoperations, Citi works cooperatively with other franchise or reputational risk issues escalated ples from Citi’s senior management. All local authorities. to these committees. The business practices employees can access the videos through In the United States, Citi works with the Federal committee at the corporate level reviews issues multiple distribution channels, including Reserve Board, Office of the Comptroller of the escalated by a business practices committee at via email and the Citi employee website. Currency, the Consumer Financial Protection the business or regional level that may present franchise, reputational and/or systemic risks. All Conduct Risk Bureau and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation reviews by the business practices committees During the year, Citi also established a to ensure that we comply with Fair Lending and are conducted with due consideration of the Conduct Risk Program to assess and Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) laws and context and facts presented to the committees. manage the risks associated with conduct regulations. These committees, which are comprised of our by employees and agents that can lead to most senior executives, provide the guidance negative outcomes for consumers, clients necessary for Citi’s business practices to meet the and markets. highest standards of professionalism, integrity and ethical behavior consistent with Citi’s Mission and Principles. links to READ MORE Code of Conduct Business Practice Committees’ Charter 62 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE First published in 1997, the Board-approved Code Reporting Concerns »» More than 1,500 AML compliance officers functions as an ethical guide for Citi’s global If we are to fulfill our commitment to always act worldwide workforce. The Code sets forth the values and with integrity, our employees must feel free to »» AML training for Citi employees around the world principles that direct our conduct when dealing report concerns when they witness actions that with clients, business colleagues, shareholders, don’t look or feel right. »» Audits and risk assessments of our communities and each other. It demonstrates Citi’s AML programs at the global, regional and The Citi Ethics Office provides employees worldcommitment to a culture of ethics and integrity country levels. wide, as well as customers, suppliers and other and applies to all directors, officers and employthird parties, with easy-to-access mechanisms to ees. In addition, individuals performing services Preventing Bribery and Corruption report ethical violations either anonymously or for Citi may be subject to the Code by contract or Citi is committed to conducting business in with attribution. These channels include a toll-free agreement. Our Code is available to the public in accordance with the highest ethical standards and multilingual Global Ethics Hotline—operated by a 26 languages and covers a broad range of topics in full compliance with all applicable anti-bribery third-party vendor and available 24 hours a day, including: Conflicts of Interest, Fair Employment and corruption laws and regulations, including year-round. Employees can also choose to submit Practices and Diversity, Safeguarding Personal, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. concerns through our internal ethics website, Proprietary and Confidential Information, Bribery Act, and the applicable local anti-bribery send an email to ethicsconcern@citi.com, or send Anti-Money Laundering Compliance, Commitment and corruption laws of the counties in which correspondence by fax or mail to our global Ethics to Sustainability, Commitment to Human Rights and Citi operates. Citi has in place written policies, Office, located in the United States. Responsibility to Raise Ethical Issues. procedures and internal controls reasonably All complaints are treated as confidentially as designed to comply with anti-bribery laws and All new employees are asked to acknowledge possible and are subject to applicable laws and regulations. Citi’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption that they have read and will comply with the regulations. Citi prohibits retaliation against Policy expressly prohibits bribery in any form. For Code of Conduct, and we ask that they reaffirm anyone who reports their concerns in good faith more on our comprehensive procedures to guard this commitment periodically through Code of or for participation in an investigation. For more against bribery and corruption, please see our Conduct training. In 2014, we revised our Code information, please visit the Hotline website. Anti-Bribery and Corruption statement. training courses for all employees and nonemployees. The Code training course aims to strengthen Preventing Money Laundering Complying with Economic Sanctions Regimes understanding across our workforce of our Citi is committed to helping safeguard the financial In addition, we have a robust, enterprise-wide principles, values and standards of professional system from money laundering and other financial Sanctions program across businesses and funcbehavior. It also provides an overview of certain crimes. We take very seriously our obligations tions to promote compliance with increasingly key legal and regulatory requirements. The Code to comply with all relevant legal and regulatory dynamic sanctions requirements. This includes training helps employees to become familiar with requirements, including the Bank Secrecy Act and comprehensive policies and procedures; enterpriseand act in accordance with Citi’s policies and the USA PATRIOT Act. Our anti-money laundering wide screening processes; annual risk assessprocedures. (AML) safeguards include the following: ment and audits of sanctions control processes; »» A program designed to manage AML risk in an training of Citi employees; and, importantly, an experienced, highly skilled and diverse compliance integrated manner across products, business organization stationed across the globe. lines and geographies, supported by globally consistent systems and processes. links to READ MORE Hotline Website Anti-bribery and Corruption Corporate Governance Website Statement 63 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Public Policy Paying Taxes Citi operates in more than 100 countries globally, Customer Privacy Citi takes seriously its responsibilities under We engage governments and elected employing tens of thousands of local residents in the the complex and evolving laws and challenges officials to advocate public policies that countries where we do business. We strictly abide by governing information security and consumer support our business operations, clients all tax laws in the United States and throughout the privacy. Around the world, we invest significant world, and our culture of responsible finance extends resources to keep the personal data we maintain and employees in the countries and to our approach to paying taxes. We emphasize about our customers and their financial transacregions where we operate. both strong internal controls and transparency with tions confidential and secure. We train employees Citi is also a member of various industry trade global taxing authorities. Internally, we regularly in the proper handling of personal information and associations that represent the financial services assess the financial impact of taxes on our corporate contractually require the companies that provide industry and broader business community. Our and business operations while our robust compliservices on our behalf to keep the personal inforGlobal Government Affairs (GGA) team leads ance processes ensure that Citi’s tax liabilities are mation they receive confidential. these efforts, guided by our Political Activities paid in accordance with local laws. Citi also works We are also working to enhance our compliance Statement, which ensures compliance with all closely with tax authorities and regulators to ensure and security efforts through a responsive global applicable laws and regulations. compliance with local and federal laws and tax codes. privacy compliance program that responds to the In addition, Citi has a comprehensive tax policy, multiple, and sometimes conflicting, demands of In 2014, GGA promoted policies and positions which covers client transaction where tax aspects emerging laws, guidance and regulations. Our on issues including trade, cyber and information are an important consideration. Under our policy, recently formed Chief Privacy Office will coordisecurity and financial reforms. GGA staff receive Citi will only engage in a transaction where there is a nate efforts to adopt common privacy principles annual compliance training from outside experts, high degree of certainty that the tax aspects will be applied in a transparent manner across our and we require some lobbyists to have additional accepted by the respective tax authorities. businesses and regions. training on specific state and municipal laws. During 2014, we also enhanced our customer Political Contributions privacy safeguards with the launch of the Citi Cyber Citi contributes to U.S. political candidates and campaigns through its Political Action Committee Our Customers Security Fusion Center, a facility focusing on implementing an intelligence-led, threat-focused strategy (Citi PAC). Citi PAC pools the voluntary contriand Clients to protect against cyberattacks on our data. butions from employees to advance political campaigns and candidates that support the finanOur clients and customers entrust us cial industry and complementary pro-business with their money, and meeting and policies. Citi annually discloses its U.S. political exceeding our responsibilities to them contributions via the web. Corporate political is our daily goal. contributions to candidates and campaigns are permitted in a limited number of jurisdictions in To help maintain their trust and loyalty, we the U.S. and abroad. Contributions are reviewed treat secure financial transactions, confidential at least once by the Nomination, Governance and treatment of information and customer privacy as Public Affairs Committee. company-wide priorities, and strive to be transparent about our products in marketing materials. links to READ MORE Political Activities Statement Global Government Affairs U.S. Political Contributions Policies 64 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Responsible Marketing Vetting Charitable Organizations Citi Acts We strive to market our products and services in Citi’s philanthropic work stretches back to our a transparent, consistent and responsible manner founding over 200 years ago. Today, Citi and As part of our ongoing efforts to earn and to maintain trust. Citi marketing materials are the Citi Foundation support causes that fit with keep our customers’ trust, Citi’s Consumer reviewed by the Compliance and Legal Department our mission of promoting financial inclusion and Bank launched the Treating Customers Fairly to ensure that products are clear, fair and comply economic progress, and those where our invest(TCF) program in the U.S. during 2013 and with applicable laws, regulations and Citi policies. ment can deliver scalable and measurable impacts. expanded it globally in 2014. This provides All organizations that Citi supports go through our employees with a formalized framework During 2014, we tested an offer campaign, T.V. for promoting and assessing the principles of spot and master graphic with customers in Mexico due diligence to ensure that they meet appropriate philanthropic criteria, are free from influences of fairness, value, clarity and dependability in to understand overall customer perception and our consumer products, services and to ensure that the communication materials were money laundering, bribery and sanctions. This process ensures that contributions are spent on programs, at each step of the way. More than presented in a clear, concise and complete manner. 60,000 Citi employees have participated in the intended populations and projects. In the United States, our Plain Talk about Your TCF training on how to integrate fairness Products guides provide simple and easy-toprinciples into business-as-usual activities. understand overviews and comparisons of our We also incorporated a fairness goal into available checking products. performance management systems for all employees globally that emphasizes the Customer Satisfaction importance of treating customers appropriCiti tracks customer satisfaction and engagement ately throughout the entire product and through the independently run Net Promoter Score service life cycle. (NPS) system and, increasingly, through social media. The NPS system measures our customers’ willingness to recommend Citi to others. In 2014, we were placed first or second in the industry rankings for Retail Bank or Credit Cards in 18 of our 24 markets. We are also engaging customers through social media. Real-time updates allow us to keep our customers informed of significant Citi events or changes to our services. links to READ MORE Plain Talk about Your Products Approach to Philanthropic Giving 65 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Our Suppliers To help level the playing field for diverse suppliers we also offer programs to help firms better Citi Partners Citi’s suppliers are not just a link in our understand our business, meet our decision makers In 2014, Citi hosted the first Chief Procurement Officer Summit with the value chain. They are important partners and enhance their business skills. These initiatives include mentorship opportunities, in-house training National Minority Supplier Development in maintaining our high ethical standards Council (NMSDC). More than 25 Chief and education programs, regional supplier developglobally and our reputation for integrity. Procurement Officers (CPOs) attended, ment councils and networking events. For example, Knowing this, we are increasingly focused on in 2014 we continued efforts to expand programs representing companies that included: responsible supply chain policies and practices, outside the United States by becoming corporate Macy’s, Proctor & Gamble, PepsiCo, and continually look for opportunities to share members of the Minority Supplier Development Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Pfizer, PwC, lessons learned and promote best practices with UK. We also completed an 18-month mentorship Bank of America, Capital One, Morgan our vendors wherever possible. program with two mentee suppliers graduating Stanley, and JP Morgan Chase. With more than 11,000 suppliers across our global from the National Minority Supplier Development We also hosted several best practices and operations, our expansive supply chain presents Council’s Center of Excellence program. benchmarking meetings with peers across a significant opportunity to endorse responsible In 2014, our Tier 1 diverse procurement spend industries through a “lunch-and-learn” business practices globally. Promoting the same was 12 percent above our target based on our series, which included colleagues from values we instill in our employees across our procurement spend in 2013. PepsiCo, Ernst & Young, IBM, and Major entire supply chain, Citi’s Statement of Supplier League Baseball. Principles serves as an ethical guideline for our vendors, covering guidelines for responsible business practices, environmental sustainability and human rights. Citi Invests U.S. procurement spend with diverse Supplier Diversity suppliers* Using diverse suppliers is good for business, and Year Diverse Spend reflects our broad customer base. It also supports 2010 $542M our citizenship approach of promoting inclusive 2011 $426M communities. Since 1977, Citi’s Supplier Diversity 2012 $632M program has provided capable and diverse 2013 $776M businesses across our global operations with the opportunity to enter our supplier selection 2014 $797M process, and compete for our business. A recently * Includes both Tier 1 and Tier 2 figures codified version of Citi’s Supplier Diversity statement, now available on our website, outlines our commitment to this approach. links to READ MORE Statement of Supplier Principles Supplier Diversity Statement Sustainable Supply Chain Supplier Diversity Program 66 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE “Our partnerships with corporate members like Citi raises the level of engagement around the issue of supplier diversity. We are gratified by Citi’s support of our CPO summits and many of our senior leadership meetings.” Joset Wright-Lacy, President, National Minority Supplier Development Council 67 Respecting Human Rights Engaging Unions Citi supports employee rights to freedom of assoCiti Acts To be a responsible global company Employees: Citi is a member of Opportunity ciation and collective bargaining, as documented in Now, a UK-based workplace diversity means respecting the rights of everyone our Statement on Human Rights. We also engage campaign that works to advance change for affected by our business. Supporting in healthy and productive relationships with trade women in the workplace. In 2014, we took part unions and work councils across the regions in universal human rights standards is in an Opportunity Now inclusive leadership which we operate. Local laws generally govern the critical to Citi’s vision of empowering our workplace rights that affect our employees, and project, and are now using the lessons learned employees, clients and global cities and within Citi. most Citi employees are not covered by collective communities to make progress. bargaining agreements. Suppliers: More than 280 suppliers have completed Citi’s Corporate Responsibility We also understand, as laid out in the United Questionnaire, which lays out the high Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human standards we expect our vendors to meet on Rights, our responsibility to respect human workplace human rights issues including rights across our entire value chain. As a global freely chosen employment, child labor institution, Citi seeks to implement these principles avoidance, working hours, unlawful discrimieverywhere we operate, including in countries nation and harassment, wages and benefits, where laws differ from the global standards on and health and safety. human rights. Clients and communities: Citi conducted due Citi supports the Universal Declaration on Human diligence on a potential new client facing Rights, the International Labour Organization’s allegations of child labor in its supply chain. An Declaration on Fundamental Principles and International Labour Organization (ILO) Rights at Work, and the UN Guiding Principles on investigation of the allegations discovered no Business and Human Rights. In early 2014, we evidence of systematic use of child labor, and published an updated version of our Statement on our ESRM unit found the client’s senior Human Rights. This summarizes policies related management to be aware, open and transparto our employees, suppliers and clients as well as ent on the issue. Citi decided to take on the Citi’s approach to human rights in our countries client, while working closely with its manageof operation. It also references our guidelines for ment to continue monitoring the issue. human rights due diligence, which are included in our Environmental and Social Risk Management Countries: We engaged with socially responsi(ESRM) Standard. ble investors on Citi’s global policies and actions to promote LGBT inclusion. We also Read more about our ESRM due diligence in the held a productive discussion on challenges that Progress: Sustainable Growth section of the Global the LGBT community faces around the world, Citizenship report. including in the 80+ countries that have anti-LGBT regulations in place. links to READ MORE Statement on Human Rights Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk 68 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Promoting Strong Governance Strong governance steers any successful Board Leadership Executive Compensation business, and our belief in this principle Our Board of Directors and CEO embody We believe in fair and responsible is one of the reasons Citi has prospered our commitment to acting with integrity pay for our leaders, and approach execfor more than two centuries. Transat all times. utive compensation in the context of parency, accountability and diversity Citi operates across many different cultures in company performance and competitive drive our approach to business. We are more than 100 countries, and the Board takes benchmarking. dedicated to maintaining governance this into consideration when selecting new Board In 2012, we established incentivized compensation structures, policies and processes that members. A diverse Board helps to set the tone for top-level management, based on achieving best serve the changing needs of our for our inclusive approach to business. strategic business objectives. employees, clients and communities and In 2014, our Board had 13 members, including As part of this framework, included in Citi’s proxy that promote a culture of responsibility, three women and two minorities. We require at statement is a scorecard for each named executive integrity and ethical conduct across least two-thirds of members to be independent. officer that contains both financial and nonfinanIn 2014, 12 of 13 directors were independent. With our firm. cial performance goals, which are approved by the the exception of the Executive Committee and Board’s Personnel and Compensation Committee. the Operations and Technology Committee, each In addition, Citi incorporates input from shareholdof our standing Board committees has a Charter ers and other stakeholders on executive pay into outlining its mission, membership requirements our Compensation Philosophy. and responsibilities. In 2014, Citi’s Board of Directors established an Ethics and Culture Committee. Its members oversee senior management’s efforts to foster a culture of ethics within the firm, and assess Citi’s ethical standards and guidelines, including the Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals. links to READ MORE Board of Directors Compensation Philosophy 69 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Stakeholder Engagement We can progress farther, faster and with greater impact Materiality Assessment toward our citizenship goals when we work with others who Citi regularly reviews and assesses our Citizenship issues share our vision for empowering cities, economies and people. to ensure that they are consistent with our internal policies We also believe that thoughtful engagement with our many and relevant to our business. We recently began a new matestakeholders, including acting on their feedback, is critical to riality assessment, and are engaging internal and external our business success. stakeholders as part of the process. We plan to complete the Citi uses a number of stakeholder communication channels. assessment in 2015 and report on these efforts in our 2015 These include surveys, our Annual Report, Proxy Statement Citizenship Report. and SEC Filings, industry association memberships, public policy forums and traditional and social media outlets. Please see below for examples of how we engaged with key stakeholders in 2014. Stakeholder Engagement in 2014 Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples of Engagement in 2014 Clients and customers Meetings with key clients Citi regularly engages customers through social media, keeping them up to date on Citi events, as well as service changes and interruptions. Citi also Social media: Customer Service tracks customer satisfaction and engagement through Net Promoter Score, Twitter handles: @AskCiti in the United and in 2014, Citi ranked first or second for Retail Banks or Credit Cards in 18 States and @contactobanamex in of 24 markets. Mexico Application of Equator Principles and our ESRM Policy to client transactions Customer satisfaction surveys Investors and Socially Investor Relations Department: Citi’s Investor Relations Department regularly engages with investors on our Responsible Investors (SRIs) meetings and website company’s financial and operational performance. Annual Report, Proxy Statement, In 2014, Citi also engaged with socially responsible investors on Citi’s global SEC filings policies and actions to promote LGBT inclusion, and on Citi’s sustainability performance and approach to carbon risk. Members of the Board, senior management and the Legal Department engaged with investors and socially responsible investors this year. 70 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Employees Participation in employee networks, In 2014, 87 percent of active direct employees completed the Voice of the volunteer councils and green teams Employee survey, which is available online in almost 30 languages. Voice of the Employee Survey In 2014, Citi’s Global Green Team Network hosted over 100 events globally and welcomed six new green teams from Ireland, Peru, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Philippines and Poland, for a total of 24 teams and over 1,800 team members. »» For more information on how Citi engages with employees, please see our Progress: People section. Government and regulators Global Government Affairs group Citi’s GGA engages governments and elected officials to advocate public interaction with elected officials and policies that support our business operations, clients and employees. Public policy makers through lobbying policy involvement includes promoting positions on issues such as cyber and activities, industry associations, public information security, trade and financial reforms. policy forums Board members and members of senior management also engage regularly with government and regulators. Suppliers Communications for 11,000 approved In 2014, we enhanced our CRQ toolkits to one global standard, and collected suppliers through our Procurement over 280 responses, of which 65 percent were from top suppliers based on group spend in the North America region. We also expanded the questionnaire to Colombia and are currently rolling it out globally in eight other international Corporate Responsibility locations in 2015 across all regions. Questionnaires »» For more information on how Citi engages suppliers, please see our Supplier Diversity and Sustainable Supply Chain sections. Community leaders and Direct and regular engagement In April 2014, Citi convened a group of nongovernmental organizations, nongovernmental organizations with high-level community and socially responsible investors, mainstream investors and clients to solicit civic leaders feedback on Sustainable Progress, our sustainability strategy and goals launched in February 2015. Community Development @ Citi website Citi is a founding member of the Asset Building Policy Network (ABPN), Email and social media use a coalition of the U.S.’s leading civil rights and advocacy organizations Collaboration with NGOs on issues committed to coordinating savings, asset building policy, and advocacy relevant to their organizations and efforts at a national level. our businesses Media Citi’s Public Affairs department Citi executives participate in interviews with global press on topics of engagement with media through interest for our diverse set of stakeholders. interviews, press releases, social media, reports and forums Other financial institutions Engagement through industry Citi is a global leader in applying ESRM practices in the financial sector and groups, roundtables, events and engages with other financial institutions and regulators to offer advice as benchmarking activities they develop sustainable banking regulatory frameworks and policies. In 2014, Citi helped convene a sustainable finance workshop in Thailand, which included participation from the Bank of Thailand, domestic banks and the International Finance Committee. 71 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Views from Brandee McHale, President of the Citi Foundation What was one of Citi’s most important remove the barriers and off-ramps. By expanding philanthropic efforts in 2014? financial capability, addressing youth employment, This year, as part of our efforts to promote and fostering new collaborations across the economic progress in communities around the public and private sectors, together we integrate world, we updated our investment priorities more people into the economic mainstream building off our long-standing work in financial globally and support economic progress that is inclusion, and focused more intently on the both sustainable and impactful. The work of the economic needs of urban youth and creating Foundation in this area complements that of the economic opportunities in cities. To start, we business through our Citi Community Development to double high school graduation rates or develop launched two new U.S. initiatives: the City and Community Capital groups. affordable housing, having a local partner act as Accelerator, which works with mayors to test a community quarterback can help accelerate new, cost-effective approaches to critical social What is needed to address widespread issues the pace of change and move organizations more challenges, and Pathways to Progress, a multiof poverty? rapidly toward shared goals. year commitment to inspire and support 100,000 Despite a great deal of progress in the past 50 years, our approach to community development in You’re new to your role but not the Foundation, young people across 10 cities to believe in their the U.S. has remained basically unchanged. Many having served as Chief Operating Officer for economic future and take the steps they need to players, including philanthropic foundations, local several years. What excites you most about succeed. Both of these efforts build on the notion governments and community-based organizations, what’s to come? that we can use our philanthropic capital to seed have worked mostly in siloes and focused on One of the greatest opportunities I’ve had in my new ideas, engage stakeholders from across the individual solutions to poverty, such as housing, career is to shape the work of the Citi Foundation. public, private and NGO sectors to move from early childhood education, workforce development Philanthropy plays a critical role in identifying new dialogue to action, and promote the adoption of or public health. While there have been important approaches and innovators, and we’re committed new approaches globally. successes, the opportunities for collaboration have to sharing the learnings of what works and what There is a growing discussion around income been few ­— the chances of partnering to achieve a doesn’t. inequality in the U.S. and globally. How is long-term common goal even fewer. Looking ahead, one of our greatest opportunities the Citi Foundation addressing this critical is to identify how both philanthropy and business We have an opportunity to transform community challenge? can add value to society and move the needle development by funding influencers and We are living in a time of incredible innovation on social issues. We are seeing more and more innovators to be community champions. We call and invention where ideas and technology are examples of social progress approaches integrated this the “Community Quarterback” model and converging in new ways to make it easier for us to into business. At Citi, our recently announced have already seen some success in the U.S. using interact socially and economically. However, this Sustainable Progress strategy is one example, and this approach. has also led to a more complex world, where the there are countless others across global companies. path to economic stability and success is not the Through Partners in Progress, we support There is a growing acknowledgment that more same as it was even a generation ago. There is 14 community-based organizations to serve is needed and Citi has much to contribute in no silver bullet for ensuring increased economic as community quarterbacks. A year in, our building new systems and approaches that make a mobility, but we want to invest in partners who are quarterbacks have engaged approximately 400 difference. working directly with households and communities, partners that have in turn reached more than while simultaneously engaging thought leaders 1,000,000 people as part of local collective and policy makers, to ensure that our work leads impact strategies to accelerate improvements for to more on-ramps on the path to success and helps low-income communities. Whether the goals are 72 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 Performance Summary 2014 Citi Global Citizenship Report PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Economies and Cities Small Business Strengthening Communities Preserving Lending in the U.S. Year Lending to Small Businesses in the U.S. Homeownership and Four years ago, we made a pledge to 2011 $7.9B Affordable Housing increase our lending to U.S. small 2012 $9.6B »» Processed $25.2 billion in U.S. businesses by committing $24 billion in 2013 $9.1B mortgage originations serving lending over three years. We have since 2014 $9.2B homeowners. surpassed this goal, and in 2014, lent another $9.2 billion to American small »» Recognized as top U.S. affordable businesses. housing lender by Affordable Housing Finance for the sixth consecutive year. 74 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Economies and Cities Performance Summary Supporting Inclusive Cities Citi Foundation Citi Foundation 2014 »» Initially launched with the mayors of The Citi Foundation works to promote economic Focus Investment progress and improve the lives of people in Chicago, Los Angeles and Financial Inclusion $44M low-income communities around the world. We New York City, Citi was the founding invest in efforts that catalyze job opportunities, Youth Economic Opportunities $22M corporate partner of Cities for increase financial inclusion and reimagine Urban Transformation $10M Citizenship, a national program approaches to building economically vibrant Other $2M empowering eligible legal permanent cities. The Citi Foundation’s “More than Philanthropy” approach leverages the enorTotal $78M residents to access financial and mous expertise of Citi and its people to fulfill legal assistance to become citizens. our mission and drive thought leadership and Fourteen cities have now joined. innovation. Citi Foundation 2014­— Grant Metrics* »» The Citi Foundation and Living Cities In 2014, the Citi Foundation invested $78 million Total Participants Served 1,189,988 launched the City Accelerator—a in 85 countries. For more information, visit www. Individuals Adopting Positive Financial citifoundation.com. Behaviors, Including Saving and 579,599 $3 million program helping cities Reducing Debt improve service delivery to lowCorporate Contributions Youth Enrolling or Completing income residents. Postsecondary Education or Training 88,835 In 2014, Citi contributed $68.8 million in corporate giving (excluding Citi Foundation’s New Jobs Created by Building or investments) to charitable nonprofits working Expanding 40,276 Microand 39,654 Small Enterprises Microfinance Investments with the in community development, culture and the arts, diversity, environmental sustainability, Units of Affordable Housing U.S. Government’s Overseas Private 3,098 Rehabilitated or Built Investment Corporation (OPIC) and education. Twenty-two million dollars (32 percent) of corporate giving was focused outside Ngos Strengthened 2,616 North America (U.S., Canada, PR and the Virgin * Projections Citi + OPIC Islands). $406 million We support programs that promote consistency invested Distributed to over between our community giving and our business 1.2 million objectives, legal and regulatory requirements, $ microentrepreneurs public policy objectives, corporate culture and (97% women) strategic philanthropic goals. At the same time, $ we support organizations and causes important 44 MFIs to our employees and to the communities in in 25 countries which we operate. 75 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Sustainable Growth Environmental Finance Breakdown of $23.6B in Environmental Finance Activities in 2014 By Region By Environmental Category By Business Category Amount % Category Amount % Category Amount % North America $9.5B 40 Wind $5.8B 25 Banking and Capital Markets $11.5B 49 Europe, Middle East, Africa $9.2B 39 Solar $3.1B 13 Green Bonds $9.5B 40 Asia Pacific $0.7B 3 Sustainable Transportation $2.3B 10 Public Finance $1.7B 7 Latin America $0.1B 1 Water Quality & Conservation $0.8B 3 Consumer/ $0.4B 2 Other/Global $4.0B 17 Green Housing $0.6B 3 Commercial Banking Total $23.6B Energy Efficiency $0.3B 1 Commodities $0.2B 1 Citi Operations $0.2B 1 Citi Operations $0.2B 1 Multiple Categories* $10.4B 44 Other $0.1B <1 Total $23.6B Total $23.6B * Includes transactions such as some green bonds and yield cos that bundled together multiple environmental technologies. 76 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Sustainable Growth Performance Summary Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk 2014 Transactions Receiving Environmental and Social Risk (ESRM) Review By Region By Product Type By Sector Category A Total Category A Total Category A Total Asia and the 10 Project Finance 8 Infrastructure and 2 Pacific 113 Loans 20 Transportation 83 Europe 8 Project Finance 2 Metals and 14 73 Advisories 5 Mining 55 Middle East and 14 Corporate or 17 Oil, Gas and 21 Africa 62 Government Loans 215 Petrochem 95 Latin America 17 EP Project-Related 7 Power (including 25 13 and the Caribbean 98 Corporate Loans 15 renewable projects) 84 U.S. and 5 Debt and Equity 9 Manufacturing 3 Canada 52 Underwriting 33 and Industrials 20 Global 0 Forestry and Palm Oil 0 Other 0 (multiple regions) 7 Client Annual Reviews 17 18 Acquisition 2 Forestry, Pulp 0 Finance 36 and Paper 15 Letters of Credit and 2 Agribusiness 1 Guarantees 17 (including Palm Oil) 26 Other (e.g. Equity, 7 Telecom 0 Derivatives, etc.) 47 9 ESRM Transaction Reviews ESRM Employee 2014 Closed Transactions By Year Training Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement # of Employees on Human Rights* Trained in Citi’s # of Closed 2014 405 Year ESRM Standard Human Rights Risk Transactions 2013 2011 168 Indigenous Peoples 0 443 2012 447 Labor Risks 2 2012 353 2013 504 Resettlement 2 2011 433 2014 916 Security Risks 0 *where specific human rights risk was identified and managed 77 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Sustainable Growth Performance Summary Reducing Our Operational Footprint* 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Rentable Sq. Ft. (RSF) 73,923,095 69,067,439 67,517,859 66,169,457 62,377,391 59,439,396 Seats 379,046 372,709 360,047 364,532 352,789 347,730 Headcount 372,065 368,538 375,824 318,711 231,388 234,150 Absolute Indicators 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ENERGY Electricity (GWh) 2,100 2,074 2,030 1,988 1,884 1,788 District Heating (Steam & Chilled Water) 87 74 62 62 57 53 Energy Purchased (GWh) Scope 2 2,187 2,148 2,091 2,049 1,941 1,841 Natural Gas (GWh) 175 156 144 117 120 113 Fuel Oil (GWh) 52 51 42 57 42 34 Energy Consumed (GWh) Scope 1 227 207 186 174 161 147 Total Energy (GWh) 2,414 2,355 2,277 2,223 2,102 1,988 CO 2e Emissions Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1) (Gas & Fuel Oil) 48,671 44,530 39,865 38,129 34,823 31,433 Indirect CO2e (GHG Scope 2) 1,105,987 1,023,106 1,005,228 981,142 938,623 892,819 (Electricity, Steam & Chilled Water) Total CO2e (mt) 1,154,658 1,067,636 1,045,094 1,019,271 973,446 924,252 Green Power Offsets (CO2e) 5,953 42,084 56,882 98,450 101,642 96,038 Net CO2e (mt) 1,148,705 1,025,552 988,212 920,821 871,804 828,214 Water and Waste Total Water Consumption (m3) 7,338,124 6,749,716 6,778,120 7,023,366 6,659,357 6,049,212 Waste Diverted from Landfill (mt) 15,217 18,330 18,533 15,951 18,142 17,599 Waste Stream to Landfill (mt) 63,890 48,714 45,323 42,242 39,596 38,289 Total Waste (mt) 79,108 67,043 63,856 58,193 57,738 55,888 * Data may not sum to totals because of rounding. 78 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Sustainable Growth Performance Summary Reducing Our Operational Footprint continued Relative Indicators 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED KWh / RSF 32.65 34.10 33.73 33.60 33.71 33.45 KWh / Seat 6,368 6,319 6,326 6,099 5,960 5,717 KWh / Headcount 6,488 6,391 6,060 6,976 9,086 8,490 NET CO 2e Metric Tons / RSF 0.0155 0.0148 0.0146 0.0139 0.0140 0.0139 Metric Tons / Seat 3.03 2.75 2.74 2.53 2.47 2.38 Metric Tons / Headcount 3.09 2.78 2.63 2.89 3.77 3.54 Scope 3 Emissions 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Business air travel CO2e (mt) NA 100,243 119,179 123,302 150,967 178,694 Business train travel CO2e (mt) NA NA NA NA 5,335 6,651 Thermal Power Plant Emissions 30-year plant life CO2 NA 0 7.4 0 9.7 0 60-year plant life CO2 NA 0 14.8 0 19.4 0 79 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Sustainable Growth Performance Summary Reducing Our Operational Footprint continued Greenhouse Gas Footprint Goals LEED Certified Buildings GHG Footprint Goals By Region (Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions) Certified Silver Gold Platinum Total Total CO2e North America 105 22 50 2 179 emissions (mt) 1,700,000 Latin America 3 0 1 0 4 Asia Pacific 4 8 30 6 48 Europe, Middle East 1 5 7 5 18 1,154,658 Baseline and Africa 25% Total 113 35 88 13 249 20% Reduction Reduction Target By Building Type 924,252 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Data Centers 2 0 0 0 1 0 865,994 DC File Storage 2 0 0 0 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Office Buildings 13 4 13 10 14 14 Operational Centers 3 2 0 2 0 3 Branches 50 14 14 27 1 24 Total 70 20 27 39 16 41 Cumulative Total 106 126 153 192 208 249 80 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY People Diversity FY2014 Consolidated U.S. Employer Information Report (EEO-1)* U.S. Workforce Native Hawaiian Citi’s total U.S. workforce has or Other Job Native Pacific MultiTotal by decreased 14.1 percent since Categories Gender White Black Hispanic Asian American Islander racial Gender Total 2010. The overall representation Executive/ Male 17 1 2 2 0 0 0 22 of U.S. female employees Senior 27 Managers Female 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 declined 2.4 percent and the First/Mid-level Male 6,439 477 1,026 1,760 19 16 19 9,756 representation of minorities 17,234 Managers Female 4,753 724 993 944 27 10 27 7,478 was essentially unchanged Male 7,612 687 1,319 2,895 32 17 57 12,619 during this period. Citi’s minority Professionals 21,807 Female 5,270 931 1,191 1,719 20 14 43 9,188 management population, coverMale 1,093 177 232 285 6 3 17 1,813 ing executives, senior managers, Technicians 3,390 Female 910 214 251 177 5 5 15 1,577 first-line managers and midMale 2,309 309 811 589 12 15 23 4,068 level managers, has increased Sales Workers 9,266 Female 2,609 654 1,237 622 24 21 31 5,198 13.2 percent since 2010. The Male 3,967 1,184 1,645 498 26 28 57 7,405 percentage of female minoriAdministrative 28,118 ty managers rose by 7.4 percent Support Female 11,334 3,831 4,118 1,165 83 42 140 20,713 Male 1 5 1 3 0 0 0 10 since 2010. Craft Workers 11 Female 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 Global Female Workforce Male 110 78 32 46 0 0 2 268 Operatives 456 Citi’s global female represenFemale 78 32 10 65 1 1 1 188 tation remained stable at 53 Male 21,548 2,918 5,068 6,078 95 79 175 35,961 Totals 80,309 percent from 2011 to 2013 and Female 24,959 6,387 7,800 4,692 160 93 257 44,348 dropped slightly to 52 percent * Data as of July 2014 in 2014. 81 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY People Performance Summary Integrity Learning & Development Volunteering A total of 96 percent of Citi employees Year Volunteer Hours took advantage of training opportunities 2011 789,000 U.S. Procurement Spend in 2014. 2012 1,340,433 with Diverse Suppliers Spending on Learning and Development 2013 955,606 Year Diverse Spend* in 2014—approximately $230 million* 2014 961,603 * Includes vendor and human capital spend 2010 $542M 2011 $426M 2012 $632M 2013 $776M Summary of Training Hours Voice of the Employee 2014 $797M 2011 2012 2013 2014 Survey Trend * Includes both Tier 1 and Tier 2 figures Instructor Led 6.0M 5.2M 5.8M 5.6M Web-Based Learning 3.9M 5.3M 5.1M 5.0M Satisfied 73% 73% 74% 73% Other 0.2M 0.16M 0.23M 0.20M Total 10.1M 10.6M 11.2M 10.8M Average Hours Neutral 16% 16% 15% 16% per Employee 38 40 44 45 Dissatisfied 11% 11% 11% 11% 2011 2012 2013 2014 Response Rate Global Employee Training by Region 88% 88.5% 88% 87% Region Hours per Employee Asia Pacific 52 Europe, Middle East and Africa 27 Latin America 46 North America 46 82 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE 2014 Citi Awards and Recognitions Highlights ECONOMIES & CITIES SUSTAINABLE GROWTH PEOPLE Top U.S. Affordable Housing Lender Dow Jones Sustainability Best Companies for Leadership Top Veteran Friendly Company Affordable Housing Finance World Index – Since 2001 Hay Group U.S. Veterans magazine 2014 Bank Innovation Award Dow Jones Sustainability North Top Diversity Leader Excellence in Leadership Bank Innovation America Index – Since 2001 Calvert Investments Development Society for Human Resource 2014 White House Champion FTSE4Good Index – Since 2002 100% Corporate Equality Management, India of Change Index Company, since 2004 UN Global Compact 100 Index Human Rights Campaign Best Employer 2014 Community Reinvestment Award Captains of Russian Business The Civic 50 – Since 2012: U.S. National Interagency Community #2 in Financials Sector in 2014 100 Best Companies for Awards, Russia Reinvestment Conference Working Mothers, since 1992 Newsweek Global Green Working Mother magazine Top 50 Employers for Women Rankings: #1 U.S. Bank The Times and Opportunity Now, UK Newsweek magazine Fit-Friendly Company Award, Platinum Level Ranked 19th in the Green Power American Heart Association Partnership Fortune 500® Partners List LGBT Employee Resource Group U.S. Environmental Protection of the Year Award Agency (EPA)* Out & Equal Workplace Advocates Ranked 49th in the Green Power 2014 Class of Corporate Leaders Partnership National Top 100 for Inclusion Partner List Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious U.S. Environmental Protection Understanding Agency (EPA)* Top Diversity Employer, Best of * As of January 2015. the Best List Hispanic Network magazine 83 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index This index covers the GRI G3.1 indicators, including those in the Financial Services Sector Supplement, found in our 2014 Global Citizenship Report, 2014 Annual Report and company website. It includes all of the G3.1 indicators including those that we do not report against. We have only included additional indicators if we report against them. Standard Disclosures Part I: Profile Disclosures GRI GUIDELINE LOCATON IN THIS REPORT 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Conversation with the CEO 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Conversation with the CEO 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. About This Report 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2014 Annual Report 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2014 Annual Report 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 2015 Proxy Statement 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifiIntroduction cally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2014 Annual Report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Introduction 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Introduction 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2014 Annual Report 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Awards and Recognitions 84 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. About This Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About This Report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). About This Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About This Report 3.5 Process for defining report content. About This Report 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary About This Report Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). About This Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signifiAbout This Report cantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations Performance Summary applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement No such restatements (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. No such restatements 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. This Index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Equator Principles Implementation 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific 2015 Corporate Governance tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Guidelines 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 2014 Annual Report 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body Citigroup Board of Directors’ that are independent and/or non-executive members. Committee Charters 2015 Proxy Statement 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Code of Conduct 2015 Proxy Statement 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 2015 Proxy Statement departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Code of Conduct 2015 Proxy Statement 85 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its 2015 Proxy Statement committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Code of Conduct 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with interna2015 Corporate Governance tionally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Guidelines 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, 2015 Corporate Governance and social performance. Guidelines 2015 Proxy Statement 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization Performance Summary: Managing subscribes or endorses. Our Environmental and Social Risk Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Respecting Human Rights UN Global Compact Table Global Reporting Initiative 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the Managing Our Environmental and organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding Social Risk beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder Engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Stakeholder Engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Stakeholder Engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to Stakeholder Engagement those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Standard Disclosures Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Disclosure on Management Approach EC (Economic) Aspects: Conducting Business to the Highest Standard Economic performance Market presence Indirect economic impacts 86 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT Disclosure on Management Approach EN (Environmental) Aspects: Reducing Our Operational Footprint Materials Energy Water Biodiversity Emissions, effluents and waste Products and services Compliance Transport Overall Disclosure on Management Approach LA (Labor Practice and Decent Work) Aspects: Progress: People Employment Labor/management relations Occupational health and safety Training and education Diversity and equal opportunity Equal remuneration for women and men Disclosure on Management Approach HR (Human Rights) Aspects: Respecting Human Rights Investment and procurement practices Non-discrimination Freedom of association and collective bargaining Child labor Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Security practices Indigenous rights Assessment Remediation 87 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT Disclosure on Management Approach SO (Society) Aspects: Conducting Business to the Highest Standards Local communities Corruption Public policy Anti-competitive behavior Compliance Disclosure on Management Approach PR (Product Responsibility) Aspects: Conducting Business to the Highest Standards Customer health and safety Product and service labeling Marketing communications Customer privacy Compliance Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and Introduction other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 2014 Annual Report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Citi does not receive financial assistance from government. Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant We provide competitive levels locations of operation. of compensation above local minimum wage requirements. 88 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through Progress: Cities commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Progress: Economies EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Progress: Cities Progress: Economies Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not material to Citi’s operations. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not material to Citi’s operations. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Performance Summary: Sustainable Growth Reducing Our Operational Footprint EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Performance Summary: Sustainable Growth Reducing Our Operational Footprint EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Performance Summary: Sustainable Growth Reducing Our Operational Footprint EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements Reducing Our Operational Footprint as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Performance Summary: Sustainable Growth Reducing Our Operational Footprint Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Performance Summary: Sustainable Growth Reducing Our Operational Footprint EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. No sources significantly affected in 2014 89 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Not material to Citi’s own protected areas. operations. See Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk with regard to lending and project financing policies. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Not material to Citi’s own biodiversity value outside protected areas. operations. See Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk with regard to lending and project financing policies. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not material to Citi’s own operations. See Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk with regard to lending and project financing policies. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not material to Citi’s own operations. See Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk with regard to lending and project financing policies. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of Not material to Citi’s own extinction risk. operations. Citi does not operate in such areas. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Performance Summary: Sustainable Growth Reducing Our Operational Footprint EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Performance Summary: Sustainable Growth Reducing Our Operational Footprint EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Reducing Our Operational Footprint EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Performance Summary: Sustainable Growth Reducing Our Operational Footprint EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. No significant spills in 2014. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, No such waste transported, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. imported, exported or treated in 2014. 90 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting No such water bodies or habitats organization’s discharges of water and runoff. affected in 2014. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Performance Summary: Sustainable Growth Environmental Finance EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. No such products sold in 2014. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and Citi did not receive any significant regulations. fines for non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations in 2014. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operaPerformance Summary: tions, and transporting members of the workforce. Sustainable Growth Reducing Our Operational Footprint Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Environmental Finance Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Performance Summary: People LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Performance Summary: People Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Engaging Unions LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Engaging Unions 91 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT Occupational Health and Safety LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or Valuing Our People community members regarding serious diseases. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Performance Summary: People LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in Valuing Our People managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Valuing Our People Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, Performance Summary: minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. People Social: Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human Our Suppliers rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Respecting Human Rights HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and Our Suppliers actions taken. Respecting Human Rights HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, Code of Conduct including the percentage of employees trained. Respecting Human Rights Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may Engaging Unions be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Engaging Unions contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. See Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk with regard to lending and project financing policies. 92 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Engaging Unions measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. See Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk with regard to lending and project financing policies. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Respecting Human Rights Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Respecting Human Rights Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal Respecting Human Rights grievance mechanisms. Social: Society Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Progress: Cities Progress: Economies Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. All of our business units are analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Conducting Business to the Highest Standards SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Our Employees Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Public Policy SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Public Policy 93 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Global Reporting Initiative Index continued GRI GUIDELINE LOCATION IN THIS REPORT Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 2014 Annual Report Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 2014 Annual Report Social: Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of Not material to Citi’s operations. significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of Not material to Citi’s operations. products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to Citi has policies in place that ensure such information requirements. accurate product and service information in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Our Customers and Clients Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, Responsible Marketing promotion, and sponsorship. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products Please refer to Citi’s 2014 10-K pages and services. 289-298. 94 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE UN Global Compact Table Human Rights In 2010, Citi joined the United Nations Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Respecting Human Rights Global Compact, the world’s largest of internationally proclaimed human rights; and and most widely embraced corporate Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Respecting Human Rights citizenship initiative. The UN Global abuses. Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact a set of core values Labor in the areas of human rights, labor, the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Engaging Unions environment and anti-corruption. The and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; table at right outlines our communiPrinciple 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Respecting Human Rights labor; Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk cation on progress on the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Respecting Human Rights Managing Our Environmental and Social Risk “Citi supports the ten principles Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Building a Diverse, 21st-Century Workforce of the United Nations Global Compact as an important part of Environment its business strategy and ethical Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach Scaling Solutions for the People and the culture. Our participation in this to environmental challenges; Planet important initiative, which binds Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Scaling Solutions for the People and the environmental responsibility; and Planet signatories from around the world Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Environmental Finance to a common set of principles environmentally friendly technologies. Reducing Our Operational Footprint of responsibility, reinforces our commitment to corporate Anti-Corruption citizenship and sustainability.” Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of Progress: Integrity corruption, including extortion and bribery. Mike Corbat, CEO, Citigroup Inc. 95 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Assurances 96 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Assurances continued 97 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Assurances continued 98 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Assurances continued 99 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Assurances continued 100 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Assurances continued 101 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE Assurances continued 102 CITI global citizenship REPORT 2014 economies cities Sustainable growth PEOPLE INTEGRITY PERFORMANCE
