Myanmar Culinary Holdings Company Limited UN Global CompactCommunication on Progress May 2014-15 -1Table of Contents Introduction 3 Statement of continued support 3 Ten Principles of UN Global Compact 4 Commitment of our people 5 Employee's overall Job Satisfaction 6 Involve in the Community 6 Human Resource Policy for Our People 8 Work Safety Condition for Our People and Environment 8 -2Introduction Myanmar Culinary Holdings Company Limited became a member of UN Global Compact in May 2013, and our first communication on progress was reported on May 2014. And this is our second time of reporting a COP for the year 2014-15. Statement of Continued Support Picture 1: Company's Vision & Mission Sincerely, Naing Win Aung Managing Director Myanmar Culinary Holdings Co., Ltd -3A. TEN UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. -4B. COMMITMENT OF OUR PEOPLE Myanmar Culinary Holdings Co., Ltd has altogether 4 shops in Myanmar and we have more than a hundred people. As one of our missions are our employees to be happy as to become a happy organization. There is no contract worker in our company. We always make our employees as one of the priorities because we ensure that without each and every one of our employee, we can't achieve the vision and mission we've set for our company. In order to improve our employees' personal skills, we provide our employees with an appropriate resource and make a training development program monthly; for example, customer service training, positive attitude trainings, etc. Picture 2: Training Program -5C. EMPLOYEE'S OVERALL JOB SATISFICATION As our company policy, we collect and record the survey data from our employees, we check their difficulties in order to help and solve their problems during the workplace. Our company also surveys the recommendation report in order to measure each employee opinion upon our leadership effectiveness, for example; as in overall business, who do they like most, who is the most discipline person, etc. D. INVOLVE IN THE COMMUNITY We encourage our employees to donate as much as they effort to the needed communities, for examples; to the orphans and other charities. Since 2013 and up to, our people donate to the orphanage communities by donating to them clothes or in cash. Our people also volunteer in other charity programs. Such programs give an experience to our people a volunteer service. Our company participates in blood donating program and our employees enthusiastic to donate their blood to the necessary places. -6Picture 3: Donation to the Charity Picture 4: Blood Donation Program -7E. HUMAN RESOURCE POLICY FOR OUR PEOPLE We endure to look for ways to support our employees, improve our company culture of inclusion, broaden our perspectives and go beyond just thinking about diversity in terms of race and gender. The percentage of of employees in Gender categories are as per pie chart, (55% of Male and 45% of Female): Gender Categories % Rate 1 2 45% 55% F. WORK SAFETY CONDITION FOR OUR PEOPLE AND ENVIRONMENT The safety for our employees is always a core value of our company culture. We manage to educate our employees to work safety in the workplace without any injuries. Our employees involved in the training of fire safety program. We provide a safe environment and safety products in which our employees work. -8-
