UNGC Communication of Progress 2014 Content Page 03 About Ooredoo Maldives 04 Statement from CEO 05 Ooredoo – A Community company that cares and connects 06 Social welfare, Environment & Sports 08 United Nations Global Compact 09 Labour Principles 10 Environment Principles 11 Anti-Corruption Principles Ooredoo Maldives became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in February 2012 and this report is the second Communication on Progress (COP) Report issued by the company. The reporting period is for the year February 2014 till February 2015. About Ooredoo Maldives Ooredoo Maldives, formerly known as Wataniya Telecom Maldives, is a member of Ooredoo Group. Ooredoo Maldives launched its service in the Maldives on 1st August 2005. The company provides a wide range of leading-edge wireless voice and data services, delivered with high quality, designed to cater to the demands of today’s discerning customer. Ooredoo is guided by its vision of enriching people’s lives and its belief that it can stimulate human growth by leveraging communications to help people achieve their full potential. Ooredoo made history by launching the first ever and fastest ever 4G Network in the Maldives on 28th April 2013. 03 Statement by Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that Ooredoo Maldives reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Vikram Sinha Chief Executive Officer 04 Ooredoo A Community Company that Cares and Connects For many years at Ooredoo, we’ve worked with We have been an active partner within the comcommunity groups and charities across Maldives, munity, sharing ideas, experiences and assisworking to be a good corporate citizen and trying to tance with colleagues, customers, schools and focus on the issues that mean the most for the people charitable organisations. of Maldives. Education Encouraging innovation, we were the first to introeducational projects in small communities across duce mLearning, the innovative and interactive the country. learning tool that provides education anywhere; first For Ooredoo employees, the Educational Assisin partnership with University of Colombo; Sri Lanka tance Program Scheme was introduced to enable and now with Mandhu College in Maldives. our employees to develop their career path with We also support a wide range of school events and fully sponsored higher education opportunities. 05 Social Welfare On 4 December 2014, a fire broke out at the MWSC on the customer care hotline 929, sent free water (Maldives Water and Sewerage Company), disrupting the safety water supply to Male City with a population of over 100,000. messages from the Health Protection Agency, and As the hours passed, the severity of the issue was felt, and ensured staff were provided with stock of water during it was unclear when running water would become availathe difficult time. ble. A state of crisis was declared and the national Water Stretching for 9 days, the water crisis came to an end Crisis Taskforce was set-up. During this time of national on 12 December as the systems were repaired and crisis, Ooredoo staff tirelessly volunteered with the nationrunning water was restored to the city. al taskforce to help distribute water across Male' City, and launched a service for citizens of Male' City to track the Ooredoo continues to support the National Drug mobile water supply units nearest to them through OoreAbuse Helpline 1410 since its inception. doo Locate, the real time vehicle tracking system from The ‘1410’ helpline was initiated as part of the Ooredoo. UNODC – supported project ‘Strengthening the In addition, Ooredoo facilitated customers to get informanational response to prevent drug abuse in the tion on the water distribution centers by updating the IVR Maldives’ which was implemented by the Government of Maldives. Environment In helping to protect our planet, we were the first company paper waste, and we join major companies around in Maldives to introduce the modern Single Radio Access the world every year to celebrate Environment Day Network (RAN) equipment which helps save 54% in and Earth Hour, turning off our lights and non-essenelectricity consumption and 80% in carbon footprint. tial systems at our headquarters and all outlets. We also have e-billing service which lets us to cut down on Sports We actively support a wide range of sporting activities, every Ramadan since 2009 which revolutionized including launching TV ‘Ooredoo Masrace’ show held night fishing into a competitive sport across the country. 06 Global Compact Principles Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental-friendly technologies. Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 07 United Nations Global Compact – Human Rights Principles PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Business should support and respect the protection of Business should ensure that they are not complicit in internationally proclaimed human rights. human rights abuses. Health & Safety At Ooredoo, we’re committed to our employee’s health and safety and expect all employees to take appropriate actions and promptly report incidents that are likely to result health and safety concerns. The Company issues personal protective equipment and have safety work instructions for all hazards activities. Annual First AID Trainings and Maritime Trainings were conducted to relevant staffs. No accidents at work were reported during the reporting period. Fair Treatment & Workplace without Harassment Our policies and procedures are designed to ensure The Company policy prohibits harassment of any that everyone is treated fairly and consistent manner, form in the work environment and does not accept in the context of assigning work, remuneration, retaliation or retribution against any employee who career development or other employment related has lodged such a complaint. matters. No cases were reported regarding any form of workplace harassment and unfair treatment during the reporting period. Medical Insurance & Retirement Benefits Ooredoo provides its permanent employees and their immediate family with medical care. Employees are enrolled in the company’s medical insurance scheme on completion of probation period. And have been successfully running medical insurance scheme since 2005. All staffs are given medical insurance and registered with retirement benefit fund. 08 United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory and the effective recognition of the right to collective labour. bargaining. PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Equal Opportunity to all Applicants and employees shall have equal opportunities in employment, training, or promotion irrespective of their race, colour, marital status, parental status, ancestry, source of income, religion, gender, age, national origin or physical status. Maldives is a signatory to the United Declaration of Human Rights, and Ooredoo complies with all local laws and regulations and respect the culture, values and human rights throughout our operations. No reports were filed in regard to discrimination or Human Right abuse. Moments from the Male’ Water Crisis where Ooredoo staffs tirelessly volunteered with MNDF and Maldives Red Crescent during this national crisis to help distribute water across Male' City. 09 United Nations Global CompactEnvironment Principles PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 Business should support a precautionary approach to Business should undertake initiatives to promote environmental challenges. greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental-friendly technologies. We help to protect our planet by implementing the activities in our business. Saving Energy with Environmental-Friendly technology We were the first company in Maldives to introduce Single RAN which helps us to save 54% in electricity consumption and 80% in carbon footprint. During the year 2014, 20% of our sites have been modernized with Single RAN equipment which has led to a reduction in electricity expenditure by more than 8.34%. Cut-down on paper waste We provide e-bill service to all our customers which let us to cut down on paper waste without any additional charge; more than 71% of our customers use e-bill service. Reduce Energy consumption at work place All employees are encouraged to switch off lights, air conditions, computers and laptops at the end of the day. Employees are reminded to minimize paper printing and encouraged to reuse paper. 10 United Nations Global CompactAnti-Corruption Principles Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We have various policies related to corruption which includes: 1. Suppliers Employees must interact with suppliers or vendors with honesty and integrity. Decisions to purchase products and services shall be based on the company’s interest, taking into account factors such as quality, price, performance, suitability, and reliability. Employees who are required to engage in dealings with regard to purchasing of assets, items and equipments or obtaining services from suppliers, vendors and service providers should avoid conflict of interest or appearance of any conflict of interest. 2. Conflict of Interest Employees shall not practice any business or trade, which is in conflict with their duties, or with the Company’s interest or which may cause the employee to have direct or indirect interest in any contracts or works related to the Company’s activities or to which the Company is a party. The Company policy requires that employees avoid any situation that creates a conflict of interest between the employee’s own interest and that of the Company. Employees shall ensure that their activities during and after office hours do not conflict with their duties or with the Company’s interest. The employee should inform the management in case any activity or situation creates a conflict of interest. It is the responsibility of the employee to declare their business interest that may or may not create any conflict of interest. Internal Audits were conducted in regard to anti-corruption and bribery with no cases reported during the reporting period. 11 Connect with us, OoredooMaldives T:929 | E: 929@ooredoo.mv | ooredoo.mv
