Statement of continued support MacMann Berg hereby confirms its continued support to the UN Global Compact and the ten principles that the Global Compact rests upon. MacMann Berg will try to strengthen our support and work with to the principles, and the implementation of those principles in our work with our clients. MacMann Berg is a consultancy company based in Denmark. We work with leadership and organisational development and our clients are government, civil society and private companies in Denmark. Thomas Johansen, Director MacMann Berg, Aarhus, November 2015 In relation to Human Rights: The following statements describe the minimum standards that any employee, attached consultant or partner at any time has to comply with: In all assignments make sure that Human Rights are not violated Reject to work with companies or organisations that are known to make or support companies that are known to make violations of Human Rights, unless the specific assignment is focused on stopping such violations. Reject to work with companies or organisations whose sub-contracters are known to make violations on the Human Rights, unless the specific assignment is focused on stopping such violations. In relation to Labour Rights: The following statements describe the minimum standards that any employee, attached consultant or partner at any time has to comply with: In all assignments make sure that Labour Rights are not violated. Reject to work with companies or organisations that are known to violate Labour Rights, unless the assignment is directly focused on stopping such violations. Encourage employees and consultants to organize themselves as they find it most appropriate. Follow up on employees, consultants and partners work-status and actively makes an effort to promote a balance between work life and private life, based upon the individual’s life-situation and preferences. Is fully transparent regarding the construction at MacMann Berg and how it is supporting our individual and shared business. In relation to environmental challenges: Actively work to reduce our environmental impact by working with recycling of paper, low energy light bulbs, reduce food-waste, encourage all with relation to MacMann Berg to use public transport whenever it is possible, clarifies the connection between our actions and the effect that we have on the environment for clients and other relations. In relation to anti-corruption: Avoid giving presents to business relations with a value that could be considered inappropriate in a business relationship. Measurement: So far we have not been measuring as well as we should in order to check whether we have lived up to our own goals. In the future we will be measuring once a year, and we will also actively bring up and discuss cases where there might be some issues that has to be further investigated.
