TELESERVICES LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014-15 Contents 4 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Statement of continued Support......................................................................5 About Tata Teleservices Ltd............................................................................7 Human Rights Principles...............................................................................11 Labour Principles..........................................................................................14 Environmental Principles...............................................................................21 Anti-Corruption Principles............................................................................27 Glossary.......................................................................................................29 4 Statement of continued Support. 4 Statement of continued support 5th October, 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Tata Teleservices Limited (TTL) is proud to be a signatory to the United Nation Global Compact. We are committed to the ten principles of the Compact which foster better corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The company has built business sustainability into all its processes with keen focus on all the three bottom lines, viz. economic, social and environmental. We have adopted the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) which is the guiding principle for us to conduct our business ethically. We believe it is our responsibility to uphold the United Nation Global Compact’s and their 10 Principles. For our long term future and that of our stakeholders, it is in our mutual interests that we have created a world in which our business will grow and thrive. Our activity around human and labour rights, environmental responsibility and business integrity is described in detail in our Communication on Progress. The TTL UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 report covers the performance for the period 1st April 2014 to March 31st 2015, unless otherwise mentioned. Sincerely yours, [Signature] N Srinath Managing Director A & E Blocks, Voltas Premises T.B. Kadam Marg Chinchpokli, Mumbai 400 033 Tel 91 22 6667 14 14 Fax 91 22 6660 5335 website www.tatateleservices.com and www.tatadocomo.com Registered Oﬃce Jeevan Bharati Tower | 10th Floor 124 Connaught Circus New Delhi 110 001 CIN : U74899DL1995PLC066685 About Tata Teleservices Ltd 4 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Tata Teleservices Ltd. (TTL) is one of India’s leading mobile telecommunications service providers, delivering mobile connectivity, content and services to more than 65 million business and retail consumers in 450,000 towns and villages across the country. Operating under the uniﬁed ﬂagship brand name Tata Docomo, the company is focused on innovation and technology. Having a pan-India presence across India’s 19 telecom circles, Tata Teleservices oﬀers integrated telecom solutions and operates its wireless networks on the GSM, CDMA and 3G technology platforms. TTL commands market leadership with its Photon family of 3G and Wi-Fi products. Through its pioneering oﬀerings such as e-Governance, Machine to Machine (M2M) and m-Remittance (m-Rupee) services, the company has helped to improve citizen services, public safety and governance. TTL is a growing market leader in the Enterprise space and provides end to end integrated Voice, Data and Managed solutions to Large and Small Medium Enterprises through its wider network footprint, better operational structure and enhanced customer service support to deliver incremental value. TTL has a robust and largest ﬁbre optic backbone backhaul network running across 1,00,000 km and with a 25,000 km access network covering key cities which is a huge diﬀerentiator in providing seamless data services. With 2000 people, TTL’s strong enterprise business is present in more than 60 cities across India, works with over 750 partners and over 1600 channel teams. Our Philosophy: The Tata Group is committed to integrate environmental, social & ethical principles into its business which is central to improving the quality of life of the communities we serve globally and enhancing long-term stakeholder value. Our Principles: Our company shall: 1. Integrate sustainability considerations into all business decisions and key work processes with the aim of creating value, mitigating future risks and maximizing opportunities. 2. Follow the highest standards of governance and transparency. 3. Embody principles of product stewardship by enhancing health, safety, environment and social impacts of products services across their lifecycles. 4. Provide employees and business associates with working conditions that are clean, safe, healthy and fair. 5. Strive to be neighbours of choice in the communities in which we operate and contribute to their equitable and inclusive development 8 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Our Commitments: Our companies will aspire for global sustainability leadership in the sectors in which we operate. To achieve this, we will: • Constitute a governance structure to oversee our sustainability commitments. • Identify relevant and material sustainability issues and develop comprehensive sustainability strategies with goals, targets, mitigation and adaptation action plans to address them under the aegis of our boards. • Undertake natural and social capital valuation to assess business risks. • Report in line with global reporting framework. Awards & Recognition: The company has received various awards & recognition for their environmental sustainability initiatives: 1. Project Optimus won the “Qualtech Prize for sustainability” for the year 2014 (Service Sector) at the 26th Quimpro Convention. 2. Project Optimus won the “Excellence in Energy Management” for the year 2014 at ET Telecom awards. 3. TTL won Voice and Data (V&D) Special Leadership Recognition Awards 2014 -15 for Energy Managementproject Optimus that optimized the energy cost by eliminating air conditioning by converting Indoor BTS to Outdoor BTS resulting into an annualized OPEX saving. 9 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 4. Voice and Data Special Leadership Recognition Awards 2014 -15Product Innovation Multi-SIM (Micro & Nano SIM built in normal classic SIM). 5. Voice and Data Special Leadership Recognition Awards 2014 -15Marketingfor Tata Docomo e-Shop. 6. CORE media groupCIO Award 2015 7. International Data Corporation (IDC) Insight Awards – IDC Insights Award for Excellence in Transformation in IT. Nominations in Corporate Sustainability: Besides, the above awards & recognition, TTL also got nominated for their eﬀorts in other sections as well. 1. Project Optimus was nominated for “The Green Mobile Award” at GSMA global mobile awards 2014. 2. Project Optimus nominated for AIMA’s Innovation Practitioners Summit 2015 in the Environmentally Sustai able Solutions category. 10 Human Rights Principles. 4 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. TTL treats all their stakeholders with dignity, respect, integrity and have extended fairness in all aspects. The Company is dedicated to practice and implement principles and procedures that cover human rights and labour standards across the organisation. TTL strives to ensure that none of its operation, processes, and circle locations is involved in Child Labour, in any form. TTL has following policies in-line with above two principles: Policies and Direction: 1) Whistle Blower Policy 2) Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Policy 3) Corporate Sustainability Policy 4) Employee Safety and Well – being Policy 5) Aﬃrmative Action Policy 6) Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) ensure Human Rights compliance across the Organization Initiatives: In line with Tata Group of attaining Leadership with Trust, TTL has institutionalized TCoC guiding principles, which have been accepted and signed by all employees of the Company. TCoC clause is incorporated in the sourcing process, to ensure suppliers / vendors are also aware of TCoC requirement and they abide by it. All employees have been imparted web based training and awareness to thoroughly understand expected ethical behaviour. Company also has TCoC Grievance Redressal Mechanism and Local Ethics counsellors to address the raised issues. We also impart class room training to our associates and vendors. The TCoC has been revised & released by the Group on 29th July 2015 and the same has been disseminated by TTL to all its stakeholders. 12 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 7) Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment (POSH) mechanism has been established which includes a redressal committee at all BU/Geographies being chaired by senior women employees duly selected through a well established mechanism headed by the Chief Ethics Counselor. Tangible Outcomes during the reporting period: Parameters Parameters Number of POSH awareness workshops conducted 17 329 Female employees 282 Male No. of employees covered in workshops employees were part of these sessions. 4484 (this includes, on roll, oﬀ roll, Awareness on TCoC Vendor & contractual man-power) Total number of incidence reported under TCoC 71 Number of Corrective actions taken 71 13 Labour Principles 4 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition Principle 4 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 5 Business should support the eﬀective abolition of child labor Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Policies and Direction: 1) Company policy on hiring new employees emphasizes the aspects of “Equal Opportunity Employer” and complies with Clause – 4 of TCoC. 2) Employee Safety and Well – being Policy 3) Aﬃrmative Action Policy Initiatives: Our Human resource management system and processes aim to create and align organization which is self refreshing, responsive and customer centric encourages engagement and drives towards the “Tata Way” in a single company collaboration. TTL has a large workforce of 7425 employees as of 31st March, 2015 comprising of experts in various disciplines, assisted by dedicated skilled persons. TTL has a fair and transparent recruitment process with adequate opportunities to look for suitable candidates internally as well as from outside. Employees come from all parts of the country and belong to a variety of ethnic, cultural and religious backgrounds. TTL supports the physically challenged group of people by engaging them with our outbound call centres. TTL has engaged 5 visually challenged people hired through Blind Relief Association, Delhi (BRAD) & 23 visually challenged people hired through Indian Association for the Blind (IAB) & have also employed 5 people through livelihood program. TTL has stringent checks & prohibits child labour and forced labour in its operations. We also provide information on this to our contractors, prohibiting them to employ underage workers. All security personnel at TTL are trained on TCoC, including human rights aspects, before they begin their duties as part of their induction procedure. In addition, all our employees are trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures as per the TCoC. 15 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Some of the HR initiatives have been highlighted below: A. Employee Communication Channel: At TTL, we continuously strive to enhance communication and keep employees well informed and updated through various communication channels. We have adopted various means of communication to share our vision, strategy, messages from the leadership team, key initiatives, company policies, ethics, achievements, external and internal recognitions, employee activities, and industry news, to name a few. The various communication tools available to all TTLites are as follows: 1. Connexions: An e-newsletter published fortnightly (every ﬁrst and third week of the month) and sent to all employees as a mailer. Connexions update employees on new initiatives covering business/ products/ marketing, Value Added Services (VAS) oﬀerings, Business Excellence & Strategic Transformation (BE&ST), Learning & Development, Safety, Corporate Sustainability, Tata Group level updates etc. The newsletter also carries news from Circles, success stories, TTL related stories from external media, conversation and podcasts with SLT and achievers, and much more. 2. DIALog: The quarterly e-magazine that comes with a limited print edition, is a compilation of employee write-ups, travelogues, poetry, life experiences, photographs and inspiring articles about Tata Heritage. DIALog also accepts and publishes contribution from the family members of the employees. 3. Newsﬂash and HR Marquee: These channels have no set frequency and are used on need basis. They are used to communicate operational transformation, new launches, critical and time speciﬁc updates, HR policies, reminders or any initiative that impacts all employees. Pan-India communication in the form of information updates, documents, power point presentations, ﬁles, FAQs or manuals as and when required are announced through these channels. 4. E-connect – The Intranet: The robust employee portal hosts diverse information ranging from important organizational updates, policies and guidelines, online applications, news related to Tata Group and telecom industry innovations based on inputs from external media and organizational sources. This is an eﬃcient, cost-eﬀective and easily accessible two-way communication vehicle between employee groups that centralizes strategic information and supports the creation of a strong corporate culture. 16 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 5. Town hall: A two way communication platform that enables top management to engage with all employees at once, share strategic updates, business performance, provide direction to them, while at the same time address their questions. The platform is also leveraged to celebrate achievement through Rewards & Recognition (R&R). Employee town halls are organized quarterly and have a pan-India reach through webcasts. Employees are encouraged to send their concerns to the MD’s email id, so that they may be responded to during the Q&A session at the town hall. 6. Podcast: Large organizations with a wide geographical spread like TTL need innovative, succinct channels to cut through the clutter of information overload. A short video or a podcast proves to be the perfect solution. The face to face connect eﬀectively communicates leadership messages, business and strategy related information and industry trends straight from the leadership team or achievers in the organization. Videos and podcasts are broadcast pan India and to suggested stakeholders, through Connexions and e-connect. 7. Focus Group Discussion (FGDs): Conducted on monthly basis across circles, it is a forum for employees to share their thoughts, ideas, concerns that helps to identify action plans related to critical business or functional areas of the organization. While face-to-face communication is arguably the best way of keeping employees engaged and informed, it may not be always practical, particularly in large organizations like ours which is spread across geographies. Fortunately, today we can choose from a host of alternatives, from good old print to electronic tools such as emails, SMS, screensavers, webcasts and podcasts. Multiple channels enhance the reach of the message and convey it in a manner that signiﬁcantly decreases the chance that an employee will miss or misinterpret it. B. Volunteering Initiative at TTL: TTL as a part of Tata Group initiative participated in the volunteering programme “Tata Engage” organised by the Tata Sustainability Group (TSG). During the reporting period TTL has: The initiative aimed to encourage Tata employees 317 members of TTL’s volunteering arm “Prakriti Club” 945 volunteering hours around the globe to get involved in the community clocked Made an impact to 1850 by contributing their time and skills. beneﬁciaries TTL partnered with over 30 NGOs 17 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 The Tata Engage programme at TTL, demonstrates volunteering through three models. 1. Tata Volunteering Week: An episodic approach, where all employees collectively contribute their time and skills for half a day or a full day. 2. ProEngage: Launched by the Tata Sustainability Group in December 2014, on International Volunteer Day, ProEngage is a skill based volunteering program that enables volunteers to lend their skills & expertise to non-proﬁts and communities for capacity building in specialized functions like HR, Finance, Business Planning, Marketing etc. The projects are sourced through non-proﬁts who are registered with Tata Sustainability Group and made available on the Tata Engage website twice a year. 3. Engage Plus: A long-term programme that provides an opportunity for projects to beneﬁt from the highly skilled talent available in the TTL, while providing opportunities for these employees to gain a diverse and enriching experience. B.1 Supporting the sustainability initiatives; Anjali Birla visits to Antarctica: One of our employees Anjali Birla, got selected for the International Antarctic Expedition for Climate Change and Sustainability 2015. TTL sponsored her expedition. Organised by 2041, founded by legendary Polar explorer Robert Swan, this expedition to Antarctica would help to understand the continent’s fragile ecosystem and observe the impact of climate change on its unique wildlife and magniﬁcent landscape. 18 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 C. Aﬃrmative Action at TTL: TTL abides by Group’s “Aﬃrmative Action Programme” and During the reporting period, exercise positive discrimination in employing personnel from 1.85% of workforce at TTL historically disadvantaged communities and in engaging them was from AA category as business partners, without sacriﬁcing merit or quality. TTL has chalked out a code of conduct on Aﬃrmative Action Policy to reaﬃrm that its competitiveness is interlinked with the well being of all sections of the society. D. Learning and Development: Providing learning & development opportunity and nurturing quality talent supported by systematic investment in leadership, behavioural and functional/ technical development of our employees is one of our prime focus, with over 28,161 (1.42 Man-days per employee) man-days of formal training. The learning and development focus across the organization encourages engagement, involvement so as to move in the direction of being a “Learning organization”. E. Employee health and Safety : The health, safety and well-being of our employees are an essential element of a successful and sustainable TTL has an “Employee Well Being and Safety Policy” in order business. We are committed to provide a safe workplace for to ensure a conducive, healthy our employees and improve their health through better and safe Work Environment for work practices and lifestyles. In order to ensure safety at its workforce. The policy details workplace, Fire Drills are conducted periodically to activities and actions required for increase awareness amongst employees, and ﬁre exit maps Disaster Management, handling and exit signs are placed at strategic points. Fire drill emergency situations related to announcements, evacuation procedures, ﬁre response Safety of people and equipments. procedures are followed during these ﬁre drills. 19 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Engagement with our employees on health & safety: 1. Two employees got trained as Project Managers for Disaster Relief Operations 2. No. of safety trainings: Total 8012 hours of training (3489 for own employees & 4523 for associate employees). 3. Number of Fire drills at TTL oﬃces: 05 4. Total number of fatalities: 0 5. Total Lost Time Injuries: 0 6. Number of communication on safety policy: 12 safety posters, 2 safety videos Be prepared. Be safe. • Turn off all electrical appliances before you leave office. • Dispose off waste paper, rubbish and other inflammable material regularly. For internal circulation only. is a registered trademark of Tata Sons Ltd. The DOCOMO logo is a trademark of NTT DOCOMO, INC. (Japan) in India. TTL also organized the Self defence training for our women employees across all circles we operate in, with the help of state police department. 476 female employees got beneﬁted from such trainings during the reporting period. 20 Environmental Principles 4 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Principle 7 Business should support precautionary approach to Environmental Challenge Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technology Policies and Commitment: 1) Corporate policy on Environment and Group Corporate Sustainability policy provides direction to deploy best environmental practices which is leading towards conservation of resources and addressing future environmental challenges including climate change and other global environmental threats. 2) Process on Environment, Health and Safety management system has been established and cascaded to all locations. 3) Quality Policy 4) E-waste Management Policy 5) As a part of Tata Group, Strategy and road map on Sustainability and Carbon footprint for the period 2011 to 2015 has been developed which directs company to operate in a low carbon economy. 6) TCoC directs to comply with all environmental legal requirements while corporate policy on “Sustainability” provides guidance on environmental performance excellence. 7) As a commitment to continuous improvement to the environmental performances, it is company’s objective to minimize the quantity of waste generation & energy consumption by installing eco-friendly technology, or by increasing the use of renewable source of energy. Initiatives: At TTL, climate change is part of TCoC & Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM). TTL has rolled out a two pronged approach towards environmental conservation. Actions on high impact areas which are material to environment are addressed through a concept of ‘theme hubs’ while culture building across larger employee base is enabled through voluntary Prakriti clubs at each location. Three theme hubs – one for energy, waste and RF Safety are operational, with a clean charter to enable TTL implement industry best practices. The hubs are guided by TTL’s leadership team, which includes the MD and is reviewed by a working committee. Prakriti clubs give a platform for culture building. To comprehensively address the issue of energy, TTL formed an “Applied Research” team with a mandate to obtain good quality continuous power independent of grid reliability. 22 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Tangible outcomes achieved during the reporting period: Products and services of TTL drive of low carbon economy, through communication & collaboration, Telecom solutions which reduce the need for travel; various value added services, M-Commerce, M-Banking, solutions for agriculture, ﬁshing etc. In addition, TTL under took key initiatives across own operations / service delivery as follows: 1. Green Network (Indoor to outdoor BTS Conversion): 4007 BTS sites were converted to Outdoor sites thus resulting into saving of grid unit of 15,936 MWh & 1981 KL of diesel resulting into reduction of approximately 18,755 tCO2e reduction. 2. Free cooling Units (FCU) – Indoor to Outdoor Conversion: FCU has been installed at 1,124 sites. This initiative has helped TTL to avoid 2,775 MWh units from grid, 345 KL of diesel consumption & resulted into reduction of 3266 tons of CO2e emissions. 3. Carbon Footprint: The overall carbon footprint in 2014-15 has reduced by 4.32% over the previous year due to various energy eﬃciency & energy conservation measures taken by TTL. 4. Carbon footprint per subscriber: The carbon footprint per subscriber for TTL got reduced to 0.021 in the ﬁnancial year 2014-15 from 0.023 of 2013-14. 5. Renewable Energy Sources: We continued sourcing power from our existing solar energy sources & wheeling power from wind energy sources. 6. Green Plantation – 12,000 plus trees and shrubs planted at our Hyderabad oﬃce, Gyanpeeth. 7. Installation of Organic waste converter (OWC) and sprinkler & drip irrigation: The organic waste converter & sprinkler & drip irrigation was installed at our Hyderabad oﬃce premises to recycle the food waste & convert it into organic waste. 8. Water Recycling: TTL National data centre facility at Hyderabad continued treating the Sewerage and Water Treatment plant for eﬀective use of water. This facility is Zero discharge campus where treated water is used for ﬂushing and horticulture requirement. 23 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Compliance: Company reports its carbon footprint to TRAI on a half yearly basis. Additional information: Improving energy eﬃciency is critical and of highest importance at TTL, but it’s not the only way we believe we can reduce carbon footprint. Some of the innovative approaches TTL has taken to ensure an environment conscious culture within the company are: 1. Our oﬃces consumed 6% lower energy in FY14-15 compared to FY13-14 which translated to reduction of 1,172 tCO2e. 2. Responsible Disposal of Electronic Waste: As a part of its operations, TTL generates electronic waste like computers, peripherals, batteries, etc. To dispose of the electronic waste in a responsible manner, TTL has partnered with various recyclers across all their circles to collect e-waste. 3. To ensure minimal travel and reduced carbon footprint, various technologies have been enabled such as promoting use of tele-presence, video conferencing and teleconferencing by lync. Tata Sustainability Month: Tata Sustainability Month, a Tata Group level initiative is celebrated in the month of June (June 1st – June 30th) across the Tata Group companies globally. TTL is celebrating this month since 2012-13. TTL observed the month of June as the ‘TATA Sustainability Month (TSM)’ and actively participated by driving initiatives under the themes of carbon footprint, EMF (Electro Magnetic Fields) and employee participation through volunteering arm Prakriti Club. Key initiatives were as follows: • Save Energy Initiative • Ewaste collection drive • EMF training • Other Initiatives 24 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Initiatives: Prakriti Club: Prakriti Club is a forum for like-minded employees to volunteer their time, and share their skills and expertise for social and environmental causes. In order to improve participation across locations, Prakriti Leads have been identiﬁed at each location, who will work closely with the Corporate Sustainability (CS) team on key focus areas. The CS team also connected with Prakriti teams across locations and shared the CS Plan 2015 and the roles of Prakriti Leads and members. More than 250 enthusiastic employees registered with the Prakriti Club to volunteer towards CS focus areas. Save Energy Initiative: ‘Save Energy Day’ is being celebrated since June 2014. On World Environment Day the Network, FMSS and IT functions came together for the launch of the ‘Save Energy’ initiative. The day is observed on a weekly basis by Network and monthly basis by Facility Management Services FMSS and IT. Some of the activities carried out during the save energy day were temperature control, controlled usage of lights in MSC locations; switching oﬀ or control temperature of AC’s, switching oﬀ unwanted lights and equipments and shutting down one lift if multiple lifts are available during non-peak hours etc. This initiative saved 4,09,251 units of electricity resulting into reduction of total 344 Tonnes of Co2e during the reporting period. E-waste collection drive: TTL engage their employees in e-waste collection drive across their oﬃce. The drive was conducted in two phases. Telecom e-waste was inventoried through Network, IT & FMSS teams to be collectively disposed to an authorised e-waste vendor. E-waste drive was run from 23-30th June wherein all Prakriti members came forward to proactively participate in the drive and ensure employees’ participation. Employees enthusiastically participated and brought in their e-waste from homes for responsible disposal thereby contributing to a safe environment. 2,52,856 lac kilograms of e-waste were disposed during the e-waste collection drive (including the employee e-waste). 25 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 EMF (Electromagnetic Fields) Training: EMF is one of the key CS focus areas. During FY 2014-15, 2,154 employees got trained under EMF training programme including Service Sales & Training Team (SSRT) members.The SSRT team members in turn will organise awareness sessions for the Prakriti teams across locations initially, the trained Prakriti team members will in turn conduct these sessions for all employees. The end objective is to have TTL employees as brand ambassadors who can communicate and break myths about EMF with customers and members of society. Other Initiatives: Save Energy awareness campaign was successfully run across all locations. Banners, screensavers and stickers were displayed in prominent locations to reiterate the message of working in an energy eﬃcient way. E-bill promotion: TTL promotes to their customers to adapt for E-billing instead of paper billing. TTL also sensitize the sustainability to their customers on sustainability by sending them message on sustainability. About Prakriti Club: “Prakriti Club” is the employees volunteering arm of TTL which is present across all key locations. The Prakriti Club helps in harnessing the skills of employees & providing them an opportunity to engage with the NGO partners who are primarily engaged in skill building and education programs. The Prakriti Club is driven by the Corporate Sustainability Team with Prakriti Leads spearheading location level initiatives. Initiatives are based on the needs assessed for the NGO’s as well as the TTL’s Corporate Sustainability strategy. 26 Anti-Corruption Principles 4 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policy and Commitment: TCoC has been established in the company, which deﬁnes commitment on ethical behaviour. As per the TCoC, the organization is committed towards anti corruption and prevention of bribery. A Tata company and its employees shall neither receive nor oﬀer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable beneﬁts that are intended, or perceived, to obtain uncompetitive favours for the conduct of its business. The company shall cooperate with governmental authorities in eﬀorts to eliminate all forms of bribery, fraud and corruption. The TCoC got revised & latest TCoC is available for the reference. Initiatives: 1) TCoC is a part of all our agreements with vendors, suppliers, and partners. Additionally, it governs all of our business transactions. 2) The organization has a Whistle Blower Policy and a Business Ethics policy. Guidelines on gifts/donations have been put up on the organization‘s Intranet portal so employees also have access. TTL has an elaborate system and processes on the ‘management of business ethics’ and all employees sign the TCoC. The company has a Chief Ethics Counselor located at corporate oﬃce and Local Ethic Counsellor at MBU / Geography. TCoC provides an opportunity to all employees/stake holders to communicate any unethical act of any employee to concern ethics counsellor. Various channels have been provisioned, like toll free number, dedicated email id for hassle free reporting of cases. 3) Awareness programmes are conducted on TCoC for all employees across the circle locations and corporate oﬃce. All concerns reports were investigated by appropriate process and procedures for closure with actions on each as per the decision of ethics committee. The same has been reviewed and communicated in various national forums like Employee Town Hall, to bring it to the notice of employees, to bring seriousness of adoption of ethical practices. Every employee has to read and provide his/her acceptance of Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC). Every new employee on the date of joining read and gives his/her acceptance of Tata Code of Conduct. The email id of POSH committee, Chief Ethics Oﬃcer and Chief Ethics Counsellor has been provided, so that employees, vendors, services provides, contractors are able to get access to report the ethical concerns. 28 Glossary 4 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 AIMA All India Management Association BE&ST Business Excellence & Strategic Transformation BRAD Blind Relief Association, Delhi BTS Base Tower Station BU Business Unit CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CEP Competency Enhancement Program CII Confederation of Indian Industry CS Corporate Sustainability IAB Indian Association for the Blind IDC International Data Corporation EMF Electro Magnetic Fields FCU Free Cooling Units FGD Focus Group Discussion GSM Global System for Mobile Communications GSMA Groupe Speciale Mobile Association MBU Mobility Business Unit MD Managing Director MSC Mobile Switching Centre OPEX Operational Expenditure OWC Organic Waste Converter POSH Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment R&R Rewards and Recognition 30 Tata Teleservices Limited Communications on Progress 2014-15 SLT Senior Leadership Team SMEs Small Medium Enterprises SSRT Service Sales & Training Team TBEM Tata Business Excellence Model TCoC Tata Code of Conduct TRAI Telecom Regulatory Authority of India TTL Tata Teleservices Ltd. TTML Tata Teleservices Maharashtra Limited TSG Tata Sustainability Group TSM Tata Sustainability Month VAS Value Added Services UNGC United Nation Global Compact Q&A Question And Answers 31 TELESERVICES LIMITED
