A)General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 01/06/2013 To: 31/12/2014 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). Statement of continued support 03/03/2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Alpro reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Bernard Deryckere, CEO B)Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. • Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards • Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of conduct) • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the principles on Human Rights • Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation (see Risk Assessment Report at www.humanrightsbusiness.org) • Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year Alpro has its own Code of Ethics which is trained and complied with in the whole organization. Alpro also has a company-specific Ethical Charter based on the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact. This covers all ethical issues concerning people (labor circumstances, workers' health and housing, child labor) planet and performance. All our suppliers are requested to sign the Charter. Alpro also favors long term relationships with farmers around the globe. This gives these farmers a measure of stability, also protecting them from the negative consequences of a single crop failure. All our soybeans (main ingredient) are ProTerra certified. Proterra certification is a label for ecologically sustainable, social responsible and non-GMO sourced soybeans, based on the Basel criteria and developed by the World Wildlife Fund and COP Switzerland. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanism • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights • Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within your company • Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights Alpro’s Code of Ethics is trained and complied with in the whole organization. Any complaints or concerns are reported through the usual hierarchical escalation or via local hotlines (per country). Alpro’s Ethical Charter is checked at supplier’s level during regular or ad hoc quality audit visits on site. The ProTerra standard is audited and certified on a yearly basis by an independent Accredited Certification Body. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • Specific progress made in the area of Human Rights in the past reporting period • Information about how your company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of Human Rights performance We perform periodic review by the senior management. We have had no legal cases concerning human rights in the history of the company. C)Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. • Reference to ILO Core Conventions or other international instruments • Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination • Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Labour principles • Assessment of labour‐related risks in the industry sector and country(ies) of operations • Specific goals in the area of Labour Rights for the upcoming year Alpro complies with applicable laws on labour, and we assure the same for our suppliers through the Ethical Charter. Our Code of Ethics includes the elimination of discrimination. We have work councils or equivalents in place in all our different entities. All employees comply with the labour regulations. Furthermore we have specific HR related policies, shared and trained within organization. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training for employees on labour rights and policies • Describe how the health and safety of all employees is ensured • Describe how your company prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for comparable work • Consultation with employees and other stakeholders • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of labour rights within your organization • Human Resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles • Participation in international framework agreements and other agreements with labour u Alpro pays great attention to the safety, health and well-being of every employee (e.g. ergonomics,...). Thorough trainings, attention to safety, various sports initiatives, “quit smoking” and nutrition advice... strengthen Alpro’s DNA in sustainability. Alpro has a Committee for Safety and Health and Welfare of the Staff that is being informed by the Prevention advisor about the yearly Action Plan for Security, with monthly monitoring of safety measures and strict reporting of all accidents (including root cause analysis, prevention measures, etc. ..) We have a “Healthy Alpro team” that organizes sportingand health activities for our employees. Extralegal benefits are offered through group insurance for retirement / disability / death, accidents besides additional / alternative forms of remuneration such as bonus plans, meal vouchers, company cars, expenses, etc. Trainings and coaching on different levels are made available for our employees. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • Demographics of management and employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) • Describe how your company deals with incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labour principles • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Labour • Periodic review of results by senior management • Specific progress made in the area of Labour during the last reporting period • External audits (e.g. SA 8000) We have had no incidents of legal cases in the history of the company. We have KPI’s in place through Balanced Scorecards on management level for accidents, safety and voluntary leaves, with yearly review. In the past two years we have also organized Focus Groups throughout the organization, with the aim of analyzing and evaluating the policies of Alpro. Furthermore we are being regularly audited by our big customers. D)Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. • Assessment of the environmental footprint and impact of your company • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles • Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year Alpro will publish a new SD Report by summer 2015; in which we will present our new Sustainable Strategy 2020. We have built a strong strategic portfolio of SD projects in three essential domains: health, resource-efficiency and innovation. Under these 3 pillars we have created goals for several important focus points, such as energy & carbon, water, sustainable sourcing,… In 2011, Alpro became the first European food company to join the WWF Climate Savers programme. The programme is WWF’s global platform to engage with business and industry on climate and energy. Member companies take on two commitments: to become the best in class in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and to influence market or policy developments by promoting their vision, solutions and achievements. The WWF Partnership continues and Alpro is currently working on renewal targets for 2015-2020. The new targets will comply to the ‘science-based approach’). Under Climate Savers, companies establish ambitious reduction targets, which are regularly verified by an independent consultant on behalf of WWF. Alpro also measures its carbon footprint every two years in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For Alpro, the biggest opportunity in having a real impact on sustainable development, it’s influencing consumers to make more sustainable food choices. Simply by adding low-impact plantbased variety to their diet, consumers can significantly reduce their ecological footprint (‘climate positive approach’). This is why Alpro is also actively promoting a healthy plant-based diet. Alpro has joined forces with WWF – the world’s leading conservation organization –for a long-term partnership to help promote plant-based eating education and sustainable initiatives. One of the main schemes Alpro is supporting is the WWF’s Green Ambassadors programme which encourages sustainable initiatives in primary schools throughout the UK. Alpro is also involved at other initiatives that will bring together the industry and key stakeholders to activity promote plant-based eating. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. • Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection • Initiatives and programmes to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) • Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes • Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Raise awareness among suppliers by asking for the environmental footprint of products or services • Environmental management system to identify, monitor and control the company’s environmental performance • Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection within your company Innovation: we are creating a variety of tasty plant-based products and making them widely available for consumers, enabling them to make a sustainable choice. Raising awareness and communicating: we are very active in raising awareness and communicating on the ecological & health benefits of plant-based food: e.g. presentations, seminars, participating in and creating of industry/stakeholders coalitions, website, social media, internal Sustainable Development roadshows,... Energy & Carbon: Alpro has established a Masterplan Utilities for energy-efficiency and renewable energy. Scope 3 carbon emissions will be addressed in collaboration with key suppliers transport & packaging (2015). Our factories are ISO14001 certified, have specific goals for waste and water reduction, and they all run local site projects for biodiversity. All our soybeans are ProTerra certified and GMO-free. They do not come from cleared rainforest and we are on track to source 50% of our soybeans from Europe by 2016. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. • Information about how your company deals with incidents • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to environmental principles • Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of environmental performance Alpro measures its carbon footprint every two years in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Under Climate Savers, reduction targets are regularly verified by an independent consultant on behalf of WWF. The ProTerra certification of our soybeans is regularly audited by an external consultant (Cert-Id). Environmental KPI’s (water, wast, energy, carbon) are part of Balanced Scorecards on management level. SD Reporting in line with the GRI G3 guideline level C to determine both content and key performance indicators. Alpro has procedures and standards for waste management, handling and disposal of chemicals and other hazardous materials, emissions and waste water treatment that meet the minimum legal requirements. Alpro has effective emergency procedures to prevent and deal with industrial accidents affecting humans and the environment. E)Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. • Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country(ies) of operation • Written company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion • Reference to (or statement of support for) the UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments • Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the anti‐corruption principles • Specific goals in the area of anti‐corruption for the upcoming year Alpro has its own Code of Ethics which is trained and complied with in the whole organization with specific attention for the UK Bribery Act. The FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (United States)) is applicable for Alpro as a part of the WhiteWave Foods Company. All key leaders within Alpro have to fill in a compliant questionnaire as well as all distributors. Furthermore we organize traininging of key leaders and management team. Alpro also has a company-specific Ethical Charter based on the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact. This also covers anti-corruption. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Allocation of responsibilities for anti‐corruption within the company • Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti‐corruption The Code of Ethics is trained and complied with in the whole organization. Any complaints or concerns are reported through the usual hierarchical escalation or via local hotlines (per country). Alpro’s Ethical Charter is checked at supplier’s level during regular or ad hoc quality audit visits on site. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. • Information about how your company deals with incidents of corruption • Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti‐corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery • Specific progress made in the area of anti‐corruption during the last reporting period • External audits of anti‐corruption programmes We perform periodic review on executive management level. Our company has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. There has been no such incident reported in the period.
