MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS (COP) 0 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 About the MTN Group The MTN Group is a leading emerging markets operator, connecting subscribers in 22 countries in Africa and the Middle East. Our offerings include voice, data and internet services, cloud services, machineto-machine monitoring technology, mobile money, as well as numerous other mobile services (including mHealth, mEducation and mInsurance). MTN is listed on the JSE Limited in South Africa under the share code “MTN”. At 31 December 2014, MTN had 223 million subscribers across its operations in Afghanistan, Benin, Botswana, Cameroon, Cyprus, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Guinea Republic, Iran, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Republic of Congo (Congo-Brazzaville), Rwanda, South Africa, Sudan, South Sudan, Swaziland, Syria, Uganda, Yemen and Zambia. 1 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 Our strategy MTN’s strategy is driven through five strategic themes, as depicted here. Creating and managing stakeholder value, and innovation and best practice sharing describe our approach to our work, people and other stakeholders. Tangible priorities under creating a distinct customer experience, driving sustainable growth and transforming our operating model define how we at MTN strive to gain a sustainable competitive advantage and superior shareholder returns. 2 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 Contents MTN Group Limited Statement of Recommitment to the UNGC 4 Scope of the Communication of Progress 5 Sustainability context 7 UNGC Communication of Progress for 2014 9 Annexures 1. Group Positions 34 42 1.1 Group Social and Ethics Statement 34 1.2 Anti-Corruption 35 1.3 Human Rights 36 2. Code of Ethics 37 3. Employee Conduct Pledge 40 3 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 MTN Group Limited Statement of Recommitment to the UNGC To our stakeholders MTN was formed at the same time as the new and democratic South Africa. Those beginnings and the values of all South Africans at that time remain central to the way in which we do business. We operate in mobile networks in 22 countries across Africa and the Middle East. Our goal is to lead the delivery of a bold, new digital world to our customers, to make our customers’ lives a whole lot brighter. This we continue to do in ways that support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. I am therefore pleased to confirm that MTN Group Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our 2014 annual Communication of Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. SIFISO DABENGWA GROUP PRESIDENT AND CEO MTN GROUP LTD 4 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 Scope of the COP Materiality and stakeholder inclusiveness As Global Compact signatory, MTN recognizes that the ten principles within the four issues areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption are material to the organisation and that these reflect significant economic, social and environmental impacts. We also recognize that the decisions and assessments of our stakeholders are substantially being influenced by the process and results of MTN’s integration of the ten principles into our operations and strategies. Material issues are those issues that impact our ability to remain commercially viable and socially relevant to stakeholders. We determine material issues of importance to our sustainability by reviewing the issues most important to our stakeholders, and the impact of these issues on the achievement of our business objectives. Material issues are prioritised according to the scale and nature of impact on business operations, economic performance and specific stakeholder groups. The Group follows the guidance of the sustainability standards and protocols in structuring a framework for selecting material issues and assessing our performance across the economic, social and environmental issues that most impact our business and our stakeholders. Guidance is also sought by referring to developments, reports, publications and work efforts of industry bodies such as GSMA and ITU. Our material sustainability issues of focus for 2014 are set out below: To determine the issues most material to MTN’s sustainability each year, we take the following sources into account: ■ Feedback from internal and external stakeholders that review the annual sustainability report. 5 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 ■ Engagement with external stakeholders via the addresses sustainability@mtn.com and investor.relations@mtn.co.za. ■ Information gained through engagements with regulatory authorities, media organisations, civil society and community-based organisations, our customers, and general members of the public. ■ Feedback from and engagement with the JSE SRI, the CDP, and MTN’s investors, shareholders and research organisations that consult us or assess our responsible business performance. ■ Information from third-party questionnaires and assessments of our publicly reported performance by university organisations and other third parties not commissioned by MTN. ■ Our internal review and research processes including industry, peer and global developments, and our risk and audit management processes. Issues identified through this process are weighted during an internal materiality review. These issues are reviewed by the executive, and the Group social and ethics committee. We undertake this review periodically to ensure that we are responsive and can adapt to changing operating conditions. 6 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 Sustainability context ICT changing the nature of societies, governments and businesses The advancement of Information Communication Technology is transforming how we live, work and interact. In the same vein, owing to broadband connectivity and growing access to affordable mobile devices, ICT also empowers even the most marginalised of communities to have greater control over, and more meaningfully participate in, opportunities which can help them improve their lives. Solutions to problems and opportunities to advance social development, some of which were inconceivable even five years ago, are fast becoming commonplace. The ubiquitous availability of mobile devices means people can now drive digital innovation from anywhere in the world. This level of transformation demands a shift in thinking, a change in traditional ways of working and delivering services, and comprehensive investments in new types of skills. MTN’s role in these changes MTN is prepared for these changes. As an emerging markets operator, the materially larger upside of digital opportunities is mitigated by proportionally greater risks. We know that it is imperative to embrace these dynamics. Our vision of leading the delivery of a bold, new digital world is detailed in our business strategy, focusing on fundamentals such as how we create and manage stakeholder value, innovate, transform our operating model, drive sustainable growth and create distinct customer experiences. We invest in partnerships that offer solutions to challenges and take advantage of emerging opportunities. MTN improving sustainability in its markets in 2014 MTN’s role in improving sustainability in its markets in 2014 saw us continuing to implement changes to our operating model in order to align ourselves with the growing demand for digital services and solutions in our markets. Our e-commerce partnerships are enabling our customers to enjoy access to products previously only available in more developed countries. Partnering with tower management companies, we are better able to focus on core business delivery. This also helps us and other mobile operators to reduce some of our environmental impact. By investing in the development of local content in our markets, we actively encourage mobile application developers of all ages to develop solutions that can potentially help people participate in economic opportunities and overcome constraints such as lack of access to information, health and education services, among others. Challenges MTN faced in 2014 Recent research results tell us that appropriate spectrum allocation can contribute up to US$22 billion in economic benefits to Africa. Our operating environment continues to be hampered by the lack of adequate spectrum allocation, resulting in constrained expansion abilities in some of our markets. Nevertheless, our investments in broadband connectivity and the recent deployment of MTN.net, with over 40 MPLS points of presence in 27 countries, is helping us to enhance our offerings and support our vision of accessible and affordable internet connectivity for all. The emergence of the Ebola epidemic poses a humanitarian and operational concern in some of MTN's markets. We offered our network and support services for mass communication of key messages to employees, customers, suppliers and communities, to create awareness of the pandemic and its symptoms. We actively continue to support the fight against Ebola in connecting displaced families, our US$10 million contribution to the African Union’s mission to unite against Ebola, and through our internal crisis and risk management processes, overseen by executive management. I am relieved that we only experienced one case of infection by an MTN colleague, who recovered fully. 7 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 Actions taken to integrate sustainability into its core business activities in 2014 We continued to make steady progress in integrating sustainable business practices into our day-to-day activities. Institutionalisation of the Group’s ethics management framework remained a priority. We are actively working to strengthen the culture of ethical and responsible practices across our business. The Ethics Institute of South Africa completed the Group’s first independent comprehensive ethics risk assessment, profile and mitigation strategy. Ethics governance structures and committee terms of reference were formalised or updated. Codes and policies were updated, training on anti-bribery and corruption was rolled out, and mandatory declarations in terms the conflicts of interest policy, along with completion of gift registers, was made available digitally. Our ethics programme continues to show meaningful results, as tracked by reports from the Tip-Offs Anonymous line. We were honoured to share our experiences and progress with the UN Global Compact Anti-Corruption and Integrity in Business Dialogue in the National Business Initiative and the Integrity Alliance. Our efforts to reduce our environmental impact are also starting to bear results. Despite an 8% increase in the number of network sites and a 7,5% increase in subscribers, we maintained our carbon emissions per subscriber at 0,0007 tCO2e and achieved savings of around R49,6 million. This is due to our extensive investments in energy efficiency and alternative energy solutions, resulting in lower operating costs, increased energy security and financial savings, and actual avoidance or reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. We were pleased to be rated among the top 500 global companies on corporate sustainability and environmental impact in the 2014 Newsweek Green Rankings. We continue to actively close the digital divide. More than 4 000 cotton farmers in Zambia now receive MTN Mobile Money payments for their produce. Over 10 000 people in Yemen have accessed medical advice to help them manage health and medical lifestyle risks. Affordable short-term insurance is now available to our small and emerging business subscribers in Nigeria. In Benin, micro-insurance is now available to motorcycle taxi operators. Over 15 000 refugees from Ivory Coast (and medical and security personnel) now have access to mobile communications at one of the largest camps in Liberia. More than 17 000 school children in Uganda and Rwanda can now study longer at night as a result of our ReadyPay solar charging solution. We have enabled charging of 10 250 cellular phones and lighting through our distribution dealers and emerging enterprises comprising 17% females. Around 20 000 MTN Mobile Money transactions were facilitated over an eight-month period. Over 12,3 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions have been avoided through this initiative, for which MTN was awarded the Nedbank Capital Sustainable Business Award for trade and services that create long-term stakeholder value. MTN’s sustainability focus for 2015 We have a long way to go before we can say that we comfortably address all our material sustainability prerogatives. We will continue to embed our ethics framework and values and improve our environmental governance and management efforts to mitigate our physical, financial and regulatory risks and impacts. We also want to further invest in digital skills development to improve our technical capabilities for more accessible, affordable and quality communications for our customers. Business partnerships remain a critical element of ensuring we can have a positive impact around scale and scope, and to extend the benefits of the digital society to all sectors. 8 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 UNGC Communication of Progress for 2014 The UN GRI G4 Guidelines (which now include standard disclosures and core indicators) were used in preparation of this COP for 2014.  Please also refer to the Group’s UN GRI Report and Sustainability Report available on www.mtn.com/sustainability Abbreviations  COP: Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014  IR: MTN Group Limited Integrated Report for the year ended 31 December 2014  SR: MTN Group Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 MTN’s Response G4-1 UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) Disclosure # information on www.mtn.com) HIGH-LEVEL COMMITMENT AND STRATEGY G4-1 CEO statement on continued UNGC  Communication of Progress (COP)  2 support  IR: Interview with Group president and CEO  22-23  SR: Group president and CEO on sustainability  3-4 G4-2 Impacts, risks and opportunities  IR: Our top risk and opportunities and our response to these  16-17  SR: Energy and climate risks, mitigation and opportunities  21 CONTEXT OF OPERATION AND VERIFICATION G4-3 Name of reporting organisation  MTN Group Limited G4-4 Products, services  https://www.mtn.com/MTNGROUP/ProductsandServices/Pa ges/  IR: What we offer  3 G4-6 Operating structure  IR: Where we operate  1-2 G4-5 Location of Headquarters 216 14th Avenue, Fairland, 2195, Gauteng, South Africa G4-6 Geographic scope / map of  IR: Where we operate  Unnumbered operations page prior to page 1 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form  IR: MTN Group Profile; footprint  2  https://www.mtn.com/Investors/FinancialReporting/ Documents/INTEGRATEDREPORTS/2014/ar_Annual_ Financials_Statement_2014.pdf G4-8 Profile of customer base  IR: Where we operate  Unnumbered page prior to page 1 G4-9 Scale of operations  IR: MTN’s value creation  4-5  SR: Scope, boundaries and integration  53  SR: Sustainability value added statement  34 G4-13 Changes occurring within the  http://www.mtn-investor.com/reporting/prelims_2014/ reporting period excels/fin-changes.xls Awards received  https://www.mtn.com/Media/MoreInMedia/Pages/Awards.a spx Assurance G4-33 Process to provide independent  IR: Assurance report for selected indicators  89 verification for the COP / Policy on  SR: Value added statement  34 36 independent assurance Governance G4-34 Company's governance structure  IR: How we are governed  40, 44 – 45 (including major committees)  SR: Value added statement  33  UNGC reporting at the AGM of MTN has been included in the terms of reference of the MTN Group Board’s Social and Ethics Committee which was established in 2011 in response to the Companies Act of 2008. 9 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 MTN’s Response G4-1 UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) Disclosure # information on www.mtn.com) G4-39 Is the chairman also an executive  IR: Who is responsible – profiles of our board of directors  34 – 37 officer?  IR: How we are governed – roles of chairman and Group  41 president and CEO G4-40 Board profile: number, gender,  IR: Summarised corporate governance  41, 45 Executive vs. Non-executive G4-49 How do stakeholders provide  IR: How we are governed – our risk management process  46 – 47 recommendations to Board?  SR: Standards and governance – governance of sustainability  33 G4-51 Link between remuneration and  IR: How we remunerate our people  56-65 leadership performance G4-41 Managing conflicts of interest  IR: How we are governed  40 G4-40 Process for determining leadership  IR: Summarised corporate governance  41-45 qualifications  The board and Exco members’ skills and qualifications are assessed during their recruitment process. Assessment of board skills is done on an on-going basis during board evaluation. G4-42 Internally developed mission / value  IR: How we are governed  40 statements, principles or codes related to sustainability G4-45 Board oversight of sustainability  IR: How we are governed (summarised corporate  40 governance: social and ethics committee)  SR: Standards and governance – governance of sustainability  33 G4-44 Processes for evaluating the board's  IR: How we are governed (summarised corporate  45 sustainability performance governance: social and ethics committee)  SR: Standards and governance – governance of sustainability  33 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups  IR: Our key relationships  8–9  SR: Stakeholders  53 G4-25 How are stakeholders identified?  IR: Our key relationships  8–9  SR: Stakeholders  53 G4-26 On-going mechanisms for  IR: Our key relationships  8–9 stakeholder engagement: who, how,  SR: Stakeholders  53 what outcomes G4-27 Stakeholder concerns and how the  IR: Our key relationships  8–9 organisation responded  SR: Stakeholders  53 How MTN’s Communication of  Publicly on www.mtn.com Progress (COP) has been shared  Via intranet on MtnConnect with our stakeholders DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Economic EC:MD Management approach: economic  https://www.mtn.com/Investors/FinancialReporting/Pages/ performance, market presence and IntegratedReports.aspx indirect economic aspects  https://www.mtn.com/Investors/FinancialReporting/Pages/ AnnualResults.aspx  https://www.mtn.com/Investors/FinancialReporting/Pages/ InterimResults.aspx  https://www.mtn.com/Investors/FinancialReporting/Pages/ QuarterlyResults.aspx  https://www.mtn.com/Investors/MoreinInvestors/Pages/ Presentations.aspx Economic performance G4-EC1 Economic value added  IR: Summarised financial statements  4-5 G4-EC2 Climate change related financial  SR: Energy and climate – risks, mitigation and  21 implications, risks and opportunities opportunities  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/MTN_ Group_2014_CDP_Report.pdf  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/ CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations  IR: How we remunerate our people  56 65 10 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 MTN’s Response G4-1 UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) Disclosure # information on www.mtn.com) G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance  In some countries, standard government rebates to  received from government encourage investment in national skills development and training are available to employers. In South Africa rebates at rates determined by the government are available on payments made in terms of the Skills Development Levies Act (where companies are registered with the SA Revenue Services, have a payroll above a government-determined threshold, and make payments of 1% of monthly payroll costs to the National Skills Development Levy); the company uses this to further training and skills development programmes. Capital investment in  IR: Where we operate  Unnumbered telecommunication network page prior to infrastructure broken down by page 1 country/region Net costs for MTN under the  The MTN Group has not separately calculated or ring-fenced Universal Service Obligation when the net costs of extending service to geographic locations extending service to geographic and low-income communities which are not profitable, due locations and low-income groups, to the nature of the business’ operations in emerging which are not profitable markets across Africa and the Middle East, where lowincome and geographic spread of markets are a feature of in some of these markets Market presence G4-EC5 Standard entry level wage  The MTN Group pays entry level wages equal to or above compared to local minimum wage local minimum wages in each country in which the Company operates G4-EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of  SR: Sustainability value added statement (black economic  35 spending on locally-based suppliers empowerment) G4-EC6 Procedures for local hiring  The MTN Group hires locally as far as possible. Only 1.1% of  34 (including senior management) the local staff base across the Group comprises expatriate members. We do not indicate expatriate members by management level. See SR: Sustainability value added statement Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Positive public impact of pro bono /  SR: Sustainable economic value; Y’ello Fibre Ring  13 donated infrastructure and services  https://www.mtn.com/SocialResponsibility/Pages/default. aspx G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic  IR: MTN’s value creation  4-5 impacts, including extent  SR: Sustainability value added statement  34 36  https://www.mtn.com/SocialResponsibility/Pages/default. aspx ENVIRONMENTAL Indirect economic impacts EN:MD Management approach: energy, Our customers live in emerging countries that are resourcewater, materials, biodiversity, rich, but globally in countries that are amongst the most emissions, effluents, and waste vulnerable to the effects of climate change. For this reason, we take our responsibility to address our environmental impact seriously. The three most material areas of impact where our efforts can have a less harmful impact on the environment are managing and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, ensuring our network implementation is environmentallysound, and responding to the global proliferation of electronic and electrical waste. We also know that we can use ICT solutions to help other companies reduce their environmental impact.  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  20 – 24  https://www.cdp.net/en 34 35 US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN 11 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-1 MTN’s Response Disclosure UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) # information on www.mtn.com) Materials G4-EN1 Materials used: weight / volume The most material resource used is electronic and electrical equipment.  SR: Eco-responsibility e-waste  25  SR: Sustainability value added statement  35 G4-EN2 Percentage of recycled materials Due of the nature of products and services offered the MTN used Group does not consider this indicator to be material for its operations. The Group is, however, addressing downstream recycling of its e-waste and that of its customers in South Africa Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy use: by primary source  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  20 – 24  https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN4 Indirect energy use: by primary  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  20 – 24 source  https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN5 Energy saved due to efficiencies  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  20 24  https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN6 Energy efficiency / renewable  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  20 – 24 energy initiatives  https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN6 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  20 – 24 consumption  SR: Group president and CEO’s message on sustainability  4  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Ecoresponsibility/Pages /energymanagement.aspx  https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Due to the nature of MTN’s business and the products and services offered, this indicator is not material. However, as part of the maintaining the ISO 14001 and LEED certifications for MTN South Africa, responsible water management and use are addressed. MTN Nigeria and MTN Cyprus are currently working towards ISO 140001 certification. Other operations, while not ISO 14001 certified, maintain safety, health and environmental policies, and as part of 2015’s business plans, all MTN countries of operation are reviewing environmental risks as a focus area in terms of the Group’s principal risks. A number of MTN operations are currently implementing the Group Green Office toolkit, for water-saving opportunities at offices and similar premises G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected Not material as indicated above by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total water volume Not material as indicated above of water recycled and reused Biodiversity G4-EN11 Location and size of land owned, The MTN Group does not currently report against this indicator leased or managed in biodiversityrich habitats G4-EN12 Impacts of operations on areas of  SR: Eco-responsibility – environmental management  18 19 high biodiversity value  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_a nd_Environment_2013.pdf G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Due to the nature of MTN’s business, the Group does not report against this indicator. However, environmental impact assessments are undertaken as part of network infrastructure and facilities implementation.  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_a nd_Environment_2013.pdf 12 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-1 MTN’s Response Disclosure UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional information on Page(s) # www.mtn.com) G4-EN13 How are impacts on biodiversity Due to the nature of MTN’s business, the Group does not being managed? report against this indicator. However, environmental impact assessments are undertaken as part of network infrastructure and facilities implementation.  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_a nd_Environment_2013.pdf G4-EN14 Number of conservation list species Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this Group does not affected by operations report against this indicator. However, environmental impact assessments are undertaken as part of network infrastructure and facilities implementation.  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_a nd_Environment_2013.pdf Emissions, effluents and wastes G4-EN15 Total direct and indirect greenhouse  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  20 G4-EN16 gas emissions by weight  SR: Sustainability value added statement  34  https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  20 emissions by weight  SR: Sustainability value added statement  34  https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN19 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  21 23 emissions and reductions achieved  IR: MTN’s value creation  34  https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this indicator is not substances by weight material https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this indicator is not emissions by weight and type material G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and The only water discharged is through the municipal sewer. Due destination to the nature of MTN’s business, this indicator is not material G4-EN23 Total amount of waste by type and The most material waste generated is old / redundant is disposal method electronic and electrical equipment.  SR: Eco-responsibility  25  SR: Sustainability value statement  35 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of No significant spills were reported by MTN operations significant spills  SR: Eco-responsibility – e-waste  25  SR: Sustainability value statement  35 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, The most material waste subject to this convention is e-waste. exported or treated hazardous In South Africa, e-waste is processed locally to the greatest waste possible extent, by MTN’s e-waste handlers. MTN’s fractions are ultimately mixed with e-waste from other companies and sources, and we are not aware of the weight of fractions shipped internationally. A short-term public awareness and ewaste collection campaign will be undertaken in early 2015 by MTN Benin and Ericsson. E-waste collected will be shipped from Benin to South Africa, and is therefore subject to the convention. We will report on weight in 2016. G4-EN26 Water discharge impacts on Although not a material aspect for the Group, see SR: Eco 18 – 19 biodiversity and water bodies responsibility – infrastructure environmental management 13 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-1 MTN’s Response Disclosure UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) # information on www.mtn.com) Products and Services G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental  The global e-Sustainability Initiative has assessed that ICTimpacts enabled solutions can help the world achieve carbon abatements in the region of 9,6GtCO2e or 16,5% of global outputs by 2020. Although our solutions in this domain are relatively small, opportunities are growing rapidly, and include cloud computing for virtualisation and other efficiencies, and machine-to-machine products to address risks of water leakage, report on air quality composition for improvement efforts, and encouragement of energyefficient driving by fleet drivers using our fleet management solution.  SR: Sustainable economies – enterprise services  14 15  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/ Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?pID=29  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/ Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?pID=28  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/ Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?pID=23 G4-EN28 Percentage of reclaimed products /  SR: Eco-responsibility – e-waste  18 – 19 packaging materials  SR: sustainability vale added statement  35 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines  The Group’s legal department receives reports from and total number of non-monetary operations on non-compliances and fines issued to the sanctions for non-compliance with operations environmental laws and regulations. Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of  Although transportation is not a source of significant transport use : for products, environmental impacts and is not deemed material, materials, members of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with transport are workforce quantified.  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate  20  SR: Sustainability value added statement  34  https://www.cdp.net/enUS/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN Overall G4-EN31 Environmental protection  SR: Eco-responsibility – environmental management  18 19 expenditure  IR: How we are governed – social and ethics committee  45 terms of reference  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_ and_Environment_2013.pdf  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Mobile_an d_Health_2013.pdf 14 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-1 MTN’s Response Disclosure UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) # information on www.mtn.com) LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Disclosure on management approach LA:MD Management approach:  The MTN Group recognises that to achieve its strategic employment, labour relations, objectives and vision to lead the delivery of a bold new occupational health and safety, digital world to its customers, the Group needs training and education and diversity appropriately skilled, culturally diverse employees who are and equal opportunity motivated by and enjoy their work. Our employment practices are guided by the international and local labour laws that seek to protect the rights of both the employer and employee in the workplace. Detailed monthly reports on various aspects are submitted to the Group chief human resources and corporate affairs officer.  SR: Sustainable Societies – employee Health and Safety  31  SR: sustainability value added statement  34 – 35  MTN provides learning and development opportunities to all  35 employees, and specifically through its e-Live e-learning offerings makes it possible for every employee to undertake learning and development as part of more comprehensive career management; the MTN Academy is instrumental in providing comprehensive learning and development services to all operations through its three regional learning centres in South Africa, Dubai and Ghana  The Group has embedded its new Cultural Operating System (COS) across all operations  A new employee recognition programme has been implemented, MTN Shine. Employment G4-LA1 Employee numbers  SR: Annual sustainability statements  34 G4-LA1 Employee turnover  SR: Annual sustainability statement  34 G4-LA2 Full-time employee benefits not  IR: How we remunerate our people  54 67 provided to temporary / part-time employees Labour/Management relations G4-LA Percentage unionised employees  Not available G4-LA4 Minimum notice period/s regarding The Group does provide internal notification to employees significant operational changes regarding significant operational changes. These vary depending on the nature and scope of the change. Employees are notified as soon as a possible restructuring process within the organisation is considered. This follows a consultation process. Once an employee has been confirmed for retrenchment, s/he is given at least one month’s notice. This notice period may even be longer than one month, as determined by the various labour laws (which always state the minimum notice period) applicable in the countries in which MTN operates. It is important to note that MTN has a very generous retrenchment policy relative to severance pay Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 Employee representation in health  SR: Sustainable societies – employee health and safety  30 and safety committees  SR: Sustainability value added statement  34 G4-LA6 Total number of work-related  SR: Sustainable societies – employee health and safety  30 fatalities, rates of injury, occupational  SR: Sustainability value added statement  34 diseases, lost days and absenteeism  Occupational diseases are not a feature of our business, given the nature of products and services offered  Data on lost days is not available, but is deemed not material due to the low rate of workplace-related accidents/injuries 15 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-1 MTN’s Response Disclosure UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) # information on www.mtn.com) G4-LA7 Employee wellness programmes  SR: Annual sustainability statement – sustainable societies  31 regarding serious diseases  MTN Group has partnered with SOS International and its medical staff to conduct extensive training sessions on the Ebola virus, distributing Ebola posters and learning aids for ease of reference for employees  MTN Group has partnered with ICAS, an international risk management services as our employee wellness provider who offer assistance on various issues but mainly counselling as the first phase of issue management. Wellness for serious diseases is also done through the medical aid G4-LA4 Health and safety topics covered in  Not available formal agreements with trade unions  A US$10 million humanitarian grant was made to the African Union in support of its appeal for support in the fight against Ebola IO3 Practices to ensure health and safety  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Mobile_an of field personnel involved in the d_Health_2013.pdf installation, operation and maintenance of masts, base stations, laying cables and other activities Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per Employees are actively encouraged to continuously take employee per year advantage of opportunities to improve their capabilities and skills through extensive training available digitally, face-toface and from other sources supplied by the MTN Academy, or from external accredited and reputable organisations. MTN Academy regularly compiles internal reports for management on the nature of training undertaken by employees, amount of time spent on each module, and pass rates. Certain elements of training are mandatory for all employees. Directors also receive regular and informative updates and training on legislative, regulatory, and any other business-related changes throughout their tenure. They are also encouraged to discuss their development needs with the chairman, and are provided with training where necessary  SR: Annual sustainability statement  34 G4-LA10 Employee skills and training  SR: Annual sustainability statement  34 35 programmes  E-Learning as well as instructor-led programmes of the MTN Academy cover all disciplines of work. A dedicated elearning catalogue focusing only on telecoms specific elearning is also in use. G4-LA11 % employees receiving performance  SR: Annual sustainability statement  34 35 reviews and career development Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies  IR: Who is responsible  34  IR: How we are governed  37 51 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to The MTN Group does not currently report against this women by employee category indicator LA15 Return to work and retention rates The MTN Group does not currently report against this after parental leave, by gender indicator HUMAN RIGHTS Disclosure on management approach HR:MD Management approach: investment  SR: Sustainable societies – ICT human rights  29 30 and procurement practices, non https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Human_Ri discrimination, freedom of ghts_and_ITC_2013.PDF association and collective bargaining,  MTN Group adheres to specifications of the International abolition of child labour, prevention Labour Organisation Protocol on decent work and working of forced and compulsory labour, conditions (core standards of freedom of association, complaints and grievance practices, forced labour, child labour, anti-discrimination). These are security practices, and indigenous integrated in the Group Code of Ethics, and included in the rights Group Social and Ethics Committee’s terms of reference. 16 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-1 MTN’s Response Disclosure UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) # information on www.mtn.com) Investment and procurement activities G4-HR1 Percentage and number of significant  Not available investments that have undergone human rights screening G4-HR1 Percentage of significant suppliers  Not available and contractors that have undergone human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours and number of  Not available employees receiving human rights training Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Number of incidents of  Not available discrimination and action taken  Entrenched in the Group’s code of ethics are noted transgressions that carry serious penalties for any person who offends another based on colour, race, creed, political association or injury to a person or their dignity. This ensures that all employees are able to operate freely within the organisation, and focus on their primary roles (which is to provide the services contractually agreed to) Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Any incidents where freedom of  No incidents reported. association / collective bargaining  Employees are free to associate socially, politically, was at risk? Actions taken? religiously or otherwise, as well as join any bargaining council, without fear of victimisation. Our code of conduct enables us to correctly manage situations where an employee may infringe on these rights. Child Labour G4-HR5 Any incidents of child labour and  0% measures taken?  In 2011 the MTN Group specifically assessed whether it was compliant with the ILO child labour minimum age specification, and found that it was, with the youngest employee being 17 years of age at the time. Forced and compulsory labour G4-HR6 Any incidents of forced labour and No incidents measures taken? Security practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this indicator is not trained in human rights applicable Indigenous rights G4-HR8 Any incidents where indigenous The MTN Group does not track this indicator people's rights were violated and measures taken? G4-HR9 Percentage and total number of 0% in terms of indigenous rights operations that have undergone human rights reviews G4-HR12 Number of human rights grievances The MTN Group does not track this indicator filed, and resolved through formal mechanisms SOCIETY Disclosure on management approach SO:MD Management approach: community,  IR: How we are governed – risk management  49 corruption, public policy, anti IR: How we are governed – social and ethics statement  50 – 51 competitive behaviour and  SR: Sustainable societies – anti-corruption  28 compliance  Group positions om www.mtn.com/sustainability: o Anti-corruption o Conflicts of Interest 17 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-1 MTN’s Response Disclosure UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) # information on www.mtn.com) Community G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with local  68 % of MTN operations (15 countries) have a formal community engagement, impact Foundation. assessments, and development  100% of operations undertake development programmes programs. through enterprise development, volunteering, and community-based sponsorships such as in education or health-related fields. The impact of community investment has not been assessed by MTN Group  SR: Sustainable societies – ICT human rights  29 30  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Mobile_an d_Health_2013.pdf  https://www.mtn.com/SocialResponsibility/Pages/default.as px Corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage and of  IR: How we are governed – risk management  49 operations assessed for risks related  SR: Sustainable societies – anti-corruption  28 to corruption and the significant risks  SR: Sustainability value added statement  34 identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on  IR: How we are governed – summarised corporate  49, 51 anticorruption policies and governance report  28 procedures  SR: Sustainable societies – anti-corruption G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents Due disciplinary processes are followed to investigate and  28 of corruption resolve matters of ill-discipline including corruption. Sanctions may range from warnings to termination of employment Public policy G4-SO6 Engagement in public policy Public policy engagement is undertaken in the following means:  Via any matters of consideration by the GSMA Board, due to the fact that the Group’s President and CEO is a member of this Board  Via the necessary regulatory agency either in formal public commentary invitation processes, or as required for possible emerging regulation or industry-specific matters such as carbon taxes, spectrum allocation, etc. (MTN operations may engage directly with the necessary regulatory agency, or collectively via national business or industry associations) G4-SO6 Financial / in-kind contributions to  In support of South Africa’s celebrations of 20 years of political parties democracy, a donation was made to the Department of International Relations and Cooperation, for celebratory events to be held in some countries. The celebrations were, however, postponed to 2015, due to the emergence of Ebola in some of the countries in which MTN operates  A US$10 million humanitarian grant was made to the African Union in support of its appeal for support in the fight against Ebola Anti-competitive behaviour G4-SO7 Number of legal actions for anti We have historically reported on the status and results of competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and the lawsuit by Turkcell against MTN. This matter now monopoly practices resides for consideration at the South Gauteng High Court of South Africa  https://www.mtn.com/PressOffice/MTNIran/Pages/MTNIran .aspx 18 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-1 MTN’s Response Disclosure UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) # information on www.mtn.com) Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines  Telecommunication regulators in some of the countries in and number of non-monetary which MTN operates have threatened or imposed quality of sanctions for non-compliance with service fines upon MTN based on network performance regulations standards. Although this information is available in the public domain, we have not quantified the value of these fines for the purposes of this report  Data related to other matters is not available G4-SO9 Operations with significant negative None impacts on local communities. G4-SO10 Prevention and mitigation of  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_ significant negative impacts on local and_Environment_2013.pdf communities, by operation PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure on management approach G4-PR:MD Management approach: customer  SR: Sustainable Societies – Human Rights and ICT health and safety, product and service  www.mtn.com/sustainability: MTN Group’s Human Rights labelling, marketing communications, and ICT position and on Mobiles and Health customer privacy, and compliance. Customer health and safety G4-PR1 Life cycle stages of products /  www.mtn.com/sustainability: MTN Group’s position on services assessed for health and Mobiles and Health safety impacts : incl. % of products / services assessed G4-PR2 Incidents of regulatory nonNot available compliance concerning health and safety impacts of products and services G4-PA8 Policies and practices to publicly  www.mtn.com/sustainability: MTN Group’s position on communicate on EMF related issues Mobiles and Health G4-PA9 Total amount invested in Not available programmes and activities in electromagnetic field research Product and service labelling G4-PR3 Product / service information  Please refer to the country website of each MTN operation required by procedures for more information. The websites of our two largest operations are listed below for easy reference:  https://www.mtn.co.za/Pages/Website_legal.aspx?termsID= 327  http://www.mtnonline.com/sitemap G4-PR3 Incidents of regulatory nonNone compliance concerning product and service information labelling G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction practices: IR: Assured results of customer satisfaction performance  52 – 53, 89 surveys etc. indicators (Net Promoter Score (NPS)) Marketing communications G4-PR6 Adherence to marketing, promotions In addition to complying with local laws, standards and codes and communications standards of practice in each country where we operate, as a regulated organisation subject to oversight by national telecommunication regulatory authorities, we may be required to abide by specific additional requirements regarding marketing communications. For instance, in order for us to market voice or data products in order to grow our subscriber base, our quality of service may be subject to review by regulators before permission may be granted (in circumstances where quality of service may fall below pre-set standards or as agreed in regulatory licences) 19 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-1 MTN’s Response Disclosure UNGC reporting requirement (Document, Section, Page Number or additional Page(s) # information on www.mtn.com) G4-PR7 Incidents of regulatory nonNot available compliance concerning marketing communications G4-PR7 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges Included in marketing and product information and tariffs G4-PR7 Initiatives to inform customers about Included in marketing and product information product features and applications that will promote responsible, efficient, cost effective and environmentally preferable use Customer privacy G4-PR8 Incidents of substantiated breaches  SR: Sustainable Societies – Human Rights and ICT  30 of customer privacy and losses of customer data 20 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 UNGC Principle MTN’s Response (Document, Section, Page Number or additional information on www.mtn.com) HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Human Rights GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 1 and outcomes from Businesses should support and implementing Principle 1 respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Indicators Human Rights: Aspect Investment: G4-HR2: TOTAL HOURS OF EMPLOYEE TRAINING ON HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES OR PROCEDURES CONCERNING ASPECTS OF HUMAN RIGHTS THAT ARE RELEVANT TO OPERATIONS, INCLUDING THE PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED  0% Aspect Security Practices: G4-HR7: PERCENTAGE OF SECURITY PERSONNEL TRAINED IN THE ORGANIZATION’S HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES OR PROCEDURES THAT ARE RELEVANT TO OPERATIONS  Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this indicator is not applicable Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-HR8: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF VIOLATIONS INVOLVING RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES AND ACTIONS TAKEN  0% in terms of indigenous rights Aspect Assessment G4-HR9: TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEWS OR IMPACT ASSESSMENTS  0% Aspect Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS  The MTN Group does not track this indicator Society: Aspect: Local Communities G4-SO1: PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS  68 % of MTN operations (15 countries) have a formal Foundation.  100% of operations undertake development programmes through enterprise development, volunteering, and community-based sponsorships such as in education or health-related fields. The impact of community investment has not been assessed by MTN Group G4-SO2: OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES  None Outcomes from implementing Principle 1 G4-HR8 ANY INCIDENTS WHERE INDIGENOUS PEOPLE'S RIGHTS WERE VIOLATED AND MEASURES TAKEN?  The MTN Group does not track this indicator G4-HR12 NUMBER OF HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCES FILED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL MECHANISMS The MTN Group does not track this indicator 21 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 UNGC Principle MTN’s Response (Document, Section, Page Number or additional information on www.mtn.com) Principle 2 GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 2 and outcomes from Businesses should make sure that implementing Principle 2 they are not complicit in human rights abuses Indicators Human Rights: Aspect Investment: G4-HR1: TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS THAT INCLUDE HUMAN RIGHTS CLAUSES OR THAT UNDERWENT HUMAN RIGHTS SCREENING  Not available Aspect Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10: PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING HUMAN RIGHTS CRITERIA  0% G4-HR11: SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN  0% LABOUR Principle 3 GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 3 and outcomes from Businesses should uphold the implementing Principle 3 freedom of association and the effective recognition to the right to General Standard Disclosures collective bargaining Organizational Profile G4-11 a. Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Not available Indicators Human Rights: Aspect Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED IN WHICH THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MAY BE VIOLATED OR AT SIGNIFICANT RISK, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO SUPPORT THESE RIGHTS  The MTN Group does not currently report against this indicator Labour: Aspect Labour/Management Relations G4-LA4: MINIMUM NOTICE PERIODS REGARDING OPERATIONAL CHANGES, INCLUDING WHETHER THESE ARE SPECIFIED IN COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS  The Group does provide internal notification to employees regarding significant operational changes. These vary depending on the nature and scope of the change. Employees are notified as soon as a possible restructuring process within the organisation is considered. This follows a consultation process. Once an employee has been confirmed for retrenchment, s/he is given at least one month’s notice. This notice period may even be longer than one month, as determined by the various labour laws (which always state the minimum notice period) applicable in the countries in which MTN operates. It is important to note that MTN has a very generous retrenchment policy relative to severance pay 22 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 UNGC Principle MTN’s Response (Document, Section, Page Number or additional information on www.mtn.com) Principle 4 GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 4 and outcomes from The elimination of all forms of implementing Principle 4 forced and compulsory labour Indicators Human Rights: Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labour G4-HR6: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS HAVING SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR, AND MEASURES TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR  No incidents Principle 5 GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 5 and outcomes from The effective abolition of child implementing Principle 5 labour Indicators Human Rights: Aspect Child Labour G4-HR5: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS HAVING SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOR, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR  0%  In 2011 the MTN Group specifically assessed whether it was compliant with the ILO child labour minimum age specification, and found that it was, with the youngest employee being 17 years of age at the time. Principle 6 GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 6 and outcomes from The elimination of implementing Principle 6 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation General Standard Disclosures Organizational Profile G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries).  Sustainability Report: Sustainability value added statement – page 34 Indicators Economic: Aspect: Market Presence G4-EC5: RATIOS OF STANDARD ENTRY LEVEL WAGE BY GENDER COMPARED TO LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE AT SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION  Not available 23 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-EC6: PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY AT SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION  The MTN Group hires locally as far as possible. Only 1.1% of the local staff base across the Group comprises expatriate members  Sustainability report: Sustainability value added statement page 34 Labour Practices and Decent Work: Aspect: Employment G4-LA1: TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION  Not available G4-LA3: RETURN TO WORK AND RETENTION RATES AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE, BY GENDER  Not available Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9: AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER, AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY  Sustainability Report: Annual Sustainability Statement page 34 G4-LA11: PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS, BY GENDER AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY  Sustainability Report: Annual Sustainability Statement page 34 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12: COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ACCORDING TO GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP MEMBERSHIP, AND OTHER INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY  Integrated Report: Who is responsible (pages 34 – 36)  Sustainability Report: Sustainability value added statement (page 34) Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13: RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, BY SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION  Not available Human Rights: Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN  Not available ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 7 and outcomes from precautionary approach to implementing Principle 7 environmental challenges Indicators Economic: Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC2: FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND OTHER RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE ORGANIZATION’S ACTIVITIES DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE  Sustainability Report: Energy and climate – risks, mitigation and opportunities page 21  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/MTN_Group_2014_CDP_Report.pdf 34 35  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN 24 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 Environmental: Aspect: Materials G4-EN1: MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR VOLUME The most material resource used is electronic and electrical equipment.  Sustainability Report: Eco-responsibility e-waste (page 25)  Sustainability Report: Sustainability value added statement (page 35) Aspect: Energy G4-EN3: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION  Sustainability Report: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate (pages 20 -24)  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN Aspect Water G4-EN8: TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE  Due to the nature of MTN’s business and the products and services offered, this indicator is not material. However, as part of the maintaining the ISO 14001 and LEED certifications for MTN South Africa, responsible water management and use are addressed. MTN Nigeria and MTN Cyprus are currently working towards ISO 140001 certification. Other operations, while not ISO 14001 certified, maintain safety, health and environmental policies, and as part of 2015’s business plans, all MTN countries of operation are reviewing environmental risks as a focus area in terms of the Group’s principal risks.  A number of MTN operations are currently implementing the Group Green Office toolkit, for water-saving opportunities at offices and similar premises Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15: DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1)  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate – page 20  SR: Sustainability value added statement – page 34  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN16: ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2)  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate – page 20  SR: Sustainability value added statement – page 34  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN17: OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3)  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate – page 20  SR: Sustainability value added statement – page 34  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN20: EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODS)  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN21: NOX, SOX, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS  Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this indicator is not material Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27: EXTENT OF IMPACT MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES  The global e-Sustainability Initiative has assessed that ICT-enabled solutions can help the world achieve carbon abatements in the region of 9,6GtCO2e or 16,5% of global outputs by 2020. Although our solutions in this domain are relatively small, opportunities are growing rapidly, and include cloud computing for virtualisation and other efficiencies, and machineto-machine products to address risks of water leakage, report on air quality composition for improvement efforts, and encouragement of energy-efficient driving by fleet drivers using our fleet management solution.  SR: Sustainable economies – enterprise services (pages 14 – 15)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?p ID=29  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?p ID=28 25 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?p ID=23 Aspect: Overall G4-EN31: TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EXPENDITURES AND INVESTMENTS BY TYPE  SR: Eco-responsibility – environmental management (pages 18 – 19)  IR: How we are governed – social and ethics committee terms of reference (page 45)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_and_Environment_2013.pdf https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Mobile_and_Health_2013.pdf ENVIRONMENT (continued) 26 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 Principle 8 GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 8 and outcomes from Undertake initiatives to promote implementing Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility Indicators Environmental: Aspect: Materials G4-EN1: MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR VOLUME The most material resource used is electronic and electrical equipment.  Sustainability Report: Eco-responsibility e-waste (page 25)  Sustainability Report: Sustainability value added statement (page 35) G4-EN2: PERCENTAGE OF MATERIALS USED THAT ARE RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS Due of the nature of products and services offered the MTN Group does not consider this indicator to be material for its operations. The Group is, however, addressing downstream recycling of its e-waste and that of its customers in South Africa Aspect: Energy G4-EN3: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate pages 20 24 https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN4: ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANIZATION  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate pages 20 24 https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN5: ENERGY INTENSITY  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate pages 20 24 https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN6: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate pages 20 24 https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN7: REDUCTIONS IN ENERGY REQUIREMENTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate pages 20 24  SR: Group president and CEO’s message on sustainability (page 4)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Ecoresponsibility/Pages/energymanagement.aspx https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN Aspect: Water G4-EN8: TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE  Due to the nature of MTN’s business and the products and services offered, this indicator is not material. However, as part of the maintaining the ISO 14001 and LEED certifications for MTN South Africa, responsible water management and use are addressed. MTN Nigeria and MTN Cyprus are currently working towards ISO 140001 certification. Other operations, while not ISO 14001 certified, maintain safety, health and environmental policies, and as part of 2015’s business plans, all MTN countries of operation are reviewing environmental risks as a focus area in terms of the Group’s principal risks. A number of MTN operations are currently implementing the Group Green Office toolkit, for water-saving opportunities at offices and similar premises G4-EN9: WATER SOURCES SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY WITHDRAWAL OF WATER  Not material as indicated above G4-EN10: PERCENTAGE AND TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED  Not material as indicated above 27 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 Aspect: Biodiversity G4-EN11: OPERATIONAL SITES OWNED, LEASED, MANAGED IN, OR ADJACENT TO, PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED AREAS  The MTN Group does not currently report against this indicator G4-EN12: DESCRIPTION OF SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS OF ACTIVITIES, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES ON BIODIVERSITY IN PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED AREAS  SR: Eco-responsibility – environmental management (pages 18 – 19)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_and_Environment_2013.pdf G4-EN13: HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED  Due to the nature of MTN’s business, the Group does not report against this indicator. However, environmental impact assessments are undertaken as part of network infrastructure and facilities implementation.  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_and_Environment_2013.pdf  Due to the nature of MTN’s business, the Group does not report against this indicator. However, environmental impact assessments are undertaken as part of network infrastructure and facilities implementation.  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_and_Environment_2013.pdf G4-EN14: TOTAL NUMBER OF IUCN RED LIST SPECIES AND NATIONAL CONSERVATION LIST SPECIES WITH HABITATS IN AREAS AFFECTED BY OPERATIONS, BY LEVEL OF EXTINCTION RISK  Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this Group does not report against this indicator. However, environmental impact assessments are undertaken as part of network infrastructure and facilities implementation.  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_and_Environment_2013.pdf Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15: DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1)  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate (page 20)  SR: Sustainability value added statement (page 34) https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN16: ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2)  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate (page 20)  SR: Sustainability value added statement (page 34) https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN17: OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3)  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate (page 20)  SR: Sustainability value added statement (page 34) https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN18: GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS INTENSITY  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate (page 20)  SR: Sustainability value added statement (page 34) https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN19: REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate (page 21 23)  SR: Sustainability value added statement (page 34) https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN20: EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODS)  Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this indicator is not material  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN 28 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 G4-EN21: NOX, SOX, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS  Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this indicator is not material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22: TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION  The only water discharged is through the municipal sewer. Due to the nature of MTN’s business, this indicator is not material G4-EN23: TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD The most material waste generated is old / redundant is electronic and electrical equipment.  SR: Eco-responsibility (page 25)  SR: Sustainability value statement (page 35) G4-EN24: TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT SPILLS No significant spills were reported by MTN operations  SR: Eco-responsibility – e-waste (page 25)  SR: Sustainability value statement (page 35) G4-EN25: WEIGHT OF TRANSPORTED, IMPORTED, EXPORTED, OR TREATED WASTE DEEMED HAZARDOUS UNDER THE TERMS OF THE BASEL CONVENTION2 ANNEX I, II, III, AND VIII, AND PERCENTAGE OF TRANSPORTED WASTE SHIPPED INTERNATIONALLY  The most material waste subject to this convention is e-waste. In South Africa, e-waste is processed locally to the greatest possible extent, by MTN’s e-waste handlers. MTN’s fractions are ultimately mixed with e-waste from other companies and sources, and we are not aware of the weight of fractions shipped internationally. A short-term public awareness and e-waste collection campaign will be undertaken in early 2015 by MTN Benin and Ericsson. E-waste collected will be shipped from Benin to South Africa, and is therefore subject to the convention. We will report on weight in 2016. G4-EN26: IDENTITY, SIZE, PROTECTED STATUS, AND BIODIVERSITY VALUE OF WATER BODIES AND RELATED HABITATS SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY THE ORGANIZATION’S DISCHARGES OF WATER AND RUNOFF  Although not a material aspect for the Group, see SR: Eco-responsibility – infrastructure environmental management (page 18 – 19) Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27: EXTENT OF IMPACT MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES  The global e-Sustainability Initiative has assessed that ICT-enabled solutions can help the world achieve carbon abatements in the region of 9,6GtCO2e or 16,5% of global outputs by 2020. Although our solutions in this domain are relatively small, opportunities are growing rapidly, and include cloud computing for virtualisation and other efficiencies, and machine-tomachine products to address risks of water leakage, report on air quality composition for improvement efforts, and encouragement of energy-efficient driving by fleet drivers using our fleet management solution.  SR: Sustainable economies – enterprise services (pages 14 – 15)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?pID =29  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?pID =28  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?pID =23 G4-EN28: PERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTS SOLD AND THEIR PACKAGING MATERIALS THAT ARE RECLAIMED BY CATEGORY  SR: Eco-responsibility – e-waste (page 18 – 19)  SR: sustainability vale added statement (page 35) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (continued) 29 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 Principle 8 Aspect: Compliance Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental G4-EN29: MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF responsibility NONMONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS  The Group’s legal department receives reports from operations on non-compliances and fines issued to the operations Aspect: Transport G4-EN30: SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF TRANSPORTING PRODUCTS AND OTHER GOODS AND MATERIALS FOR THE ORGANIZATION’S OPERATIONS, AND TRANSPORTING MEMBERS OF THE WORKFORCE  Although transportation is not a source of significant environmental impacts and is not deemed material, greenhouse gas emissions associated with transport are quantified.  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate (page 20)  SR: Sustainability value added statement (page 34)  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN Aspect: Overall G4-EN31: TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EXPENDITURES AND INVESTMENTS BY TYPE  SR: Eco-responsibility – environmental management (pages 18 – 19)  IR: How we are governed – social and ethics committee terms of reference (page 45)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_and_Environment_2013.pdf  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Mobile_and_Health_2013.pdf Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32: PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA  Not available G4-EN33: SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN  Not available Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS  Not available Principle 9 GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 9 and outcomes from Encourage the development and implementing Principle 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Indicators Environmental: Aspect Energy G4-EN6: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate pages 20 24  SR: Group president and CEO’s message on sustainability (page 4)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Ecoresponsibility/Pages/energymanagement.aspx  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN G4-EN7: REDUCTIONS IN ENERGY REQUIREMENTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate pages 20 24  SR: Group president and CEO’s message on sustainability (page 4)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Ecoresponsibility/Pages/energymanagement.aspx  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN 30 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 Aspect: Emissions G4-EN19: REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS  SR: Eco-responsibility – energy and climate (pages 21 – 23)  IR: MTN’s value creation (page 34)  https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=MTN Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27: EXTENT OF IMPACT MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES  The global e-Sustainability Initiative has assessed that ICT-enabled solutions can help the world achieve carbon abatements in the region of 9,6GtCO2e or 16,5% of global outputs by 2020. Although our solutions in this domain are relatively small, opportunities are growing rapidly, and include cloud computing for virtualisation and other efficiencies, and machine-tomachine products to address risks of water leakage, report on air quality composition for improvement efforts, and encouragement of energy-efficient driving by fleet drivers using our fleet management solution.  SR: Sustainable economies – enterprise services (pages 14 – 15)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?pID =29  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?pID =28  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/MoreOnSustainability/Pages/CaseStudyFullView.aspx?pID =23 Aspect: Overall G4-EN31: TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EXPENDITURES AND INVESTMENTS BY TYPE  SR: Eco-responsibility – environmental management (pages 18 – 19)  IR: How we are governed – social and ethics committee terms of reference (page 45)  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Networks_and_Environment_2013.pdf  https://www.mtn.com/Sustainability/Documents/Mobile_and_Health_2013.pdf ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Principle 10 and outcomes from Businesses should work against Implementing Principle 10 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery General Standard Disclosures Ethics and Integrity G4-56 a. Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics.  Refer Annexures to this report: o Social and Ethics Statement (COP page 34) o Anti-Corruption (COP page 35) o Human Rights (COP page 36) o Code of Ethics (COP page 37) o Employee Conduct Pledge (COP page 38) G4-57 a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines.  An internal ethics discussion platform exists on the MTN intranet, “MTNConnect”  A closed group discussion platform exists on the intranet (“MTN Connect”) specifically for use by ethics champions at Group and Opco level  An ethics advice line (not anonymous) exists: MTNGroupEthics@mtn.com  At organisational level MTN has a strategic partnership with the Ethics Institute of South Africa with whom the company has organisational membership; this partnership is crucial 31 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 for ethics advice required at a systemic level.  Ethics task teams at Group and operations level consisting of trained ethics champions from various disciplines (e.g. Finance, HR, Procurement, Business Risk Management, Corporate Affairs, etc.) who are available to field ethics enquiries.  The MTN Group has 5 certified Ethics Officers (registered with the Ethics Institute of South Africa) from the disciplines of Procurement, Business Risk Management, Finance (Group Tax), Legal and HR who provide assistance and advice at both personal level and systemic level to all OPCOs in terms of ethics management practice.  Ethics related priority policies as well as the Codes (Code of Ethics, Social and Ethics Statement and Employee Conduct Pledge) direct behaviour and practice, and contain directives on routes to follow for the reporting of ethical breaches. G4-58 a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines.  All Ethics related policies indicate the appropriate route to follow with regard to reporting of ethics policy breaches, i.e. line manager / head of function / Group Chief Officer (HR and Corporate Affairs or Group Chief Officer Business Risk Management), or the whistleblowing line (Tip-offs Anonymous). Indicators Society Aspect Anti-Corruption G4-SO3: TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS ASSESSED FOR RISKS RELATED TO CORRUPTION AND THE SIGNIFICANT RISKS IDENTIFIED  IR: How we are governed – risk management (page 49)  SR: Sustainable societies – anti-corruption (page 28)  SR: Sustainability value added statement (page 34) G4-SO4: COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES  IR: How we are governed – summarised corporate governance report (pages 49, 51)  SR: Sustainable societies – anti-corruption (page 28) G4-SO5: CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN  Not disclosed Aspect Public Policy G4-SO6: TOTAL VALUE OF POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS BY COUNTRY AND RECIPIENT/BENEFICIARY  In support of South Africa’s celebrations of 20 years of democracy, a donation was made to the Department of International Relations and Cooperation, for celebratory events to be held in some countries. The celebrations were, however, postponed to 2015, due to the emergence of Ebola in some of the countries in which MTN operates  A US$10 million humanitarian grant was made to the African Union in support of its appeal for support in the fight against Ebola 32 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 ANNEXURES 33 MTN Group’s social and ethics statement As part of an overall update to the MTN Group’s work on guidelines that direct the social and ethical role of ensuring business is conducted ethically in line with its businesses within society. code of ethics, the Company updated its stance on ●● Not tolerating any form of illegal or unethical conduct conducting ethical business. The updated statement was on the part of all MTN’s employees, leadership, and signed by the MTN Group board in May 2013: directors, as well as our suppliers, business partners and other stakeholders that may influence our business Wherever we operate in the world, MTN adheres to a activities. culture of sound ethical business conduct that generates ●● Remaining informed about the rapidly developing economic value for the greater benefit of our communities benefits and risks of information and communication and stakeholders and in a manner that is eco-responsible innovation globally, and ensuring that our governance, and sustainable. We operate across a diverse set of legal, policy development, technical and business geographic, political, regulatory, judicial, socio-economic processes, and system capabilities evolve accordingly. and cultural contexts, and this poses both opportunity ●● Constantly improving the quality of our services, and risk-based challenges to how we are able to conduct products and operations. our business of facilitating communications in the digital ●● Working with industry and other forums focused at age. bringing the benefits of open, affordable and accessible telecommunications and digital information to society. The global information communication innovation age is ●● Improving our engagement with our stakeholders in a catalyst for socio-economic development, but the a constructive, dialogue-driven, more transparent benefits of the rapid development of technology must be manner. balanced with ethical and responsible application. It is our intention to always conduct our business ethically and MTN’s ethics culture is a direct result of the conduct and responsibly, acting to the best of our abilities for the decisions of our employees. All MTN employees are greater good of our business and our stakeholders. expected to adhere to our ethical standards as expressed through the MTN values of integrity, leadership and We act on our social and ethics statement through: relationships. Our values of innovation and can-do are achieved with due regard for people and the planet, while ●● Maintaining a reputation of honesty, fairness, respect, profits are a result of consciously understanding, aligning responsibility, integrity, trust and sound business and integrating the various stakeholders’ needs within the judgement. diverse markets and geographies we operate in. We will ●● Integrating within our business operations act to our utmost capacity and scope of influence to internationally accepted and locally required responsible continue to achieve our vision of leading a bold new business instruments, codes, protocols, standards and Digital World in our markets, in a way that is responsible, ethical and sustainable. 2014 MTN Group’s Position on anti-bribery, corruption and gifts Fraudulent and corrupt activities are a threat to the In our dealings with public officials and government sustainability and reputation of any business. MTN has a employees, we work to ensure that we act in an ethical zero tolerance approach to fraud, bribery and corruption, manner. We also recognise that strong democracies and we are constantly striving to improve our fight against require healthy political parties, and that these parties it. It is our policy to conduct all our business activities with require resources to represent people, operate structures, honesty, integrity and to the highest ethical standards, contest elections and meaningfully contribute to political and we recently updated the MTN Group anti-bribery and debates; therefore our political donations policy sets out corruption policy to ensure that our efforts against fraud, our political support during general elections in countries. bribery and corruption are in alignment with the overall Political party financial support is only provided should a Group ethics framework. country hold national elections, and funding is allocated to each party in relation to its performance in general We consider facilitation payments as bribes, and therefore elections. We act in an entirely open manner and will illegal. We will only do business with parties that do not publicly disclose political donations made. make facilitation payments. Our gifts policy includes a declaration of gifts in a gift register, and all employees are As part of our corporate citizenship role, charitable expected to record gifts, hospitality and corporate donations and sponsorships are encouraged, but we will expenses. Procurement policies and procedures are not undertake this with the intention of placing actual or communicated to employees and suppliers to ensure potential customers, suppliers or public officials under any selected providers of services are aware of our requirement obligations. to act in a legal, ethical and professional manner. We work to ensure that third party engagements are for bona fide For MTN, it is important that our employees in particular purposes, that adequate due diligence is conducted, and are aware of what constitutes fraudulent or corrupt that compensation is appropriate and justifiable behaviour, and what they need to do once they are aware remuneration for legitimate services rendered. of potentially fraudulent activities. 2014 MTN Position on Human Rights and ICT MTN’s business is to facilitate communications in the digital MTN Group’s Freedom of Expression, Privacy and Security age. We recognise that the innovation revolution taking (Human Rights) Policy sets out the principles which MTN place in the information and communication sector is applies to safeguard the communication privacy and helping break down social, economic and community security rights of customers. It does this in a manner that is barriers, and is a catalyst for positive socio-economic consistent with internationally recognised standards and development. legal requirements on freedom of expression, access to information, privacy and security of information, while Information technology has developed far more rapidly ensuring that we remain compliant with the terms of our than any global laws required to support it, and this situation licence conditions and legal obligations. The Group’s policy in unlikely to change in the foreseeable future. One of the is informed by the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of results of this development has been greater access to Human Rights, and also takes into consideration some of personal information and communications by governments the views expressed within the United Nations Protect, or any other group of organisations or individuals, often not Respect and Remedy Framework, and by the GSMA, various accompanied by legal or regulatory due process. industry groups working on this matter, and the Access Now Telco Action Plan. ICT human rights predominantly relate to freedom of expression, access to information, privacy, and security of information. The following principles underlie MTN’s position on human rights: ●● We believe in the rights of all people to freely communicate and share information, and to enjoy the right to privacy and security in their use of digital, telephonic and internet-based communications. ●● While acting in accordance with prevailing laws and licence conditions, we will use our best endeavours and scope of influence to protect, respect and ensure these rights of all customers using our ICT solutions where laws and licence conditions may not appropriately recognise the rights of our customers. ●● We will take reasonable steps to maintain data transmission and storage confidentiality and security. ●● We will only gather customer data for legitimate commercial businesses and as permitted by licencing and legal obligations. The policy is supported by other key documentation relating to the Group’s code of ethics, and information security and information provision governance. MTN Group will always act to our best endeavours and scope of influence to protect, respect and ensure the information privacy and security rights of customers using its solutions. We will undertake this commitment in a way that is responsible, ethical and sustainable, whilst also being compliant with applicable laws and licence conditions in all countries in which we operate. 2014 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 MTN Group Code of Ethics To all our stakeholders MTN was formed at the same time as the new and democratic South Africa. Those beginnings and the values of all South Africans at that time remain central to the way in which we do business. We operate in mobile networks in 22 countries across Africa and the Middle East. Our goal is to lead the delivery of a bold, new digital world to our customers. However, we recognise that operating in these countries and regions, we have an obligation to ensure that all our business practices are conducted in accordance with all local and international laws and that we adhere to the highest levels of ethical and moral conduct. This is something that we embrace across all parts of our business and we expect our business partners to do the same. The governing principles of the way we do business are set out in our Code of Ethics (the Code). The Code, together with a set of detailed underlying policies, explains the way in which we run the business, deal with each other, customers, suppliers and governments. All officers and employees of MTN are required to comply with the Code, as are all our suppliers. It is therefore in the best interest of all to take the time to understand and apply our Code of Ethics. We ensure that the Code accurately and comprehensively addresses the current law and international best practice, and for this reason it is reviewed regularly under the supervision of the Board’s Social and Ethics Committee. Revisions of the Code will be issued as often as is necessary, depending on the changing nature of MTN’s ethics risk profile. I personally commit myself to lead and behave in a manner that is consistent with the Code, and ask that you do the same. Sifiso Dabengwa Group President and CEO 37 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 1. Philosophy Our objective is to conduct all our business affairs with honesty, integrity, diligence and professionalism. We firmly believe that this is a condition for our success as a company. 2. Compliance with laws and regulations We are committed to conducting our business activities in full compliance with the applicable laws of South Africa and of all the countries in which we carry on business. We comply with the following:  International trade laws and regulations, embargoes and sanctions;  Competition laws;  Fraud, anti-bribery and corruption laws;  Anti-money laundering laws;  Intellectual property laws; and  Human rights and equal opportunity obligations. 3. Conflicts of interest  We do not put ourselves in a position in which our personal interests could conflict with our obligations and responsibilities to MTN. We treat the need to avoid conflicts of interest seriously and have processes in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts. 4. Corporate governance, reporting and company assets/resources  We are committed to managing the business in accordance with international best practice and to maximise the return to our shareholders. We achieve this by having effective and transparent corporate governance structures and processes. We have appropriate controls in place, through various institutions and specific management positions, to ensure that we can assess and manage risks to the business and our people.  We ensure that the Group is meeting the requirements of the King III report on Corporate Governance. We maintain accurate and complete business, financial and accounting records in accordance with all applicable laws. We also follow International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to compile the Group’s annual financial statements. The Group is committed to maintaining and conserving our physical, financial and intellectual resources. We all seek to make efficient use of these resources. 5. Customer treatment and customer service  We are focussed on delivering high-quality customer service. MTN customers are entitled to fair, courteous and professional treatment.  We commit to providing quality products and services that meet or exceed customer expectations, comply with all applicable standards and are safe to use.  We recognise that our customers entrust us with their personal information. We take our duty to protect their personal information seriously and respect their right to privacy. 6. Vendors and suppliers  We choose vendors and suppliers through a transparent selection process that is based on objective criteria and evidence in accordance with the provisions of the Code and our policies. 38 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014  We expect vendors and suppliers to operate in accordance with our ethical principles and to comply with all relevant international and domestic laws. 7. Employees  We support and respect human rights in our workplace. This includes providing a safe and nonthreatening workplace where healthy working conditions are maintained, where all people are treated with respect and with due regard for their dignity, and where harassment and intimidation are not tolerated.  We guarantee freedom of association, ensure non-discrimination in personnel practices, and make reasonable accommodations for all employees' religious observance and practices.  We respect our employees’ privacy and the confidentiality of their personal information. 8. Employee conduct  We uphold our standards of professionalism and competence, respect the tradition and culture of all peoples, and do not to behave in ways that could be considered offensive, intimidating, malicious, or discriminatory. 9. Interactions with government  In all circumstances, we will maintain an honest, transparent and ethical relationship with the government, their agencies, officials and personnel. 10. Communications  We communicate transparently, accurately and in a timely manner with shareholders, all those with whom we conduct business (including customers and suppliers), and third parties.  We focus on delivering messages about our business and do not comment unfavourably on the products, management or operations of competitors. 11. Commitment towards communities, society and environment  We are committed to contributing to the socio-economic development of the emerging markets in which we operate. Our investment into society includes supporting democratic institutions and engaging key stakeholders such as NGOs and policy groups. We also look to invest in developing local employees and improve the general economic conditions of the local communities.  We aim to sustainably maintain and grow our business in a way that is environmentally and socially responsible. We ensure compliance with all relevant environmental laws in each country in which we operate.  We hold ourselves accountable in a transparent manner by adhering to the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour standards, environmental responsibility and fighting corruption. In the same spirit we apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s Guidelines on sustainability reporting. 39 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 MTN Group Employee Conduct Pledge 1. Preamble MTN believes that being good is good business, at every level of organisation – individual, team, and enterprise, and that the time is always right to do what is right. MTN therefore actively fosters a culture of ethical business conduct. We maintain a reputation of honesty, fairness and integrity and we oppose illegal or unethical conduct. The Employee Conduct Pledge is embraced voluntarily by existing employees, and has since July 2014 been incorporated into all Opco Contracts of Employment for new employees. 2. Our values At MTN, our values guide our day-to-day behaviours and form the basis of how we interact with each other, our customers, the communities we operate in and all our other stakeholders. MTNers live the company’s values of acting with integrity, providing leadership, inspiring innovation, cultivating relationships and having a “Can-Do” attitude in all we do. The MTN values underpin our vision and business strategies, defining how we get things done. These values thus direct our conduct as individuals and as an enterprise. Leadership  Providing vision and guidance: proactively leading by example, inspiring others, demonstrating ownership, passion and dependability, being fair and caring. Innovation  Finding new ways of doing things and continually improving ways things have always been done: being creative, original and solution focused. Relationships  Positively working together to achieve our goals: embracing differences and diversity, working as a team, respecting and caring for one another, being cooperative and friendly, and communicating clearly. Integrity  Consistently doing what is right: being honest, trustworthy and reliable, and always delivering on your commitments. The value of integrity directs all of our actions. Can-Do  Believing that anything is possible: believing in yourself and being positive, having the courage to follow your convictions, being an inspiration to others, being willing to persevere and achieving performance excellence. 40 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2014 3. Our vital behaviours As a global enterprise, we have collectively worked hard to get to where we are today. How we interact with each other, the values we uphold and the behaviours we demonstrate, shape who we are and impacts our success. The four vital behaviours give expression to our values and aid us in adhering to the MTN Employee Conduct Pledge. The MTN Vital Behaviours are: 1. Complete candour. I candidly and respectfully share my views—regardless of the level or position of the person I am addressing. 2. Complete accountability. When I need to hold people accountable to commitments and results, I speak to them directly—regardless of whether they are peers, senior leaders, direct reports or anybody else. 3. Get it done. When I notice problems or risks, I take action to try to resolve them—or escalate when I can’t—rather than waiting for someone else to notice them. 4. Active collaboration. I do not hesitate to sacrifice time and resources to support colleagues, within or outside my function, in the best interest of MTN. 4. Employee conduct pledge I therefore commit myself to the following fundamental conduct expectations: 1. Hold MTN’s values as my own, follow company policies and procedures, obey the law and apply universally-held principles of all that is good and just. 2. Act with integrity – being honest, reliable and fair in my actions, accepting responsibility for the consequences. 3. Treat others as I wish to be treated by them. 4. Respect colleagues, suppliers and those we serve, regardless of gender, race, religion, culture, mental and physical abilities, and treat them with dignity, respect and compassion. 5. Respect the moral maturity of others, and provide private constructive feedback for inappropriate behaviour as a first level of action. 6. Disclose to MTN any conflict of interest – wherever my personal interests or the interests of an immediate or distant family member or other person close to me may appear to influence the objective exercise of my official duties as an employee, or interfere with the interests of MTN, understanding that such disclosure does not necessarily imply impropriety. 7. Protect MTN’s reputation and not use company assets, name, letterhead, logo or information for personal ends. Not give or receive gifts or benefits in contravention of MTN Group’s Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment policy, nor allow any gift or benefit to influence my business decisions.  41 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress// for the year ended 31 December 2014 42
