BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 bp.com/sustainability Building a stronger, safer BP Who we are This report covers the activities of BP Georgia, focusing on performance in 2014 while providing information on developments in 2015. It has been prepared by our business in Georgia. Data is shown for activities where we are the operator, unless indicated otherwise. In the report, references to ‘BP’ and specified otherwise, references in this the ‘BP group’ shall mean BP p.l.c., its report to ‘us’, ‘we’, and ‘our’ shall refer subsidiaries and affiliates and, unless to companies in the BP group operating otherwise stated, the text does not in Georgia. distinguish between the operations Unless otherwise indicated all currency and activities of BP p.l.c. and those of amounts are denominated in US dollars. its subsidiaries and affiliates. Unless Cautionary statement on a variety of factors including future levels of industry product document and in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014. Material supply; demand and pricing; operational problems; general is used within this document to describe issues for voluntary BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 contains certain forwardeconomic conditions; political stability and economic growth in sustainability reporting that are considered to have the potential to looking statements concerning the businesses, operations and relevant areas of the world; changes in laws and governmental significantly affect sustainability in the view of the company and/ strategy of BP. regulations; exchange rate fluctuations; development and use of or are expected to be important in the eyes of internal or external new technology; changes in public expectations and other changes stakeholders. Material for the purposes of this document should By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and in business conditions; the actions of competitors; natural disasters not, therefore be read as equating to any use of the word in other uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on and adverse weather conditions; wars and acts of terrorism BP p.l.c. reporting or filings. circumstances that will or may occur in the future. Actual results or sabotage; and other factors discussed elsewhere in this may differ from those expressed in such statements depending Front cover imagery At a length of 1,768km, the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) pipeline is one of the great engineering endeavours of the new millennium. Its facilities include eight pump stations (two in Azerbaijan, two in Georgia, four in Turkey). The one pictured is BTC pump station 1 located in Gardabani district of Georgia. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Contents Overview Overview 2 Management introduction 3 Achievements and challenges BP Georgia’s country manager reviews developments in 2014 and future 4 Our progress in 2014 prospects. How we operate Focus areas 6 How we operate 30 Environment BP Georgia in context governance and Environmental management, managing management systems security and our impact, wildlife protection. human rights delivering local benefit. 34 Society 12 Our people and values Our approach to engaging with Workforce composition, learning and communities, social investment projects, Our people development, our values, the BP code of supporting enterprise, a closer look at our conduct. sustainable development projects. 24 Safety Our safety performance, safety management, risk management and emergency response. Safety Our reporting and performance data 42 Our stakeholders and reporting 44 BP Georgia in figures Environment Society Our reporting BP Georgia in figures BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 1 A view from BP’s Georgia country manager 2014 was another strong year of performance and These high-profile activities reinforce how exciting progress for BP in Georgia. We performed important it is for us to maintain strong safely, were environmentally and socially relationships with government and the local responsible and our pipeline operations ran reliably. communities where we operate and carry out Construction work on the South Caucasus Pipeline new projects. Our numerous and varied initiatives expansion (SCPX) project began – our component that support community development and of the Southern Corridor’s strategic suite of gas capacity building provide a sound foundation of production and transmission projects. support for our business and make a multifaceted contribution to Georgia’s continuing We are all aware that good business performance development. is founded on operating safely. Our continuing good safety record does not happen by luck. We We operate in a challenging and complex worked hard and kept relentless focus on people environment where the onus is on us all to seek and process safety. However, we need to continue continuous improvement through businessto remain vigilant and focused on delivering smart decisions, by managing risk, being safe safe, reliable and compliant operations. Progress and compliant, investing wisely and operating was made on near-miss reporting by company profitably. Management of costs is a critical part and contractors alike, an important tool to make of this. This necessarily results in organizational sure we are openly looking for and reporting and resource impacts, challenging our own findings and concerns that could lead to incidents. employees and the many contractors and Additionally, we maintained our emergency stakeholders that support us and benefit from response readiness, with a dedicated and our activities. I am confident in the strength and talented incident response team and a multitude ingenuity of our staff and business partners of exercises, including two cross-border training to respond and continue to deliver business exercises. performance improvement. We made good progress in improving our 2015 and the years ahead are particularly process safety record. While any process safety significant for BP in Georgia. Our goal is to event should be avoided and is a concern to be continue safe, reliable, compliant and cost-efficient investigated, the type of events that occurred operations and project execution. We have a suite There are many reasons to were minor and a testament to good recognition of projects being carried out across our operations be proud of our achievements and open reporting. We had two illegal attempts to this year as well as the massive SCPX project, siphon oil from the Western Route Export Pipeline which enters an even bigger phase with facility and just as many reasons to Western Route Pipeline (WREP) during the year; and pipeline construction progressing full-scale. be confident we can and will the first was found from inline inspection; the Operations readiness for SCPX will become second by horse patrol surveillance. Both were a more visible activity as we develop a skilled successfully tackle the many repaired safely and efficiently. and entirely nationalized workforce to run the challenges ahead. We continue to operate in Georgia to high compressor stations, pressure reduction facility, additional new pipeline and offtake metering that standards of reliability. Our three pipelines the project is constructing. These are particularly Chris Schlueter averaged more than 99% reliability, and each exciting times and I am confident that our had individual months in which reliability reached employees and contractors will perform and 100%. This means that in Georgia we kept oil deliver. and gas flow to markets unrestricted through the entire year. We have operated in compliance Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to with our requirements, internal and external. This thank everyone who works for and supports BP is performance in which we take pride – and Georgia for the contributions made to successes is testament to the quality of our operations, in 2014. There are many reasons to be proud of maintenance, projects, integrity management and our achievements and just as many reasons to be support services. confident we can and will successfully tackle the many challenges ahead. The SCPX project is well under way now, with all major contracts finalized in 2014 and teams mobilized and deployed. Construction activities have begun at compressor station 1, near Gardabani and on a new access road to the compressor station 2 site near Tsalka. SCPX pipe is Chris Schlueter arriving in boat loads at Poti port, with a shipment Country Manager, BP Georgia every month, each delivering approximately 2,000 May 2015 joints of pipe for transport by rail to pipeyards in Azerbaijan and Georgia. Additionally, the port at Batumi is active in receipt of Shah Deniz 2 pipework and materials for transport to Baku. 2 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Achievements and challenges Overview We highlight below our most significant achievements in 2014 and the challenges we face in the future. Achievements Challenges Our values Health and safety performance: We have SCPX project delivery: Carrying out a project of We have five values that express our had another year of safe operations, with the magnitude of SCPX is a challenge. Expected shared understanding of what we only two minor recordable injuries within 3.9 to be a $2 billion project in Georgia SCPX focuses believe, how we aim to behave and what million hours worked and more than 7.7 million investment on the engineering, procurement and we aspire to be as an organization. kilometres driven, with no road traffic injuries. construction of the pipeline loops and facilities We had one high-potential incident, where the required for increasing the capacity of the Safety consequences could have been more serious in existing system. We need to address the various Safety is good business. Everything we do slightly different circumstances, from which we challenges raised by the project to ensure it is relies upon the safety of our workforce and have learned and improved (page 23). delivered on schedule while maintaining safe and the communities around us. We care about reliable operation of our existing pipelines, Black the safe management of the environment. Pipeline reliability: Operating efficiency Sea terminal, and many support facilities and We are committed to safely delivering energy averaged more than 99% for each of the three activities (page 19). to the world. pipelines we operate in Georgia. We consistently achieve this level of operational efficiency – truly Capability development: While a project the world-class performance (page 7). scale of SCPX requires the skills and resources Respect of large international firms, we aim to use We respect the world in which we operate. Progress on the SCPX project: The Georgian local contractor companies and local workers It begins with compliance with laws and part of the southern corridor suite of projects wherever we can, helping to develop local skills regulations. We hold ourselves to the highest has begun and major contracts for pipeline and and experience. We are aiming to operate the ethical standards and behave in ways that earn facilities design, fabrication and construction new SCPX facilities with a high percentage the trust of others. We depend on the have been agreed and activated. The SCPX of Georgian nationals from the first day of relationships we have and respect each other and project is the largest single foreign investment in operations. Finding and training local people to those we work with. We value diversity of people Georgia (page 19). carry out the work to the world-class standards and thought. We care about the consequences of Positive relationships: Relationships with we require is a significant challenge but one our decisions, large and small, on those around us. the Georgian government, other officials and we are familiar with and are confident will be communities are positive. The land acquisition achieved (page 21). Excellence and permitting work which precede construction WREP integrity: WREP creates particular We are in a hazardous business, and are have been important successes – enabling us challenges due to its age, design, construction committed to excellence through the systematic to start construction when planned, and to keep standard and its route across the country. and disciplined management of our operations. the project on schedule (page 40). We maintain integrity to our high standards. We follow and uphold the rules and standards With our partners, we are considering plans we set for our company. We commit to quality to upgrade sections of WREP. If the project outcomes, have a thirst to learn, and to improve. is sanctioned, the scope of work will address If something is not right, we correct it. replacing older Soviet-era pipe, re-routing sections of the pipeline to reduce the risk of Courage geo-hazards such as landslides, erosion and flooding and taking the pipeline out of the What we do is rarely easy. Achieving the best territory of Akhalgori district (page 8). outcomes often requires the courage to face difficulty, to speak up and stand by what we believe. We always strive to do the right thing. We explore new ways of thinking and are A crane operator unloads the first sections of SCPX pipe at the Black Sea port of Poti. unafraid to ask for help. We are honest with ourselves, and actively seek feedback from others. We aim for an enduring legacy, despite the short term priorities of our world. One Team Whatever the strength of the individual, we will accomplish more together. We put the team ahead of our personal success and commit to building its capability. We trust each other to deliver on our respective obligations. Find more online at bp.com/values BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 3 Our progress in 2014 Here we report on where we are today and some of our plans for the future. How we operate Our people and values Our operations in Georgia are shaped by We strive to provide our people with the BP group’s approach to sustainability, opportunities for development within a work our strategy and values and by our environment shaped by distinctive values management systems and processes. and a clearly articulated code of conduct. What we said we would do • Work to continue the safe and efficient • Continue the strong track record of Georgian operations of our existing assets, generating nationals working in the business. value for the Georgian economy and local • Provide opportunities for team leaders to people. enhance their skills. • Progress the SCP expansion project, investing in • Continue to highlight the importance of and supporting local companies. operating under the BP code of conduct. • Continue to develop the skills and expertise of our local workforce. Where we are today 333m Payments to local companies totalled 272 we delivered around 333 million barrels of $72m people attended code of conduct awareness hydrocarbons. sessions across Georgia in 2014. Our pipelines averaged operational efficiency of 93% 97% more than of managers and of BP Georgia 99% supervisors are Georgian nationals. staff are Georgian nationals. What we plan to do next • Maintain the operational efficiency and safety of • Continue to build a stronger BP Georgia, with our existing facilities. the staff and skills that will enable us to thrive in • Continue the planned ramp-up of SCPX project the future. activities to meet key milestones and maintain • Embed new leadership expectations, and the project on schedule, in a safe and reliable continue to develop the leadership skills of our manner. people. • Provide the training and assessments needed • Continue to adhere to our values and the code to maintain the competencies and skills of our of conduct in the challenging business context operational and maintenance staff. ahead. For more information  ead about BP’s approach to risk R  ead about staff skills development on R management on page 9. page 14. Find out more about our people on Find out more about our people on page 13. page 13. 4 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Safety Environment Society We continue to work to embed safety We take a systematic approach to We aim to make sure that we bring benefit and operational risk management into environmental management and strive to to local communities by supporting the heart of what we do. continuously improve our environmental programmes and initiatives that build performance. capacity and promote enterprise. • Continue to deliver excellent business • Maintain our systematic approach to • Reinforce the positive relationships we have performance, safely and reliably. environmental compliance and management. with the communities near our operations. • Continue to strive for improvements in • Minimize our environmental impacts to air, land • Continue to build local skills and capacity. personal and process safety performance. and water. • Continue to support local economic • Work, as in the past, with contractors to • Develop processes and people to safeguard development and enterprise. develop strong safety attitudes and culture. future environmental performance. 3.9m ISO 14001 We are supporting diverse 803 Worked 3.9 million man-hours and drove 7.7 million We are managing our programmes Maintained strong kilometers with no fatalities and no major accidents. environmental performance and projects that relationships, with 803 in accordance with ISO 14001 develop personal community meetings in Increased the number of contractor-reported near and BP operating management and institutional 2014 and received positive misses reaching 31% of the total reported incidents. system requirements. capability. feedback on our community investment programmes. Continued systematic communication We have minimized We have improved of HSE requirements, performance, lessons learned and hazards the environmental impact of projects and processes for non-conformance 480 awareness. Developed competency modifications. reporting and have small businesses established through of the field staff. trained staff on these the community development processes. initiative, including 91 in 2014. • Drive continuous improvement on our health • Continue to take a systematic approach to • Continue our existing community investment and safety performance. managing operating risks which have potential programmes and take further steps to support • Complement our efforts on more robust and environmental consequences. communities newly affected by SCPX.. systematic self-verification. • Continue to seek opportunities for minimizing • Continue to implement a variety of capacity • Maintain focus on engaging contractors in our environmental footprint. building programmes. systematically ensuring effectiveness of their • Ensure we hold up to date environmental • Support local economic development through HSE management system and organizational permits, including renewal of five-year our projects and programmes. safety culture. licenses on emissions.  ead about our approach to preventing R  nderstand how we are developing our U R  ead about how we are supporting incidents through process safety on page 23. oil spill preparedness and response on societies on page 33. page 30.  ee BP’s approach to transportation safety on S L  earn more about our community page 26.  ind out more about how we protect F development initiative on page 35. wildlife on page 31. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 5 How we operate Our operations in Georgia are shaped by the BP group’s approach to sustainability, our strategy and values and by our management systems and processes. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Work to continue the safe and efficient Our pipelines averaged operational Maintain the operational efficiency and operations of our existing assets, efficiency of more than 99%. safety of our existing facilities. generating benefit for the Georgian Continue the planned ramp-up of economy and local people. SCPX project activities to meet key Progress the SCP expansion project We delivered around 333 million milestones and maintain the project on (SCPX), investing in and supporting barrels of hydrocarbons. schedule, in a safe and reliable manner. local companies. Provide the training and assessments Continue to develop the skills and Payments to local companies totalled needed to maintain the competencies expertise of our local workforce. $72 million. and skills of our operational and maintenance staff. 6 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 BP in Georgia Our activities in Georgia are carried out in accordance with our values, systems and processes. How we operate BP operated interests in Georgia BP is one of the world’s leading integrated oil and gas companies on the basis of market 9 1 8 1. BP 35.78% capitalization, proven reserves and production. 2. SOCAR 11.65% 7 Our objective is to create value for shareholders 3. Chevron 11.27% 4. INPEX 10.96% by helping to meet growing demand for energy 6 WREP 5. Statoil 8.56% in a responsible way. Globally, we employ 6. ExxonMobil 8.00% around 85,000 people. We had exploration and 5 7. TPAO 6.75% production activities in 28 countries in 2014, 2 8. ITOCHU 4.30% including our midstream pipeline activities in 9. ONGC 2.72% 4 3 Georgia. In Georgia, we operate the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline (BTC) and South Caucasus gas pipeline 1. BP 30.10% 11 1 (SCP) on behalf of two international consortia of 10 2. AzBTC 25.00% 9 energy companies and investors. These facilities 3. Chevron 8.90% are now in their ninth full-year of operation. The 4. Statoil 8.71% 8 5. TPAO 6.53% 7 BTC and SCP pipelines run side by side for 248 BTC kilometres within Georgia, with two BTC pump 6. Total 5.00% Aerial view of BTC pump station 2. 7. Eni 5.00% 6 2 stations, gas offtake pressure reduction and 8. ITOCHU 3.40% 3 metering facilities on SCP. There are a total of 16 9. INPEX 2.50% 5 4 block valves and 11 check valves on BTC, and six Summary operational performance 10. ConocoPhillips 2.50% block valves on SCP. In 2014, we transported more than 260 million 11. ONGC (BTC) 2.36% We also operate the Western Route Export barrels of oil through BTC and over 31 million Pipeline (WREP) and Supsa terminal on behalf of barrels of oil through WREP, with both pipelines an international consortium of energy companies. operating at more than 99% efficiency. We 1 1. BP 28.83% Three hundred and seventy three kilometres of safely delivered 235,600 mmscf of gas, equal to 7 2. TPAO 19.00% WREP lies within Georgia, with three pumping approximately 41 million barrels of oil equivalent 3. Petronas 15.50% 4. AzSD 10.0% stations, two pressure reduction stations, 27 (mmboe). 6 5. LUKOIL 10.0% block valves, four check valves and one check/ In the course of the year, we completed 362 SCP 2 6. NICO 10.0% block valve. It carries oil from the Caspian Sea via tanker loadings from the marine oil terminal at 5 7. SGC 6.67% the Sangachal terminal in Azerbaijan to the Supsa Ceyhan on the Turkish Mediterranean coast, where oil terminal on the Georgia Black Sea coast. the BTC pipeline ends, and 52 tanker loadings 4 3 from the Supsa terminal, the end point of WREP. BP’s interests in the Caspian region Armenia BP Georgia country manager visit to Poti Port, where pipes for SCPX construction are received. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 7 Safe and secure operations In 2014, we safely carried out operations, maintenance and integrity management projects on pipelines and facilities. Taming rivers to ensure pipeline integrity Fast and powerful, the mountain rivers of Georgia can create hazards to the integrity of the Western Route Export Pipeline (WREP), requiring our operations team to protect the pipeline from river bed and bank washing. Following detailed analysis of possible engineering solutions and environmental impacts, the WREP operations team undertook work on the Liakhvi river crossing in 2014. Tariel Margvelashvili, the onshore site manager for WREP, described the scale of the work and progress achieved: ‘The project involved moving huge volumes of earth and placing about 40,000m3 of stones in the river bed, as Aerial view of the site in Supsa. well as protecting river banks from erosion during the spring and summer flooding Maintaining security Integrity management seasons’. Potential threats to our business come in many We maintain a continuous maintenance We have previously implemented river forms and are not always predictable, but we have programme for WREP. Every six months we reinforcement projects on the Ksani, Kvirila and processes in place to try to anticipate them and to run inspections (using sophisticated inspection Aragvi rivers. But the reinforcements on the be ready if a crisis or incident occurs. We need to gauges) through the old section of the line, Liakhvi are larger scale. The project involved prepare for events as wide-ranging as landslides, covering about 154 kilometres. These analyses reinforcing 329 meters of right bank, 419 extreme weather, political conflicts and criminal help our integrity management team and meters of left bank and 360 meters of river acts, health alerts and accidents. geo-hazard experts examine potential risks and bed. Forty-five people and 15 heavy vehicles possible impacts. were working on the site daily. In addition to monitoring and guarding against events that could cause harm to our people In 2014, there were two illegal taps on WREP _ or disrupt our operations, we have extensive attempts to siphon oil illegally from the pipeline. emergency response capability, and carry out a One of these resulted in an oil spill in which number of crisis management training exercises. 12,300 litres were spilled to land. We responded See the safety section for more information. promptly by initiating a controlled shutdown of the pipeline. The affected soil was removed, Maintenance projects remediated and replaced. See the environment We completed a variety of maintenance projects section for information on how we remediated across our facilities. Major projects included the affected area. preparatory work for replacing the anchor chain of the single point mooring at the Supsa terminal, WREP sectional replacement where the export line goes to the sea and where We are developing plans to upgrade sections of 250 metre long mooring chains are fixed to the WREP to replace Soviet-era pipe. The proposed sea bed. We also made preparations to replace the work will involve replacing older pipe and resubsea and floating hoses. routing the pipeline, which will reduce the risk of geo-hazards such as landslides, erosion and We began construction of new accommodation flooding and will take the pipeline out of the at pumping station 2 (PSG2) and the extension of territory of Akhalgori district. This is intended to its sewage treatment facilities. We constructed reduce the majority of safety and access risks to a short access road at pumping station 1 (PSG1) the pipeline operations and maintenance. to help with construction access for the new accommodation and for the new gas compressor Technical and commercial negotiations with our station. partners have been extensive and are continuing. They have included discussions about the scale of We continued to make the transition to local grid investment required, and the manpower resources power, where possible, at our operational facilities, that would be needed to complete the work. focusing on the Supsa terminal, PSG 1 and 2. It is only in recent years that national grid capacity has been sufficiently reliable for us to do this. The advantages are clear: using grid power is more cost effective and reduces air emissions from using diesel-powered generators. 8 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Governance and management systems We carry out our operations in Georgia in the context of BP’s approach to sustainability, our strategy, values, management systems and procedures. How we operate BP’s strategy and sustainability Governance and risk management We believe that the best way for BP to achieve BP’s risk management system is designed to help sustainable success as a company is to act in ensure that risks are identified, understood and managed the long-term interests of our shareholders, our so that we can deliver safe and strong operations. partners and society. As an operating business within BP, BP Georgia We aim to create long-term value for our investors is accountable for delivering safe, reliable and and benefits for the communities and societies compliant operations. We identify and manage in which we operate. We are working to become day-to-day operating risks with reference to our a simpler business, focusing on where we can operating management system. Actions to improve generate the most value, and not necessarily the management of risk are put in place where the most volume, through our production. We necessary. We review risks and risk management are strengthening our portfolio of high return plans periodically, including major accident risk and and longer life upstream assets, while building other potentially high-consequence risks. high-quality downstream businesses. All this is underpinned by our expertise, technology BP’s risk management system and relationships. We strive to be a world-class Day-to-day risk management operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a The first shipment of pipes offloaded at Black Sea good employer. Management and staff at our facilities, port. assets and functions identify and manage Keeping a relentless focus on safety is naturally risk,promoting safe, compliant and reliable a top priority for us. Rigorous management of operations. Our operating management system risk helps to protect the people at the frontline, integrates BP requirements on health, safety, the places in which we operate and the value we security, environment, social responsibility, create. We continue to enhance our systems, operational reliability and related issues. processes and standards, including how we Business and strategic risk management manage the risks that can be created by the actions of our contractors and the operators Our businesses and functions integrate risk into key business processes such as strategy, of joint ventures in which we participate. We planning, performance management, resource understand that operating in politically complex and capital allocation, and project appraisal. We do regions and technically demanding geographies, this by using a standard process for collating risk such as deep water and oil sands, requires data, assessing risk management activities, making particular sensitivity to local environments. further improvements and planning new activities. We can only operate if we maintain the trust of Oversight and governance people inside and outside the company. We must Functional leadership, the executive team, earn people’s trust by being fair and responsible in the board and relevant committees provide everything we do. We monitor our performance oversight to identify, understand and endorse closely and aim to report in a transparent way. We management of significant risks to BP. They believe good communication and open dialogue also put in place systems of risk management, are vital if we are to meet the expectations of our compliance and control to mitigate these risks. employees, customers, shareholders and the local Executive committees set policy and oversee the communities in which we operate. management of significant risks, and dedicated Strong financial performance is vital, because it board committees review and monitor certain enables us to make the investments necessary risks throughout the year. These are composed entirely of non-executive directors. One of the six to produce the energy that society requires, while committees – the safety, ethics and environment rewarding and maintaining the support of our assurance committee (SEEAC) monitors the shareholders. management of non-financial risk. By supplying energy, we support economic The board development and help to improve quality of life for millions of people. Our activities also generate We identify certain risks as being a high priority jobs, investment, infrastructure and revenues for for particular oversight by the board. For 2015, this includes risks associated with the Gulf governments and local communities. of Mexico oil spill, geopolitical risk, security, Find more online at bp.com/strategy ethical misconduct, legal and regulatory noncompliance, trading non-compliance, cybersecurity, major project delivery and incidents associated with the drilling of wells, operating facilities and the transportation of hydrocarbons. On 1 January 2015, the board was composed of the chairman, two executive directors and 11 non-executive directors. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 9 Managing operations in a systematic way BP’s Operating Management System (OMS) helps us manage risks in our activities by setting out BP’s principles for good operating practice. OMS brings together BP requirements on Environmental and social practices health, safety, security, the environment, social Our OMS includes requirements and guidance responsibility and operational reliability, as well as for how we identify and manage environmental related issues, such as maintenance, contractor and social impacts in our early planning stages. relations and organizational learning, into a Practices cover topics as wide-ranging as our common management system. management of greenhouse gas emissions, The OMS requirements set out what a BP water, workforce welfare and cultural heritage. operation needs to do across eight focus areas: They apply to our major projects, projects that leadership, organization, optimization, assets, risk, involve new access, those that could affect procedures, results and privilege to operate. This an international protected area and some BP includes, for example, our principles for measuring acquisition negotiations. our performance, as well as for managing facilities In the early planning stages, projects that that are fit-for purpose throughout the life cycle of are subject to our environmental and social the operation. practices complete a screening process to Any necessary variations in the application of identify the most significant environmental and OMS – in order to meet local regulations or social impacts. Following screening, projects circumstances – are subject to a governance are required to carry out impact assessments, process. We review and amend our group identify mitigation measures and implement requirements within OMS from time to time to these in project design, construction and reflect BP’s priorities and experience or changing operations. These processes have been followed external regulations. in the development of the SCP expansion project in Georgia. Continuous improvement OMS also helps us improve the quality of our operating activities. All BP businesses covered by OMS undertake an annual performance Pipe offloading equipment has been installed at improvement cycle, and assess alignment the port. with the OMS framework. Recently acquired operations need to transition to OMS. We use the performance improvement cycle to identify and implement opportunities to work more effectively across the business. Our operating management system Privil e sult s oper ge to Re ate formance Per Leade rsh k Ris ip P ro c e s s People BP Or ga res e du ni z ati oc P la n t Pr on Op t im izati ets on Ass 10 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 How we operate Employees participating in pipe offloading activities. 14 years of ISO 14001 certification. 16th Environmental management We take a systematic approach to the The effectiveness of our environmental management is also assessed during annual Audit of the independent management of environmental issues in Georgia. reviews by the independent environmental environmental consultant was We carried out thorough Environmental and Social consultant appointed on behalf of the original completed in Georgia in 2014. Impact Assessments (ESIA) when first developing project lenders. To date, 16 of these external audits the BTC and SCP pipelines, which resulted in have been carried out, including the most recent commitments in an environmental and social review in 2014. No non-compliances were raised action plan. Similarly, as described in the section of in the 2014 audit. this report on SCPX, we have recently completed Responsibility for implementing and maintaining an ESIA for the SCPX project. These processes the EMS rests with the leadership team. The identify potential impacts and mitigations and Georgia compliance and environment team necessitate a rigorous approach to action tracking is responsible for EMS co-ordination and and closure. Our environmental management maintenance, while the regulatory compliance system is based on the ISO 14001 ‘plan-do-checkand environment director oversees the system act’ cycle, which is fully incorporated into the OMS across the BP regional business. Site managers improvement cycle. are responsible for its maintenance in the field. Our environmental management system (EMS) in Georgia has been certified against ISO 14001 See the audit reports by the independent for 14 years, with the scope of activities covered environmental consultant (IEC) at bp.com. expanding steadily. As required under ISO, the system is regularly audited by an external assessor and we have disclosed our record of compliance in our previous sustainability reporting. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 11 Our people and values We strive to provide our people with opportunities for development within a work environment shaped by distinctive values and a clearly articulated code of conduct. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Continue the strong track record of 97% of BP Georgia staff are Georgian Continue to build a stronger BP Georgian nationals working in the nationals. Georgia, with the staff and skills that business. will enable us to thrive in the future. Provide opportunities for team leaders 93% of managers and supervisors are Embed new leadership expectations, to enhance their skills. Georgian nationals. and continue to develop the leadership skills of our people. Continue to highlight the importance 272 people attended code of conduct of operating under the BP code of awareness sessions across Georgia in Continue to adhere to our values and conduct. 2014. the code of conduct in the challenging business context ahead. 12 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Our workforce composition We aim to develop the skills and experience of our employees in a working culture characterised by integrity. Our workforce composition Georgia technician forums The size and composition of our workforce Technician forums were begun in the reflects the type of activities we are engaged in Azerbaijan-Georgia-Turkey (AGT) region in at any one time. We have consistently increased 2009 as means of developing effective the number of Georgian nationals working in our communication between the company’s business in recent years. Expatriate contractors leadership and national employees in front line take up positions in Georgia when specialist Our people and values operational roles. As technicians form a large skills or experience are required, such as within part of our organization, it is important for them a project environment like the SCP expansion and our business leaders to talk regularly and (SCPX) project. openly, in order to understand what is working and what needs to be improved. The total number of employees in BP Georgia operations has increased since 2010. In part, this In 2013, we decided to hold separate technician reflects a move to a more sustainable staffing forums in Georgia, primarily to ensure we could model, in which more provision has been made focus on the concerns of Georgian technicians to cover for short-term absences, such as those and operations. Two forums were held in 2014, resulting from training or sickness. Another reason involving about 24 technicians overall, drawn for the increase is the South Caucasus Pipeline from all sites. These events are chaired by the expansion project. Staffing for this started in 2011. midstream vice president and the country By December 2014, staff engaged directly on the manager. Most of the issues raised focused on the process and training requirements within project, not including the hundreds of mobilized the technician development programme. To contractor personnel, totaled 75. We anticipate ensure the quality of the forum, a follow up this number will increase in the next few years survey has been initiated. as the project is constructed and made ready for operations. BP Georgia operations headcount 2010-2014 The proportion of Georgian nationals working in Agency expatriate staff Agency national staff BP Georgia operations increased in 2014, to 97%. BP expatriate employees BP national employees This is as high as this has been since pipeline People at work at pipes receiving location. 600 operations began full-time. Approximately 93% of managers and supervisors Technician recruitment and development 500 are Georgian nationals, a slight increase from In the past three years, the number of hired techlast year. About 13% of managers and supervinicians has reached 74. Some of these employ400 sors, covering both operations and projects, are ees are taken on for existing operations, but the female. In the Georgia leadership team, 22% are majority are hired to gain the skills and experience 300 female. for work on future SCP operations. While we have 200 We engage 72 Georgian contracting companies, made good progress, the recruitment of technithat provide people who are embedded in our cians is continuing. 100 organization and support our daily operations. Hired technicians undergo a standardized training The shortage of people with the skills we need process to develop the required competencies. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 means that recruiting new graduates in technical Training involves intensive English language disciplines is challenging in Georgia. To attract the courses for the first six months, followed by six BP Georgia nationalization 2010-2014 (%) engineering candidates we need, we worked with months’ of technical training led by experienced BP national employees BP expatriate employees universities and the Ministry of Education and coaches. We have set up a technical training centre 97 at PSG1 which gives trainees the opportunity to 100 96 95 94 94 participated in a job fair targeting students from academic institutions. This helped us increase our gain hands-on practical experience to complement 80 visibility among Georgian students and develop a their theoretical knowledge. candidate pool which resulted in our hiring six new On successful completion of class-based training, 60 engineering trainees during the year. staff are placed within operational sites to gain 40 on the job experience alongside experienced and qualified technicians. 20 4 5 6 6 3 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Bob Dudley – group chief executive Gordon Birrell – regional president Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey visit to PSG1 pumping station. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 13 Our people We aim to treat everyone fairly and with respect, and we know that good performance depends on having a highly-skilled, motivated and talented workforce. On assignment: Anzor Doborjginidze I joined BP in 1998 as a trainee production operator at the Supsa terminal, just ten minutes from my home. I moved through the ranks and was appointed terminal manager in 2004 _ a post I held for three years. In my time there, I got to know the plant and people very well and we had good relationships with the local community and officials. I moved to a site controller role at PSG1 _ a job that involves leading operations and maintenance teams. It was a very different role for me, not least because of the need to understand operations concerned with gas, such as the SCP gas metering facilities and the Georgian offtake pipeline. In 2010, I was fortunate enough to secure a position offshore, initially on the Central Azeri platform and later on West Azeri. I became used to my 40-minute helicopter or three-hour boat ride to and from these remote platforms. Time offshore, where I was an operations team leader with responsibility for about 50 people and accountable for delivering safe and efficient operations, just flew by, with so many activities happening. An employee performing maintenance work at site. Working as part of a multinational team _ with Azeris and other expatriates _ was fascinating. It’s essential to get on well with people in this Building skills and experience We sponsor continuing professional education to kind of working environment and for everyone We continue to develop the skills of our supervihelp employees gain a formal degree or externally to have a good understanding of safety and consors through sessions that focus on the challenges recognized certificate. We provide English lantrols. One thing I did was to gain a qualification facing team leaders such as how to handle difficult guage training. In 2014, 100 technicians attended as a certified offshore installation manager for conversations with employees, conducting perforEnglish language classes. controlling emergencies following training and mance reviews, recruitment processes, diversity We give opportunities for our people to move assessment in Aberdeen. Having the opportuniand inclusion, and employee allowances. within the BP Azerbaijan-Georgia-Turkey business ty to travel and work in new environments is a region to broaden their experience. During 2014, great part of being in BP; but having clear stanTo support the development of supervisors’ skills, we introduced a survey in 2014 asking individuals we had eight employees working outside Georgia dards and systems across the company makes it much easier to adapt and for operations to be to give feedback on their supervisor’s perforon assignments, mostly in the region, and also in carried out safely, wherever you are. mance. Results will be shared with supervisors as the UK. Two of them have now returned to Georgia part of their leadership development. and are continuing their careers with positions on My current role is operations team leader on the the SCPX project. SCP expansion project _ another new experiWe arrange open days once a year which are ence. The project involves the construction of designed to help employees improve their underlarge new facilities, recruitment and working standing of human resources (HR) policies and with new people. It’s exciting to be involved in Taking the pulse something from the very start. procedures. Our leaders visit our sites regularly to listen to and address employee concerns. We pubThe Pulse survey is an electronic, anonymous When we describe our company’s activities in lish a twice-yearly communication ‘For Your Benesurvey that BP sends out once a year worldthis region, we often talk of the flow from the wide. Approximately two-thirds of BP Georgia Caspian through Azerbaijan and the Supsa terfit’, in Georgian and English, which covers topical issues and HR related changes, and respond to field and office-based staff participated in this minal in Georgia to markets around the world. In voluntary survey. Responses enable an overall my case, it has been the other way round _ from employees’ frequently asked questions. Supsa, via other locations in Georgia, to offshore employee satisfaction score to be calculated: We offer all our employees training and developfor office staff this was 78% (compared with Azerbaijan. For me, it’s always been moving in the right direction. ment opportunities. For example, we run courses 75% in 2013). For field-based staff, it was 91% for team leaders to help them develop their mancompared with 84% in 2013. agerial skills. These include modules on improving personal performance, effective team working and Providing information on base pay, promotion managing agency personnel. Across our business and short-term performance bonuses remain in 2014, the average number of training hours per focus area for management. The issues of base employee in Georgia was approximately 27. pay and promotion have tended over the years to receive lower scores than other areas, but there has been an improvement in employee perception of these topics. 14 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Our values and code of conduct BP has five values that express our shared understanding of what we believe, how we aim to behave and what we aspire to be as an organization. Our values Our code of conduct Speaking up Our code of conduct defines our commitment to BP Georgia is committed to providing an open Safety high ethical standards throughout the company environment where our employees, contractors and others with whom we come into contact are The code is based on our values and clarifies the comfortable speaking up whenever they have principles and expectations for everyone who Respect works at BP. It applies to all employees, officers a question about our code of conduct or see something they feel to be unsafe, unethical or Our people and values and members of the board. potentially harmful. Employees are encouraged to Excellence We expect and encourage our contractors and discuss their questions or concerns with their line their employees to act in a way that is consistent manager, other managers in their team, relevant with our code. We will take appropriate measures supporting functions or BP’s confidential helpline, Courage where we believe they have not met our expectaOpenTalk. Cases were raised for violating the code tions or their contractual obligations. of conduct in BP Georgia in 2014 which resulted in One Team Certifying to the code disciplinary action and dismissal. We provide employee training and communications BP has zero tolerance for retaliation against anySafety: Safety is good business. Everything one who seeks advice, raises a concern, reports to explain how the code’s principles apply to our we do relies upon the safety of our workforce misconduct or participates in an investigation. work. In 2014, this included briefing sessions at opand the communities around us. We erational sites across the country. New employees care about the safe management of the receive training when they join BP Georgia and each environment. We are committed to safely year we engage our employees in code of conduct delivering energy to the world. certification. This reminds individuals of their duty to Respect: We respect the world in which we uphold BP’s values, to do the right thing and to creoperate. It begins with compliance with laws ate an environment where people can confidently and regulations. We hold ourselves to the raise concerns. Overall, more than 270 employees highest ethical standards and behave in ways and contractors attended code of conduct awarethat earn the trust of others. We depend on ness sessions across Georgia in 2014. the relationships we have and respect each other and those we work with. We value diversity of people and thought. We care about the consequences of our decisions, large and small, on those around us. Excellence: We are in a hazardous business, and are committed to excellence through the systematic and disciplined management of our operations. We follow and uphold the rules and standards we set for our company. We commit to quality outcomes, have a thirst to learn, and to improve. If something is not right, we correct it. Courage: What we do is rarely easy. Achieving the best outcomes often requires the courage to face difficulty, to speak up and stand by what we believe. We always strive to do the right thing. We explore new ways of thinking and are unafraid to ask for help. We are honest with ourselves, and actively seek feedback from others. We aim for an enduring legacy, despite the short term priorities of our world. One Team: Whatever the strength of the individual, we will accomplish more together. We put the team ahead of our personal success and commit to building its capability. We trust each other to deliver on our respective obligations. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 15 Human rights We are committed to conducting our business in a manner that respects the rights and dignity of all people. 270+ • The first workshop involved BP employees from We respect internationally recognized human rights as set out in the International Bill of Human a wide range of functions. It aimed to deepen Rights and the International Labour Organization’s awareness of the impact of human rights risks employees and contractors Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights and their possible impact on the business. It attended code of conduct at Work. We set out our commitments in our huemphasized the importance of early identifiawareness sessions in 2014. man rights policy. BP’s code of conduct references cation, mitigation and management of human the policy, requiring employees to report any hurights issues. man rights abuse in our operations or in those of our business partners. Our operating management • The second workshop was for BP staff and consystem includes guidance on human rights-related tractors involved in the SCPX project. Following topics for our projects. discussion of the context and of lessons learned from the original BTC/SCP pipeline construction, BP’s human rights policy, published in 2013, elabworkshop participants identified and prioritized orates on the requirement in our code of conduct potential challenges that might arise. Among to treat everyone at BP and everyone with whom these, for example, was the possibility of we come into contact, with fairness, respect and community grievances resulting from unrealistic dignity. The policy commits the company to conexpectations about job creation. The workshop duct business in a manner that respects the rights identified potential actions to prevent or respond and dignity of all people, as set out in international to the risks. human rights agreements. This includes key populations such as employees and communities as We trained the new security officers at our Tbilisi well as supplier and contractor workforces. office and on the SCPX project. The aim was to raise their awareness of international laws and We are a signatory to the Voluntary Principles standards on security and human rights including on Security and Human Rights, which provide the Voluntary Principles, relevant Georgian legislaa framework for companies to assess whether tion and BP’s own principles on human rights. human rights issues are likely to arise as a result of security activities within local operations, and to We also carried out awareness raising on these allow appropriate precautionary steps to be taken. issues with members of the pipeline protection unit of the Special Task Force within the Ministry of In 2014, we held two workshops in Georgia to exInternal Affairs, which has responsibility for WREP plore developments that are leading to increased pipeline protection. stakeholder demands for companies to recognize and demonstrate their responsibility to respect human rights. Potential human rights impact areas within the oil and gas industry Workforce welfare Livelihoods Health and safety Key impact areas Environment Security Land acquisition 16 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Delivering local benefit Our investment and activities in Georgia generate positive economic and social impact by generating government revenue, creating jobs and providing opportunity in the supply chain. Tax and tariff payments ($ million) Making a financial and economic Raising standards among local Profit tax payments WREP tariff payments contribution companies 50 Our tariff and profit tax payments, which are Contractors are obliged to meet our standards linked to pipeline throughput, make a consistand to do so they often have to complete training ent and significant contribution to national tax prior to working on BP projects and again during 40 revenues: operations. At work sites, contractors complete technical training on a regular basis and we assure • Profit tax payments from all the BTC business Our people and values 30 their competency. Some contracts contain mandapartners totalled $36.4 million in 2014, $35 tory training in areas such as HSE and information million in 2013. 20 systems. • We made WREP tariff payments to the Georgian government of $7.7 million, $7 million in As well as supporting technical capacity de10 2013. velopment, we also seek to raise standards of business conduct. Our contract conditions require We also contribute to the value of Georgia’s 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 contractors to comply with the BP code of conexports. Government statistics show that our duct. Under it, contractor employees can contact pipeline operations contributed approximately 9% Operational and capital expenditure BP if they believe a breach of the code has been of the total value of service exports in 2014. ($ million) committed in their work with us. If this happens, Operational expenditure Capital expenditure We invest to renew our own business in Georgia. we might engage with contractor management to Most significantly, the SCP expansion project determine if the complaint is legitimate, and work 160 represents a significant investment in the country with them to resolve the issue. In other cases, BP and the region _ described in more detail in the might engage with the employee direct. The code 120 SCPX section of this report. In our existing operof conduct makes clear that we can run investigaations, our operational expenditure in Georgia totions if necessary. 80 talled $119 million in 2014, $133 million in 2013. Our contractual terms now require contractors Capital expenditure amounted to approximately to have a range of measures in place designed $20 million in 2014, $17 million in 2013. 40 to ensure good employee relations. These cover Working with local contractors areas such as fair and open recruitment processes, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 We continue to work with local contractors where compliance with international laws on human and possible. For contractors whose personnel work labour rights, appropriate grievance and dispute Payments to local companies ($ million) primarily at BP sites, we require that they develop resolution procedures. Requirements also exist a Georgia national workforce and subcontract with for regular reporting to BP. 80 or obtain supplies from local businesses wherever We audit our contractors’ employment practices possible. to check their compliance with the social and local 60 Our contracts with suppliers now include requirecontent requirements. The audits examine issues ments for them to describe how they plan to such as recruitment practices, working conditions, 40 increase the number of local personnel in their redundancy and termination procedures, and workforce. We estimate that approximately 80% disciplinary and grievance procedures. In 2014, 20 of our suppliers are local companies. Contractors we audited a contractor that provides horse are expected to build the skills and capacity of patrol services along the pipelines. They employ local inexperienced staff, and to provide them with approximately 170 people. The BP Georgia social 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 audit team reviewed procedures and conducted training. interviews with contractor management and their In 2014, our payments to local companies totalled employees. Recommendations to management approximately $72 million $77 million in 2013. focused on improving recruitment processes, labour contracts, and developing a grievance procedure. Economic value generated in Georgia: 2014 Employees Operational and capital Local companies Government expenditure 72 We provide direct This includes operating Payments to companies in Tariff and profit tax employment to more expenditure and spending our local supply chain payments than 530 people. on new initiatives and Georgian companies Employee salaries and projects benefits include BP local provide people who and agency staff are embedded in our operations. $22 million $139 million $72 million $36.4 million BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 17 Working with local contractors We work with our contractors to develop their awareness of our requirements, of the risks and challenges and mitigations. David Betaneli Director, Engineer Service LTD “One of our company’s goals is to be open, fair and constructive when communicating with partners and employees. Our employees take personal responsibility for the quality of their work and our management team aim to support them. We have a long relationship with BP Georgia, providing horse patrol and management services along the BTC/SCP pipeline. In 2014, a BP audit team reviewed our procedures and conducted interviews with our management and staff. The audit revealed findings that needed corrective measures. The most significant finding was the need to establish clear, transparent and equal employment opportunities during recruitment. The most significant recommendations were to improve labour contracts, elaborate and communicate written job descriptions for employees and to develop a grievance procedure. As a result of the recommendations, we are making a number of valuable improvements. Labour contracts for all employees have been revised and renewed, and job descriptions developed. We have defined a grievance policy Workshop held for BP employees and contractors aimed to improve awareness of human rights risks which is reflected in a new Staff Handbook. and their possible impact on the business. Our recruitment process is now more transparent and gives equal opportunities to people To help contractors manage environmental and management and site reinstatement practices. from project-affected communities. We are still social issues, we issued an environmental and soProvisions also cover community liaison and implementing some recommendations and cial management template for contractors in 2014. safety, infrastructure and services, employment aim to complete them on schedule. We hope Its goal is to ensure excellence in environmental and training, transport management and social that future cooperation with the audit team and social management and compliance with the monitoring programmes required within project will help us to meet BP’s expectation and will environmental and social commitments required affected areas. support us in our future development.” of BP Georgia operations. Our team supports contractors when carrying The template sets out a range of standards out social risk assessments. BP team members and organizational requirements. These cover review pre-construction surveys to make sure environmental topics including soil preservation, contractors understand the social risks associated pollution prevention and control, flora and fauna, with planned works and are putting measures to ecology, waste management, water pollution eliminate or mitigate the risks. prevention, soil erosion and sediment control, spoil 18 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 The SCP expansion (SCPX) project This huge undertaking is now becoming a reality on the ground, with compressor stations under construction and pipe sections arriving in country. $528m BP and its partners are continuing the developContracts for pipeline and facilities engineering and ment of the Shah Deniz field in the Caspian Sea, for micro-tunneling and line pipe installation under the source of the gas transported through the the Kura East river crossing were also awarded in contract for the construction South Caucasus Pipeline (SCP). The Shah Deniz 2014. and commissioning stage 2 development includes drilling 26 subsea support of SCPX project wells, the construction of two bridge-linked facilities has been awarded platforms, and new processing and compression SCPX in Georgia: a snap shot in 2014 among other major Our people and values facilities at the Sangachal terminal in Azerbaijan. The proposed project in Georgia comprises: contracts. In order for gas to reach its customers, the existing • A new 48” pipeline running besides the BTC/ SCP pipeline will be expanded _ the SCPX project. SCP corridor for 63 kilometres from the Azerbaijan-Georgia border and then reconnecting SCPX forms the first link in a chain of integrated into the existent SCP. pipelines creating a new Southern Gas Corridor. • A new block valve and pigging station. Once built, the Southern Corridor, approximately • A new compressor station (CSG1) co-located 3,500 km long and consisting of the SCPX, Trans with PSG1 in Gardabani. Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline (TANAP) and the • A second new compressor station (CSG2) to SCPX project: participating interests Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), is expected to provide the west of Lake Tsalka. 16 billion cubic meters per year (bcma) of gas for • A new 16 kilometre access road that will 1. BP 28.83% 1 millions of consumers in Georgia, Turkey, Greece, connect CSG2 to the millennium road in the 7 2. TPAO 19.00% 3. Petronas 15.50% Bulgaria and Italy. vicinity of the village of Nardevani. 6 4. AzSD 10.0% First gas is targeted for 2018, with sales to Georgia • A pressure reduction metering station SCPX 5. LUKOIL 10.0% and Turkey; first deliveries to Europe are expected (PRMS) close to the Georgia/Turkey border 6. NICO 10.0% 2 7. SGC 6.67% to follow in 2020. co-located with Area 80. 5 • A 2.5 kilometre pipeline connection from A number of major contracts were awarded in PRMS to the Turkey border to connect into 4 2014, including a $528 million contract for the TANAP. 3 construction and commissioning support of SCPX • Associated temporary construction camp, project facilities in Georgia. The scope of work pipe storage areas and laydown yards. under this contract, awarded to the Bechtel Enka Joint Venture (comprised of Bechtel International Inc. and ENKA Inşaat ve Sanayi A.ş) includes construction of a 16km access road, the two compressor stations and the pressure reduction and metering station. Map of the southern corridor Moldova Romania Russia Black sea Bulgaria Georgia Albania Italy Azerbaijan Baku Armenia Greece Turkey Malta Syria Cyprus Iran Mediterranean sea Shah deniz Field South Caucasus Pipeline Expansion (SCPX) Trans Anatolian Pipeline (TANAP) Egypt Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 19 Environmental and social impact assessment We plan to continue engagement with the national and local government and communities as the project progresses. As well as the public consultation processes within Q: How do you make sure that the ESIA, engagement is required with local and the private land compensation national authorities to ensure that work is carried process is carried out fairly? out in accordance with regulatory requirements. A: Identifying private land owners, Land easement and acquisition contacting them, determining title, The land easement and acquisition process for the agreeing sale, arranging for leasing project continued in 2014, involving consultation and compensation and managing the meetings with affected land owners and users. administration of these processes is The compensation process and principles are in challenging. For example, sometimes line with the Land Acquisition and Compensation land ownership is unclear or registration Framework (LACF) and the Guide to Land Acquisiis incomplete. Or, the owner of the tion and Compensation (GLAC). land may be deceased, has moved abroad, or cannot be traced. If this See the ‘Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework (LACF)’ happens, we need to refer to a court to and the ‘Guide to Land Acquisition and determine whether land access can be Employees preparing for an emergency response Compensation (GLAC)’ at: bpgeorgia.ge. granted to us. To simplify the process exercise. for landowners, the compensation arrangements have been fully described Environmental and Social Impact Gordon Birrell in two documents which we made Assessment available to view in public locations. We BP regional president for Azerbaijan, Stakeholder consultation has been an integral also provided guidance to each individual part of developing the SCPX project. The focal Georgia and Turkey land owner or user at the start of the point for this effort has been the Environmental process. and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA). The ESIA “We have now awarded most of the contracts David Maisuradze provides a baseline against which project impacts for SCPX and associated expansion facilities in BP land team leader can be assessed, identifies potential negative and Azerbaijan and Georgia. I am pleased to highpositive environmental and social impacts, sets light that most of the construction work will be out mitigation measures, informs project design, performed locally within Azerbaijan and Georgia and provides opportunity for engagement with benefiting the two countries. stakeholders. The ESIA was carried out in line with international standards and practices and was We are pleased that both Shah Deniz phase 2 approved by the Georgian government in 2013. and SCPX projects are moving ahead across all areas. Work has commenced at the fabrication Following approval of the main ESIA, amendments yards for jackets and decks, as well as at the have been made to the initial project plan. These onshore terminal construction sites. Offshore, changes were captured in an ESIA addendum drilling activities continue successfully using which was submitted to the government of Georthe Istiglal and Heydar Aliyev rigs with seven gia in December 2014 and approved in February wells already drilled in preparation for first gas 2015. in late 2018”. In light of the changes, additional stakeholder consultation was carried out, with national and local government authorities and communities closest to the additional sections of pipeline. The majority of socio-economic issues raised were from members of project affected communities seeking information on employment opportunities and on the recruitment process. Responses were provided to each comment received. We will continue to engage and consult with stakeholders as plans for the project progress. This engagement includes listening and responding to stakeholder concerns. Read more detail about the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment in the ESIA Non-Technical Summary, available at bpgeorgia.ge 20 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Q: How are you trying to maximize Taking the high road job opportunities for local people on the SCPX project? Constructing a 16 kilometre road might not the local communities. Construction of the road sound like much of a feat, at least not when and the adjacent camp is providing employA: We are applying a set of principles and compared with pipelines 100 times longer. ment for local people and this will continue specific targets for the use of local labour. But a remote location, mountainous terrain, during the whole construction phase. But it has altitudes of up to 1,700 metres, three villages Our people and values These principles state that contractors been a long process to reach a point where should seek to maximize local content along the route, and reaching agreement with construction can begin. In addition, residents and see that this provision is included in the owners of several hundred parcels of land will be able to use the road when it is completany of their sub-contracts. They need to have presented the SCPX team in Georgia with ed for agricultural vehicles or to gain easier and maximize benefits to local communities a number of challenges. quicker access to their villages. and municipalities in the vicinity of their Compressor station 2 (CSG2) will be a vital ‘Most of the privately-owned parcels of land lie work and to Georgia as a whole. They component in the new SCPX pipeline. Its between Nardevani, Kushchi and Berta, on first need to manage the risks associated planned location, west of Lake Tsalka and on a half of the route, while most of the land on the with employing local people, such as mountain, is dictated largely by hydraulics, but second part of the route belongs to the state,’ any grievances that arise related to also by the need to minimize its impact on local explains Jurgen von Borries, BP Georgia’s employment processes. Where possible, communities. The site is only 16 kilometres environmental and social team lead. ‘We had they should avoid moving local labour from the nearest main road, but the thousands a steady and open process of negotiation across national boundaries or work zones of tonnes of materials and equipment that the with landowners over several months which to reduce the risk of increasing social facilities team will need to transport up there was carried out in line with BP’s social and tensions. mean dedicated access needs to be built. environmental commitments and the project’s In addition to these principles, The new access road has been re-routed to environmental and social impact assessment’. an employment strategy will be bypass these villages to enable safe and continThe road’s route has taken into account avoidimplemented that is fair, transparent ual access to the compressor station site and ance of possible cultural heritage sites and an and ensures equal opportunities. Where minimize the impact on the local communities. area of wetland that is important for breeding applications for employment will only be corncrakes, a bird similar to the moorhen. The Community benefits considered if submitted via the official route avoids going through the middle of this application procedure and where unskilled Not only will the new road mean the equiparea, but the environmental teams have neverlabour will be preferentially recruited ment and materials for the compressor station theless committed to undertake regular surveys from the communities adjacent to the can avoid the villages, it is also likely to benefit to monitor impacts on the bird population. worksites. Jurgen von Borries BP environment and social team lead Cultural heritage protection Economic benefits of SCPX As part of the SCPX development, phase I cultural SCPX represents a major investment for Georgia heritage surveys, involving landscape walkover with capital planned to be spent on goods and surveys and desktop reviews, were undertaken services provided by local Georgian suppliers at all known and potential sites of cultural heritage With the projects now under way on the ground based on available scientific literature and previous in Georgia, contractors have been mobilized and BTC/SCP experience. employment has increased. The total number of More extensive phase II and phase III archaeologpeople employed on the project at the end of 2014 ical excavations have been undertaken at areas was 533. that contained visible archaeological features or SCPX Employment had some archaeological potential in the Tsalka, Tetritskaro, Akhaltsikhe and Marneuli regions. For 500 458 example, studies at the TANAP connection close to the Georgia-Turkey border identified a number 400 of single and multi-layer archaeological sites covering the period from the early Bronze Age 300 (4th-3rd millennium BC) to the late middle ages. More extensive archaeological works within the 200 construction area are scheduled for completion in 2015. 100 75 GPO Contractor BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 21 Safety We continue to work to embed safety and operational risk management into the heart of what we do. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Continue to deliver excellent business Worked 3.9 million man-hours and Drive continuous improvement on our performance, safely and reliably. drove 7.7 million kilometers with no health and safety performance. fatalities and no major accidents. Complement our efforts on more Continue to strive for improvements Increased the number of contractorrobust and systematic self-verification. in personal and process safety reported near misses reaching 31% of performance. the total reported incidents. Maintain focus on engaging contractors in systematically Work, as in the past, with contractors Continued systematic communication ensuring effectiveness of their to develop strong safety attitudes and of HSE requirements, performance, HSE management system and culture. lessons learned and hazards organizational safety culture. awareness. Developed competency of the field staff. 22 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Managing safety Our focus is on safe, reliable and compliant operations. Protecting our people and plant while delivering excellent performance is a key priority. A day in the life of Akaki Adeishvili _ a site health and safety lead, BTC PSG1 / SCP AREA 72 The day starts at 7am when I attend a morning handover meeting in the control room and discuss relevant incidents and lessons learned that occurred in BP Georgia or in the region during the previous day. I participate in risk assessments and after permits are issued go out to the site and audit work parties to ensure their permits and isolation control certificates (ICC) are in order. Tool box talks are conducted and checks made on whether hazards and precautions are understood and followed. In this way, I am acting as an additional Safety protective barrier to identify unsafe acts or conditions and, if necessary, can stop a job before an accident happens. I also look for, encourage BP incident management team participating in a regional scale emergency response exercise. and recognize good safety practice. I am involved in site self-verification activities We continue to apply our operating management We had five minor fires, none of which were which include the review of overrides, isolations, (OMS) system to govern our operations and drive hydrocarbon-related and none of which occurred operational risk assessments, lifting operations safe and reliable performance. in a process area. They were mostly caused and operating procedures to identify weak by electrical faults in small-scale equipment. As part of our ongoing work to achieve signals and respond with improvements. Each instance was thoroughly investigated and conformance with OMS requirements, we improvements made. Daily activities also involve going out to the field undertake self-verification activities to check our together with site team leaders to carry out site performance against each system requirement. We investigate every incident to identify health and safety inspection on PSG1, AREA72, We put plans in place to maintain conformance contributing factors and causes so that we PSG1 Camp, OSRB or Central Waste Accumuto standards, with the aim of reducing risk and can take the actions to stop it from happening lation Area to ensure high HSE standards are deliver sustainably safe performance. again. We continue to encourage our employees maintained on all these facilities. and our contractors to report near misses. The Our commitment to no accidents, no harm At the end of the day, I participate in the permit number of reported near misses increased again to people and no damage to the environment to work meeting where daily progress and reaching 179 in 2014, improved reporting and remains unchanged as a business priority. issues are discussed. Permits for activities near miss recognition from 143 in 2013 and 76 planned for the following day are reviewed along Safety performance and learning in 2012. with associated hazards and control measures. from incidents In addition to learning from near miss reporting, During 2014, BP Georgia and its contractors we conduct monthly reviews of incidents and worked 3.9 million man-hours and drove 7.7 quarterly reviews of trends with operations, million kilometres with no fatalities and no major maintenance, project, engineering and HSE accidents. There were no day away from work leaders. We analyze immediate and system cases and one recordable incident in which a causes, identify focus areas, agree and catering contractor employee tripped and fell. implement improvement actions. We had seven vehicle accidents, one more than We continued to carry out regular awareness last year. None of these accidents were classified campaigns for BP employees and contractors as ‘severe’ and incident investigations showed based on lessons learned and covering important that the majority were caused by third-party safety topics, such as risks from: high potential vehicles. consequence incidents, snakes, heat, cold, ice, icicles, fire, slips, trips and falls, finger injuries, In January 2014 we had one incident, in which a barriers, lifting, normally occurring radioactive contractor boat sank 2 kilometres off the coast materials, safe driving, and carbon monoxide. of the Black Sea when travelling from the single point mooring facility. The three people on board were immediately rescued by the maintenance service vessel which was alongside, and no injuries were sustained. We classified this as a ‘high potential incident’, where the consequences Site safety lead observing the visitors’ helicopter could have been significantly more serious under take-off. slightly different circumstances. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 23 Assessing, prioritizing and managing Control of Work risk Wherever BP operates, systematic In accordance with BP group requirements, we implementation of the group’s Control of systematically review major risks and update Work practice is a must for BP employees and a risk register annually. Quarterly, we bring contractors. Control of Work requires that all together our leadership team and specialists work activities are planned well in advance and from operations, maintenance, projects, HSE, delivered by competent people. Task related engineering and pipeline technical authorities risks must be assessed and managed, and the to review risk scenarios, protective risk barriers, work controlled and executed under permit. potential impact, and agree actions plan based Most importantly, control of work obliges on prioritization. The BP Georgia risk assessment everyone to stop unsafe work. Its processes feeds into wider risk assessments covering provide a work environment that allows tasks operations in Georgia and Azerbaijan. Our goal is to be completed safely and without unplanned to continuously improve prevention barriers and loss of containment, which could damage the mitigation measures to maintain effective risk environment, plant or equipment. identification, prevention and management. Ensuring the safety of our processes Maintaining a safe work environment In addition to personal safety, we focus on We carry out a range of self-verification activities maintaining the integrity of our operating Local government representatives participating in to make sure that personal safety is not being systems and processes by applying good regional emergency exercise. compromised. design principles, engineering and operating and maintenance practices _ process safety. These include checks on day-to-day work covering tasks such as lifting, working at heights, electrical We outline key process safety risks within equipment testing, confined space entry, hot site induction and encourage people to report work, energy isolation, excavation, scaffolding process safety incidents. We have a range of and the use of personal protective equipment. monthly reviews of different aspects of process safety, such as operational risk assessments and Our health and safety site leads have the role reviews of conformance with standard operating of advising operations on how to continuously procedures and safe systems of work. At monthly improve performance, conducting self-verification management meetings led by engineering and activities and inspections and supporting OMS technical professionals, we review key process conformance. On a daily basis they focus safety and integrity management performance and process safety related tasks and oversee indicators. Many of these are ‘leading’ indicators contractors’ activities. They participate in and which give an indication of the strength of our review Control of work risk assessments controls. to ensure that hazards are identified and adequately addressed. They also participate In 2014, we suffered one loss of primary in incident investigations to determine root containment, which was the result of in an causes and develop corrective actions, coillegal tap on Western Route Export Pipeline ordinate emergency exercises, facilitate and (WREP). It led to the loss of 12,300 litres of oil lead safety meetings and HSE awareness to the surrounding soil, 5,000 litres of which was campaigns. In 2014, all site health and safety recovered. Although the pipeline was illegally leads undertook a baseline review under the damaged by a third party, BP has repaired it, ‘Excellence programme’. It is designed to help removed contaminated soil, remediated and HSE professionals further develop the skills and backfilled the area of the incident. capabilities they need to meet their career goals. We report, record and monitor minor leaks or spills to help us improve performance and try to minimize the risk of more serious incidents. We use the American Petroleum Institute (API) standard for classification of process safety events. We did not have any serious process safety incidents in 2014. 24 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Working with contractors Our ability to be a safe and responsible operator depends to a large extent on the capability and performance of our contractors. Rovshan Nabiyev HSEQ manager, Socar Cape “In 2014, our company was involved in industrial cleaning, blasting and painting of the oil storage tank at the Supsa Terminal, as well as scaffolding, paint coating, rigging and lifting activities at various BP locations. All these activities were performed without accidents and were delivered to a high quality. Safety forums and safety leadership team meetings are good methods of communicating lessons learned, achievements, issues, best practices and innovations. These events encourage team work, help break the ice and build trust between the client and its service Safety provider. They add value to our company by generating ideas for continuous improvement Hosting contractors at the annual contractors safety executive forum. and strengthen our focus on how to address the health and safety agenda successfully.” Historically, about 80% of our reported manOur annual contractors’ safety award scheme hours are logged by contractors. To promote rewarded contractor companies that had shown consistency and alignment, we hold quarterly exemplary performance. The 2014 awards were safety leadership meetings with our contractors, presented to: where we review HSE performance, incidents • Solar Turbines _ for open incident reporting, and lessons learned, highlight and deliver safe delivery of the turbine replacement key messages, share experience and raise project, competent performing authorities contractors’ awareness of safety-critical topics. for field activities, systematic procedure We also hold an annual contractors safety management and active participation in BP executive forum, where we interact with contractors’ events. contractor management teams to broaden their • MQS _ for the safe execution of hot work knowledge and understanding of demonstrable inside tank C confined space and the foam line safety leadership and what we expect from repair project area at the Supsa terminal. them as leaders. The forum in 2014 focused on • Socar Cape _ for the safe execution of procedures: developing the right ones, verifying cleaning, blasting, painting and scaffolding that they are followed, having competent activities inside tank C confined space at the people to implement them and checking their Supsa terminal. effectiveness. • IDC _ for the safe execution of the Liakhvi riverWe continued to encourage incident reporting crossing rehabilitation project on the WREP. among our contractors in 2014. The number • Oceaneering _ for integrity management of contractor-reported near misses increased service support to the BP Georgia Exports significantly, reaching 31% of the total reported Operation and for effective management and incidents in 2014, reported incidents in 2014, co-ordination of the Supsa terminal tank C and 2013 _ 24%, 2012 _ 15%. In future, we intend to WREP integrity inspection and repair projects. focus as well on the quality of near miss reports. We have also sought to ensure that the individuals carrying out work on our behalf have the right skills, experience and competency. For contractors’ performing authorities (those responsible for the safe delivery of tasks), this has involved specific training and interview assessment with BP site and area authorities. On successful completion of the training, contractor performing authorities gain competency authorization certificates. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 25 Personal and process safety Everything we aim to do relies upon the safety of our operations, our workforce, and the communities around us. Guram Zakareishvili Driving safely We continuously seek to improve our crisis Road safety continues to be one of the major and continuity management, oil spill response HSSE&S and QA/QC Director, IDC and fire-fighting capability. This requires clear risks in Georgia as a result of the large number of kilometres driven by the BP and contractor organization and plans, good quality response workforces and the region’s hazardous driving resources, and well-trained personnel. “In 2014, IDC completed a number of projects for BP including river crossing enhancement environment. Our activities in 2014 reflected these priorities. works, Liakhvi river rehabilitation, small project BP Georgia workers and contractors drove 7.7 For example, we completed an update of our design and civil services. All these involved million kilometres in 2014 _ the equivalent of oil spill response plans for BTC, WREP and the a wide spectrum of design and construction about 195 times the times the around the world. Supsa terminal. These three standalone plans work. We have 200 vehicles in total, and 140 contractor have now been formatted in line with BP group professional drivers. requirements. They address issues raised in We successfully completed the very first previous gap assessments, such as the need for construction project within the SCPX project As part of our operating management system _ building a camp pad for CSG2 in Tsalka. We better cross-referencing and standardization to (OMS), we have an annual driving safety make the documents simpler for end users. also carried out perhaps the largest ever river improvement plan. It includes measures focused crossing rehabilitation project on the WREP _ on drivers, such as safety awareness training, as We have two fire-fighting trucks in place and six installing massive rock structures across the individuals from our oil spill response contractor, well as items relating to the condition of vehicles crossing to protect the pipeline from washout NRC International Services, who have completed and notification about road conditions. We assess and to safeguard its future integrity. internationally-recognized National Fire Protection our performance every month, reviewing any Association fire-fighting training. Eight further We regularly attend BP contractors’ events incidents and issues arising. trainees are currently going through the same such as safety leadership team quarterly Each year, our Baku-based driving safety assessment process. We are in the process meetings and the annual contractors safety specialist audits a selection of BP operations of integrating all fire response resources into executive forum. All contractors are welcome and contractors against the requirements of our the overall BP Georgia emergency response to share their experience, lessons learned and operating management system, including the organization. The fire response team also best practices. We can gain a lot by learning elements of the BP Driving Safety Standard. The supports operations by providing training; last about opportunities to upgrade HSE managereviews address issues such as the condition year they trained 68 operations staff in basic ment systems, enhancing organizational safety of vehicles, driver and passenger behaviour, fire-fighting. culture and improving performance. securing loads, driver assessment, licensing, training and fitness, journey management We carried out more than 100 emergency The year ends with the annual contractors’ response exercises in 2014, involving a range award ceremony, where those with outstandplanning and seat belt use. The 2014 audit identified a number of good practices, as well as of scenarios and different response teams. We ing performance and commitments to HSE are trained and assured the competency of 12 onrecognized and rewarded. Recognition serves minor areas for improvement relating to particular vehicles and tightening of some assurance scene commanders and identified and trained as a great motivation for others to work even 11 new members of the incident management harder in the years to come and work together processes. team. to make Georgia a safer place.” Our annual driving safety workshop with contractors covered certification and training, Following months of planning and discussion, winter driving and pedestrian safety. we facilitated a full-day emergency response exercise in September during which the Georgia Crisis management and Azerbaijan government deployed their own Crisis and continuity management planning human and physical resources. It involved the is essential if we are to keep our people safe, entire BP regional crisis management system, respond effectively to emergencies and avoid with the participation of the BP Georgia incident potentially severe disruptions in our operations. management, site response, country support and In addition to routine monitoring, we identify business support teams. The scenario was an potential crisis and continuity risks annually. earthquake which affected the pipeline, causing We also carry out regular exercises to test the an oil spill, as well as damage to other national preparedness of our teams. infrastructure. We also took part in a national-scale exercise offshore in the Black Sea in cooperation with the national Maritime Transport Agency (MTA) and other port operators. 26 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 We carried out Health and wellness Health campaigns 100+ emergency response We have continued a skin surveillance programme for all employees at our pipeline sites, purpose of which is to ensure that the We ran awareness and health promotion campaigns throughout 2014 that encouraged people to take responsibility for their own health exercises. signs of occupational dermatitis are detected at and wellbeing. early stage. A tobacco-free initiative across BP Georgia, for As in previous years, we carried out an annual example, included awareness sessions, the health risk assessment using the health map tool provision of non-smoking aids, and personal to update our risk register. We have continued consultations by health professionals. to carry out the well-established processes that We ran another healthy heart campaign, arming support our operations, as well as the SCPX employees with information and simple steps project _ processes such as fitness for task to help them manage their heart better. By health assessments, health screening, and health running this over a number of years, we are data management. In 2014, our regional health giving employees the opportunity to compare leadership team reviewed our activities to gain their year-on-year results. The health team assurance that our processes are fit for purpose. Safety collated individual results as well as a roll up of Risks to personal health can come from many information which was shared with participants. areas. Occupational health and industrial hygiene We conducted seasonal campaigns on topics programmes are implemented in accordance such as flu, cold, heat stress, and travel health, with our annual priorities. These cover topics and on topical issues such as viral meningitis such as substance abuse, in which we conduct and ebola. We made particular efforts in 2014 to random substance testing at operating sites promote employee well-being through internal and at our Tbilisi office. We implemented and external sporting competitions. industrial hygiene programmes at our operational sites, which covered issues such as noise Health and medical training monitoring, chemical handling and exposure, risk We provide a range of basic training to our staff assessment, noise, and fatigue for shift workers. on topics such as first aid, chemicals awareness, We have conducted a skin surveillance and food safety. In 2014, we conducted programme for all employees at our pipeline occupational health reviews and reviewed our sites. We carried out audiometric surveillance medical provider clinic’s first aid and emergency for employees exposed to noise at operating response capability. We completed refresher first locations and included all these people in a aid and medical preparedness audits at PSG1, hearing conservation programme. We continued PSG2, Supsa, EDDF and Area 80. our ergonomics initiative, which included site and Health and safety professionals and our medical office assessments by a specialist ergonomist staff receive specialist training in areas such and organized training for site doctors. A number as manual handling and industrial hygiene. of site assessments and reports were provided. In 2014, we held the first Georgia medics Food safety and water quality are important forum at which more than a dozen BP Georgia aspects of a healthy working environment. We health professionals discussed challenges and completed audits across operational sites which objectives in medical emergency response, confirmed that our activities are in line with training, occupational hygiene and industrial requirements. We completed epidemiological health. surveys for SCP/BTC and SCPX sites in 2014. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 27 Environment We take a systematic approach to environmental management and strive to continuously improve our environmental performance. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Maintain our systematic approach We are managing our environmental Continue to take a systematic to environmental compliance and performance in accordance with ISO approach to managing operating risks management. 14001 and BP operating management which have potential environmental system requirements. consequences. Minimize our environmental impacts to We have minimized the environmental Continue to seek opportunities air, land and water. impact of projects and modifications. for minimizing our environmental footprint. Develop processes and people to We have improved processes for safeguard future environmental non-conformance reporting and have Ensure we hold up to date performance. trained staff on these processes environmental permits, including renewal of five-year licenses on emissions. 28 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 ISO 14001 and compliance We continue to manage our operations in accordance with our ISO 14001 certified environmental management system. 16th Audit of the independent environmental consultant was completed in Georgia in 2014. Environment Preparation for a wildlife response exercise. In line with the three-year review cycle, the Complying with our commitments environmental management system was indeThe 16th annual post-financial audit of the pendently audited in 2014. The management sysindependent environmental consultant acting on tem was found to be effective with no non-conbehalf of BTC lenders was completed in Georgia formities issued. We maintain comprehensive in 2014. These audits monitor compliance with systems to stay compliant with applicable HSE BTC environmental and social commitments. No requirements. Because of significant change in non-compliances were identified. local environmental legislation in recent years, we undertook an extensive review of local environStrengthening environmental mental regulatory requirements in 2014. As a requirements in contracting result, we identified specific tasks which need We work with contractors to try to make sure to be carried out by operations and environment they meet our environmental standards. In 2014, staff to make sure we remain compliant. These we included detailed clauses within our contracitems are maintained in a compliance task mantual terms and conditions relating to environmenager database, which enables required actions to tal management. Provisions covered topics such be tracked. as waste management, flora and fauna, air and The development and early implementation of water quality, and ecological management. We the SCPX project has been a multi-disciplinary expect our contractors to abide by these requireeffort that incorporates lessons learned from past ments, and implement the necessary manageprojects and operations in Georgia. Productive ment systems and procedures. cooperation continued with project staff through the review of the ESIA addendum and close coordination on waste management. Technical information on each aspect of the ESIA process is available on bp.georgia.ge including the public consultation and disclosure plans which Landscape view adjacent to Bakuriani settlement. form an integral part of the process. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 29 Managing our impact In everything we do we aim to avoid, minimize or mitigate environmental impacts. 50+ site inspections were carried out in 2014. An environmental officer performing a shore check during a wildlife response exercise. We continue to work to raise contractors’ Illegal taps and remediation awareness of environmental matters and to help There were two illegal taps by third parties align all projects with the requirements of our on WREP in 2014, one of which resulted in a environmental management system. We use an release of oil to soil. Within hours of its discovery, environmental risk assessment tool for individual recovery of the spilled oil had begun. Following projects and modifications to give ourselves analysis, we estimated the volume of the spill assurance that requirements are being met in the was 12,300 litres. field. We carried out more than 50 site inspections in 2014 and reviewed contractor project The remediation process involved topsoil documentation such as pre-construction surveys stripping and excavation, with soil samples taken that include environmental site assessments. from different levels of the affected area. We We obtain site completion reports that show assessed that there were no distinctive ecological how environmental requirements have been or archaeological sensitivities associated with the addressed. area,which was used for agricultural purposes, and provided compensation to the landowner. Detecting leaks Contaminated soil was stripped and sent for We implement a range of measures to detect bacteriological cleaning. After several months leaks on the BTC/SCP pipelines, which are set of bioremediation at a BP facility, followed by out within leak detection programmes agreed laboratory analysis, we backfilled the site with the with the government of Georgia. For example, cleaned soil. we undertake groundwater monitoring and use specially trained sniffer dogs capable of detecting hydrocarbon leaks regardless of soil conditions and even under snow. 30 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Protecting wildlife around our facilities The wildlife rehabilitation centre is supplied with equipment in line with best international practice. To test our preparedness to respond to an incident involving oiled wildlife, we have undertaken three sets of training for volunteers, delivered by International Bird Rescue and the Oil Spill Training Company Ltd. Training has been provided to representatives from non-governmental and state institutions, local certified veterinarians and volunteers. With the support of BP personnel, 36 volunteers participated in training at locations near the Jandari and Tsalka lake shorelines, chosen because of their ecological sensitivity. The initiatives tested our wildlife response preparedness and included identifying baselines, examining potential environmental impacts, and assessing different tiers of possible response. Spill behaviour was modelled, using geographic information systems, and communication plans Glycol recycler facility located at a pump station. were tested. A theoretical element was comEnvironment plemented by tests of the wildlife response Managing waste Plastic waste recycling equipment stocked at the centre to assess We are continually working to find innovative We have continued to recycle paper, plastic and approaches to mobilization, deployment and and efficient ways to reduce and manage waste. metal, working with Georgian companies that operations. We have sought to reduce hazardous waste by now have the capability to recycle different types buying modern equipment for waste processof waste products. The exercises were concluded with analysis of ing and have been putting waste products and lessons learned. Findings and recommendaWildlife protection substances to good use – such as using them as tions were shared among the participants. a source of energy. Our incident management system includes commitments related to responding to an incident The majority of hazardous waste from our activwere wildlife suffer from the effects of oil. We ities, such as oily rags or sludge, has been colhave built a wildlife response centre adjacent to lected, compacted and stored at a central waste the oil spill response base at PSG1 and ran an accumulation area at PSG1 on the BTC pipeline. emergency response exercise on wildlife protecHistorically, hazardous waste was prepared for tion in 2014. export to EU-compliant facilities outside Georgia because local recycling companies were not able to ensure its safe disposal. We have now evaluated Georgian operators who could operate an EU compliant hazardous waste incinerator, and are looking to work with a local company to do this. The establishment of a facility of this type would represent a significant step forward in the development of national waste management capability. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 31 Society We aim to make sure that we bring benefit to local communities by supporting programmes and initiatives that build capacity and promote enterprise. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Reinforce the positive relationships we Maintained strong relationships, with Continue our existing community inhave with the communities near our 803 community meetings in 2014 and vestment programmes and take further operations. received positive feedback on our steps to support communities newly community investment programmes. affected by SCPX. Continue to build local skills and We are supporting diverse Continue to implement a variety of capacity. programmes and projects that develop capacity building programmes. personal and institutional capability. Support local economic development Continue to support local economic 480 small businesses established through our projects and programmes. development and enterprise. through the community development initiative, including 91 in 2014. 32 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Engaging with communities We engage regularly with the communities near our pipelines because we want to maintain constructive relationships with them. Liaising with local communities Responding to grievances BP seeks to maintain positive relationship with Our activities take place near a large number of the communities along its pipelines. Our liaison villages and municipalities and involve access to objectives and communication tools are described and construction work on land. Occasionally, comin a community communication plan. Villages along munity grievances arise. As part of our approach to the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan/South Caucasus Pipeline engagement, we have a clear process for manag(BTC/SCP) and Western Route Export Pipeline ing third-party complaints. (WREP) are categorized according to their social During 2014, we received 22 new complaints relatand environmental sensitivities to enable us to ing to operations, compared to the 41 complaints have the appropriate type and level of interaction received in 2013. Twenty-one of these complaints with them. Meetings with local community reprewere investigated and closed in 2014, with a sentatives take place regularly. further seven complaints closed which related to We continued local community engagement and issues raised in 2013. We hold regular meetings conducted 803 consultation meetings with differwith target groups and tell them about the tools at ent target groups in the villages along the pipelines their disposal to raise concerns. Small business started by locals with BP’s and its and near our facilities. This ensures that the BP co-venturers’ support. Among the resolved grievances was a complaint social team is well-aware of local issues, listens to which arose in 2013 related to damage to fruit community concerns, and can reinforce messages trees along the WREP right of way. We appointabout safety and restrictions along the pipelines. ed an external agricultural consultant as well as Our target groups are village heads/trustees, local engineers to assess the problem. In the light of residents, complainants and landowners. We also their assessment, we paid compensation to the developed a community calendar for 2015 that affected party. provides information to local communities and landowners about pipeline protection safety zones, We monitor the time it takes for us to deal with and on simple ways to protect the environment. complaints, while recognizing that the speed of resolution may not be fully under our control. In Engagement relating to SCPX 2014, 68% of complaints were closed in less than We continue to engage with communities about two months, compared with 51% over the same the SCPX project, informing communities and local time period in 2013. government about plans and progress. Our team of community liaison officers plays an important role by listening to community concerns and responding to them, by sharing concerns with project staff and giving guidance on local sensitivities. Society Complaints statistics 2013 2014 Complaints Complaints Complaints Complaints Complaint category received closed received closed Additional land occupied 1 1 0 0 Bee-related 3 3 0 0 Damage to community infrastructure 1 1 2 2 Employment 1 0 3 3 Crop damage/compensation 0 0 11 10 Damage to household infrastructure 2 2 0 0 Inventory/compensation disagreement 7 7 1 1 Irrigation 2 1 0 0 Land handback/reinstatement 5 3 3 3 Lack of access 1 1 Nuisance 1 1 0 0 Other land issue 11 9 1 1 A resident of Martotubani has established Other social issues 7 6 0 0 a greenhouse with BP and its co-venturers’ support. Total 41 34 22 21 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 33 Our programmes We support programmes that respond to local needs and which are relevant to our business activities. In 2003, we launched our first community develop• Awarding grants to national environmental ment programme, linked to the start of construcNGOs for capacity building. tion work on the BTC/SCP pipelines. Since then, • Promoting environmentally sound practices and together with our co-venturers, we have contributed biodiversity conservation. to a wide range of projects in Georgia which have Over the past five years alone, we and our co-venhelped local communities, promoted business ture partners have spent more than $20 million development, supported education and protected on social investment projects. Many involve other Georgia’s cultural and natural environment. participants, including our co-venture partners, Initiatives have included: with whom we have built up strong collaborative relationships, which further increases the amount • A project to improve the business environment invested. for small and medium-sized companies by reducing regulatory burdens and improving Current initiatives corporate governance. We continue to support a variety of projects, and • Increasing awareness of energy efficiency spent approximately $3.3 million on social investthrough demonstration projects across Georgia. ment in 2014. Landscape view adjacent to Bakuriani settlement. • A Masters level scholarship programme to enable gifted Georgian students to continue their education at UK universities. Our current social investment projects Focus Project Project Time-scales Funding area title objectives ($USm)* Pipeline Community Improve socio-economic aspects of 2003-to date 20.5 communities Development Initiative community lives through civil society along the BTC/SCP and capacity building, supporting WREP pipelines in income-generation activities through partnership with national support for agriculture and and international NGOs. SME development. Business Georgia Investment Promote sustainable private sector 2014-17 0.4 development Climate Project – in growth by increasing the competitiveness partnership with the of local companies by building on International Finance successful reforms to date, to address Corporation. greatest remaining compliance costs spent by businesses on VAT administration, as well as through increased trade and FDI flows. $3.3m Project Management College (PMC) – in Develop a pool of world-class national project managers to aid the growth 2009-17 2.3 was spent on social partnership with ESI and profitability of local businesses, International and the and to help attract international investment, investment in 2014 in Georgia. Energy Free University of Tbilisi. contributing to Georgia’s economic development. efficiency Renewable energy and Three separate projects, as this theme has 2008-17 2.45 energy efficiency evolved: 1) The Energy Bus Project – programme (RE&EE). focusing on public awareness-raising across Georgia; 2) RE&EE small-scale demonstration projects across Georgia; 3) RE&EE projects for Georgian municipalities that are signatory to the EU Covenant of Mayors. Sponsoring the International Promote excellence in postgraduate 2006 to date 2.4 School of Economics at economic study and research across Tbilisi State University. the region. English language training Build local media capacity, in partnership 2005 to date 0.2 for the media. project with the British Council. Education Road safety: a partnership Raise public awareness and help to 2008 to date 0.2 programme with the improve road safety in Georgia. Partnership for Road Safety Foundation. Partnership with Georgian Support, as an official partner of 2012 to date 0.3 National Paralympic the Georgian NPC, the committee Committee (NPC). and groups of athletes to prepare and compete at the Paralympic games. * BP and co-venturers’ spend (US$ million) _ to the end of 2014. 34 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Supporting enterprise Our Community Development Initiative (CDI) is helping to develop local economic capacity. The initiative, which has changed to address community needs as they have evolved over the years, entered its fourth phase in May 2012. The original CDI programme was begun in 2003. A new generation of young leaders Helping rural development A model for business development CDI phase 4 aims to deepen the positive relaCDI has attracted considerable interest as a model tionship between BP and communities along the for community development. We were invited in Twenty-eight Community Based Organizations pipeline routes. It supports sustainable forms of 2014 to provide advice and share our experience (CBOs) have been set up under the CDI, ten of social co-operation, improving agricultural producof CDI implementation with the Deputy Minister which have been created since 2012. All the new tion, and developing regional agro-businesses. The of Economics, in support of the Ministry’s newly CBOs involve young members. Interest in comprogramme also supports small-scale business established ‘Entrepreneur Development Agency’ munity work, and motivation to do something start-ups. This includes providing training on and support programme. The Ministry of Econopositive for the community, is exceptionally high. business planning, markets and the concept of the my’s new initiative, which is under development, The CBOs face similar challenges in doing their value chain; developing understanding of product has been modeled on the CDI small business work, particularly at the start of projects when it definition and tools for pricing; and giving guidance support component. proves difficult to mobilize community finance on sales and marketing. CDI supports the establishment of social enterprisand labour. During training, CBOs noted the es which help develop business ideas promoted Implementation by local need to overcome a large amount of apathy by community-based organizations (CBOs). among many communities. non-governmental organizations Their focus is to provide services needed in their The programme is implemented by two Georgian community. The profits they generate are used to “It was naive to think that if work was done, our non-governmental organizations. In western implement projects that will benefit the commuvillagers would be happy regardless of whether Georgia, it is run by the Regional Development Asnity further. Twelve social enterprises of this kind they participated or not. Unfortunately, we obsociation and in eastern Georgia by the Centre for have now been created. served that residents who had not contributed Training and Consultancy. CARE, the international to the project, failed to feel ownership of it and CDI has also been established for WREP comhumanitarian agency, provides advice, having been therefore had no sense of responsibility for it” munities, where the Georgian Organization of the involved in CDI from its inception. The engagement said Zura Kapanadze, head of the CBO in Sakire. Scouts Movement is the implementing partner. of national NGOs has been a deliberate policy, But reporting to communities before, during and The programme here is aiming to support more designed to increase local capability. after has been making dramatic changes in the than 100 affected villages, as well as internally-disperceptions of locals. placed persons, and young people. The newly-established CBOs of Ivlita, Agara and Initiatives are supporting business start-ups. A Selected CDI phase 4 achievements Tsinubani have managed to engage many more total of 38 start-up business grants were issued in households from their communities using a • 28 new rural infrastructure rehabilitation 2014 and there is now more professional superdifferent participatory model of development by projects were implemented in 2014, bringing vision for the businesses being set up under this creating social enterprises with CDI support. the total number of projects to 66. initiative, with additional training. A summer camp • 7,962 households have benefitted from “All but socially vulnerable families have spared was organized targeting young people from IDP rehabilitated infrastructure. material resources to support the project and camps. The camps involve the creation of small• A total of 184 small businesses have been purchase agri-machinery for timely access to scale environmental improvement projects. Society established under the programme’s small agri-services. As a result, we have more responbusiness development activities, with 91 We are keen to ensure that the CDI programme sibility to our members to keep up with their small businesses established in 2014. A total continues to respond to the needs of participants expectations every agricultural season”, says of 79 new jobs were created in 2014. and can adapt to changing circumstances. Its Giorgi Qimeridze head of Agara CBO. • Approximately 90% of funded start-up scope has expanded in 2013 with the inclusion Based on CDI phase 4 experience, the projects have become profitable in the first of two new village communities (Tori in Borjomi programme’s implementing partner RDA has 12 months of operation. and Iraga in Tetritsakro) which are close to BP witnessed that new and young leaders, regard• In 2014, 186 participants, (making 483 in operations along BTC/SCP. This brings the total less of their experience, attract high levels of total for the programme) attended training number of communities covered by CDI on these confidence from locals. According to one elderly on topics such as business management, pipelines to 79. resident of Tsinubani, Iuri Khmaladze, engaging accounting and fundraising. Since May 2013, CDI has been applied to villages youth in projects has a bigger impact on the • Seven agricultural cooperatives have now affected by the SCPX project. The total number of village than rehabilitation projects or services. been created. Three of these are already villages currently covered is 18. “We get to keep young people attached to generating profit. the villages, preventing migration. That has far • Social enterprises are also providing services Our intention is to increase awareness of the more impact for the village than clean water or a to their communities, while also generating project and build a spirit of co-operation before tractor”, he said. profits. construction work begins. To date, nine rehabilitation projects have been launched, covering initiatives such as roofing, potable water and irrigation schemes. A total of 49 farmers in 12 groups have been involved in demonstrating new technologies. Ten business start-ups have been established. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 35 Reaping benefits from small business development The village of Akhalsofeli (in the Tetritskaro municipality) is settled with eco-migrants from Gudamakari (Mtsketa-Mtianeti region). The community’s livelihood is mainly derived from livestock management and crop production. The community is one of the target villages along the eastern section of the BTC/SPC pipeline. Over the years, it had shown itself to be one of the least active communities within CDI phase 4. For example, just one demonstration farm was established to learn about improved technology of potato production. The other social and economic components of the project seemed to remain beyond the community’s interest. In 2014, when the third round of competition for small start-up grants was announced, the project conducted extended meetings with the population, explaining the terms and conditions of new opportunities and their benefits. A farmer from Rustavi started a small rabbit farm with the support of BP and its co-venturers. Two young women applied for a grant, participated in business administration training Future steps We also commissioned an independent and developed a sound business plan. Their evaluation of the small business development project involved opening a market in a village Independent evaluations of the programme project along WREP. The assessment examined that would benefit not only Akalsopeli but three along the BTC and SCP pipelines in 2014 made the programme’s relevance, efficiency, impact, neighboring communities _ Gokhnari, Zirbiti a number of recommendations which we are effectiveness and sustainability. A number of and Safudzrebi _ where there were neither considering. These included suggestions such as recommendations were made, such as including shops nor groceries. establishing stronger private sector support for the local and regional business owners in the project start-up business component and obtaining fund“Opening a market was a great relief to us, beselection process and using them as potential ading from impact investors interested in supporting cause before there was only a mobile market visors and mentors for businesses. The evaluation development. in the village twice a week. We often couldn’t found that BP was well-placed to promote good manage to buy products. Now the problem is Overall, the evaluations found much to commend business practices, adapt quickly to changing solved for us” says Givi Kavtaradze, communiin the BTC/SCP programme and suggested that a market conditions, and co-invest in individual ty member and devoted customer. further initiative be developed that puts more ementerprises. phasis on BP seeking a return on its investment, while continuing to pursue and monitor progress against social objectives. 36 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Supporting development in the society where we work We want local communities to benefit from our presence and we support a wide range of projects that build local capacity. The eggs came first Lali Mamulashvili, who lives in the village of Vaka in the Khashuri district, is a beneficiary of the WREP Small Business Development Project (SBDP), which gives help to entrepreneurs setting up new businesses. Lali started a poultry farm business with 60 chickens. At the outset, her average monthly profit was 100 GEL. But after studying the market, she changed her strategy and also started to sell chickens. “During the training and consultancy provided under SBDP, we’ve learnt the importance of market study. I used this insight to analyze market needs and supply and to take my business to a new level. I realized the value not only of eggs, but also of pullets. It’s hard to believe, but my monthly profit has jumped from 100 to 700 GEL _ a direct result of observation, study, and a bit of courage. Although this business is seasonal and I have income mainly in summer and autumn, I’m still extremely happy.” Project Management College graduation ceremony 2014. The Project Management College Supporting renewable energy and Established in 2009 as a partnership between BP, energy efficiency 252 its co-venturers, ESI International (specialists in project management training) and Free University of Tbilisi, the Project Management College This project, which builds on a series of pioneering initiatives we have run with the Georgia Energy professionals studied at Efficiency Centre, involved 23 small-scale initiatives provides a seven-course curriculum leading to a in Eastern and Western Georgia. Project Management College Master’s Certificate from The George Washington in its first five years. Projects adopted clean energy measures such as University School of Business. It also provides the Society possibility of graduates becoming Project Managereplacing inefficient wood stoves with energy effiment Professional (PMP®) certified by the Project cient ones; installing double-glazed PVC windows, Management Institute (PMI®). doors and roof insulation; replacing light bulbs, and installing solar photovoltaic panels and thermal The course involves 24 days of study, spread over systems. a year. A total of 252 students in 13 intakes have studied in its first five years, with 215 of them The results achieved for all 23 projects by the end graduating with Master’s Certificates, and 14 of 2014 were: becoming PMPs. • Electricity savings of approximately 285,000 Students represent senior to mid-level managers kW/h _ equal to the annual consumption of from more than 100 different organizations, rangapproximately 100 households. ing from private companies, to NGOs, international • Natural gas savings of approximately 78,000m3 _ equal to the annual consumption of around 95 organizations and the public sector. households. BP and its co-venturers provide financial support • Water savings of around 22,900m3. to the college of approximately $2 million over the • Fire wood savings of around 150m3. duration of the agreement. In the longer term, • Diesel savings of around 3,625 litres. our goal is to build local capacity so that the entire • A reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of approgramme is run by Georgian nationals. proximately 370,000kg CO2 equivalent _ equal The project has been extended for two more to the annual emissions from about 55 typical years, with an additional $250,000 funding. This households in Georgia. will allow 50 more students to study in English, as • Financial savings of more than 215,000 GEL. well as translation of all seven courses into Geor• More than 2,300 beneficiaries. gian. It will also support the training of trainers, so that the curriculum can be offered in Georgian. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 37 Building capacity We work in partnership with a large number of organizations to help build the fabric of Georgian civil society. SCPX farmers overcome the wheater Promoting energy efficiency A related project to promote energy efficiency has involved eight Georgian municipalities, headed by Agriculture practices in the villages near SCPX Tbilisi. The municipalities are signatories of the EU activities tend to be poorly developed. Locals Covenant of Mayors (CoM). Under the covenant, avoid farming, frequently citing risks like the cities have undertaken to reduce CO2 emissions adverse wheather conditions. Amid many cases by 20% by 2020 _ an ambitious target. of lost harvest, especially when caused by unexpected natural disasters like draught, frost, The project supports the CoM by implementing flooding and hail, local farmers turned to leasing large-scale demonstration projects in each parout their plots to neighbouring villagers. ticipating city. Initiatives are intended to serve as practical examples for other projects. As a result of agricultural support provided by RDA specialists, many locals gained new confiEach municipality is developing a sustainable enerdence and returned to their plots in the hope of gy action plan to achieve the CoM target. The plans gaining profits this autumn. But April and May include a list of publicly owned buildings where Residents of Burnasheti have started a market turned out to be particularly rainy, threatening energy efficiency projects could be launched. They with the support of BP and its co-venturers. newly planted seedlings of new productive include schools, kindergartens, medical centres, vegetable varieties bought with the help of art and sport schools, and orphanages. Projects RDA. In response to the adverse climate, RDA for each city will be selected, with an approximate Encouraging trade and investment specialists intensified their advice and taught investment value of $60,000 per municipality. We support the EU-Georgia Business Council farmers what type and doses of treatment they To date, four projects have been implemented (EUGBC), which was established with a $300,000 could introduce to prevent rotting. in three municipalities: Gori, Telavi and Rustavi. grant under the BP pledge agreement with the This has been the first time in 15 years that Work has begun to identify projects in the other government of Georgia, signed in 2004. The EUGLevon Mikaelian of Abatkhevi has farmed his municipalities. BC is a business driven organization whose main own plot instead of leasing it out. “This endless purpose is to: rain had me regretting this initiative” he said, Georgia investment climate project • Encourage investment and trade between EU adding that he was at risk of losing all his This project, being implemented by the Internaand Georgia. savings that had been spent on cultivating the tional Finance Corporation, seeks to promote • Promote Georgia in the EU as a place to invest plot, along with sacrificing any potential income sustainable private sector growth by increasing the and do business, and vice versa. from leasing. competitiveness of local companies. • Promote and protect the common business ‘Seeing the seedlings bloom in June was The project has three focal areas: interests of its members. unbelievable. If it happened before, I would • Foster ties in the EU and Georgia between • Simplifying tax administration (primarily VAT). praise God for the miracle, but now I know businesses, governments and civil societies. this happened because I successfully put my • Streamlining customs procedures and systems. EUGBC members include the Georgian Chamber knowledge and efforts to good use to save my • Revising existing investment legislation to of Commerce and Industry, the American Chamharvest. It’s not only the information I received, promote trade and foreign direct investment. ber of Commerce, the Federation of Georgian but more importantly the confidence that you Businessmen and the Association of Georgian get with the knowledge’, he added. The direct initial beneficiaries will be the Ministry of Finance and State Revenue Service. In time, a Exporters. simpler administrative environment should bring In 2014, EUGBC activities included meetings with benefits to operating companies. Georgian government and European Union and international finance officials, carrying out business delegations to Europe, and holding trade seminars for Georgian small and medium-sized businesses. 38 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 On the record ‘Our training was in English – with no interpreter involved – and the standard amazed me throughout the week’, says Dan Mason, British Council course leader. ‘The journalists left our training with a ready-made suite of online tools, documents and guides and the knowledge that support is available online. It was a most successful week that I am confident delivered value for all those involved.’ Feedback from attendees, many of whom joined the programme at an elementary or intermediate English level, is that the students love the courses and find them fruitful and captivating. ‘After every lesson I was happy, because I was returning home full of knowledge of new words and phrases, and new experience”, says Sophio Todua. ‘It was my chance to improve my knowledge not only of English but also to work in a team, which was very important for me.’ Tamila Chantladze, BP Georgia CommunicaThe journalists participating in ‘English for Media’ training programme were awarded with certificates. tions Team Leader leads the programme from International School of Economics, Media capacity building BP. ‘Local media representatives believe that the English language training supported by BP Tbilisi ‘English for Media’ is a sought-after language trainis vital to succeed in their profession. It gives Support for education has long been an important ing programme for Georgian journalists that has them ample opportunity to access multiple element of our development initiatives in Georgia. trained approximately 300 journalists in Tbilisi and media channels, process and share information This includes support for schooling, tertiary educaregions since its launch in 2005. The programme and connect with people worldwide’. tion, and continuing professional development. is delivered by the British Council with financial support from BP. We continued to support the International School Society of Economics in Tbilisi, which aims to bring worldWe have always sought to make sure that the class teaching and research methods to the study course moves with the times. Last year, English of economics for the benefit of the region. The for Media provided an opportunity to selected stuschool has continued its work to develop a focal dents to enhance their skills by attending a course area in the economics of human resources within delivered by Thomson Foundation lecturers _ the the MA programme. This will prepare students for world’s oldest international media development analytical careers concerned with labour market organization, with a 50-year history of training regulation, healthcare and education reform in journalists. The course covered blogs, social platGeorgia and the South Caucasus region. forms, citizen-generated and social media content verification, and data journalism. It provided various digital tips and tools for creating timelines, maps, 300+ panoramas, annotated images and other multimedia content. media representatives attended the ‘English for media’ program since 2005. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 39 Our stakeholders and our reporting We work to form enduring partnerships in Georgia, building strong relationships with governments, customers, partners, suppliers and communities to create mutual advantage. Our stakeholders are the many individuals and We work with government agencies where With our partners, we invest in initiatives that help organizations who are affected in some way by required to ensure our operations continue without to build the fabric of Georgian society, including a our activities, whether it is in our role as an energy incident and that we follow high standards. The number of social programmes. provider, an employer, or as a company that con2014 Transparency International Corruption Perceptributes to the local economy. tions Index ranks Georgia 50th of the 174 countries Local communities and territories around the world. In all our interacWe have built constructive relationships over many Employees tions with government bodies and regulators, our years with the communities near our pipelines We employ more than 530 people in Georgia, and dealings are governed by BP’s code of conduct, and facilities. Our social programmes address local the size of our workforce has grown over the past which requires integrity, honesty and transparency needs for infrastructure development, education, four years. In line with our goal of being a local in our relationships. environmental protection, youth capacity building energy company, we have steadily increased the and enterprise development. BP community proportion of Georgian nationals working in the Georgian industry liaison officers aim to stay in regular contact with business, reaching 97% in 2014. But localization We work with several business and industry communities near the pipelines to understand is not just about numbers; we have trained and groups to share experience, develop collaborative their concerns. developed local people to fill management posiprogrammes, and promote good practice. We are Talking with local people and other stakeholders tions. We have extensive training and development members of the EU Georgia Business Council, the helps our businesses define what a positive or opportunities for all our people and want their American Chamber of Commerce, and collaborate negative impact on the local community means. careers at BP to be exciting and fulfilling. We keep with a number of companies on bilateral initiatives. This is important for all our activities, but particularour employees informed about the context within ly for new projects such as SCP expansion, where which they work, through meetings where emOur partners and contractors our presence may bring about changes in the local ployees hear from the executive team, discussion As is typical in our industry, we rarely work in isoarea, such as jobs, opportunities for local suppliers forums, and other communications channels. lation. Safe and responsible operations rely on the and support for community development. HowGovernment authorities capability and performance of suppliers, contracever, other unintended impacts can arise such as tors and partners. We set operational standards increased road traffic, changes to land use and We engage with several tiers of government in through legally binding agreements and we help to landscapes, increased demand for fresh water Georgia, from local authorities on issues relevant improve standards through training and dialogue. and varying levels of in-migration. Our goal is to to particular communities, through to national We continue to take steps to build the capacity of minimize any adverse impacts. government on more strategic matters. We are local contractors in areas such as safety, enviin regular contact with officials to obtain permits ronmental performance, employment practice, Non-governmental and civil society and licences and through their monitoring of our and social impact awareness. Our investment in organizations performance. We also engage with specialist Georgia has provided economic opportunity for government agencies such as the Special PipeWe regularly work with local non-governmental many local companies and will continue to do so organisations (NGOs), and have helped several lines Protection Department (SPPD) who provide in future. additional security for the BTC/SCP pipelines. in Georgia develop their skills and experience. We have followed a strategy of enabling national NGOs to become the implementing partners of Our stakeholder relationships some of our flagship social programmes. Our Employees programmes support NGOs in fields of counProviding direct employment try-wide importance such as road safety and for more than 530 people energy efficiency. We provide guidance on the NGO and energy industry to journalists and English language civil society training to media representatives through the Supporting Government British Council. the development of Engaging with local We have been founder members of educational stronger institutions and national authorities institutions such as the International School of Economics at Tbilisi State University and the Project Management College. These bodies, which we continue to support financially, are helping to build BP Georgia a cadre of highly-skilled individuals, ready to take their place in the Georgian and international labour market. Georgian industry Local communities Sharing experience and Listening and responding good practice to the views of pipeline communities Partners and contractors Working with our co-venturers and in the local supply chain 40 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 Our approach to materiality Our reporting SCPX project Internal External We develop our reporting around the issues that • Land acquisition and permitting priorities concerns we believe have the highest level of importance • Government relationships for our stakeholders and the greatest potential • Community relationships impact on our ability to deliver our strategy. The Ongoing operations input we receive from stakeholders throughout the year helps inform our approach to reporting. • Maintaining operational efficiency Before our report is published, BP Georgia’s senior • Maintaining safety excellence leaders review the content to check there are no • Managing contractor risk significant omissions. WREP In 2014, the issues assessed as being of high • Pipeline integrity concern to stakeholders and of high significance • Pipeline security (illegal taps) for BP Georgia included: • Sectional replacement project We have attempted to cover these topics in this Input from internal experts Audience research report. Risk register External reporting trends Business priorities Industry benchmarking and peer review International media review Material issues judged as those that represent significant external concerns that also match internal priorities Our reporting BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 41 BP Georgia in figures Data on our safety, environment, people and performance from 2010 to 2014. Georgia operations For the year ended 31 December Safety 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 BP employee fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 BP contractor fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Days away from work cases (DAFWC)a – workforceb 0 0 0 2 0 Days away from work cases frequency (DAFWCF) injury onlyc – workforce 0 0 0 0.11 0 Recordable occupational illness and injuryd – workforce 0 1 1 2 1 Recordable injury frequency (RIF)e 0 0.07 0.06 0.11 0.05 Vehicle accidentsf 5 9 6 6 7 Total vehicle accident rateg 0.71 1.12 0.66 0.63 0.90 Hours workedh – workforce 3,108,395 3,066,299 3,400,626 3,725,561 3,974,956 Kilometres driveni 7,077,498 8,055,182 9,152,233 9,482,753 7,751,396 Environmentj Number of hydrocarbon spillsk 2 0 0 0 1 Volume of oil spilled (litres) 25,454 0 0 0 12,300 Volume of oil unrecovered (litres) 3,700 0 0 0 7,300 Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) (tonnes) 255,321 277,183 266,887 251,802 248,903 Direct methane (CH4) (tonnes) 325 339 315 320 311 Equity share direct greenhouse gas (GHG) (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 79,122 85,765 83,013* 78,471 78,129 Sulphur dioxide (SOx) (tonnes) 90 78 79 80 49 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (tonnes) 2,116 2,017 1,963 1,955 1,518 Non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC) (tonnes) 1,204 1,212 1,166 1,171 1,180 Hazardous waste disposed (m3) 545 643.5 480.8 537.2 608.4 Non-hazardous waste disposed (tonnes)n 335 316 394.6 364.9 388.8 People Total BP Georgia headcount 398 438 490 504 537 Georgian nationals as % of BP Georgia headcount 96 95 94 94 97 Performance Total hydrocarbon throughput (mmboe) 346.5 313.8 300.7 308.8 333 Social investment ($ million)m 8.2 3.4 2.2 3.7 3.3 * Correction: The 2013 reported figure of 93,013 has been restated to 83,103. 42 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 SCPX performance data For the year ended 31 December Safety 2013 2014 BP employee fatalities 0 0 BP contractor fatalities _ 0 Days away from work cases (DAFWC) – workforce 1 0 Days away from work cases frequency (DAFWCF) injury only – workforce 0.29 0 Recordable occupational illness and injury – workforce 2 1 Recordable injury frequency (RIF) 0.59 0.12 Vehicle accidents 1 2 Total vehicle accident rate _ 0.31 Hours worked – workforce _ 1,664,998 Kilometres driven _ 1,281,105 Environment Number of hydrocarbon spills _ 0 Volume of oil spilled (litres) _ 0 Volume of oil unrecovered (litres) _ 0 Hazardous waste disposed (m3)n _ 0 Non-hazardous waste disposed (m3) _ 132 People Total headcount (including contractor staff) 32 530 Notes to figures a Day Away From Work Case (DAFWC): A work-related Medical removal under Government standards; h Hours worked: The total hours worked by a reporting injury or illness which has either of the following Occupational hearing loss (current hearing test unit by members of the BP workforce. consequences: must show 10dBA shift from current baseline and i Kilometres driven: Total work-related kilometers The member of the BP Workforce could not have total cumulative hearing loss must be 25dBA or travelled by BP operated or contractor vehicles. This worked on any day after the injury or illness, more above audiometric zero). includes all work-related kilometres driven in hire/ irrespective of whether there was scheduled work. e Recordable Injury Frequency (RIF): rental vehicles or private vehicles. The member of the BP Workforce comes to work BP: the total number of Recordable Injuries to BP j All environment data relates to total BP-operated even when a physician or other licensed Employees for every 200,000 hours worked by BP emissions with the exception of ‘equity share direct health care professional recommends that the Employees in the same period. greenhouse gas (GHG)’ emissions which shows the individual stays at home. Contractor: the total number of Recordable Injuries BP share of emissions from operations on an equity b The BP workforce comprises all BP Employees, all BP to BP Contractors for every 200,000 hours worked share basis. Contractors and all BP directors. by BP Contractors in the same period. k Hydrocarbon spill: Any loss of primary containment c Day Away From Work Case frequency (DAFWCf): f Vehicle accident: A work-related accident involving a of one barrel (1 barrel = 159 litres = 42 US gallons) The number of injury DAFWCs to BP employees motor vehicle that occurs on or off-road resulting in or more of liquid hydrocarbon. A loss of primary for every 200,000 hours worked by BP Employees injury, or loss/damage, or harm to the environment, containment is an unplanned or uncontrolled release in the same period. whether this impacts BP and/or its contractor directly, of material from Primary Containment. The number of injury DAFWCs to BP Contractors or impacts a third-party. This is irrespective of whether l Non-hazardous waste includes general waste such for every 200,000 hours worked by BP Contractors the accident was preventable or non-preventable. It as household garbage, food-contaminated waste and in the same period. excludes all accidents where: other materials which cannot be recycled. d Recordable Occupational Illness and Injury: Two sets The BP workforce vehicle was legally parked. m Figures show BP and partner spending. They include of criteria determine recordability, based on OSHA. The journey is to or from the driver’s home and ‘cash out’ spending and support provided under the If a case meets any of the listed criteria in either the normal place of work. BTC grant and the BP pledge. For more information general or specific, it must be considered recordable. Minor wear and tear is the case (e.g. stone damage on BP pledge and BTC Grant please see BP in General: Death; Day(s) away from work; Restricted to a windscreen, minor paintwork damage). Georgia Sustainability Report 2005 and BP in Georgia BP Georgia in figures work or transfer to another job; Medical treatment An incident is the result of vandalism or theft. Sustainability Report 2006, respectively. beyond first aid; Loss of consciousness; A A company-provided vehicle is being driven on n No hazardous waste has been disposed to date. All significant injury or illness diagnosed by a physician non-work related activities (e.g. private business, hazardous waste is currently stored at construction or other licensed health professional. leisure). sites. Specific: Needlestick and cuts from sharp objects g Total Vehicle Accident Rate (TVAR): the sum of all light that are contaminated with another person’s vehicle, all heavy vehicle and all mobile plant accidents blood or other potentially infectious material; per one million kilometers driven. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014 43 Glossary and further resources BP communicates its non-financial commitments and performance at group, country and site levels online, as well as providing interactive tools for its website visitors. BTC EUGBC Mmboe Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline EU-Georgia Business Council Million barrels of oil equivalent CBO ESIA Mmscf Community Based Organization Environmental and social impact assessment Million standard cubic feet CDI GHG NGO Community Development Initiative Greenhouse gas Non-governmental organization CO2 HSE PMC Carbon dioxide Health, safety and environment Project Management College DAFWC (f) IDP PSG Days away from work case (frequency) Internally Displaced Persons Pump station Georgia EDDF IEC SCP Emergency drain down facility Independent environmental consultant South Caucasus Pipeline EMS IFC SCPX Environmental management system International Finance Corporation South Caucasus Pipeline Expansion EU ISET WREP European Union International School of Economics at Tbilisi State Western Route Export Pipeline (also known as University the Baku-Supsa pipeline) Group reporting Summaries of BP Sustainability Review 2014 are Feedback Our website, bp.com/sustainability, is an integral available in Arabic, English, Mandarin Chinese, We welcome feedback on this report. You part of our group sustainability reporting, covering German, Spanish, Portuguese and Russian. can write to us at the address below, marked a wide set of issues and reporting on them in bp.com/translations for the attention of the communications and more depth. It includes detailed information External Affairs team, or send an e-mail to us at: and tools to analyse our health, safety and Country and site reporting bpgeosust@bp.com environmental performance. Data for the past We publish country reports on our operations in BP Georgia, 24 S. Tsintsadze str, 0160, Tbilisi, decade can be viewed in a variety of chart Angola and Azerbaijan. We also maintain a library Georgia. formats. Case study examples of how we are managing issues locally around the world are also of site reports for more than 30 of our major Previous BP in Georgia Sustainability Reports are available. operations. available at bpgeorgia.ge bp.com/countrysustainabilityreports Acknowledgements Design: Besik Danelia, IB Design Photographs: Gela Kavelashvili, Internews Jon Challicom 44 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2014
