9th September 2015 Dear Stakeholders, Adrian Smith + Gordon Gill Architecture became a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact in September 2012. In doing so, we made a commitment to supporting and implementing the ten principles of the United Nations in the four areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We will continue to support these principles over the coming years and report annually on our progress. As part of this commitment, we are required to make an annual disclosure whereby we inform our stakeholders about our efforts to implement the principles of the UN Global Compact. The report, over the next pages, is a summary of information that may be found within our Corporate Sustainability Report, available on our Company website (www.smithgill.com) and on the GRI reporting website (www.globalreporting.org). Yours sincerely Regards, Robert Forest AIA, OAA, RIBA, LEED Partner Tel. +1 (312) 920 1888 / +1 (312) 714 4524 (m) E-mail: robertforest@smithgill.com 1 1 1 We s t Mo n ro e Su it e 2 3 0 0 C h ic a g o Il l in o is 6 0 6 0 3 T 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 888 F 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 7 75 h ttp://smith gil l .com HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals AS+GG supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and has implemented policies which support the protection of such rights and avoidance of human rights abuses both within the firm and where they may inter-relate with our business activities. The AS+GG Employee Handbook includes policies Business ethics and code of conduct as well as the company policy on Equal Employment Opportunity. Implementation The above documents, which are discussed during new employee orientation and are readily available on the company intranet site, and include specifically: Section 1 General Employment Business Ethics and Conduct Equal Employment Opportunity Section 6 Employee Standards of Conduct Sexual and Other unlawful Harassment Violence in the Workplace Disability accommodation All employees of AS+GG are expected to adhere to these policies. In addition: • Each year there is a mandatory attendance presentation by the HR department to all staff, supported by outside consultants, where the code of conduct is reviewed and any questions addressed. • Each year, during the annual employee self-appraisal there is a specific reminder of where the Employee handbook is located and a confirmation requested that it has been reviewed. Where AS+GG has direct dealings with external companies, the consultant agreement that they sign (with us) binds them to a master agreement that we sign with all of our clients. This agreement includes the American Institute of Architects (AIA) 2012 Code of Ethics and Professional Misconduct. The AIA code includes a rule related to Human Rights (rule 1.401). Where AS+GG has indirect dealings with external companies specifically manufacturers/suppliers of products that we specify for use in the buildings that we design we will prepare a responsible procurement guidelines document that requires the supply of goods on standard terms and conditions. This will be submitted as part of our COP for 2016 Measurement In the past year AS+GG has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to human rights. 1 1 1 We s t Mo n ro e Su it e 2 3 0 0 C h ic a g o Il l in o is 6 0 6 0 3 T 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 888 F 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 7 75 h ttp://smith gil l .com LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals AS+GG supports the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Core Conventions. AS+GG acknowledges every employee’s right to be a member of a trade union and for collective bargaining and employee representation purposes. AS+GG has issued policies to all employees and other staff regarding the importance of upholding equal opportunities and the prohibition of discrimination and harassment in the workplace on grounds of gender, race, disability, age, sexual orientation and religion. Where AS+GG has direct dealings with external companies, the consultant agreement that they sign (with us) binds them to a master agreement that we sign with all of our clients. This agreement includes the American Institute of Architects (AIA) 2012 Code of Ethics and Professional Misconduct. The AIA code includes a rule related to Human Rights (rule 1.401) which covers discrimnation. All AS+GG specified suppliers will be expected to comply with the AS+GG Responsible Procurement Guide, which is under preparation. This guide expects that our suppliers do not use child labour or forced labour, are committed to equal opportunities and ensure that employees have the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Implementation All AS+GG Employees are able to join a trade union of their choice. All employees of AS+GG are expected to adhere to anti-discrimination and equal opportunities policies and confirm annually that they are aware of and adhere to these policies. In addition, an employee training programme regarding equal opportunities has been implemented and the code of conduct, described for the Human Rights Principles above is applicable in terms of elimination of discrimination. Additionally AS+GG is committed to proactively seeking opportunities to work with Minority and Women owned business Enterprises and we will begin reporting this as part of our annual Corporate Sustainability Reporting procedure Measurement In the past year AS+GG has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to discrimination. 1 1 1 We s t Mo n ro e Su it e 2 3 0 0 C h ic a g o Il l in o is 6 0 6 0 3 T 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 888 F 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 7 75 h ttp://smith gil l .com ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPALS Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals AS+GG is committed to on-going reductions in energy and resource consumption in both the buildings that we design and the way we operate. From a design perspective we are globally recognized for our leadership in high performance buildings. We have developed a robust process to sustainable design working from a vision, through goals and targets and in to strategies and key performance indicators. We adopt this approach on all projects, regardless of whether the project is attempting to seek some form of green building certification or not. Our policy is to always design to exceed prevailing codes and, accepting that our buildings have to be resilient to the potential effects of climate change, we simulate performance against current and predicted weather patterns. All AS+GG sub-consultants are expected to work towards the goals and targets set forth at the commencement of the project and through a rigorous design review process we are able to ensure that the buildings are designed such that the goals are met. Within the building occupied by our firm AS+GG has an environmental policy that allows us to meet the reporting requirements for the Green office Challenge. We also publish an annual Corporate Sustainability Report (CSR), in which we report on energy and resource use within the office and set targets for the upcoming year. Implementation AS+GG is a signatory to the Architecture 2030 challenge, and typically project energy targets are established based on meeting their goals. We are also corporate sponsors of the Carbon Leadership Forum, where we contribute to promoting the development of Environmental Product Declarations. We have taken a leadership position by including the requirement for suppliers to provide such declarations when we specify certain materials – notably insulation, concrete, steel and some furnishing materials. We undertake whole of building life cycle analysis (operational and embodied emissions and environmental impacts) and are starting to develop a baseline against which we can develop improvement targets. We develop and use advanced building performance simulation software throughout the design process. We have bi-weekly performative design lunch and learns in the office where staff present their projects and the lessons learned and technologies developed and / or implemented are shared throughout the firm. We encourage vendors and manufacturers to host lunch and learns in the office and typically we have one or sometimes two each week, to which all staff are invited and encouraged to attend. Within the office, we have replaced most of the lighting with LEDs, the remainder being CFL. We provide recycling bins throughout the office and work with the janitorial staff and building management to measure segregation performance so that we may report it within the CSR. Measurement Environmental targets for our work are continually assessed throughout the design period. We work in an integrated manner with our sub-consultants and therefore as we improve the performance of the building envelope, or integrate low water consuming fittings, the engineers are able to incorporate these savings into their design. We report project performance annually to the American Institute of Architects and in our CSR. Some buildings will undergo formal Green Building Certification and the predicted energy savings as well as other environmental performance information is reported as part of the certification submittal. Internally we report our own office’s environmental performance through the CSR and through the Green Office Initiative. 1 1 1 We s t Mo n ro e Su it e 2 3 0 0 C h ic a g o Il l in o is 6 0 6 0 3 T 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 888 F 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 7 75 h ttp://smith gil l .com ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals AS+GG recognizes that bribery and corruption can be an issue in the construction industry and a concern in some of the places where we do business. AS+GG supports the UN Convention against Corruption and has issued policies and procedures regarding standards expected of employees in terms of acceptance of gifts and hospitality from third parties. Implementation The AS+GG Employee Handbook includes the following policies related to bribery and corruption. Section 1 General Employment Business Ethics and Conduct Section 6 Employee Standards of Conduct Conflicts of Interest Acceptance of Gifts All employees of AS+GG are expected to adhere to these policies. In addition where AS+GG has direct dealings with external companies, the consultant agreement that they sign (with us) binds them to a master agreement that we sign with all of our clients. This agreement includes the American Institute of Architects (AIA) 2012 Code of Ethics and Professional Misconduct. The AIA code includes rule related to offering gifts (rule 2.102) and acceptance of gifts (rule 2.103). Measurement In the past year AS+GG has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to the matters covered by these principles. 1 1 1 We s t Mo n ro e Su it e 2 3 0 0 C h ic a g o Il l in o is 6 0 6 0 3 T 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 888 F 3 1 2 9 2 0 1 7 75 h ttp://smith gil l .com
