2014 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report GRI Indicator : G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31 About this Report Contents This 2014 Sustainability Report is the fourth of its kind published by KEPCO Engineering & Con04 CEO Message struction Company, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as “KEPCO E & C”). We publish it every two years, 06 Company Profile and this report consists of key issues assessed through a materiality analysis. The quality of the 09 Business Competitiveness report went up thanks to the Materiality Disclosure Service from the GRI. We will make a transparent disclosure of activities and performance of sustainable management to our stakeholders by 12 Leaping Higher as a Global Company publishing the report continuously. 14 2013 ~ 2014 CSR Highlights Reporting Guidelines Governance for 18 Management Reshuffle to Eradicate Irregularities / The KEPCO E & C 2014 Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Sustainable Corruption and Reinforce Stability Initiative (GRI) G4 Core Option. Pages 68 ~70 are available for details on the reporting guidelines. Management 19 Vision and Strategies 20 Governance Reporting Period 22 Communication with Stakeholders The reporting period for this report is from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2014. For significant per23 Materiality Test formance for trend analysis, data for three years (2012 ~ 2014) are disclosed. For significant qualitative performance, data from the first half of 2015 has also been disclosed. Core Issues for 28 Issue 01 Creating New Growth Engines for the Future Reporting Scope Sustainable 34 Issue 02 Intensifying Competitiveness on Anti-Corruption This report contains the activities and performance on sustainable management for domestic sites of Management 38 Issue 03 Establishing the HSE Management System KEPCO E & C (headquarters and NSSS Division in Daejeon, etc.), and covers the activities and perfor42 Issue 04 Strengthening the Quality and Enterprise mance on sustainable management for overseas sites within a limited scope. There is no significant Risk Management change in the reporting scope and boundary and measurement methodologies compared to the pre46 Issue 05 Implementation of Talent Management vious one and no correction or rewriting of information suggested there. 50 Issue 06 Initiating Strategic Social Contribution Activities Report Verification 54 Issue 07 Spreading Corporate Partnership KEPCO E & C received third party assurance from independent verifier to ensure conformity and integrity of the reporting process and accuracy and reliability of the content reported. The assurance results are available in pages 66 ~ 67. Performance for 60 Performance in Economic Value Creation Sustainable 61 Performance in the Generation of Environmental Value Management For Inquiries 63 Performance in Creating Social Value This report is available on KEPCO E & C’s website (www.kepco-enc.com). For comments and inquiries, please use the contact information listed below: Appendix 66 Independent Assurance Statement 68 GRI Index 71 UNGC Department : Management Planning Team at Management Planning Department Tel : 82-54-421-3103 72 ISO 26000 E-mail : yumeeko@kepco-enc.com 73 Awards and Subscriptions to Associations 04 05 Overview CEO Message GRI Indicator : G4-1 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014 1.01 The transparency of our HR management scheme has been upgraded by rotating the jobs for field CEO Message workers for power plants and equipment qualification managers, and recruiting outside experts. We also launched the Ethics Management Team to prescribe the ‘code of ethics for engineers’ for the first time as a Korean company. We also adopted the Red Whistle, an external whistleblowing system to prevent corruption and irregularities, and transparently disclosed the technical review details on the website. As a result, in 2014, we seamlessly implemented major processes based on safety for our designing power plants at home and abroad. Negative perception on KEPCO E & C eased from 45% in 2013 to 12% in 2014, hinting at the improvement of the public perception. Moreover, we achieved the first rank in ‘International Nuclear Power Plant Design’ as announced by ENR, a US-based magazine dedicated for construction and engineering for 3 consecutive years by having overcome the recent crisis. Our management performance went up with the profitability turning around for revenues and operating income thanks to the enterprise-wide solid management, and also with the debt ratio riding on a stable phase. By acquiring the standard design certification of APR+, we could upgrade our nuclear power plant capabilities. We could establish our international security criteria by obtaining the ISO 27001, an international standard for information protection. These achievements are the fruits borne by our various activities for sustainable management including employees’ endeavors for management innovation, win-win growth with business partners and ethical management. Marking our 40th anniversary in 2015, our headquarters will be relocated to Gimcheon Innovation City. We are committed to making another big jump with the management keywords of ‘technological innovation for a second jump’ in a new headquarters environment at Gimcheon. Our relocation will pave the way for us to open up a new chapter in the new history of millennium as all the employees are united for a new journey in a local region from the metropolitan area where we resided for 40 years. The pending agenda in the world now include responses to climate change for sustainable growth for Dear distinguished stakeholders, the mankind and energy security. We will jump on the global bandwagon to fully implement the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact and make steadfast efforts to achieve joint development for KEPCO E I am grateful for your generous support and encouragement for KEPCO E & C, and am pleased to greet & C and the society based on the corporate mission of the synergistic and harmonious convergence of you through our fourth sustainability report. humanity, the environment and technology. We will listen to the voices of diverse stakeholders including not only shareholders and customers but also communicates and business partners. We will rise higher Since the foundation of KEPCO E & C in 1975 for self-reliance in power plant design technology, all the We will grow further as a trusted company among stakeholders through more robust internal control systems and stronger employees have made steadfast efforts to make a happier world for all for the past four decades driven cooperation based on corporate partnerships. as a beloved company by on the synergistic and harmonious convergence of humanity, the environment and technology. The structure of the energy industry started to change especially after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear power among all stakeholders plant crisis. There have also been some recent tragedies, so people started to have lower confidence This 2014 Sustainability Report comprehensively covers our business performance and future prospects, and our sustainable management activities and performances to implement our corporate soby touching the hearts in the nuclear industry at home and abroad. So, KEPCO E & C fully recognizes its accountability as a cial responsibilities. I sincerely ask for you continued love and interest for our unwavering efforts at player in the power plant industry for the recent series of tragedies, and has strived for management of customers and innovation for a new jump with unity among us. KEPCO E & C. fulfilling corporate social Thank you. In 2014, we established and implemented initiatives for organization, people and culture-oriented manresponsibilities with due KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, INC agement transformation. We launched the ‘Nuclear Safety Engineering Center’ as an exclusive unit President & CEO Koo-Woun Park for intensifying safety in designing nuclear power plants to innovate the organization and the ‘Nuclear care driven by top-notch Safety Engineering Review Team.’ Their functions are to make an independent review of, complement technological prowess. and double-check the designed outcome. 06 07 Overview Company Profile GRI Indicator : G4-3, G4-5, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-10, G4-13, G4-17 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014 1.02 Company Overview Organization Chart Company KEPCO E & C founded in 1975 has been involved in the designing of nuclear power plants and thermal Under the President & CEO are the Power Engineering Research Institute, QA & HSE Department and Profile power plants, O & M(Operation & Maintenance) for power plant equipment, plant construction and PM / CM(Project Management / Construction Management). Our past forty-year history has been with chalPublic Relations Department. The Executive Auditor and Auditing Department are independent bodies to secure autonomy in internal auditing. Our business divisions are the Nuclear Division, Plant Division lenges and creation, and we will realize customer satisfaction with the world’s top-notch technologies and NSSS Division, while the Management & Administration Division is a supporting unit for the three. as a leading player in the Korean power industry. President & CEO Company Name KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, INC. Executive Auditor Power Engineering Technology Strategy President & CEO Koo-Woun Park Department Research Institute Head office 269, Hyeoksin-ro, Gimcheon-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, South Korea Auditing Department Foundation 1975. 10. 1 QA & HSE Department Guardian agency Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Public Relations Department Legal ground for establishment Article 317 of Commercial Code: stock company according to the commercial code Composition of shareholders Korea Electronic Power Corporation (66.32%), National Pension Service (7.29%), etc. Management & Nuclear Division Plant Division NSSS Division Administration Division Corporate History •Management Planning Department •Project Support Department •Project Support Department •Project Support Department •Management Support Department •Business Department •EPCM Department •Business Department •Human Resources Department •Nuclear Engineering Department •Business Department •Fluid System Engineering •Contract Department •Mechanical Engineering •Mechanical & Plant Design Department | Oct. 1975 |  Established as Korea Atomic Burns & Roe (jointly invested by Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute and Burns & Roe •ICT Department Department Engineering Department •Mechanical System Corporation of the U.S.) •Information Security Strategy •Plant Design Department •Electrical, Instrumentation Engineering Department Department •Electrical Engineering Department & Control Engineering •Instrumentation & Control | Jul. 1982 | Renamed as KOPEC Co., Ltd. after the equity acquisition by Korea Electronic Power Corporation •Instrumentation & Control Department System Engineering Engineering Department •Civil & Architectural Department Human Resources | Apr. 1987 | Selected as the primary contractor for comprehensive engineering for Yeonggwang Units 3 & 4 (for the first time in Korea) •Civil & Architectural Engineering Engineering Department •Safety Analysis Department Development Center Department •Renewable Energy & | Jan. 1997 | Conducted the integrated engineering for NPPs with the transfer of the NSSS •Project Management Department Environmental Technology NSSS Safety Design •Integrated Safety Assessment Department Review Team Department | Dec. 2009 | Listed in Korea Exchange •Materials Engineering Department Acquired orders on NPP engineering in the UAE Nuclear Safety Engineering | Jul. 2010 | Changed the English CI (KOPEC → KEPCO E & C) Center | Oct. 2012 | Constructed the new corporate building in Gimcheon Innovation City in North Gyeongsang Province Nuclear Safety Engineering Review Team | Oct. 2013 | Koo-Woun Park appointed as the 19th President and CEO Personnel ※ Excluding non-regular employees (as of Jan. 1, 2015, Unit: Number of people) Equity Structure | Status of stock distribution | “Equipped with the work force with the top-notch Number of Stocks Listed 38,220,000 shares KAERI 2.1% power plant engineering know-how in the industry ” (787,500 shares) Date of Listing Dec. 14, 2009 | By occupation | | By educational background | | By qualification & certificate | Non-certified : 695(32.1%) Researcher 187 Office 258 Others 168 Doctoral 118 Professional (8.7%) (11.9%) (7.8%) (5.4%) engineer 251 PE/PMP 660 Stock Exchange (11.6%) (30.5%) for Listing Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) KEPCO Employee Stock 66.3% Ownership Plan (25,346,940 shares) (ESOP) 0.7% Executive 5 (255,470 shares) Fair Value KRW 200 2,165 (0.2%) 2,165 Master’s 561 2,165 (25.9%) Technician Dividend Bachelor’s 486 (22.4%) 40% (closed in 2014) Others 30.9% Technician 1,715 1,318 Others 73 Propensity (11,830,090 shares) (79.2%) (60.9%) (3.4%) 08 09 Overview Company Profile GRI Indicator : G4-3, G4-5, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-10, G4-13, G4-17 KEPCO E&C Business Competitiveness GRI Indicator : G4-4, G4-8 Sustainability Report 2014 1.02 1.03 Major Projects Executed Nuclear power business with the global top-tier technologies Company Business The nuclear power industry is driven by the value chain: order placement – design – power section of Profile | Nuclear Projects (Designing 31 units out of a total of 34) | Competitiveness KEPCO E & C production of main equipment – construction – fuel supply – maintenance. The nuclear power section of KEPCO E & C consists of architect engineering and nuclear steam supply system deNumber APR+1) Under Making an exclusive brand of units development for core technologies sign. KEPCO E & C is the only company in the world conducting both architect engineering and nuclear 34 steam supply system design based on our abundant design know-how and high-quality technical APR1400(Advanced Power Reactor1400) Shin-Kori 5, 6 Applying the secured nuclear | Portion of sales by business sector | power plant technologies workforce. UAE 1~ 4 Under Construction Shin-Hanul 1, 2 construction 0.3% (11 Units) Securing global Coal-fired Power Architect Engineering (A/E) Shin-Kori 3, 4 competitiveness 9.6% Environment We have steadily strived for nuclear power technology self-reliance and advancement by starting to take 24 0.2% OPR+2) (Improved Optimized Power Reactor) Shin-Wolsong 1, 2 part in the services for Korea’s nuclear power plants: Kori Unit 1& 2 and Wolsong Unit 1. We have excluEnhancement of design New & Shin-Kori 1, 2 engineering technology Renewable sively designed the Korean Standard Nuclear Power Plant based on accumulated technological process 0.3% 20 and human resources, offering more stable and economical nuclear A / E services. Meanwhile, we have OPR1000(Optimized Power Reactor) Hanul 5, 6 been proactively engaged in relevant projects for sustainable growth, including feasibility study, and site Hanbit 5, 6 review for nuclear power plants, nuclear fusion, decontamination and the decomissioning of nuclear Self-sufficiency in design Under engineering technology(1995) Combined Hanul 3, 4 operation Cycle and power facilities. (23 Units) Cogeneration 43.2% Nuclear Power 14 Introducing technology and 46.3% •Site selection and feasibility study Hanbit 3, 4 promoting its independence •Design Engineering 12 •Construction management Kori 1, 2, 3, 4 / Hanbit 1, 2 / Hanul 1, 2 / Wolsong 1, 2, 3, 4 Depending on foreign design engineering Architect engineering services •Project management ’70 ’80 ’90 ’00 ’10 20 year for major NPPs •Licensing Support * Kori Unit 1, 2 and Wolsong Unit 1-performed by other companies •Quality assurance and inspection | Thermal Power Projects (Designed 57 units of 500MW coal fired power plants) | •Support for procurement •Training for power plant owners Number Under of units Developing next-generation thermal power technologies (sophisticating steam conditions) High-efficiency of the future development 57 1000MW KSFP Construction Goseong Units 1, 2 Gangneung Units 1, 2 Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) Shinseocheon Plant 1 The Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) design is the most important and critical technology in the Pos Power Units 1, 2 Under construction Large-scale thermal nuclear power industry. KEPCO E & C has the exclusive technology and competitiveness for the NSSS Taean Units 9, 10 (19 Units) power generation in Korea. We have steadily developed and improved various reactor models based on its world-class Shin-Boryeong Units 1, 2 *Under construction(500MW) technological competitiveness: the OPR1000 supplied to 12 units from Hanbit Units 3 & 4 to Shin-WolSamcheok Units 1, 2 Bukpyeong units 1, 2 / song Units 1& 2; the APR1400 currently under construction for several units at home and abroad Dangjin Eco power units 1, 2 Dangjin Units 9, 10 starting from Shin-Kori Units 3 & 4; and APR+ under development as a key reactor model in the 2020s. 38 Upgraded 800MW KSFP Yeongheung Units 1, 2 / Yeongheung Units 3, 4 Enhancing economic feasibility and heat efficiency 34 Design and engineering for new builds of NPP Improved 500MW KSFP Design Boryeong Units 7, 8 / Hadong Units 7, 8 •NSSS design and engineering Dangjin Units 7, 8 / Taean Units 7, 8 Ultra super critical pressure •Support for licensing and startup operation thermal power generation •Support for NPP operation Dangjin Units 5, 6 Under operation O&M services in Korea and abroad 24 500MW KSFP3) (40 Units) Construction Samcheonpo Units 5, 6 / Dangjin Units 3, 4 / Hadong Units 5, 6 / Taean Units 5, 6 Technical services for •Replacement of major components Hadong Units 1, 2, 3, 4 / Dangjin Units 1, 2 Super critical pressure NSSS design •Power uprate and life extension of NPPs thermal power generation •Improvement of instrumentation & control systems Taean Units 1, 2, 3, 4 / Samcheonpo Units 3, 4 •Technical consultation and training 24 Boryeong Units 3, 4, 5, 6 Introducing technology and New reactor model development for overseas market (NSSS) promoting its independence(1995) ’85 ’90 ’95 ’00 ’05 ’10 15 year Research & development of NPP key element technologies 1) APR : Advanced Power Reactor 2) OPR : Optimized Power Reactor 3) KSFP : Korean Standard Fossil Power Plant 10 11 Overview Business Competitiveness GRI Indicator : G4-4, G4-8 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014 1.03 Plant business as the cornerstone for the national economic development Prevention of Air Pollution Business The business on combined cycle and cogeneration power plants is in steady demand due to the •Flue Gas Desulfurization Projects Competitiveness economic growth in full swing in the developing world including Southeast Asia, Russia and the Latin America. Demand on coal fired power generation, in particular, is on the rise especially in China and InKEPCO E & C holds Korea’s No.1 technological prowess in designing and constructing flue gas desulfurization facilities to remove sulfur oxides among exhaust gases from thermal power plants. We dia, while the capacities for the combined cycle power generation are scaling up throughout the world. have designed most of the desulfurization facilities for domestic power plants, while holding exclusive In Korea, our focus is on designing large-scale power plants of 1,000MW and above, while acquiring designing and construction capabilities for the world’s top-tier KEPAR FGD System. Starting with the orders abroad in cooperation with construction companies at home and abroad. We have passionately installation of 200MW flue gas desulfurization to Yeongdong Unit 2 for the first time in Korea, we have tapped into overseas engineering services beyond the Engineering, Procurement and Construction installed it to 500MW Boryeong Units 1& 2 and completed the turnkey projects for 9 units. (EPC) to cover the owner’s engineering services, feasibility study and technical advisory services. We are currently performing feasibility study for the Naga Power Plant in the Philippines. •Flue Gas Denitrification Projects We have various track records in designing and constructing flue gas denitrification facilities that reCoal Fired move nitro oxides among exhaust gases from thermal power plants. We have successfully developed We have designed 34 units of 500MW standard coal fired power plants and 4 units of 800MW standard and commercialized the catalyst which is the key technology for flue gas denitrification, and a DeNOx coal fired power plants in Korea, all of which are in operation. We are currently constructing Units 1& 2 system named as KoNOx® that uses the catalyst. The denitrification catalyst we developed can sustain of the 500MW Bukpyeong Thermal Power Plant and Units 1& 2 of Dongbu Green Power. We have won its performance in not only ordinary operating temperatures at 250℃∼400℃ in but also super-high the contracts for designing all the 1,000MW coal fired power plants which are now under construction temperatures of above 500℃, which can be applied to various industries. We have applied Korea’s based on our 1,000MW coal fired power plant designing technologies developed through those for the first-of-its-kin home-grown denitrification technology to the denitrification facility for Unit 6 of Bundang standard coal fired power plants. The 1,000MW coal fired power plants include Units 9&10 for DanCombined Cycle Power Plant, the denitrification catalyst project for Incheon International Airport and gjin Units 9 & 10, Shin-Boryeong Units 1& 2, Taean Units 9 &10, Samcheok Green Power Units 1& 2, that for Sithe Cogeneration Power Plant (turnkey). Its performance has gained overseas acclaims so Shin-Seocheon and Gangneung Anin Units 1& 2, Goseong Hai Units 1& 2 and Samcheok Units 1& 2. we have completed the supply of equipment and machinery for denitrification for Rabigh Power Plant We present services throughout the life span of thermal power plants by taking part in the fuel converin Saudi Arabia (700MW X 4 units) and the supply of catalysts to Yanbu Power Plant. sion, performance improvement and life extension of the plants that are in operation. Water Treatment Projects Combined Cycle & Cogeneration We have conducted various design and construction projects for water treatment and wastewater We have been minimizing the cost and shortening the construction period by accumulating our knowtreatment facilities for power plants. We also have our exclusive design and construction capabilities how on the design, process and project management based on long years of A / E experiences. In for wastewater reuse facilities and seawater desalination facilities. Our business portfolios include combined cycle and thermal power plant businesses, in particular, we enable flexible and prompt designing and constructing effluent and wastewater treatment facilities for overseas power plants and implementation as we are fully aware of major features for equipment of each of their supplier thanks domestic public institutions as well as most of domestic power plants. For instance, we designed the to years of collaboration with various equipment suppliers. Our competitive capabilities for exclusive wastewater treatment facilities for Shin-Hanul Units 1 & 2, UAW BNPP Units 1~4 and Shin-Boryeong implementation of the whole process ranging from basic planning to commissioning have been fully Units 1 & 2. We also conducted the EPC projects for manufacturing facilities and wastewater treatment recognized abroad. Our overseas project portfolio includes technical advisory services for a combined for CIPREL Combined Cycle Power Plant in Cote d Ivoire and the Premier Osan Combined Heat & cycle power plant in the Philippines, AFAM VI in Nigeria, and a combined cycle power plant in Benghazi Power Plant. and Misurata in Libya. We are also conducting an EPC project for a combined cycle power plant in Ghana and Cote d Ivoire. In Korea, KEPCO E&C is currently implementing the Osan cogegeration EPC Environmental Impact Assessment Projects project. KEPCO E & C holds the most extensive track record in Korea as well as technological prowess through consistent environmental impact assessments for power plants and transmission lines since 1983. Eco-friendly projects to make the earth cleaner We have various experts in such fields as meteorology, geology, marine sciences, ecology and enviWe are at the forefront of environmental projection driven by differentiated eco-friendly technological ronmental engineering. Our assessments are scientific and objective as we apply the state-of-the-art prowess. We tout the world-class technologies in air pollution prevention facilities such as the Korecomputerized forecast program. an-style fuel gas desulfurization system and flue gas denitrification. For anti-water pollution, we also have long years of experiences as well as strong caliber in design and construction. We make the utmost efforts for the environmental protection by advancing into the new and renewable energy sector including offshore wind power. 12 13 Overview Leaping Higher as GRI Indicator : G4-6, G4-8, G4-10 KEPCO E&C a Global Company Sustainability Report 2014 1.04 Status of Overseas Offices and Branches Global Performance Leaping Higher as | 2014 Financial performance | a Global Company (Unit: KRW billion) Overseas sales 332.9 841.9 France Liaison Office Domestic sales 509.0 | Number of employees in 2015 | Headquarters Overseas 59 UAE Branch Ghana Branch Saudi Arabia Branch Cote d’Ivoire Branch 2,165 Domestic 2,106 Overseas Business Diverse Overseas Engineering Signing of the Contract for Another Deal Closed for the Key OperSuccessful Implementation of the We have proactively carried out overseas proService Experiences Jordan’s First NPP Construction ation for ITER Electric Cable Operation EPC Project in West Africa jects based on accumulated experiences on Based on our seasoned experiences in archiWe successfully acquired the contract for “Site KEPCO E & C sined a contract on cable engiWe won the contracts for T2 Expansion Project power plant projects at domestic and foreign. tect engineering for small and large-scale coal Assessment Service for Jordan’s first NPP conneering service for International Thermonuclear in Ghana and CIPREL IV EPC project in Cote We have successfully implemented our projects fired and combined cycle power plants, we have struction’’ in a big bid joined by the world’s leadExperimental Reactor (ITER) successfully which d’Ivoire, which are now in successful implemenby building new NPPs and conducting mainteconducted various projects abroad including ing companies from seven countries like U.S., was acquired in 2012, winning another contract tation. Both Takoradi T2 Project in Ghana and nance for those in operation in the global NPP feasibility study, technical advisory service and Britain, and Canada. For the next 24 months, on the inside operation of a tokamak, the bigCIPREL Project in Cote d’Ivoire are add-on promarket including U.S., China, Taiwan and Canowner’s engineering service (O/E). We impleKEPCO E & C is tasked to assess the site suitagest obstacle in the field. Our technology was jects, in which we extend one steam turbine, two ada. Particularly we have supplied our exclusive mented a feasibility study for a coal fired power bility, to examine and assess the detailed plan for fully proven in the field by designing electric caHRSGs and BOPs to the existing gas turbine APR1400 whose safety and economic feasibility plant in Sumatra, Indonesia and Balkhash coal site allocation, and to assess environmental imbles and cable trays inside a low-temperature and convert into combined cycle power plants. are verified in constructing the first NPP in the fired power plant in Kazakhstan. We also conpact assessment and assessment of radiation container under harsh design conditions. This We could secure engines for continuous EPC UAE. Our competencies are globally recognized ducted the owner’s engineering in numerous effect. This success proves that KEPCO E & C feat brings us with another contract and also a project development and successful implemenalso by acquiring orders from many countries inprojects including Ilijan combined cycle power is recognized proves for its technological excelbrighter future for other business sectors extation driven by the two projects in West Africa. cluding the Philippines, Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire and plant in Phillippines, Cirebon coal fired power lence in building NPPs, hinting at a bright future pected to gain more contracts. Indonesia in the thermal power sector. plant in Indonesia, and a heavy oil fired power for NPP export. plant in Kurd, Iraq. 14 15 Overview 2013~2014 CSR Highlights KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014 2013 ~ 2014 CSR highlights Winning the Mutual Partnership Prize at the Korean SME Innovation Award 2013 We won the Corporate Partnership Commissioner Prize, the most premier prize in the large enterprise and public institution category at the Korean SME Innovation Award 2013. The Corporate Partnership Commissioner Prize is awarded to competent public institutions and large enterprises that have excellent supporting and partnering programs for corporate partnership in the management innovation category. KEPCO E&C’s endeavors for corporate partnership and SME support have been externally recognized by winning the prize. Ranking First For 3 Consecutive Years in Sales for the Overseas NPP Design We were ranked first for 3 consecutive years from 2012 in the overseas design sector for NPP anOrganizing the Convention for Anti-Corruption and nounced by the Engineering News Record (ENR), a renowned U.S. construction and engineering Integrity Practice Resolution magazine. Our first rank in sales for 3 consecutive years was to defeat globally renowned NPP We organized the Convention for Anti-Corruption and Integrity Practice Resdesign companies, proving our technological competitiveness to be global top tier. olution with the attendance of all employees and representatives of the retiree group at the main hall at the headquarters in June 2013. The event started with the announcement of the pledge by employee representatives and signing of the anti-corruption and integrity practice resolution. It contributed to spreading the in-house integrity culture by expanding the culture for safe design and cracking down on unfair transactions and unreasonable acts. Acquiring the ISO 27001 Certification The ISO 27001 is an international standard for the information protection management system. KEPCO E & C has successfully acquired the ISO 27001 certification by establishing a systematic information protection system for major information assets and personal information including technical information on the power plant design at home and abroad. Having acquired the certification, we could equip ourselves with the systematic protection of technical information assets, prevention of cyber security threats and information protection conditions necessary for executing overseas projects. Closing a Deal for the Architect Engineering and Nuclear Steam Supply Launching KEPCO E & C Choir System Design for Shin-Kori Units 5 & 6 KEPCO E & C launched a choir consisting of about 30 members through the KEPCO E & C and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power closed a deal for the architect engineering and public opening in the company newsletter. KEPCO E & C Choir is expected nuclear steam supply system design for Shin-Kori NPP Units 5 & 6. These units are the Advanced to stage various activities including official corporate events and concerts for Power Reactor 1400 (APR1400) which are the third one to be constructed in Korea following communities and the underprivileged. It is going to significantly contribute to Shin-Kori Units 3 & 4 and Shin-Hanul Units 1 & 2. Outcome of the Aircraft Impact Assessment and improving the corporate culture by boosting teamwork among members and the concept of the alternator formation for safety exclusively for each power plant were applied generating positive synergies. for the first time in Korea. Latest regulatory conditions including stricter seismic analysis requirements are applied for the design, thereby dramatically improving the safety. 16 17 Governance for Company Profile KEPCO E&C Business Competitiveness Sustainable Sustainability Report Management 2014 Governance for Sustainable Company Management 비즈니스 Profile 18 | Management Reshuffle to Eradicate Irregularities / 경쟁력 Corruption and Reinforce Stability 19 | Vision and Strategies 20 | Governance 22 | Communication with Stakeholders 23 | Materiality Test 18 19 Governance for Management Reshuffle to GRI Indicator : G4-56 KEPCO E&C Vision and Strategies Sustainable Eradicate Irregularities / Corruption and Reinforce Stability Sustainability Report Management 2014 Management Reshuffle to Eradicate Irregularities / Corruption and Reinforce Stability 2.01 Management Philosophy and Vision Company Vision and Seeking to realize our management philosophy of ‘Harmonizing Humanity, the Environment and TechProfile We are spearheading multifaceted management transformations to beef up efforts to eradicate corruption and upgrade competencies for safety, while fulfilling measures to prevent reoccurrences in the government level. Strategies nology,’ we have set a long-term vision and accordingly, devised and implement yearly management goals and business plans. We are devising the Vision 2025 to pave the way for a second jump by gather employees’ competencies and setting new future goals marking our 40th anniversary in 2015. We will announce the new long-term vision via our website and various materials to be disclosed. ◎ Establishing the Corruption Monitoring and Control System Management Philosophy Harmonizing “Humanity, the Environment and Engineering” (Humaneering) Launching the Technology Auditing Team Intensifying the Information Facilitating the Ombudsman Center Vision Global Power EPC enterprise, pledges to embody customer value with its world-class technology and the Nuclear Technology Disclosure on Technologies Auditing Committee Mid-and longterm Strategy Become one of the global top five in the global power plant field We launched the Technology Auditing We adopted the ‘red whistle’ system where Records on technical reviews for power plant Reinforcing projects for total solutions Scaling up global projects Sustainable technological development Department consisting of 6 professional reporting from an outside party can be made so equipment suppliers are transparently disclosed engineers within the Auditing Department. that the identification of whistleblowers could on our website along with the launch of an •Expanding strategic nuclear EP (CM) •Expanding our overseas entry through •Designing nuclear power for public projects differentiated strategies reassuarnce We check out the points raised through auditing be protected. Under the system, an outside official channel for technical inquiries. This shuts •Expanding the business scope for plant •Broadening the basis for overseas •Intensifying plant / green technologies and make improvement in our practices by institution is reported on corruption cases, which off possibilities for employees to be engulfed in / green EPCs projects •Advancing construction technologies forming the Nuclear Technology Auditing are then passed onto the Auditing Department unfair practices with the suppliers. •Strengthening business capacities Committee consisting of outside experts. of the institution. Anonymity is guaranteed by for EPC preventing IT tracking and deleting log files, thus Establishing a enabling more seamless corruption reporting. Strengthening the Reinforcing risk performance-based Optimizing the Boosting sustainable management basis management management system human resources management The CEO’s Spearheading the Management Enhancing technical Securing the global Solid and happiness Developing export of plants Measures capabilities design quality management creative talents ◎ Innovation in HR abroad In order to prevent possible collusions, we established the job rotation system for on-site workers for power plants and Adopting the Job Rotation System and equipment qualification managers. We also recruited outside specialists for equipment qualification and plan to beef up Sustainable Management Recruiting Outside Specialists technical transparency. The management philosophy of ‘Harmonizing Humanity, the Environment and Technology’ embeds the values of sustainable management for mutual growth and development with all our stakeholders. We pursue balanced development in consideration of economic, environmental and social aspects in order to move ahead as a sustainable company. ◎ Reinforced Safety for NPPs Management Philosophy Harmonizing “Humanity, the Environment and Engineering” (Humaneering) We launched the Nuclear Safety Engineering Center to reinforce the NPP design safety with the occurrence of fabricating a test result in the equipment qualification sector in 2013. The Nuclear Safety Engineering Center upgrades our Goal Enhancing Competencies for To generate continued performance in the economic, environmental and social aspects competencies for equipment qualification by managing the equipment review and approval in an integrated manner Equipment Qualification and which used to be separately handled by the Technology Strategy Department, and double checking fabrication and the Design Quality Strategic Economic aspect Environmental aspect Social aspect human errors. We also launched the Nuclear Safety Engineering Review Team to conduct an autonomous review of the Directions design outcome from each department in order to enhance the design quality. •Strengthening customer Specific •Generating stable management •Establishing an environmental Directions performance management system satisfaction and integrity •Expanding eco-friendly projects •Spreading corporate partnership •Facilitating global advancement •Initiating strategic social When NPP equipment suppliers produce / test components, our specialists are present with them to check out on the •Reinforcing R & D capacities contribution core technical details. We also opened the NPP Equipment Quality Training Center to upgrade technical competencies of Extending Technical Support for KPIs for •Improvement in operating margin •GHG emissions •Integrity Index suppliers in Korea to conduct training on quality and guide on document corrections for the suppliers. We are conducting Sustainable •Improvement in global •Amount of energy used •Score sin employee satisfaction Equipment Suppliers and Management competitiveness in profitability a government-funded R & D activity by developing the ‘Technical Training Program for verifying NPP Components and •Amount of water used •Grade in corporate partnership Conducting Training on Quality •Number of cases where IPRs have •Amount of household waste Equipment’ from December 2014. Once the program is developed, training will be offered to SMEs to beef up the overall been secured discharged competencies in the NPP industry. •Number of patents issued in fields of new & renewable energies and eco-friendliness 20 21 Governance for Governance GRI Indicator : G4-34 KEPCO E&C Sustainable Sustainability Report Management 2014 2.02 Structure of Board of Directors Strengthening the Expertise of Directors Governance The Board of Directors as KEPCO E & C’s top decision-making body consists of ten executive directors, Upon appointing directors, we secure the expertise of directors based on the recommendation of the that is, four executive directors, six non-executive directors, and is chaired by the CEO. They have a President Nomination Committee and Evaluation for Public Agency Executive Capacity. In order to sethree-year tenure, and are appointed at the general meeting of shareholders unless they are ineligible in cure rational decision-making and expertise, we appoint those with expertise in such fields as nuclear accordance with qualifications in Article 34 of the Management of Public Institutions. power and public policies as non-executive directors. | Current status of the board of directors | We fully reflect their management propositions based on their expertise into our corporate policies. (As of May 26, 2015) Type Nomination Appointment Type Name Job Title Tenure | Status of reflecting non-executive directors’ management propositions (2013~2014) | President Nomination General meeting Park CEO President & CEO 2013. 10 ~ 2016. 10 Committee of shareholders Koo-Woun Year Major Propositions Issues Reflected into Policy Making Executive General meeting Shin CEO Director of Management & Administration Division 2014. 04 ~ 2017. 04 To amend provisions on employees’ annual salary and directors of shareholders Executive Ddirectors Moon-Chul welfare benefits Non-executive Majority shareholders, General meeting To improve the job rank system and efficiently allocate human Jo Jik-Lae Director of Nuclear Division 2014. 04 ~ 2017. 04 directors CEO of shareholders resources To conduct the organizational reshuffle and personnel Kim Jae-Won Director of Plant Division 2014. 04 ~ 2017. 04 appointment for stronger management efficiency 2013 Director of the Nuclear Industry Policy Division, Ministry of Trade, To review business feasibility and risks on the supply of To reflect the supply of collective energy at Osan into signing Mun Shin-Hak 2013. 10 ~ 2016.10 Industry & Energy collective energy in Osan a shareholders’ contract NonDirector of the Nuclear Energy Promotion Division, Ministry of Executive Shin Jae-Sik 2015. 05 ~ 2018. 05 To launch and strengthen ethics-related units including the Science, ICT and Future Planning To establish a system to prepare against NPP scandals Directors Ethical Management Team NonKim Director of the New Growth Engine Development Division, 2014. 03 ~ 2017. 03 Executive Byeong-Suk Korea Electric Power Corporation To devise measures to boost employees’ morale Directors Kang Bu-Il Executive Director of Green Foundation 2013.10 ~ 2016. 10 To strengthen employees’ competencies and various training To improve the corporate culture, develop competencies and Outside for stronger morale Kim Jae-Won Former Economics Professor at Hanyang University 2012.10 ~ 2015. 10 2014 devise measures for corporate management by setting the Directors Vision 2025 and mid-and long-term management strategies Park Ji-Hyeon Former Vice President of Korea Electrical Safety Corporation 2015. 05 ~ 2018. 05 To secure measures to maintain and acquire local talents in preparation for corporate relocation to a local region Operation of Board of Directors Remuneration of Board of Directors KEPCO E & C’s Board of Directors meetings are held with a majority of directors in attendance upon Remuneration for the CEO and directors is determined through the resolutions at the general meeting the request of the chair or over a quarter of the registered directors, and decisions are made with the of shareholders, and expenses and remuneration for official activities are paid in accordance with the approval of the majority. The chair must notify on holding the meeting seven days in advance to the internal standards. The per-head incentives for three outside directors amounted to KRW 2.5 million executive directors and executive auditor in order to hold it. Furthermore, executive directors who have per month, and the annual compensation on average for 2014 stood at KRW 24,833,000. interests in agendas are restricted to participate in the voting process, basically to prevent conflicts of interest among them. | Amount of remuneration paid | In 2014, 24 cases of agenda were deliberated on and reported over the nine Board of Directors’ meetings. The schedule is regularly checked to raise the attendance rate of non-executive directors, so we | Number of people* | | Total amount of remuneration paid | | Average amount of remuneration per head | (Unit: Number of individuals) (Unit: KRW 1,000) (Unit: KRW 1,000) are holding the meetings at the optimal timing for them. Non-Executive Executive Executive Directors Auditor 1 Auditor 24,833 155,933 8 645,244 80,655 Directors Directors Executive 4 414,811 Directors Auditor Non-Executive Non-Executive 155,933 Directors 3 Directors 74,500 103,703 * Three non-executive directors are not paid for their official activities. 22 23 Governance for Communication with GRI Indicator : G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 KEPCO E&C Materiality Test GRI Indicator : G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 Stakeholders Sustainable Sustainability Report Management 2014 2.03 2.04 KEPCO E & C defines groups of those that directly and indirectly influence corporate management Outline of the Materiality Test Communication activities as stakeholders. We recognize our employees, the government, shareholders / investors, business partners, communities and customers as stakeholder groups. We run appropriate commuMateriality Test We conduct the materiality test to include issues of key materiality for stakeholders in the Sustainability with nication channels per group in order to gather feedback from various stakeholders. We will implement Report. The Materiality Test is implemented in consideration of the correlation of our business and sustainable management and the level of impact on decision-making of key stakeholders. We devise Stakeholders rich sustainable management for proactive communication with stakeholders. an issue pool pursuant to the GRI G4, various global guidelines on sustainable management, benchmarking, media analysis and review of internal materials. The test is executed to select key issues and identify key areas of improvement. •CEO meetings and working-level meetings with those from electric power groups / NPP-related institutions | Materiality test process | •NPP-related CEOs’ rally on making resolutions •Government activities portal system •Meetings and seminars Step1_ Composition of the Issue Pool Step2_ Key Issue Evaluation Step3_ Key Issue Selection •Employee Satisfaction Survey •On-site consulting services •Management Labor Council •Corporate portal, newsletter •Analysis of international standards •Correlation with our business and •Devising a total of 12 key issues •Management seminars sustainable management and comprising the report •Review of internal materials •Tuesday & Thursday Open Plaza •Global benchmarking •Impact on the decision-making of •Dudeorim Training •Media research stakeholders rs rte es •C ua ch •R ent a dq bran ela ral a e Selecting a total of 32 issues e h eas es ted nd f th rs fic ins loc e s o f ove ve of titu al g e o i tio ove loy es tat ns rnm mp loye sen Government / en •E Emp epre Related Instituts • and r tions • Correlations between Projects and Sustainable Management Shareholders / Global Guideline for Sustainable Management Media Analysis Employees Investors To identify issues and trends on sustainable management To identify key issues covered by wide-ranging press considered to be globally critical by analyzing the Global media including TV news and newspapers Guideline e.g. Daily newspapers distributed nationwide, economic daily •Board of Directors e.g. GRI G4, ISO 26000, UNGC newspapers, TV news, etc. •Training on designing for •Institutional •General meeting of shareholders employees of ENEC, a client •Clients investors •Company seminars in UAE •Analysts •Business reports, annual reports •ALIO system of public institutions Benchmarking Analysis of Internal Materials To identify key issues and trends by industry by analyzing To identify issues considered to be internally critical by sustainability reports in the same industry analyzing various documents including business plans e.g. Acciona, EDP, AMEC, Enel, etc. e.g. Business promoting plans, management evaluation reports, etc. Customers Business • Impact on the Decision-Making of Stakeholders Partners • •A Loca ca l re ies Stakeholder Survey de sid an es mi en a, mp ni •Survey period: April 2015 •Survey methodology: Online and offline surveys •Number of participants: 343 people res ts Communities g co mpa •Topics covered: Part1. Diagnosis of the level of sustainable management n o ea rch eri n c ine tio Part2. Materiality Test of issues on sustainable management ins  E  ng struc Part3. Other matters to be proposed titu • o n tes •C Top 5 Internal Issues Top 5 External Issues •Signing contracts on technologies to decommission NPPs in •Power Plant Engineering Conference ➊ Talent recruitment ➊ Stronger quality competencies North Gyeongsang Province where the headquarters is located •Customized technical training customized for business partners ➋ Talent development ➋ Pursuit of innovation in technological development •Power Engineering School for college students •Integrated certification / Qualification training for NPP •CEO lectures on understanding energies and corporate talents components and facilities ➌ Performance evaluation and compensation ➌ Fair trade compliance ➍ Support for employees ➍ Legal compliance ➎ Stronger quality competencies ➎ Selection of business partners 24 25 Governance for Materiality Test GRI Indicator : G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 KEPCO E&C Sustainable Sustainability Report Management 2014 2.04 Materiality Test Outcome and Composition of the Report Analysis of Changes in Core Issues Materiality Test The Materiality Test was conducted based on the correlation between our business and sustainaCompared with the 2012 Materiality Test results, the issue on pursuing innovation in technological ble management and the level of impact on the decision-making of stakeholders. As a result of the development was selected as the new core issue in 2014. It is due to the fact that internal and exterMateriality Test, a total of 12 core issues were devised, and issues associated with employees were nal stakeholders thought highly of KEPCO E & C’s core competitiveness, that is, technical prowess the highest in numbers (talent development, reinforcement of employees’ ethical awareness, sound in designing NPPs and other plants. With higher recognition on sustainable management, the issue labor-management relations, and support for employees and reinforcement of safety and health for of initiating strategic social contribution activities and corporate partnership emerged as a new core employees). Social issues like corporate partnership and social contribution were assessed to be of issue. The environmental issue of establishing an advanced green management system, meanwhile, materiality along with business issues like technological development and quality management. We was assessed to have lower materiality as we adopted the environmental management system and will make a thorough disclosure of our activities and performance in this report for transparent commusystematically operated it. nication with stakeholders. Review and Usage of Core Issues We will establish a virtuous cycle to reflect stakeholders’ feedback onto our corporate management by setting up a process to project the core issues devised form the Materiality Test into corporate strategies. | Core aspects and composition of the report | | Outcome of materiality test | Boundaries and Scope of the Impact from the Issues Level of Impact of Stakeholders’ Decision-Making Core Issues Core Issues G4 Aspect Status of Reporting Shareholder/ Business Employees Government Communities Customers Investors Partners Pursuit of innovation in Customer satisfaction management ⊙ technological development • Issue 01 C  reating New Growth Engines for the Economic Performance Stronger quality competencies ⊙ Future Talent development ⊙ Expansion of global businesses • • Pursuit of innovation in technological development ⊙ Stronger ethical awareness Issue 02 Intensifying Competitiveness on among employees • • Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption Legal compliance ⊙ Fair trade compliance ⊙ Stronger ethical awareness among Performance evaluation and compensation ⊙ Support for employees ⊙ employees ⊙ • Selection of business partners ⊙ Efforts for waste management ⊙ Sound labor-management relations Stronger safety and healthcare Protection of customers’ personal ⊙ for employees information ⊙ Occupational Health and Safety Issue 03 E  stablishing the HSE Management Development of eco-friendly Pre-emptive risk response ⊙ Emissions System technologies ⊙ Products and services Issue 04 S  trengthening the Quality and Enterprise ⊙ Initiation of eco-friendly projects Stronger safety and healthcare for employees ⊙ ⊙ Expansion of global businesses Customer Health and Safety Risk Management Corporate partnership ⊙ Protection of human rights ⊙ Pre-emptive risk response • ⊙ Environmental impact assessment Initiating strategic social contribution activities ⊙ Establishment of an eco-friendly management system ⊙ Stronger quality competencies • • Other Issues Efforts to respond to climate change ⊙ Talent development • Training and Education • Labor/Management Relations Preservation of bio-diversity ⊙ Generation of economic value ⊙ Sound labor-management Freedom of Association and Issue 05 Implementation of Talent Management relations Collective Bargaining Talent recruitment ⊙ Initiation of organizational and management innovation ⊙ Indirect generation of economic value ⊙ Support for employees • Employment Efforts to reduce energy used company-wide ⊙ Initiating strategic social Issue 06 Initiating Strategic Social Contribution ⊙ Initiation of stakeholder communication contribution activities • Indirect Economic Impacts Activities ⊙ Initiation of facilitating the regional economy Fair trade compliance • • Anti-Competitive Behavior Issue 07 Spreading Corporate Partnership Correlations between Projects and Sustainable Management Corporate partnership • • 26 27 ISSUE 01 Company Profile KEPCO E&C Future Create a New Growth Engine Sustainability Report 2014 Core Issues for Company Sustainable 비즈니스 Management Profile 경쟁력 28 | Issue 01 Creating New Growth Engines for the Future 34 | Issue 02 Intensifying Competitiveness on Anti-Corruption 38 | Issue 03 Establishing the HSE Management System 42 | Issue 04 Strengthening the Quality and Enterprise Risk Management 46 | Issue 05 Implementation of Talent Management 50 | Issue 06 Initiating Strategic Social Contribution Activities 54 | Issue 07 Spreading Corporate Partnership 28 29 Issue 01 KEPCO E&C Creating New Growth GRI Indicator : G4-EC2, G4-EN27 Engines for the Future Sustainability Report 2014 Creating New Growth Engines for the Future Creating New Growth Engines for the Future 3.01 Securing Core Technologies for Future Growth It is essential to enhance the quality of the existing technologies and services and continue new and innovative Creating New The importance of technological development is ever rising as the government announced the Energy technological development in order to secure sustainable competitiveness. Seeking to leap higher as a global Growth Engines Technology Innovation Roadmap and initiated Nu-Tech2030. Accordingly, we seek to realign mid-and long-term technological development strategies based on the analysis of technology environment at player beyond Korea, we need to intensify our competitiveness for implementing overseas projects. for the Future home and abroad, and take each step to achieve the goals. We will create new growth engines for the future by intensifying technological competitiveness and expanding global business. Mid-and Long-Term Roadmap for Technological Development We set up the mid-and long-term roadmap for technological development to implement top three strategic tasks (designing nuclear power for public reassurance; intensifying plant/green technologies; and advancing construction technologies) to secure core technologies in a timely manner and set directions for technological directions. Accordingly, we plan to upgrade our technological prowess by fulfilling government-funded tasks and our exclusive technological development tasks. Vision 2020 Global Power EPC enterprise, pledges to embody customer value with its world-class technology 3 Strategic Tasks Designing nuclear power for Intensifying plant/green Advancing construction public reassuarnce technologies technologies 9 Core Tasks •Strengthening NPP safety •Next-generation thermal •Reinforcing competencies •Strengthening our competitiveness in power generation for advanced construction NPP export •Green technologies technologies •Developing future-oriented / small•Enhancing O & M and medium-sized NPPs technologies for plants •Enhancing O&M technologies for NPP •Technologies for follow-up service for NPP Designing Nuclear Power for Public Reassurance 01 Materiality 02 Vision and Strategies 03 Future Directions •Developing Core Technologies to Reinforce the Nuclear Safety We seek to reinforce the nuclear safety by enhancing technological prowess in three areas: severe The business environment is gradually worsening as the techUnder our vision to become a global power EPC contractor realWe plan to set new management strategies and visions to create accident tackling technologies, core technologies for digital I & C, and core technologies for safety upnological competency of our competitors of home and abroad izing customer value through the world-leading technology exnew growth engines for the future. We will ensure stable growth by continuously strengthening a solid management system grade. We developed the Multi-purpose Integrated Assessment code for Severe accidents (MIDAS), is going up and the power plant industry has been saturated pertise, we initiate to secure core technologies for future growth especially in advanced countries. In order to overcome these and advance into overseas markets. While establishing the 2030 through profit-oriented execution of core projects. established the code interpretation system, and implemented design technologies for FPGA-based ancircumstances and achieve continued growth, we need to Technological Development Roadmap, our top three strategic ti-severe accident control facilities. We launched a research unit for passive containment cooling system explore new growth engines. Sophisticating the NPP and plant tasks to secure core technologies for future growth are: designfor nuclear reactors and concentrated on our technological development capacities. We established engineering competency as our core competitiveness is the most ing nuclear power for public reassurance; intensifying plant/green effective way to differentiate us from our competitors. technologies; and advancing construction technologies. the permit & approval / NPP application system for the NPP design code for designing the physical protection for NPPs and sophisticating the safety analysis code. We also secured seismic isolation-based 04 Major Activities and Performance >> Stakeholder Comments APR1400 structures and preliminary design technologies for major systems. Expected achievements were made through multifaceted technological development to reinforce the nuclear safety by designing Gwon Mi-jeong, Assistant Manager of the Technology boron-free operation systems and developing the rod control system. Planning Team under the Technology Strategy ● Acquiring the permit for APR+ standard design Department at Power Engineering Research Institute We significantly contribute to the self-sufficiency and sophisti•Developing New NPPs cation of nuclear and thermal power plant designing technol● Developing technologies for offshore floating power generation systems ogies by investing over 7% of annual revenues into technoWe seek to secure the nuclear safety and economic feasibility by developing new NPPs including APR+, logical development. In 2014, in particular, we launched the APR1400 for export (U.S. and Europe), Sodium-cooled Fast Reactor (SFR) and small-and medium-sized Power Engineering Research Institute to improve our short● Developing technologies for A-USC700 coal-fired power generation systems comings by raising research efficiency through concentration NPPs, while boosting competitiveness in overseas NPP market. In 2014, we achieved the goals of safety on research competencies. We also make acute responses to improvement and exclusivity for standard design by acquiring the APR+ standard design approval. We changes in the environment at home and abroad, while generating growth engines for the future through technological deapplied for the Design Certification (DC) of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) on the APR1400 ● Applying for the EU-APR1400 certification velopment in NPP decommissioning, next-generation thermal power generation, new & renewables and eco-friendliness. and the one for the European Utility Requirements (EUR) on the EU-APR1400. This heralded our technological excellence in designing NPPs. 30 31 ISSUE 01 Creating New Growth GRI Indicator : G4-EC2, G4-EN27 KEPCO E&C Engines for the Future Sustainability Report 2014 3.01 Intensifying Plant / Green Technologies Tapping Into Overseas Markets Creating New •Developing Technologies for A-USC* 700 Coal Thermal Power Generation System | Performance in overseas advancement | We proactively tap into overseas markets to diversify the basis of profit-making in NPPs and thermal Growth Engines We seek to enhance our technological prowess for plant and strengthen our competitiveness by developing the high-efficiency coal fired thermal power generation system. We laid the foundation for basic power. For NPPs, we develop customized NPPs and intensify our marketing campaigns. For thermal power, we set the stage to facilitate overseas projects by developing subsequent projects focusing on for the Future design and led to the selection of Korean 700℃ class A-USC coal-fired power plant model through EU Initiating the EUR certification and acquisition of the NRC DC the regions we have already advanced into and exploring into new markets at the same time. technological development at the level of U.S. and European competitors, operation of pilot plants and consultation on the status of boiler designing. In 2015, we plan to take part in developing the 700℃ Overseas NPP Projects high-efficiency HSC power generation technologies led by the korean government, and to complete •Developing Customized NPPs the selection of the Korean A-USC700 coal fired power plant model which is economically feasible. Saudi Arabia Establishing networks and strengthening marketing by We strive to develop NPPs fulfilling the design requirements of new comer conuntries so that we could * A-USC700: 700℃-level Advanced Ultra-Supercritical taking part in local engineering road shows, etc. export NPPs abroad. We have developed core technologies for many years to export them to Europe by acquiring the European Utility Requirements (EUR) certification and the Nuclear Regulatory Com•Developing Technologies for the Floating Power Generation System mission (NRC) Design Certification (DC) which are representative NPP design certifications, seeking to We seek to create new growth engines for the future by further making inroads into overseas markets. diversify our markets for the EUR APR1400. As a result, we submitted documents for review to the NRC This will be driven by securing design technologies for floating combined cycle power generation, which Ghana, Cote d’Ivoire of the U.S. and the EUR in December 2014, participating in the certification procedure in full swing. Improving the performance for obsolete facilities and increasing are convergent technologies for floating and power generation. We have completed making the equipthe order volume for add-on projects Once we acquire the certifications following the evaluation, this will remove obstacles for us to tap into ment arrangement, heat & mass balance and the flow chart for main equipment for 150MW plants. We NPP markets in the U.S. and Europe, and pave the way for us to acquire orders for the next NPP. have also finished the selection of capacity / power generation type and calculation of the upper sides of the power generation equipment. Aiming to secure a stronger excellence in technological prowess, •Reinforcing Marketing for Countries with a Demand for NPPs we signed an MOU with Korea Institute of Machinery & Materials, and conducted technical consultaPakistan Initiating projects centering on water energy, We create new business opportunities on end through marketing activities in consideration of stages tions on vibration control for floating power generation with GERB Schwingungsisolierungen GmbH coal-fired energy and gas power plants for NPP projects by country. Our focus is on countries hoping to adopt NPPs, including Czech, South & Co. KG. Based on the technological know-how that we acquired from feasibility study for 880MW Africa, Vietnam, Saudi Arabia and Egypt. We attended a local engineering roadshow in Saudi Arabia to generator ship development and operation project, we plan to complete the detail design for a floating share localization strategies for design technologies. Engagement in the road show following the one combined cycle power plant, while finishing setup of the design standard for a floating combined cycle in 2013 enabled us to differentiate our export strategies by reactor type and enhance competitiveness power plant and the review for its optimizing the arrangement. India Initiating projects centering on coal-fired power plants by establishing network with local enterprises and sharing technological self-sufficiency measures. Advancing Construction Technologies Overseas Plant Projects We have converted our document-based design system into a data-based integrated design system so that we could intensify our competitiveness for NPP construction technologies and upgrade the •Developing Subsequent Projects in Regions with Our Existing Presence design quality. To this end, we initiate developing technologies for integrated design systems in two There has emerged the need to raise the efficiency for the existing facilities due to the delayed develphases. Our track records achieved in 2014 are: developing the data-based design process including opment of fuel for power generation in Africa, including our existing presence such as Ghana and Cote the setup of design requirement management system and drafting the integrated data model; and d’Ivoire. As such, the number of orders placed has gone up especially covering the improvement of achieving the design progress rate of 90% at the timing of ground-breaking by developing requireperformance of obsolete facilities and add-on projects. Accordingly, we have expanded our business ments for adopting comprehensive designs and optimizing the design review procedure. opportunities abroad driven by our project experiences in West Africa and collaboration with business partners at home and abroad. •Improving the engineering management system Phase 1 •Developing the data-based process (Jul. 2011 ~ Jun. 2014) •Exploring New Markets •Developing the design requirement management system Seeking for proactive expansion to overseas markets, we have laid the foundation to make inroads into Southwest Asia including Pakistan, India and Bangladesh. For instance, Pakistan is not a signatory to •Developing the data-based design system and design requirement system First year of Phase 2 •Developing the IT-based design / interpretation integration system the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons yet, so is subject to limitations in constructing (Jul. 2014 ~ Jun. 2015) •Conducting co-verification for design and coupled-tests NPPs. As such, it is initiating projects on hydro power, thermal power and gas power plants. In India where the market is focused on coal-fired power plants, meanwhile, we take part in coal thermal power •Improving the system through verification plant projects in India. Second year of Phase 2 •Feedback on the system verification results (Jul. 2015 ~ Jun. 2016) •Reflection of detailed coupled matters •Getting ready for the APR+ application Taking part in a Saudi engineering roadshow 32 33 ISSUE 01 Creating New Growth GRI Indicator : G4-EC2, G4-EN27 KEPCO E&C Engines for the Future Sustainability Report 2014 Nuclear designing that gives a relief to the public Strengthening plant/green technologies ◎ Securing Technologies for NPP Follow-up Service 비즈니스 ◎ Endeavors to Enhance Eco-friendly and New & Renewable energy Technologies We strive to upgrade our research competencies for NPP follow-up service based on abundant technical experiences gained by designing NPPs and radioactive waste repositories at home and abroad. 경쟁력 •IGCC /SNG Plant Design Technological Development 1) 2) We do the utmost to provide architecture engineering in a timely manner, and develop design technologies for IGCC / SNG plant in order to lead IGCC / SNG commercialization technologies. We have conducted technological development to secure IGCC since 1989. We have secured •Decommissioning Technologies for Nuclear Power Facilities our exclusive technology by engaging in various gasification-related projects: technical service for architecture engineering of Korea’s first Taean We select tasks to secure technologies for decommissioning of nuclear power facilities and come up with measures to secure the technologies, IGCC Demonstration Plant which is to be completed in 2016; IGCC feasibility study for using heavy oil residue; and construction feasibility study including decommissioning strategies, design, permit / approval plans, business process, comprehensive management system, decommisfor SNG plant in Samcheok, Boryeong and Indonesia. sioned waste management plans, soil recovery and NPP design technologies considering decommissioning. 1) IGCC : Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle 2) SNG : Synthetic Natural Gas | Measures and tasks to secure technologies | •Offshore Wind Energy Technology Development In 2013 and 2014, we established our exclusive design standards for offshore wind farms. Since Korea has had no experiences in constructing offshore wind farms, companies had to mostly depend on foreign technologies including the interpretation of wind resources and designing of Establishing a collaborative system underwater foundation and subsea cable arrangement. However, with our offshore wind energy technology development, we have come to with the government and related instiEstablishing plans for decommissioning and establish our own design standards befitting the Korean circumstances. We also develop promising technologies jointly with SMEs and practice tutions decommissioning engineering win-win cooperation by extending support for commercialization. -Technologies to evaluate features for decommissioning Forging technological Water desalinization and cutting technologies partnerships with power •CO2 Capture Technology Development Decommissioned waste management plant operators and technologies We have made unwavering efforts to respond to government policies, that is, completing the integrated demonstration for capture-compresoverseas tech companies -Environmental recovery technologies sion-storage for 100~300MW plants by 2020 and securing core technologies to achieve the treatment cost of less than USD 30 per tonnage NPP design technologies in of CO2. In order to devise optimal CO2 capturing technologies, we have secured demonstration data on wide-ranging methods such as pre / consideration of decommissioning Launching exclusive post-combustion and wet / dry method while ensuring the technological basis for constructing large-scale plants for commercialization and unis for R & D and projects enhancing our technology level. | Plans for CO2 capture technology development by phase | •Radioactive Waste Management Technologies Tasks 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 We aim to respond to the diversification of disposal methods in accordance with specified criteria for radioactive waste as well as with increasing Post-combustion 0.1MW Test Bed 10MW Pilot Plant 100MW~300MW Demontration plant radioactive waste resulting from NPP decommissioning. To this end, we do the utmost for R & D efforts so that management technologies for low wet type (integrated CO2 storage) Commercialization and intermediate level radioactive waste could be more sophisticated, technical basis could be in place exclusively for constructing the spent Task evaluation Post-combustion 0.1MW Test Bed 10MW Pilot Plant nuclear fuel and NORM (Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials) waste management facilities and design technologies could be secured. dry type Selection among the wet / dry types Pre-combustion 5kW Pilot Plant 0.1MW Test Bed 10MW Pilot Plant Commercialization dry type Management of the low and intermediate Management of the spent nuclear fuel Managing the NORM level radioactive waste •Inspection of the amount of radioactive waste •Analysis of safety cases on storage facilities for •Inspection of the NORM discharged, feature >> Stakeholder Comments Lee Hae-ryong, Deputy General Manager of the Renewable Energy & Environmental Technology generated, conducting feature analysis and spent nuclear fuel analysis and development of treatment Department of Plant Division developing treatment technologies technologies •Requirements for permit / approval on storage •Development of technologies for treating / facilities and the general basic design for the We have beefed up technological development and expertise in business execution befitting various new and disposing radioactive waste where new comprehensive site renewable energy sources including wind energy, photovoltaic, IGCC and marine energy in order to supply and classifications are applied expand new and renewable energies in Korea. We have contributed to the government’s new and renewable •Composition of the generic SAR and design energy policies by forming a pool of experienced engineers and developing the market-driven customized tech•Safety evaluation for multiple disposal facilities certification nologies. We will facilitate the development of new and renewable energies by reducing cost through the usage and developing decommissioning technologies of domestic technologies and setup of infrastructure based on joint cooperation. 34 35 Issue 02 KEPCO E&C Intensifying Competitiveness GRI Indicator : G4-56, G4-SO4, G4-SO5 on Anti-Corruption Sustainability Report 2014 Intensifying Competitiveness on Anti-Corruption Intensifying Competitiveness on Anti-Corruption 3.02 Intensifying Ethical Management and the Internal Control System Under the management philosophy on harmonizing humanity, the environment and engineering, we have made Intensifying Under a goal for ethical management to become ‘a company that achieves continued self-innovation multifaceted efforts to establish and embody ethical management. We promise to be reborn as the world’s No.1 Competitiveness by fulfilling corporate ethics / social responsibilities’, we have paved the way to spearhead ethical management by enhancing our awareness on ethical management, putting in place a system for ethical exemplary ethical company by continuously exercising ethical management activities. on Antimanagement and establishing a corporate culture. Corruption Vision for Ethical Management “A company achieving continued self-innovation by fulfilling corporate ethics / social responsibilities” Strategies Establishment of Trust building Infrastructure setup an ethical culture Building trust in and outside the Securing engines / systems for Establishing an ethical corporate company by improving ethical ethical management culture imbuing self-esteem awareness Tasks •Complying with the code of ethics for •Running the year-round ethical Regulations Campaigns employees management campaign •Implementing on / offline •Managing the code of ethics for •Running the Integrity Day and the Internally training professional technicians reflecting the ethical management week •Running customized training features of institutions •Developing curricula by job rank •Forming an exclusive unit (team) •Publishing the Newsletter on Integrity Organization & Ethics Information •Managing the Ethics Management •Publishing the Corruption Case Studies Committee Sharing / Guideook •Appointing ethical management •Prescribing a manual to respond to guards business requests •Conducting ethical training for Externally business partners •Conducting the company-wide •Setting up an ethical Engagement ethics pledge Systems •Distributing the Guidebook on management system Ethical Management •Public opening on an ethical Culture •Adopting the Integrity Mileage management slogan System •Organizing the Integrity Golden Bell Massively Realigning the Ethical Management Organization We implemented the management reshuffle centered on the organization and human resources to 01 Materiality 02 Vision and Strategies 03 Future Directions eradicate inside irregularities and recover confidence toward NPPs. In particular, we beefed up our engines by launching the ‘Ethics Management Team’, and revised upward the status of the chairman The status quo of corruption and irregularities of the government and Utmost efforts have been poured in to implement the government measures We plan to intensify the ex-post management to prevent the public institutions is covered a lot by the media these days and is a big on anti-corruption by converting our management system into an emergency reoccurrence of politically sensitive cases, and scale up feedback of the Ethics Management Committee by appointing him as the president of KEPCO E & C. In 2014, reminder of the severity of chronic unfair practices throughout the society. one to overcome crises in 2013 and organizing the ‘rally to eradicate irreguactivities by sharing the outcome of internal audits. Of particular we led the efforts to share and spread the culture of integrity and ethics with integrity by appointing the note, ex-post audits will be scaled up in technical security to The government and such institutions plan to eradicate the root causes for larities and practice integrity.’ In 2014, we have continued to establish a strinprevent the leakage of technical materials, and monitoring on working-level staff in each department as the Ethics Management Guards. corruption by tracking corruption and irregularities throughout the society. gent discipline for public service ethics and a transparent corporate culture setbacks will be intensified in preparation for 2015 where our Against this backdrop, our plan is to reaffirm our commitment for NPP with integrity. The efficiency in our ethical management operations has been Ethics Management Committee offices are to be relocated to a location region. President & CEO safety engineering, and integrity and ethics, and prioritize and comply with raised by forming an ethical culture based on stronger ethical awareness safe NPP operation and ethical awareness in our corporate management. among employees and strengthening an efficient internal control system. President & CEO Management & Administration Division Chairman 04 Major Activities and Performance >> Stakeholder Comments Human Resources Department Team Director of Ethics Management Team (Executives) •Signed the CEO’s Ethics Pledge organized by the Ethics SM Forum (Mar. 28, 2013) Kim Chong Kook, General Manager of Ethical Director / Team Director Supervisor on the Code of Actions 3 Designated Employees •Signed the integrity pact by employees (including heads of institutions, executive Management Team at the Human Resources Department Ethics Management Team Committee Members Committee Members Committee Members directors and auditors) Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 under the Management & Administration Division •Signed the anti-corruption / integrity pledge to eradicate irregularities (Jun 20, 2013) Seeking to spearhead ethical management systematically, •Trained on the prevention of sexual harassment and trade (Sep. 2013, Jul. 4~11, Number of 2013, Oct. ~ Nov. 2014) cases for audit we reshuffled our ethical management organization and relevant schemes in 2014. We reinforced our engines for ethical Realigning the Code of Actions for Ethical Management •Gained Grade III among 47 institutions in Group V of public institutions at the antiNumber management 98 96 management by launching Ethical Management Team and of Cases corruption competitiveness evaluation (Nov. 2013 ~ Oct. 2014) on ethical Ethical Management Guard per department, while launching As a public enterprise specialized in designing power plants, we are fully aware of our responsibilities for •Conducted audits 17 times to establish public service ethics management •Organized the pledge to reaffirm nuclear safety engineering and integrity & ethics wide-ranging programs where employees could directly pardesign safety, and accordingly, prescribed the ‘code of ethics for professional engineers’ in exerting our ticipate including the Integrity Golden Bell and Ethical Manage(Mar. 2014) Training on Number ment Week. Yet, we will continuously complement the recently willingness for action for design technologies trusted by the public (April 2014). Moreover, we revised •Organized the declaration ceremony on “the code of ethics for professional engineers” strengthening of Hours 34 43 54 adopted ethical management program to further mature and (May 2014) auditors’ / Person achieve a stable landing over the long haul. We will form a corthe code of ethical actions for employees to eradicate collusive links in the NPP industry. Revised provicompetencies •All employees participated in the cyber ethics pact to exercise integrity (May 2014) •Organized a weekly event on ethics management to facilitate ethics management and porate culture with integrity by encouraging employees to take sions include the prohibition of exchange of unfair income, ban on privileges of former post for retirees part continuously in ethical management. enhance integrity (Nov. 2014) and stringer restrictions on re-employment. 36 37 ISSUE 02 Intensifying Competitiveness GRI Indicator : G4-56, G4-SO4, G4-SO5 KEPCO E&C on Anti-Corruption Sustainability Report 2014 3.02 Establishing an Ethical Culture to Prevent Irregularities Operating the Bottom-up Ethical Management Program with Employees’ Intensifying Participation 비즈니스 ◎ Constant Audit and Inspection Activities Competitiveness We wage on an integrity and ethics campaign and publish the newsletter on it to share news updates on ethical activities and promote the content outside. Furthermore, we encourage employees’ engagement 경쟁력 In 2013, we launched the Audit and Inspection Team as an exclusive unit to detect inside irregularities driven by secret patrolling and spot check. on Antithrough public opening on an integrity and ethics slogan, the Ethics Golden Bell and the ethics pledge. The team makes special inspection for the headquarters and field offices, checks out the reported data, and focuses on constant inspection on the exchange of financial gains & entertainment, unfair practices and public service ethics. Demands for improving disciplines and institutions Corruption Type Explanations Tract Records in 2014 •Automatically uploading on our employees’ and those of based on the outcome of the inspection on public service ethics (13 cases) contributed to establishing the public service ethics. •Posting the e-Poster on integrity and ethics our partners’ PC at work Campaigns •Conducting the appointment ceremony for ethical management guards and a theatrical play on ethics by •Appointing seven ethical management guards by division operating the Ethics Practice Week ◎ Activities to Improve Anti-Corruption •Sharing news updates on ethical management in and outside the company as well as the CEO’s message •Sending e-mails to all employees and those of our News on integrity by publishing the Integrity and Ethics business partners on a biweekly basis Wide-ranging anti-corruption activities were carried out including adopting the anti-corruption system and inducing employees to voluntarily Newsletter Updates improve the weaknesses for corruption in order to enhance the employees’ awareness on the customary unfair culture. •Publishing the Corruption Case Booklet and •Distributing them to all employees and those of our Guidebook business partners (435 people in total) •Conducting an open competition for an integrity & •Selecting 5 winners out of 45 candidates ethics slogan and an emblem •Implementing the property registration for 318 employees in the manager level (Grade 2) and above •Holding the Integrity Golden Bell •Awarding 11 winners for the Integrity Golden Bell •Adopting anti-corruption systems and implementing recommendations on institutional improvement (inspection of anti-corruption Engaging policy evaluation) Culture •Conducting the Lunch Day with the CEO to establish a •Conducting it 17 times, participated by 438 people Major Activities to Improve •Implementing arbitrary institutional improvement in weaknesses on anti-corruption (inspection of the measurements on the integrity of transparent corporate culture for better communication Anti-Corruption Efforts the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission) Ethical Management Guards •Conducting the ethics pledge to reaffirm commitment → Analyzing the outcome of measuring the integrity of public institutions (7.78 points) and establishing improvement measures •Achieving 100% participation rate among employees for ethical practices •Strengthening internal communication on customary unfair practices and key issues on corruption → Disclosing internally on key disciplinary cases using the Integrity Alert system Intensifying Customized and Site-specific Training Training courses are offered by phase based on the life cycle of public officials from new employment to would-be retirement. Training on ethics is also conducted for employees of our business partners as ◎ Facilitating the Reporting Center we have stretched out the scope of ethical management to them. In 2014, online ethics training was conducted for all employees and those of our business partners, while enhancing ethical awareness We introduced the reporting system in an external institution (red whistle) with stronger protection of anonymity so that our inspection tasks could by conducting company-wide special lectures on ethics and distributing the guidebook on ethical be facilitated based on the effective receipt of complaints and reports on irregularities. Reports have been submitted on the bidding for constructThe Integrity Golden Bell management to business partners. ing our new company building, so we paved the way to facilitate reporting by detecting and dismissing entertainment exchangers. We also devise annual plans to prevent sexual harassment through training. Upon the occurrence of sexual harassment, we have to devise prevention measures against reoccurrence and submit them to the government. We conduct sexual harassment/trade prevention training as a public institution, ◎ Strengthening Audits in Weak Areas by Launching the Technology Audit Team striving to establish a proper ethical perspective on sex and raise gender equality sentiments. Since the We launched the Technology Audit Team consisting of six professional engineers in order to establish a monitoring system for irregularities on Act on the Prevention of Sexual Assault and Protection, etc. of Victims Thereof was amended (Jan. 21, technical operations in March 2014. As a result, we explore irrational matters among the technical areas in our work scope, propose ideas on 2014), we conduct integrated training courses in two phases on the prevention of sexual harassment, making improvement and eradicate NPP-related irregularities. Moreover, we conduct selective special audits on areas of work with high risks sexual trade, sexual violence and household violence. as well as comprehensive audits on weak areas in field offices at home and abroad. As such, we strive to prevent blind spots in audits and the | Training on the prevention of sexual harassment | New / Basic-level employees Intermediate / Would-be retirees Executives reoccurrence of irregularities. High-rank managers Title of the •Executives having completed Date and Venue Targeted Trainees Customized •Explanations on the code of •A course on ethics opened as •A course to enhance ethical the executive course at the Training ethics (123 people) a part of a training by job rank Training Courses (81 people) awareness for would-be Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights •Special lecture on ethics as retirees (52 people that are Commission Targeting all the basic job course (115 •A course on ethics opened for Conducting to retire in 2015 and 2016) ( 2 people including the head •Strengthening transparency by inspecting subcontracting tasks Sep. 2, 2013 (video) employees people) those promoted (42 people) of the institute) training on Jul. 4 ~ 11, 2013 (including Major Activities of the •Improving systems to eradicate forging/falsifying test score sheets the sexual (classroom training) employees of awareness business partners) All employees Employees of business partners Technology Audit Team •Enhancing efficiency in technical tasks based on status check for the design management procedure including the Expansion of the prevention Targeting all •Online ethics training (1,115 people have completed it) •Securing expertise by extending technical support for routine audits Scope for Ethical •Online ethics training (208 people have completed it) of sexual Aug. 26 ~ 27, 2014 employees •Company-wide special course on ethics / a theatrical play •Security training conducted for employees in SMEs in the harassment, (including Management on ethics (194 people) industry-university cooperation program (26 people) Oct. 28, 2014 etc. employees of •A course on ethics for organizational revitalization •The Ethical Management Guidebook distributed (435 books) business partners) (for all employees) 38 39 Issue 03 KEPCO E&C Establishing the HSE GRI Indicator : G4-LA6, G4-LA7 Management System Sustainability Report 2014 Establishing the HSE Management System Establishing the HSE Management System 3.03 Establishing a Safety Management System We strive to become a global safety leading company by being aware of Establishing the We establish and execute an effective HSE management system pursuant to the ISO 14001 and the HSE (Health, Safety, and the Environment) as our competitiveness for HSE Management OHSAS 18001 standards. We regularly inspect and manage the performance and goals in accordance with the HSE management process to achieve HSE measures and objectives. corporate management and operating HSE management system befitting System international standards in order to achieve happiness of mankind by harmonizing humanity, the environment and engineering. •HSE goals and management review •HSE laws / requirements and evalua| ISO, OHSAS Certificate | tion on compliance Policy and •Environmental impact assessment •HSE goals and management Goals •Risks assessment on safety and review healthcare •Risk assessment on design stages Action Plan Continued Improvement •Accident investigation and •HSE training management •Documenting the HSE management •Correction and prevention on HSE system •On-spot HSE check •Managing on-site safety / environmental planning on HSE •Internal audit on HSE Check Do •Safety facility and goods management •Management of near miss and potential risks Strengthening the Safety Organization ISO 14001 Certificate In January 2014, nuclear safety culture-related operations were transferred to the Quality Assurance & HSE (Health, Safety & Environmental) Department. We reinforced our execution capacities for design 01 Materiality 02 Vision and Strategies 03 Future Directions quality management and stronger safety through the department which is directly under the President The importance of the nuclear safety culture went up in the We strive to create a nuclear safety culture by devising phaseWe expect to secure resources and set up a system to form and of KEPCO E & C. The Quality Assurance & HSE Department carries out a variety of activities to settle and aftermath of the Fukushima nuclear disaster. As such, there has out plans for the objective. To this end, we do the utmost to expand a corporate culture where the nuclear safety is the top beef up the nuclear safety culture where the nuclear safety is the top priority, including attending outside been a need for establishing a stringent corporate safety culture hold internal training and secure expertise for personnel, while priority and ensure a safety culture to settle in an initial phase. programs and conducting training on dissipating the importance of nuclear safety. reflecting IAEA standards. We, as a result, do our utmost to put in embodying the practices for a safety culture by holding regular place a corporate culture where higher design quality and nuclear meetings on safety culture and training on the topics. safety are the top priorities, and establish an advanced safety | Management of the safety unit (Quality Assurance & HSE (Health, Safety & Environmental) Department | culture system. President & CEO 04 Major Activities and Performance >> Stakeholder Comments Quality Assurance & HSE (Health, Safety & Environmental) Department Kim Ju-seop, General Manager of the Health, Safety & Environmental Team at the Quality Assurance & HSE •Establishing a corporate system for safety as the top priority by (Health, Safety & Environmental) Department Health, Safety & adding a NPP safety unit Quality Management Team Quality Assuarance Team Quality Engineering Team Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Under the slogan of ‘Safety First, Last and Always,’ we develop Environmental Team •202 employees attending the training program to beef up safety the HSE work standard manual and tap onto outside profescompetencies sional consulting services in order to enhance safety manage•Organizing regular meetings on the safety culture over four OHSAS 18001 Certificate ment. In order to foster safety experts, we continue to invest times (2014) Accident rate (as for % 1.48 0.00 in the international NEBOSH training and academic programs. •Organizing the Nuclear Safety Review Day event over nine regular employees) Internal training is on emergency care and cardiopulmonary times (2014) resuscitation in order to strengthen HSE activities. Emergency •Achieving the 2-million accident-free hours for the CIPREL Certification of the responses take place which might occur anytime and anywhere project in Cote d’Ivoire (Apr. 2015) OHSAS 18001 & ISO Maintained Maintained Maintained by introducing safety management services for overseas em•Achieving the 7-million accident-free hours for the EPC project 14001 ployees including the International SOS. We will take the lead in Takoradi, Ghana (Jan. 2015) in establishing an advanced HSE corporate culture based on company-wide HSE activities. 40 41 ISSUE 03 Establishing the HSE GRI Indicator : G4-LA6, G4-LA7 KEPCO E&C Management System Sustainability Report 2014 3.03 Reaffirming the Commitment for Safety Engineering Establishing the On March 2014, we conducted the rally to reaffirm our commitment for nuclear safety engineering in •Achieving the 2-Million Accident-Free Hours for the CIPREL project in Cote d’Ivoire We achieved the 2-million accident-free hours as of April 15, 2015 for the CIPREL IV Volet B EPC HSE Management remembrance of the Fukushima tragedy that occurred three years ago. During the event, employees pledged a declaration to reaffirm their commitment for doing business based on nuclear safety and project in Cote d’Ivoire. The project order was placed in 2013 where the 110MW gas turbines of the System practicing integrity and ethics, and shared messages on the safety NPP operation. existing power plant have extensions of two units of the Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG), that is, one steam turbine and one ACC so that the existing one could be a combined cycle power plant. Local workforce at Cote d’Ivoire as well as Korean business partners had participated in such Strengthening Safety Training a narrow space. The number of employees there was about 700 working at the same time, so the site is subject to high materiality of safety importance. Yet, we created a safe working environment We regularly conduct safety training to upgrade understanding on HSE management and enhance with 2-million accident-free hours driven by seamless HSE management including thorough safety management competencies on it. Amid the increasing needs among the public for safety competentraining, special safety inspection, work permits and establishing a culture of better communication cies, we have strengthened training on safety competencies. In 2014, we conducted safety training for among employees. 202 employees, including internal workshops and emergency exercise drills. Classification of Safety Training Course Track Records Organizing monthly •Creating a pleasant and Establishing prior Turnkey-based conLaunching a task Nuclear safety culture In-house Safety Culture Workshop Aug. 2014 (143 people) process meetings safe working environment measures and making struction outsourcing: force for emergency (MPM) – negotiating •Establishing and executing prevention by estabunifying the channels to responses for the Ebola Consigned training on safety management, Development of safety specialists Held throughout the year (9 people) on technicalities and the QHSE (quality, health, lishing a database on take accountability and Virus (Aug. 2014) academic activities responding to clients’ safety and environment) business execution strengthening the level demand management system of management Pledge on safety design marking the three-year Emergency response drills for safety Strengthening on-site safety training Nov. 2014 (50 people) anniversary of the Fukushima nuclear disaster management pursuant to local regulations Reinforcing HSE Management on Sites An effective HSE management system is in place on construction sites, based on which safety accidents on sites are prevented in thorough compliance with HSE-related laws and safety regulations. Moreover, Nuclear Safety Day Event we devised health measures for the personnel engaging in projects of KEPCO E & C amid the spread of We induce a corporate culture on nuclear safety to settle in a stable manner, and regularly organize the Ebola virus in West Africa, and established phase-out response systems as local circumstances have the Nuclear Safety Day event to raise awareness on safety. The event was attended by the head of the unfolded. Nuclear Division, the head of its business department, the heads of each project and the heads of each As a result of on-site HSE management reinforcement, we have made several achievements: 2-million technology group and field. They shared NPP safety information including the analysis of obstacles accident-free hours for the CIPREL project in Cote d’Ivoire ; 7-million accident-free hours for the EPC against NPP safety and suggestion of preventive measures, thereby contributing to higher quality of projects in Ghana and 1-million accident-free hours for constructing our new building. NPP design and safety. | Events on the nuclear safety culture | Type Number of Times Held Content 9 times Presenting the current status of technologies for safety design, results of quality Nuclear safety day event inspection, cases of design errors and measures against the reoccurrence Meetings on the safety 4 times Discussing on measures to enhance the nuclear safety culture by engineering culture department, and the corresponding performance and measures 42 43 Issue 04 KEPCO E&C Strengthening the Quality and GRI Indicator : G4-14, G4-PR1 Enterprise Risk Management Sustainability Report 2014 Strengthening the Quality and Enterprise Risk Management Strengthening the Quality and Company-Wide Risk Management 3.04 Quality Management Being aware that world-class quality management competencies are the short-cut to Strengthening We are committed to presenting the highest quality to our customers for sustainable growth. We enguarantee the survival of KEPCO E&C, we promise to present our customers with the Quality and hance the design quality and safety for power plants based on a stronger quality management system, through which we gain confidence from our customers. higher quality services driven by endless changes and innovation. ENTERPRISE Risk We will minimize losses resulting from risks by operating a risk management system in all the phases of our projects. Management Strengthening the Quality Management System •Improvement in the Quality Organizational System We have improved the quality organizational system to achieve the integration of similar corporate functions, thereby making the organizational management more efficient, facilitating the operation of the research department and securing stronger quality, and improvement of the corporate organizational system, which leads to the modification of accountabilities. Major improvements made for the organizational system include adjustment of the job assignment, launching of the Engineering Review Team and transfer of the tasks on nuclear safety culture to the Quality Assurance & HSE (Health, Safety & Environmental) Department. •Timely Revision of the Documents on Quality System We raise the efficiency in executing tasks by revising the documents on quality system in a timely manner, including the Quality Management Manual, Quality Management Procedure and Design Management Procedure. Major revisions include the reflection of modified corporate bylaws and regulations, reflection of improvements made in operating the headquarters, reflection of modifications of related laws and technical standards, clarification of conditions and procedures, and their correction / com| Comparison of key improvements in quality management training | plementation. Type Before Improvement 01 Materiality 02 Vision and Strategies 03 Future Directions •Improvement in Training on Quality Training period / 1 day / 2 hours 1 month / 21 hours Number of hours The existing collective lecture-based training on quality had several setbacks: the low participation rate Securing high design quality induces customer satisfaction and We manage project risks and corporate risks in an integrated We will enable constant risk management monitoring and Training evaluation Not performed Tasks and test in the training due to the overlap of major meetings, business trips and taking leaves; constraints in time stronger safety for power plants. Repercussions from risks resultmanner by operating the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) immediate responses against incidences by embodying the risk Completion rate ing from global uncertainties have mushroomed in recent times. system. We strengthen the quality management system by management culture in the company level. We will also reinforce (%) 85.46% 90.42% and space for training; and employee’s low concentration in training. In order to address the problems, At a time when risk management competencies are ever more improving the quality organizational system and quality training, our competencies on globally competitive quality management we have launched the Internet-based online training courses that can be performed regardless of time, to reflect wide-waging requirements of our clients. For overseas important in judging corporate competitiveness, there must be and conducting quality audits. Prior / Ex-post design quality space and the number of trainees. The effectiveness of training has been boosted through learner-oriprojects, we will scale up our competencies for systems and a system to effectively manage both project risks and corporate upgrading activities also unfold to bring up the design quality. HR by establishing the integrated quality management system | Quality audit process | ented and reiteration / repetition-based training along with assignments and tests. operational risks. in all phases. •Quality Audits 04 Major Activities and Performance >> Stakeholder Comments Establishing yearly audit plan We conduct systematic quality audits to intensify regular monitoring on adequacy and effectiveness of the quality system. In 2014, we conducted quality audits over 69 times, and our follow-up measures Kim Jin-kuk, General Manager of the Quality Management Team under the Quality Assurance & HSE (Health, Safety & took place: revising and systematically managing the corporate standard documents; enhancing the Environmental) Department Establishing audit planning per unit (individual) adequacy and consistency of design outcome; improving the quality system for design subcontractWe establish and operate the design quality system to comply ● Risk Management Team launched with relevant laws for the power industry of home and abroad, ing; and training on raising awareness about the quality. Moreover, we implement additional audits meet customer demands, and present high-quality and reliable services. We enhance the quality reliability and reinforce when additional verification or check is needed. ● Completion rate of the quality management training 90.42% the quality competitiveness by conducting adequacy testing including ASME, ISO and KEPIC for the quality system in opAuditing eration. Quality control is proactively performed for preventive | 2014 Performance on quality audit | purposes including multi-layered quality monitoring activities ● Quality inspection records 69 cases (113% from the goal set) Type Company Nuclear Division Plant Division NSSS Division Total among processes to secure quality and adoption of the safety culture. We put in place the system for world-class quality Internal audit 1 12 6 12 31 and safety culture by benchmarking advanced engineering companies. Reporting on audit results and corrective actions External audit 17 21 38 (business partners) 44 45 ISSUE 04 Strengthening the Quality and GRI Indicator : G4-14, G4-PR1 KEPCO E&C Enterprise Risk Management Sustainability Report 2014 3.04 Enhancing the Design Quality Risk Management Strengthening •Preventing Pre-Design Errors We launched an exclusive risk management unit to make effective responses to various risks that might the Quality and We run the Engineering Review Team to minimize design errors and raise the quality for Korea’s first-ofits-kind 1,000MW coal thermal power plant currently in operation. The team consists of 120 employoccur in corporate management activities. Diverse non-financial risks including business risks are systematically managed that might occur in the course of operating the company. ENTERPRISE Risk ees, up 20% from a year ago, establishing and checking out a three-dimensional integration model on Management inter-facility or structural interferences. In the first phase, the Design Criteria Manual, the code applied and modifications made by applying the latest version are checked out, and if the design has been Enterprise Risk Management Organization We launched the Risk Management to manage project risks and corporate risks in a comprehensive implemented in consideration of constructability and economic feasibility is reviewed as well. Items manner in 2014. More efficient risk management has been made possible by strengthening inter-de| Organization of the design review team | with a high possibility of errors are closely monitored based on the data on the past experiences with partmental communication and forming an organic system for the unit management. the prior units. In the second phase, interferences and whether or not economic feasibility has been Plant Division applied between sectors are reaffirmed, and review is made on whether or not high-tech has been Risk Management Unit (Risk Management Team) applied to maintenance and operations. We have secured uniformity in design by project by operating Engineering Review Team as the encompassing unit at the headquarters. Design Review Team Cost & Technical Administration Team Administration Management Team Cost Management Team under the Nuclear Division •Establishing the After Sales Service for the Design Quality under the Plant Division under the NSSS Division Dangjin Samcheok Shin-Boryeong Taean We launched a Design Issue Response Team on design matters to make prompt response when the 9, 10 1, 2 1, 2 9, 10 design quality is pinpointed and to prevent the reoccurrence of design errors. The team promptly resolves quality issues through prompt measures, and conducts semiannual monitoring on the outcome Each Project Departments Each Project Departments (in charge of risk management by business) EPCM Department (in charge of EPCM risks) (in charge of risk management by business) of taking actions and shares them to prevent the reoccurrence and enhance the design quality. The Each Project Departments | Organization of the design issue response team | counteractions are reflected in the annual booklet on case studies for design improvement, which is in (in charge of risk management by business) turn shared with all the employees. In 2014, cracks were found in the hot temperature reheat pipe and Plant Division divided pipe for Yeongheung Units 2 & 3, so we made immediate actions by re-conducting stress analysis and submitting the review report. We replaced the pipe support and cracks to address the problem. Team Director of the Design Issue Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Response Team (head of the Design BG) •Project Risk Management (PRM) •Facilitating Site-oriented Walkdown and Feedback for Design We conduct systematic project risk management by reviewing risks and devising countermeasures per Head of the As the power plant construction process enters a late stage, there is a higher need for specific check Technology Group project. We check the rate of progress status and implement thorough process management for each and response for construction sites. We enhance the quality for design and construction based on project, while seamlessly managing project risk factors including profitability and liquidity based on the process / facility-specific walkdown and feedback for design. analysis of credit variations and cash flow of clients. In-depth risk analysis takes places for ongoing In charge of In charge of In charge of civil machinery electricity engineering In charge of renewable projects and projects under development. Risks are frequently identified, and corresponding reports energy & | Key inspection areas | In charge of In charge of In charge of pipes instrumentation architecture environment are written, thereby establishing and executing a series of circulating structure on observation, control, •Optimization of the equipment placement within turbine buildings response and back flow of risks. •Adequacy for equipment placement, access and maintenance space including turbines, Mechanical & Plant feed water heaters and various pumps, etc. Design Engineering •Construction status for main steam pipes, suitability for the position of pipe support, and •Corporate Risk Management (CRM) interferences, etc. We operate the management process for corporate risk that enables the projection of future risks and induces the setup of department-specific responsive measures through comprehensive reporting on •Identification of high-pressure cable / transformer connecting routes, and inspection of the major issues throughout the corporate operation including the management environment. We regularly Electrical, I & C construction state for ground connection monitor 55 corporate risk indicators including the debt ratio and operating income and manage conEngineering •Adequacy for the position for electricity / control panel opening and equipment placement solidated risks as a means to manage corporate risks. Civil & Architectural •Status of the application of finish materials, adequacy for the positioning of architectural Engineering equipment installed, etc. 46 47 Issue 05 KEPCO E&C Implementation of GRI Indicator : G4-LA2, G4-LA4, G4-LA10, G4-HR4 Talent Management Sustainability Report 2014 Implementation of Talent Management Implementation of Talent Management 3.05 HR Strategy System We strive to achieve management strategies by operating efficient training systems for employees. In particular, Implementation Seeking to secure the top-notch talents to lead changes, we have established a systematic process we strengthened job expertise by beefing up technical expertise, intensifying competencies to execute overseas of Talent ranging from recruitment, placement, evaluation and compensation. projects, establishing the Systematic Approach to Training (SAT) and reinforcing leadership competencies. Management HR Vision “HR management to develop the top-notch talents that will lead the change” Core Values Core Values Ideal Talents and Ideal Talents Challenges for the Expertise to Lead Respect and TrustChallenging Trusted Partners Future Expertise based Communication Pioneers Recruitment Recruitment transcending Competency-based Character & aptitude test Job competency test a resume review interview Placement ·Marketing / Sales ·R & D ·Engineering ·Contract ·Project Management ·Construction ·Management Evaluation Organizational evaluation Individual evaluation Individual performance evaluation + Competency Head office’s evaluation + Departmental evaluation evaluation + Individual personnel evaluation Compensation Compensation differentials Promotion Pay increase Commendation Rewards (performance-based salaries) Recruitment Eliminating unfair elements Promotion Evaluation Placement Performance / Competency Conducting the internal Conducting the NCSPromotion of female employevaluation required for job public opening and based recruitment system ees and position management execution company-wide job rotation transcending a resume test for high school graduates 01 Materiality 02 Vision and Strategies 03 Future Directions Talent Development We believe that securing and fostering competent talents and We have established a corporate culture to enable the re-deWe plan to work harder to put in place an HR system to secure •Reinforcing the Expertise and develop creative professionals befitting a global player | Mid-term plans to establish the SAT system | We have fostered convergent talents befitting the government’s initiative on the creative economy, raising welfare benefits and job satisfaction for employees are velopment of training programs for sustainable development of standing and operate the SAT. Moreover, we will continue to prerequisites for sustainable management. Moreover, we do the competitive talents and full exertion of all employees’ compewhile raising the level of job collaboration by operating lectures combining different duty field in the ‘Inutmost to forge a rational corporate culture based on seamless tencies based on the communication of the organization and extend continued support to guarantee employees’ satisfaction Laying the foundation for the SAT system (2014) tensive and Advanced Engineering Course.’ Moreover, voluntary study groups in the form of research and establish a cooperative culture between the labor and the communication among employees and between the labor and employees. We fulfill our responsibilities as a public institution management. the management. driven by wide-ranging welfare systems and rational recruitment council including the Design Research Council and Numerical Research Council were launched to •Establishing the comprehensive plans process for a stable work / life balance. •Launching a task force on SAT and benchmarking pave the way for the technical background for design technologies, thus raising expertise thereof. •Developing stages for individual qualification •Analyzing jobs and developing the training roadmap •Raising Competencies for Conducting Overseas Projects 04 Major Activities and Performance >> Stakeholder Comments We established a pool of local workforce earlier than scheduled by conducting the OJT on overseas Settling the SAT system (2015) Yun Hye-sun, General Manager of HRD Planning Team at sites for employees before they were dispatched to the EPC project in Ghana. We also conducted trainHuman Resources Development Center Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 •Making textbooks, training and evaluation in line with the ing on power industry policies and trends of advanced countries, EPC bidding design and contracting •Opened the Design Research Council (Jan. 2014) and Numerical Research course development Council (Dec. 2013) As an engineering company, KEPCO E & C puts the top priand case studies. Furthermore, we strengthened global competencies for overseas advancement by Total Workforce Person 2,223 2,299 2,297 ority on employee training because each and every employ•Pilot application to the nuclear sector •Commenced the development of individual-specific job qualification step to offering on-and offline and phone-based language courses and business skill courses. ee’s competency is a corporate asset. The per-head training •Conducting assessment for the verification of the establish the Systematic Approach to Training (SAT) (Jul. 2014) objectivity for SAT Newly employed Person 97 110 120 hours amounted to 118 hours in 2014, up 113% year-on-year, •Developed the job category-specific training and training courses (Jul. 2014) hinting at our huge investment in employee education and •Launched a training program to achieve organizational revitalization (Mar. 2014) •Improved the training program to strengthen leadership competencies Ratio of training. In particular, we systematically conduct the tech•Adopting the Systematic Approach to Training (SAT) employment of % 2.57 2.79 3.00 nical training to secure engineers’ competencies. In 2014, Embodying the SAT system (2016) (Aug. 2014) the disabled we opened courses aligned with other disciplinary courses We initiated the adoption of SAT to preemptively respond to training qualifications of international •Devised plans to re-establish the training system for KEPCO E & C (Oct. 2014) to conduct safety training for enhanced nuclear safety and convergent talent development as we strive to secure and •Analyzing the effectiveness of the SAT standards. The Systematic Approach to Training (SAT) is an educational and training system to devise •Placed orders for re-establishing the training management system (Nov. 2014) Return rate after % 100 100 100 childcare leave develop talents by unwaveringly improving the courses on •Correcting improvements to be made for the system necessary knowledge and technical requirements based on job analysis and to design and implement technicalities and expertise. •Expanding the scope of applying the SAT education and training accordingly. 48 49 ISSUE 05 Implementation of GRI Indicator : G4-LA2, G4-LA4, G4-LA10, G4-HR4 KEPCO E&C Talent Management Sustainability Report 2014 3.05 •Strengthening Leadership Capacities Reasonable Compensation and Welfare Benefits, and Fair Performance Implementation We have developed a customized leadership training program by designing a curriculum based on the diagnosis of individual competencies. Prior postal training boosted their interest in training and training Evaluation of Talent effectiveness, while customized training for individuals such as competency diagnosis and case disFamily-Friendly Programs A Fair and Rational Compensation System Optimized for Talent Management Management covery brought up their satisfaction with training. We have continued to stimulate their interest to apply their knowledge to work and induced intensive training. Policies Content Establishing a performance-based compensation and wage system Simplifying the wage system and securing transparency in its Operating a reasonable welfare benefit system Adopting fair and non-discriminatory wage and management welfare benefit system •Family Love Day •Expanded from biweekly to | Recruiting competent talents including new Talent Recruitment weekly •Introducing a performancebased salary differential •Offering a wage system with the basic salary, allowances •Establishing and developing wide-ranging welfare •Maintaining nondiscriminatory compensation •Employees’ Family •Events for families invited, system for executives and (including merit-based services of high efficiency and welfare benefit system recruits for 2014 | •Competency-Based Recruitment Inviting Day e.g. cultural experiences above wage) and performanceand low cost for the underprivileged for employees’ families in based salary •Eliminating discriminating •Strengthening adequate •Encouraging the usage of We adopted application forms based on candidates’ competencies, eliminating the document screenconjunction with the corporate compensation based on •Guaranteeing stronger the flexible working hour factors based on academic Employing talents equipped with job expertise they majored in building relocation, and the degrees and job type capabilities and performance efficiency and transparency system ing so that those without a good resume can still apply. We beefed up our competency interviews, while appointment ceremony for new including job position in wage management •Applying the equal welfare employees •Computerizing the welfare conducting capability-based assessment related to core competencies and jobs reflecting engineering benefits for high achievers by simplifying the benefit system benefit standard for all and performance-based compensation system employees Fostering local talents by reinforcing competency assessment •Maternity protection •Breastfeeding room, rest areas •Acquiring external (About 6% up year-on-year) features. programs for women, childcare leave and differential payment •Completing the transfer to acceptance for the welfare unlimited contract-based maternity leave recommended •Introducing performance benefit-related budget to use indicators for performance employees for continuously •Striving to help others allocation and administration working employees Customer-centered approach management •Understanding and satisfying internal and external customers Responding appropriately to the government’s employment policies including the competency-based recruitment of Basic Competencies high school graduates •Intensity and completion of actions to make improvement Innovation Seeking to reinforce fair compensation systems based on employees’ performance, we run reason•Openness and passion toward changes Filling in with competent technical workforce in a timely manner •Immersion and concentration to achieve goals able and fair compensation systems including adopting the differential system for basic salaries for Goal-oriented approach Making a Happy Workplace •Setting lofty goals and efforts to make improvement befitting the strategies including continued and ad-hoc manager-levels and above and simplifying the wage system. In order to manage our personnel in a fair overseas projects Job Competencies Professionalism •Strengthening global competitiveness and non-discriminatory manner, 14 continuously working employees were converted into unlimited •Perceiving the importance of developing expertise and level of learning Policies Content contractual ones. Amid more generous non-financial welfare benefits, we encourage the usage of the | Local talent employment rate | •HWP Campaign •Improving the drinking culture in flexible working hour system and have computerized the system for social networking groups. Morestaff dinner •Proactively Securing Top Technical Talents •Leaving-Work-On-Time over, the strategy-based performance management system has been sophisticated by introducing 38.7% Campaign 32.7% We have secured talents with potential competencies by constantly and continuously recruiting jun•Providing information on performance indicators reflecting organizational features and implementing the Best Practice (BP) traveling / cultural lifestyle Selection Committee. ior-level talents. For instance, we recruit talents by taking part in various job fairs: KAIST Nuclear Energy •Consulting on health at the company’s medical office Vision and Career Expo (May 2014); Job Plaza (Iljari Hanmadang) in North Gyeongsang Province (Sep. 2014); Job Fair for Public Officials (Oct. 2014); and 2014 Youth Dream Job Festival (Nov. 2014). We •Workplace culture •Training on prevention Facilitating Communication Channels with gender equality and prohibition of sexual 2014 Interns in 2014 also utilize experienced talents in diverse manners. We have continued to select experienced personnel harassment / trading Diverse programs are up and running to enhance mutual trust and share the awareness about pending (New employees in 2015) •Running a consulting service to execute projects and extend technologies aligned with the government’s policies to reinforce the on complaints about sexual issues driven by regular encounters among employees. Employees regularly eat their lunch with the harassment NPP safety. •Recommending childcare leave CEO to boost morale and self-pride. We also do the utmost to establish a culture for open communito male employees for role | Devising the basis for employment driven by the sharing on childcare cation among employees through the Communication Café and the Culture Day. Moreover, we spread National Competency Standard (NCS) | the culture of communication while raising the company-wide mutual understanding through cross •Activities for •Lunchtime with the CEO Establishing a competency-based Competency-based communication and •Running the Communication meetings, a rank-specific mentoring program and networking events among clubs. We also conduct consensus sharing Café systematic evaluation system evaluation among employees •Inter-departmental exchanges the labor-management meetings and employees’ meetings. We held one-on-one meetings between through cross meetings •General application form → Basic /Job competencies •Exchanges and communication the heads of groups and all employees, a management seminar for all employees on every Thursday of Competency-based application among clubs form •Running the job rank-specific the fourth week and presented explanations on the biannual work . Written test → Competency test Evaluation of job mentoring program Interview → Competency-based capabilities interview •Effective evaluation by Basic job capabilities distinguishing basic competencies Job capabilities and job competencies Laying the foundation to adopt the Verification of adequate NCS-based recruitment competencies Basic/Job •Providing consulting to adopted competencies •Seeking to establish a recruitment Communication procedure based on job competencies capabilities Global competencies First Yeollin Madang(Open Plaza) in 2014 at the Nuclear Division A communication forum with employees in Wolsoong and Kori 50 51 Issue 06 KEPCO E&C Initiating Strategic Social GRI Indicator : G4-EC7 Contribution Activities Sustainability Report 2014 Initiating Strategic Social Contribution Activities Initiating Strategic Social Contribution Activities 3.06 System to Initiate Social Contribution Our wide-ranging social contribution activities have flourished at home and abroad to Initiating We introduced a trustworthy program befitting a public institute, while trying to stay away from the generate economic performance as a public institution and create sustainable values in Strategic Social concept of one-time events as in mere donation offers or the showing of our corporate logo as a donor. Our social contribution activities are systematic and continuous as we unfold cooperation projects with communities. We will continue to convey warmth under the vision of becoming ‘a company Contribution outside parties for social contribution. that imbues warm energies to the world.’ Activities Vision for Social A company imbuing the warm energies to the world Contribution Strategies Creating a culture of voluntary Establishing a community network Contributing to social innovation charity work through a social Forming a corporate eco-system reflecting our corporate features contribution platform Tasks •Running the Chamsarang (gen•Engaging in eco-friendly social •Conducting voluntary charity uine love) Volunteering Group contribution work by employees •Volunteering in conjunction •Developing next-generation •Voluntarily raising funds for with communities tech-savvy talents volunteering Chamsarang (genuine love) Volunteering Group Organizations Volunteering group Volunteering group in the Volunteering group in Volunteering group in in the Management & Administration Division NSSS Division the Nuclear Division the Plant Division PDCA(Plan Do Plan Do Check Action Check Action) for •Running Chamsarang (genu•Evaluating the number •Setting plans for the •Setting plants for Management each year ine love) Volunteering Group of volunteering and fund volunteering group for by division (department) raising the next year Areas of Social Contribution and the Units in Charge We specify the areas for social contribution into the ones of core competencies, networking and employee engagement depending on the strategies and tasks carried out. Accordingly, we initiate social 01 Materiality 02 Vision and Strategies 03 Future Directions contribution activities by launching specific units. Corporate social contribution activities are considered as Our social contribution activities for communities are not merely We plan to scale up our social contribution programs by utilizing potential factors that greatly impact corporate growth over the one-dimensional as they are closely reflective of what we do in our corporate strengths. Specifically, we plan to expand international aid programs aligned with the countries with the presence | KEPCO E & C’s social contribution concept model | | KEPCO E & C’s 3 areas of social contribution | | KEPCO E & C’s units for social contribution | long haul beyond sharing happiness in individuals and commuthe industry. Our social contribution activities are strategies by of our overseas projects, and realign our strategies for volunteernities. Against this backdrop, we will fulfill our responsibilities to utilizing our competitiveness including engineering expertise ing in communities. We will also encourage stronger engagement secure competitive edges through strategic social contribution donation. of employees by extending mileage points when they take part in Core competency-based CSR Volunteering reflecting our corporate strengths and intensify the organizational Within the Volunteering volunteering and donation. Group at the Group district Power Engineering School and social values by boosting employees’ engagement and Management & at the Nuclear Technical training for those in Korea Administration Division loyalty to KEPCO E & C. Area for the Nuclear Meister High School / SMEs Division corporate relocation 04 Major Activities and Performance >> Stakeholder Comments Networking-based CSR Planning and performance KEPCO Aligned with institutions specialized in CSR management at Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Baek Hye-ja, Assistant Director of Gimcheon City E&C Sharing activities with communities for better bonding CSR Team •Conducting the second overseas (India) volunteering Government (Apr. 19~21, 2013) Budget planed for KRW 1,502,985,000 1,311,188,000 1,163,000,000 KEPCO E & C has spearheaded the efforts for mutual growth •Volunteering in activities under the One Company One Village campaign social contribution (May 8, 2014) between urban and rural areas by extending help in many Employee engagement-based CSR Amount of ways after signing a sisterhood relationship with Jaknae-ri Running volunteering groups autonomously formed Volunteering Volunteering •Participating in the second Hope Giving SR Sharing Road (Aug. 3, 2014) External donations KRW 1,089,044,000 2,104,828,460 2,897,477,050 Village with its office relocation in Gimcheon: installing PVs in Running the employee-matching fund Group at the Group partnering •Signing a social contribution partnership agreement with the Korean (accumulated) NSSS at the Plant a community hall, enabling direct transactions of agricultural institutions Red Cross (Nov. 18, 2014) Division Division goods, remodeling the community hall and helping in farmNumber of •Conducting the third international aid activities in the Philippines Number ing. It sets an example for other public institutions in that they volunteering hours 3,766 3,068 3,670 (Nov. 30 ~ Dec. 4, 2014) of hours continue with the precious relationship with local residents per individual •Opening the 8th PES Winter Camp (Jan. 5, 2015) here in many ways. Hopefully, they could expand the target Participation rate of scope for social contribution and extend support to bring •Donating the rainwater harvesting facilities in an elementary school in of employees in % 27 28 32 about long-term changes to the communities to make their Cote d’Ivoire (Jan. 20, 2015) volunteering social contribution activities more effective. 52 53 ISSUE 06 Initiating Strategic Social GRI Indicator : G4-EC7 KEPCO E&C Contribution Activities Sustainability Report 2014 Spearheading KEPCO E & C’s Specialized Social Contribution Activities Company 비즈니스 Profile ◎ Activities for Competency Sharing 경쟁력 ◎ Activities on Sharing with Communities •Donation of Talent Utilizing Technical Competencies •Volunteering in Global Aid Programs We contribute to developing engineering talents by fully utilizing the Along with the Korean Red Cross, we conducted our third international know-how on the world’s top-tier technologies. Under the goal to aid program in Tondo, the Philippines for the ‘2014 Overseas Develdevelop young nuclear talents, we conducted training for university opment and Cooperation Project’ as a relief activity for refugees in the students in science and engineering departments in Korea. They took middle of a disaster abroad. We also conducted the second overseas courses on the introduction on nuclear energy generation and joined volunteering program in Delhi and Agra, India on April 19 to 21 in 2013. our excursion trip to Hanbit Nuclear Power Plant. These programs Maintenance service was offered for a library at Gandhi Ashram School have been highly received by them since they can get hands-on exalong with detachable air conditioning. Experience programs to play with periences for the theories they learned at school on industrial sites children and care for the disabled were also up and running. and better prepare for their future career paths. We also invited high school students interested in the energy sector as well as young job 2014 Power Engineering School(PES) Summer Camp(7th season) •Domestic Volunteering Activities seekers in the districts with our corporate presence. They were in| Volunteering under the one company one village sisterhood campaign | troduced to our business scope and work we do, visited worksites We conducted volunteering on the Parents’ Day with local employees of major departments and had meetings in groups. These activities in Gimcheon City Hall and Daeyang-ri in Daeyang-ri in Gincheon City imbued them with a positive mindset about the future. Moreover, we in North Gyeongsang Province. The village is our sisterhood village offer opportunities for them to forge bonding to share dreams for the under the One Company One Village campaign. Various types of future based on constructive communication, e.g. expert mentoring, support was extended including donation of two TV sets in the village and explore visions for the future. Other activities include biannual community center, installation of curtains and spatial adjustment customized technical training sessions for employees of our business within the community hall. partners. This significantly contributes to their technical advancement and corporate partnership with us. 2015 Power Engineering School(PES) Winter Camp(8th season) We have also sponsored KEPCO International Nuclear Graduate School, developed curricula and supported the professional work| Sharing road at the windmill of hope SR campaign of the Korean Red Cross | force for lecturing. We have also made technology transfer by extending lectures for employees at Korea Nuclear Meister High School. We conducted the Sharing Road at the Windmill of Hope SR Campaign raising funds for a walkathon participated by 120 university students from Marado, the southern tip of Korea to Imjingak, the northern tip of Korea. In the campaign held for the second time, their walkathon •Installing Rainwater Recycling Facilities at an covering about 5 kilometers raised a fund worth KRW 5 million, which Elementary School in Cote d’Ivoire was handed over to the charity organization. We installed a rainwater recycling facility in an elementary school in | Helping out in a rural village | Gonzaqueville (Port-Bouet) in Abidjan on January 20, 2015 along with We helped out farmers in rural villages in Jaknae-ri and Daeyang-ri the Korean Embassy to Cote d’Ivoire and Halla Co., Ltd. This enabled in Gimcheon City in North Gyeongsang Province, Korea. About 50 its students to use the rainwater and groundwater in their daily life employees helped them harvest onions, cherries and others on the day where the tap water supply was absent, and also 450 students in in the harvesting season. impoverished areas to enjoy better education, and healthcare and hygiene conditions. 54 55 Issue 07 KEPCO E&C Spreading Corporate Partnershipa GRI Indicator : G4-12, G4-SO7 Sustainability Report 2014 Spreading Corporate Partnership Spreading Corporate Partnership 3.07 Strategies for Corporate Partnership We are aware that the growth of business partners propels our corporate competitiveness. Spreading We set a goal for corporate partnership to ‘realize a fair society by eradicating unfair practices and We continuously strive to secure technological competitiveness of business partners and form Corporate become a sustainable company to achieve the goal’ and devised four strategies to achieve it. We are firming our presence as a leading institution in spearheading corporate partnership by selecting tasks long-term partnerships. We will induce win-win cooperation with SMEs by adopting Partnership for each strategy and fulfilling them. wide-ranging corporate partnership programs. Goal ‘Realize a fair society and become a sustainable company to achieve the goal’ Strategies Reinforcing mutual Improving unfair thoughts, Implementing technical Establishing continued competitiveness by support programs to strategic cooperation practices and systems, extending support to SMEs boost business partners’ to spread a culture of and creating a fair trading to scale up their sales competencies corporate partnership environment channels Tasks •Proactive proceeds •Facilitating the performance •Technical support for and •Training for HR development payment and settlement to sharing system joint R&D with SMEs to enhance competitiveness eradicate unfair practices for business partners •Joint business develop•Provision of technical and forge relationships of ment and signing of MOUs consultation for business •Rewards to competent fair cooperation partners external personnel of •Establishment of a mon•Expanding the procurement business partners (1st and itoring system to remove ratio of SME products •Expanding the technology 2nd half of a year) bidding scandals and unfair sharing •Support for business •Technical training aligned trade practices partners’ participation in ex•Protecting core with employment •Improvement of infrastruchibitions and participation in technologies procurement seminars •Agreements and seminars ture by establishing a system on fair trade and corporate for corporate partnership partnerships Feedback Operating the ‘5 call a day’, Having the feedback gather channels Gathering feedback online by operating System Based on a system for collecting complaints open 24 / 7 through meetings with the Intermediate counseling channels (KMS and CTS) from business partners business partners Check Creating a Fair Trading Environment •Improving the Subcontracting Transactions 01 Materiality 02 Vision and Strategies 03 Future Directions We improved subcontracting transactions in improving the infrastructure to establish a system for corporate partnership with business partners. We continuously explore competent business partners In Korea, one of the top agenda is the relations between those that are domWe have set the top four strategic directions, that is, forming We will implement more effective technical and management inant in a contract and their subordinates as well as corporate partnership a fair transaction environment, supporting the expansion of support programs in order to intensify competitiveness of by facilitating the contract settlement on demand, and eliminated their entry barriers. Moreover, we give small-and medium-sized business partners. We will enhance our along with the discussion on economic democratization. There have been sales channels for SMEs, bringing in programs to strengthen extra points in bidding for competent companies based on regular evaluation on business partners. technological competitiveness of business partners and project increasing demands in the society and we see new laws coming up like the technological prowess of business partners and spreading the execution competencies by extending project-specific support By establishing IT systems in managing business partners, we computerize the tasks including the Fair Transaction Act and the Subcontractors’ Act. The most effective way to culture for win-win cooperation, and initiate corporate partand sharing technologies. Moreover, various forms of incentives attraction of, evaluation on and closing of deals with business partners, and shut off the possibilities of enhance the project quality is to boost the competitiveness of the whole supnership accordingly. Of particular note, we strive to foster their will be adopted to explore competent business partners and ply chain beyond the competencies of individual companies since various self-sufficiency over the long haul instead of merely extending maintain continued partnerships. the occurrence of irregularities in advance. business partners take part in such projects as NPPs’ and plants’. support to them. •Establishing a Transparent Contract Signing System 04 Major Activities and Performance >> Stakeholder Comments We operate a contractual system deliberation unit consisting of outside specialists in auditing, proSon Jeong-wan, Assistant Manager of the Corporate curement and legal affairs by reflecting recommendations from the Procurement System Improvement ● Creating jobs in the private sector (6,055 individuals) Culture Team of Human Resources Department under the Management & Administration Division Committee of the government. The unit deliberates on contractual directions and criticalities and erad● Conducting training for personnel development, e.g. customized icates bidding scandals involving public institutions and unfair contract transactions. Tapping onto our features as an institution that conducts comprehentechnical training for business partners (for 857 individuals) sive engineering projects for power plants, we jointly conduct technology development tasks with small-and medium-sized business ● Facilitating the performance sharing system (2 cases of cooperating), Conducting partners. We strive to intensify SMEs’ technological competitiveness joint technological developments tasks (participated by 20 companies) by jointly acquiring patents and conducting technical training on stronger competencies. Moreover, we contribute to the exploration ● Joint patent applications (2 cases) and registration (1 case) with SMEs, of sales channels for SMEs and stronger sales by jointly developing business and acquiring orders from clients with business partners. Licensing IPRs (9 cases) Befitting our role as ‘a comprehensive engineering company with technology focus,’ we will initiate our supporting business with a big ● Making inroads into overseas markets with domestic SMEs involved in design, goal for ‘corporate partnership through the expansion of technologiconstruction and manufacturing and supply of materials and equipment cal competitiveness of small-and medium-sized business partners.’ 56 57 ISSUE 07 Spreading Corporate Partnershipa GRI Indicator : G4-12, G4-SO7 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014 3.07 Supporting SMEs to Expand their Sales Channels A Stretch of Culture on Corporate Partnership Spreading We strengthen mutual competitiveness by expanding SMEs’ sales channels. Joint implementation of •Personnel Training on Competency Build-up for Business Partners Corporate the performance sharing system and technological development tasks enables synergies of collaboration with SMEs. MOUs have been signed with nine companies for joint business development including We conduct customized technical training for business partners consisting of 8 courses including nuclear power and machinery, along with the annual courses on the business basics at the Nuclear Division Partnership MAC ENGineering and projects are conducted jointly. Moreover, the portion of joint procurement ratio including the business quality warranty. Training is also on the cable layering management in conjunction for SME products is gradually scaling up(from 61.9% in 2013 to 65.1% in 2014). We also organized with the SME job training courses under Myongji University’s industry-academia cooperation program. In technology / procurement seminars to initiate SME product purchase as well as SME product exhibiaddition, we operate ‘Power Engineering School’ of domestic-oriented universities. (Participated by 33 tions including the International Nuclear Energy Korea 2014. universities and 131 students) •Signing Contract on Training Aligned with Employment Programs to Strengthen Technological Prowess of Business Partners Plant Division’s Business Partner Meeting for corporate partnership Seeking to close a deal on personnel development as well as technological development for NPPs, we •Expanding the Technology Sharing signed an agreement on technological development on decommissioning of NPPs with North GyeoWe made our intellectual property right available for joint technology development on nine cases includngsang Province. We also initiated a personnel development project specialized for communities with ing the IT-driven PIPOST program. We also completed the filing and issuance of the joint patent for the Kimcheon Science College so that competent CAD personnel could be employed in our business part3D-based advanced pipe wall thinning program. nering companies. We signed an industry-academia cooperation agreement with PyungHae Technical High School to provide benefits including the joint development of personnel development programs and texts, joint utilization of training facilities and job alignment to business partners. •Joint R & D We jointly conduct the government-sponsored technological development tasks including core protection for export and core monitoring system development in conjunction with 11 companies includ•Seminars on Voice of Business Partners’ Employees ing ESI Korea. Moreover, we jointly conduct our exclusive technological development tasks including We conduct seminars to enhance our design quality and listen to complaints of our business partners’ the development of VDU software for safety grading with nine companies including Incore Technology. employees. In September 2014, we kicked off a rally to pledge on improving the design quality with busiA Rally to Pledge on the Improvement of the Design Quality with Business Partners engaged in the BNPP nuclear power plants ness partners, from which, a total of three seminars thereof have been conducted. We plan to continuously organize seminars with them to upgrade the product quality and facilitate mutual communication. •Technical Consulting for Business Partners Upon the request from business partners within our Knowledge Management System (KMS) for techType Details and Performance nical consulting, our specialists in each field offer consulting services. Technical advice is also given to A Rally to Pledge on the Improvement of the Design Quality Pledging on stronger design quality, listening to business partner them through the online technical inquiries service at the in-house Customer Technological Support with Business Partners engaged in the UAE nuclear power employees’ complaints and accepting their proposals (32 people from 17 plants business partners including Kyungil Engineering participated) (CTS) as well as the Customer Service Center on our website. Sharing ideas on the current status of the nuclear industry, and visions NSSS’s extension of workforce for support and seminar for & values within, listening to complaints from business partners and outside technical specialists taking their suggestions (68 people from five business partners including •Protection Core Technologies SysOne participated) We protect SMEs’ technologies through the technological data escrow system. Discussing on establishing a system for continued cooperation and collaboration amid the higher order volume to subcontracting players and Plant Division’s Business Partner Meeting our relocation of the building to a local region (50 people participated from 39 business partners including Kunhwa Engineering & Consulting) | Performance in training on competency build-up for business partners | (Unit: Number of people) | 2013 | | 2014 | Basic training at the Training under Nuclear Division industry-academia 40 cooperation 325 Basic training at the Nuclear Basic training on IPIMS 374 Customized technical Division 122 857 Customized 20 training for technical training business for business partners Basic training on partners The CEO attending the 2014 International Nuclear Energy Korea Equipment for core protection development for export A screen shot of the KMS 286 IPIMS 48 362 58 59 Performance Company Profile KEPCO E&C Business Competitiveness for Sustainable Sustainability Report Management 2014 Performance for Company 비즈니스 Sustainable Management Profile 경쟁력 60 | Performance in Economic Value Creation 61 | Performance in the Generation of Environmental Value 63 | Performance in Creating Social Value 60 61 Performance Performance in Economic GRI Indicator : G4-9, G4-EC1 KEPCO E&C Performance in the Generation of GRI Indicator : G4-EC2, G4-EN15, G4-EN16 Value Creation Environmental Value for Sustainable Sustainability Report Management 2014 4.01 4.02 Financial Statements Eco-friendly Technological Development Performance in Performance in In accordance with the government’s new & renewable energy distribution and dissipation, environEconomic Value | Summary of financial statements | (Unit: KRW) the Generation mental preservation and GHG reduction policies, new & renewable energy and eco-friendly projects are gaining significant attention. As a continued growth momentum is expected, we plan to gradually Creation 2013 2014 of Environmental scale up eco-friendly R & D expenses and workforce in securing new growth engines. Eco-friendly R | Revenues | Current assets Non-current assets 478,851,128,789 281,652,530,423 355,292,163,952 422,320,285,937 Value & D development workforce and expenses injected for 2014 reached KRW 260.9 million and KRW 6 billion, respectively, up 43% and 71% year-on-year. KRW 841.9 billion Total assets 760,503,659,212 777,612,449,889 KRW 755.5 billion Current liabilities 336,047,367,532 315,766,213,721 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Non-current liabilities 42,406,345,455 54,715,728,811 Personnel for eco-friendly R & D Personnel for eco-friendly R & D MM 103.2 182.2 260.9 Total liabilities 378,453,712,987 370,481,942,532 Up by 43% Eco-friendly R & D expenses KRW 100 million 9 35 60 Total shareholders’ equity 382,049,946,225 407,130,507,357 (compared to 2013) 2013 2014 Eco-friendly R & D expenses GHG Emission and Energy Usage | Summary of income statement | (Unit: KRW) Up by 71% The indoor temperature is kept below 20℃ in winter, minimizing the amount of energy used for heating | Amount of orders placed | (compared to 2013) by providing warm innerwear and lap blankets to employees and dissuading them from using personal 2013 2014 KRW 1,318.3 billion Sales 755,483,850,812 841,917,292,827 electric heating instrument. In summer, meanwhile, the indoor temperature is kept above 28℃, recomAmount of GHG discharged Cost of goods sold 604,981,183,987 669,739,244,055 mending employees to wear casual clothes to minimize the amount of energy used. The total amount SG & A 116,679,025,717 105,625,922,866 Down by 4% of GHG discharged in 2014 reached 3,324tCO2eq, down about 4% year-on-year. Our passionate Operating income 33,823,641,108 66,552,125,906 (compared to 2013) endeavors to reduce the amount of energy used decreased the amount of city gas and electricity used Non-operating profit and loss 13,547,804,811 4,107,114,310 by 5% and 3%, respectively. KRW 369.2 billion Income before income taxes 47,371,445,919 70,659,240,216 Corporate tax expenses 12,964,231,547 15,900,240,955 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Net income 34,407,214,372 54,758,999,261 GHG emissions tCO₂ eq 3,751.49 3,474.52 3,324.15 Direct emissions tCO₂ eq 753.89 743.22 685.58 Indirect emissions tCO₂ eq 2,997.60 2,731.30 2,638.57 2013 2014 Analysis of Financial Performance Amount of the city gas used ㎥ 161,367 169,173 160,381 Amount of electricity used MWh 6,429 5,858 5,659 As the system for solid management is fully established, we achieved a stronger performance year-on| Operating income ratio | year in financials in 2014. The amount of revenues and new contract received went up 11% and 257%, 7.9% respectively on the growth side, which led to the growth in total assets and equity capital, thus achieving Water Usage 4.5% a high external growth. The operating profit margin improved from 4.5% in 2013 to 7.9% in 2014 driven by our profit-guaranteed EPC projects and core competency project-oriented project development. Our employees reduce the amount of water consumed at KEPCO E & C to practice the environmental We procured the fund for constructing our new building with our exclusive capital as much as possible protection. Effluent and household wastewater purification facilities are up and running in B3 of the 2013 2014 on the stability side. We also maintain a stable debt ratio based on systematic monitoring on operating head office. The final discharging volume is less than the legal threshold of 10ppm thanks to lawful debts including trade payables resulting from EPC projects. management. The amount of water used in 2014 stood at 45,918 tons, approximately up 3,000 tons from the previous year. | Debt ratio | We will enhance profitability and stability in the financial structure by scaling up the revenues for overType Unit 2012 2013 2014 99.1% seas projects, initiating projects guaranteed with profitability driven by stringent deliberation and risk Amount of water used ton 49,724 42,396 45,918 91.0% management and establishment of scenario-specific fund planning. 2013 2014 62 63 Performance Performance in the Generation of GRI Indicator : G4-EC2, G4-EN15, G4-EN16 KEPCO E&C Performance in Creating GRI Indicator : G4-11, G4-LA1, G4-LA3, G4-LA9, G4-HR4 Environmental Value Social Value for Sustainable Sustainability Report Management 2014 4.02 4.03 Generating the Household Waste Performance in Talent Management Performance in We minimize the impact on the environment by using the food waste as animal feed, while discharging Performance in We met the government-recommended rate of 3% for employing the disabled by conducting socially the Generation no industrial waste such as severely harmful materials. Other household waste is compressed after collecting it by type, installed in designated spots, and collected and treated through a designated Creating Social equitable employment, while the number of new employees steadily went up as we fulfill our social responsibilities. As of 2014-end, the number of employees reached 2,173, up 47 people from a year of Environmental company in Yongin City. In 2014, the amount of household waste discharged hit 27 tons, down 25% Value ago. We encourage male employees to utilize childcare leave as well as female ones for them to strike Value year-on-year. a work/life balance, and minimize industrial accidents to settle a safety culture. Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Household Waste ton 32 36 27 Rate of employment of the disabled Regular Number of 3% employees people 2,063 2,126 2,173 Non-regular Number of 160 173 124 employees people Amount of household waste discharged Recycling Waste Paper Number of training hours per individual Number of Down by 25% We separate and collect the waste paper generated in our offices, and transfer it to waste collectors. 118 hours Total employees Men people 2,032 2,086 2,067 (compared to 2013) Number of Women 191 213 230 They submit a waste treatment certificate after handling it. In 2014, the amount of waste paper recycled people reached 89 tons, down 7% from the previous year. Accident rate Total Number of 2,223 2,299 2,297 people Amount of waste paper recycled 0% Ratio of employment of the disabled % 2.57 2.79 3.00 89 tons Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 New employment Number of 97 110 120 Recycling Waste Paper ton 92.5 95.5 89.0 people Number of Retirement 86 48 77 people Treating Wasted Acid Turnover Number of people 62 17 45 We collect the total amount of wasted acid used for boiler cleaning for heating and recycle it through a Number of Men 1 6 7 cases Childcare leave recycling company. We report to local governments for the results. The amount of wasted acid in 2014 Number of Women 9 17 13 cases is one ton, and there have been no changes for the past three years. Return rate after childcare Men % 100 100 100 leave Women % 100 100 100 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Number of Wasted Acid ton 1 1 1 Number of training hours per individual 103 104 118 hours Number of Number of 5 1 0 Industrial accident accidents cases Accident rate % 0.23 0.05 0 Number of Rate of subscription to the labor union 1,511 1,452 1,502 people Performance in Customer Satisfying Management We computerize and systematically manage customers’ information by business department. We also have the VOC collection channel available on our website to receive and handle customers’ inquiries and complaints in real time. Moreover, we strive to improve weaknesses based on survey outcome, while conducting regular customer satisfaction surveys for clients and business partners. 64 65 Performance Performance in Creating GRI Indicator : G4-11, G4-LA1, G4-LA3, G4-LA9, G4-HR4 KEPCO E&C Business Competitiveness Social Value for Sustainable Sustainability Report Management 2014 4.03 Appendix Performance in Corporate Partnership Performance in In 2014, we achieved strong results in corporate partnership. We created 6,055 jobs in the private sec비즈니스 Creating Social tor, up 49% from the previous year, and exceeded our goal for 2014 for technical training for personnel in business partners and joint business development. Wide-ranging programs take place to stabilize 경쟁력 Value corporate management of business partners including adjustment of unit price of the supplied products and advance payment. We scale up the purchase records from the disabled, women and SMEs. | Creating jobs and strengthening competencies | Type Unit 2013 Goals for 2014 2014 Track records in creating jobs in the Number of 4,308 4,954 6,055 private level people Technical training for personnel in Number of 586 550 726 business partners people Performance in executing joint KRW 100 124.5 186.8 808 project development million | Social purchasing | Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Companies operated by 1.4 7.5 6.5 the disabled KRW 100 Social purchasing Products of technology million 9 13 15 development SMEs 2,548 4,540 4,605 Performance in Social Contribution We operate autonomous volunteering programs in small groups as well as the matching fund for our social contribution activities. We will enhance our employees’ awareness of social contribution to induce their more proactive engagement. | Track records in social contribution | Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Number of Number of people 1,269 2,016 2,135 participants Matching Fund Amount of funds KRW 10,000 8,800 7,039 8,000 raised Number of Autonomous Number of people 46 130 40 participants volunteering in small groups Amount of KRW 10,000 330 850 250 donations 66 67 APPENDIX Independent Assurance Statement GRI Indicator : G4-33 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014 5.01 To The Stakeholders of KEPCO E & C Independent Assurance Introduction and objectives of work •The Report properly reflects the organization’s alignment to and implementation of the AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) principles of IncluKey areas for ongoing development Statement IMCSR (the ‘assurance provider’ hereafter) has been engaged by KEPCO E & C to conduct an independent assurance of its 2014 KEPCO E & C Sustainability Report (the ‘Report’ hereafter). This assursivity, Materiality and Responsiveness in its operations. Further detail is Based on the work conducted, we recommend KEPCO E & C to consider the following: provided below; ance statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. •KEPCO E & C is advised to operate sustainability reporting task forces The information and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management of more strategically to enlarge employee’s participation in the process of KEPCO E & C. The assurance provider was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responAlignment with the principles of AA1000AS information collection and reporting; sibility was to provide independent assurance on its content. (2008) •In order to integrate the material issues recognized from the stakeholders Inclusivity engagement into the corporate sustainability strategy, it is recommended Scope of work KEPCO E & C has gathered major concerns and opinions from key staketo organize and operate a highest organization system such as a sustainholders, including its employees, government, shareholders, investors, ability committee (CSR committee); The assurance process was conducted in line with the requirements of the Assurance Standard AA1000AS (2008) Type1 assurance. The scope of work included: customers, business partners, local communities and customers through •Data and information included in the Report for the reporting period; stakeholder communication channels. Limitations and Exclusions •Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information reanalyze and review the information reported; Materiality lating to: •Evaluation of the Report against the main principles of the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008); The Report addresses the range of environmental, social and economic •Activities outside the defined assurance period; Inclusivity issues of concern that KEPCO E & C has identified as being of highest ma•Expressions of opinion, belief, aim or future intention by KEPCO E & C and Materiality terial importance. The identification of material issues has considered both statements of future commitment; Responsiveness internal assessments of risks and opportunities to the business, as well as •Evaluation against GRI G4 ‘In Accordance’ Criteria; stakeholders’ views and concerns. Statement of independence, impartiality and The moderate level of assurance has been applied. competence Responsiveness No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with KEPCO Methodology KEPCO E & C has identified the impact of its business decisions on stakeE & C. We have conducted this assurance independently, and there has As part of its independent assurance, the assurance provider undertook the following activities: holders and responded properly with coherent actions. The Report prebeen no conflict of interest. •Interviews with relevant personnel of KEPCO E & C; sents related performances in its Disclosures on Management Approach The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance •Review of documentary evidence produced by KEPCO E & C; (DMA) sections. over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, sys•Audit of performance data; •Based on our work, it is our opinion that the Report has been prepared in tems and processes, and an excellent understanding of standard method•Site visits; accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4. Further detail is provided ology for the assurance of sustainability reports. •Review of data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and review; below; •Review of stakeholder engagement activities; Our work was conducted against standard procedures and guidelines for external assurance of susGeneral Standard Disclosures tainability reports. The assurance provider reviewed General Standard Disclosures, and June, 2015 believes that the Report meets the Core Option requirements of General Hyun Lee, CEO & Founder, IMCSR Our findings Standard Disclosures. The assurance provider reviewed the report draft and presented our opinions, and made amendments of the report when necessary. On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it Specific Standard Disclosures is our opinion that: The assurance provider reviewed Material Aspects, DMAs and Indicators, •The assurance provider arrived at the conclusion that the content of this Report reflects the sustainaand believes that the Report meets the Core Option requirements of Spebility of KEPCO E & C management void of significant errors or biases. The information is presented in cific Standard Disclosures. a clear, understandable and accessible manner, and allows stakeholders to form a balanced opinion over KEPCO E & C’s performance and status during the reporting period; 68 69 APPENDIX GRI Index GRI Indicator : G4-32 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014 5.02 General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures GRI Index •CATEGORY : ECONOMIC Reporting External Assurance Indicators Managerial Issues Report Contents External Assurance Position Assurance Status Page Reporting Indicators Managerial Issues Report Contents Position Assurance Status Page Strategy and Analysis Economic Performance G4-1 CEO Message 4~5 V 66~67 Generic DMA 28 V 66~67 Organizational Profile EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 60 V 66~67 G4-3 Report the name of the organization 6 V 66~67 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 33, 61 V 66~67 G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 9~11 V 66~67 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-5 The location of the organization's headquarters 6 V 66~67 Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 50 V 66~67 The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has G4-6 12~13 V 66~67 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 51~53 V 66~67 G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 6 V 66~67 G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 8~13 V 66~67 G4-9 Scale of the organization 6, 7, 60 V 66~67 G4-10 Total workforce 7, 13 V 66~67 •CATEGORY : ENVIRONMENTAL G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 63 V 66~67 G4-12 The organization's supply chain 54 V 66~67 Reporting External Assurance Indicators Managerial Issues Report Contents G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 6 V 66~67 Position Assurance Status Page G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 45 V 66~67 Emissions List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 32~33 V 66~67 G4-15 73~75 V 66~67 organization subscribes or endorses EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(Scope1) 61 V 66~67 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national / international advocacy organizations in which G4-16 73~75 V 66~67 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(Scope2) 61 V 66~67 the organization Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Products and Services G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 6~7 V 66~67 Generic DMA 33 V 66~67 G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 23~25 V 66~67 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 33 V 66~67 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 23~25 V 66~67 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization 23~25 V 66~67 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 23~25 V 66~67 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 2 V 66~67 •CATEGORY : SOCIAL G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 2 V 66~67 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Stakeholder Engagement Reporting External Assurance G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 22 V 66~67 Indicators Managerial Issues Report Contents Position Assurance Status Page G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 22 V 66~67 Employment G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 22 V 66~67 Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 46 V 66~67 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded G4-27 22 V 66~67 to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 63 V 66~67 Report Profile Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant LA2 49 V 66~67 locations of operation G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 2 V 66~67 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 63 V 66~67 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 2 V 66~67 Labor / Management Relations G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biannual) 2 V 66~67 Generic DMA 46 V 66~67 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 V 66~67 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 68~70 V 66~67 LA4 49 V 66~67 agreements G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 66~67 V 66~67 Occupational Health and Safety Governance Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 38 V 66~67 G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 20~21 V 66~67 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workLA6 39~41 V 66~67 Ethics and Integrity related fatalities, by region and by gender Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 39~41 V 66~67 G4-56 18, 34~37 V 66~67 ethics Training and Education Generic DMA 46 V 66~67 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category 63 V 66~67 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them LA10 47 V 66~67 in managing career endings 70 71 APPENDIX GRI Index GRI Indicator : G4-32 KEPCO E&C UNGC Sustainability Report 2014 5.02 5.03 KEPCO E & C has subscribed to the UN Global Compact since 2007, complying with 10 principles in GRI Index UNgc 4 sectors, that is, human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to growing further as Korea’s representative leading company in sustainable management by reflecting international standards on our sustainable management and solidifying our willingness toward social responHUMAN RIGHTS sibilities. Reporting External Assurance Indicators Managerial Issues Report Contents Type Principles KEPCO E & C’s Activities and Responses Page Position Assurance Status Page Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining ➊ We support and respect the protection of •Compliance with the ISO 26000 72 internationally proclaimed human rights. Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 46 V 66~67 Human Rights Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining •Conducting prevention training against sexual HR4 49, 63 V 66~67 ➋ We make sure that we are not complicit in may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights harassment for employees to prevent human 36 human rights abuses. rights violation ➌ We uphold the freedom of association and the •As of 2014, 1,502 employees are subscribed to effective recognition of the right to collective 63 the labor union bargaining. ➍ We eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory SOCIETY labor. •Facilitating channels for employee communication to detect and improve unfair labor practices Labor 49 •Running wide-ranging welfare benefit programs External Assurance Standards ➎ We effectively abolish child labor. Reporting for a work/life balance Indicators Managerial Issues Report Contents Position Assurance Status Page •Ensuring a fair talent recruitment based on their Anti-corruption ➏ We eliminate discrimination in respect of competencies 47~49 Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 34 V 66~67 employment and occupation. •Establishing a system for performance-based compensation and wage SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 35~37 V 66~67 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 35~37 V 66~67 ➐ We support a precautionary approach to •Striving to reduce the amount of energy used for environmental challenges. heating and cooling Anti-competitive Behavior •Reducing the amount of water used and managing Generic DMA 54 V 66~67 the quality of effluent and wastewater ➑ We undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment 61~62 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 55 V 66~67 environmental responsibility. •Reducing emissions from household waste •Recycling waste paper ➒ We encourage the development and diffusion of •Extending workforce and development cost for environmentally friendly technologies. eco-friendly technological development •Strengthening ethical management and the ➓W  e work against corruption in all its forms, internal control system PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Anticorruption including extortion and bribery. •Running the employee participation-based ethical 34~37 management programs Reporting External Assurance Indicators Managerial Issues Report Contents Position Assurance Status Page Customer Health and Safety Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 42 V 66~67 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for PR1 43~44 V 66~67 improvement 72 73 APPENDIX ISO 26000 KEPCO E&C Awards and Subscriptions to GRI Indicator : G4-15, G4-16 Associations Sustainability Report 2014 5.04 5.05 Core Topics Key Issues Page ISO 26000 Index Awards ISO 26000 Corporate governance Decision-making process and structure Due diligence 20~21 6.2 6.2.3 6.3.3 Awards and •Winning a Prize in the 2015 Nuclear Technology Transfer Award Situations with risks on human rights Avoiding public offering 6.3.4 6.3.5 Subscriptions to KEPCO E & C’s Business Group(BG) of the Nuclear Division won in the nuclear design and equipment Human rights Handling complaints Anti-discrimination and protection for the underprivileged 18 34~37 6.3 6.3.6 6.3.7 Associations production category of the Korea Nuclear Technology Award presented by the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning at the Korean Atomic Power Annual Conference 2015. The Nuclear Technology 46~49 Civic rights and political rights 6.3.8 Transfer Award has been presented to individuals and groups that contributed to the development Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 of the nuclear industry and enhancement of nuclear technologies on a yearly basis. KEPCO E & C’s Basic principles and rights in labor 6.3.10 Business Group(BG) of the Nuclear Division won the prize due to its achievement in enhancing the NPP Labor and labor relations 6.4.3 Working conditions and social protection 6.4.4 safety and reliability for 30 years by operating the NPP systems in Korea, safety analysis for structures Labor practices Social dialogue 46~49 6.4 6.4.5 and equipment, performance assessment and design improvement. It is also known to have signifiHealthcare and safety in labor 6.4.6 cantly contributed to the public’s greater confidence in NPPs as well as stable operation of the NPPs HR development and training in labor 6.4.7 in operation driven by extending prompt on-site technical support upon the occurrence of failures in a Anti-pollution 6.5.3 power plant, systematically utilizing experts dispatched in the head office and on sites. Sustainable use of resources 6.5.4 Environment Easing of climate change and adaptation 61~62 6.5 6.5.5 Natural protection, bio-diversity and recovery of natural 6.5.6 habitats Anti-corruption 6.6.3 Accountable political engagement 6.6.4 34~37 Practices of fair operations Fair competitions 6.6 6.6.5 54~57 Facilitating social responsibilities in the value chain 6.6.6 Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Fair marketing, unbiased information and contract practices 6.7.3 Consumer healthcare and safety protection 6.7.4 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 32~33 Consumer service, support and complaint & dispute Consumer issues 42~44 6.7 6.7.6 resolution 63 Consumer information and privacy protection 6.7.7 Approach to essential services 6.7.8 Training and awareness 6.7.9 Community engagement 6.8.3 Training and culture 6.8.4 Job creation and functional development 6.8.5 Community engagement and Technological development and accessibility 50~53 6.8 6.8.6 development Wealth and income generation 6.8.7 Healthcare 6.8.8 Social investment 6.8.9 74 75 APPENDIX Awards and Subscriptions to GRI Indicator : G4-15, G4-16 KEPCO E&C Associations Sustainability Report 2014 5.05 Memberships to Associations Memberships to Associations Awards and •Memberships to Organizations •Memberships to Technology-related Organizations Subscriptions to Associations Korea Listed Companies Association Institute of Internal Auditors Korea Korean Association for Industrial Technology Security Korean Society of Archival Studies Korea Construction Engineers Association Korea Electric Engineering Association International Systems and Automation (ISA) Korean Society of Civil Engineers Auditors’ Council for Electric Groups Archival Management Forum Korea Engineering & Consulting Association Korea Concrete Institute Korean Standards Association Korean Society of Archival Studies Korea Electric Association Korean Society of Steel Construction Korea Institute of Quality Management Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Earthquake Engineering Society of Korea CEOs’ Breakfast Seminar of Korean Standards Association Construction Association of Korea Korean Nuclear Society The Geological Society of Korea Construction Safety Manager Association Korea New & Renewable Energy Association Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea water Resources Association Construction Safety Association Korea Association of ESCO International Electrical Research Exchange (IERE) The Korean Society of Engineering Geology Seoul Bar Association Korea Association of Surveying and Mapping Korea Energy Foundation (WEC Korea Committee) ACI (American Concrete Institute) NY State Office of Court AD. Korea Fire Facility Association Korea Electrical Engineering & Science Research Institute Architecture Institute of Korea Korea Listed Companies Association Korea International Trade Association Korea Engineers Club ASTM-D33 Technical Committee Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Electrical Construction Association AESIEAP The Korean Structural Engineers Association Korea Exchange Korea Information & Comm Contractors Association Energy Future Forum Korean Institute of Landscape Architecture Yongin Chamber of Commerce and Industry International Contractors Association of Korea Korea Forum of Chief Information Officers Korea Project Management Association (KPMA) Membership fees for Korea Electric Engineers Association Korea Engineering & Consulting Association Korea Institute of Information Security and Cryptology Korean Institute Of Construction Engineering and Management Emergency Planning Council under the Ministry of Trade, Korea Construction Consulting Engineers Association Korea Atomic Equipment Advancement Association ASME PVP Industry and Energy Korea Fire Facility Association Society for Women in Nuclear Power Korean Society of Pressure vessels & Piping Korea Productivity Center Korea Plant Industries Association Korea Association for Fusion Energy and Accelerator The Corrosion Science Society of Korea Korea Personnel Improvement Association Technology Korea Electric Engineers Association RANDEC (Radwaste & Decommissioning Center) CFO Academy Women in Nuclear Korea Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation CICIND (International Committee on Industrial Chimneys) Korean HR Managers’ Monthly Meeting The Korean Radioactive waste Society Korea Special Library Association Computational Structural Engineering Institute of Korea Korea Management Association Korean Association for Radiation Protection Integrated Defense Council of Daeduck Research Complex Korean Geotechnical Society Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers Council of the Heads of Daeduck R&D Special Institutions Korean Institute of Navigation and Port Research Korean Society for Mechanical Engineers Korea Plant Engineering Council The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers-Studies (Energy and Power Engineering) Association Korea Institute of Fire Science and Engineering Korea Smart Grid Association Computational Structural Engineering Institute of Korea Korea CCS Association International Desalination Association (Korea Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage Association) ASME Korean Association of Environmental Impact Assessment The Korean Society for Noise and Vibration Engineering Korea wind Energy Industry Association Power Standard Operating Council Korea New & Renewable Energy Association The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers WNA (World Nuclear Association) The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Council Korean Standards Association IEEE (Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers) Korea Institute of Quality Management The Institute of Electronics Engineers of Korea Korea Institute of Plant Engineering & Construction The Ergonomics Society of Korea Korean Association of Ocean Science and Technology Societies Korea Instrument and Controls Professional Engineers Association Korean Energy Climate Environment Council Korean Society of Project Management (KSPM) This report was printed on eco-friendly paper 269, Hyeoksin-ro, Gimcheon-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, South Korea 740-220 Tel. 82-54-421-3103 / www.kepco-enc.com
