un global compact communication on progress 2015 communication on progress 2015 CEBRA a/s Vesterbro Torv 1-3, 2. sal 8000 Aarhus C Denmark P: +45 8730 3439 E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk STATEMENT OF SUPPORT CEBRA joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 and we hereby state our continued support of the initiative. We commit ourselves to continuously implementing the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in our vision, strategy and every-day practice. At CEBRA, we insist on thinking all our business aspects within a sustainable context. Keeping the Global Compact principles in mind, we work with the belief that through our professional expertise as architects, we are able to promote, develop and initiate significant and substantial changes, which provide a lasting and sustainable framework for our societies. Our goal is to challenge the world we and our architecture live in through a holistic approach to sustainability, which takes environmental, social, economic and cultural aspects into account. Hence, I am pleased to place my signature and post our Communication on Progress, stating our continued support and efforts regarding the application and instrumentalisation of the ten principles. Aarhus, 05.08.2015 Kolja Nielsen CEO, architect MAA & RIBA CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 01 CEBRA A/s Vesterbro Torv 1-3, 2 8000 Aarhus C Denmark P: +45 8730 3439 E: cebra@cebra.info W: www.CEBRAarchitecture.dk oRgAnisAtion CEBRA is a Danish architecture and design practice, founded in 2001 by architects Mikkel Frost, Carsten Primdahl and Kolja Nielsen. The office employs a multidisciplinary international staff of 30 architects, constructing architects, urban planners, academics and administrative personnel. CEBRA is run by a management team consisting of the three founding partners, who are at the head of the office’s creative work and strategic development. The three partners are all members of Danish Architects’ Association and RIBA and CEBRA is a member of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms. Since the office was founded in 2001 CEBRA has gained recognition through award winning projects in Scandinavia and a growing international portfolio. CEBRA covers all architectural disciplines and is providing services throughout all project phases – from client advisory over idea and concept development to project and construction management as well as technical supervision. The projects cover a wide field of scales and typologies and range from urban planning over new buildings to extensions, refurbishment and the combination of exisiting and new structures, including listed buildings and cultural heritage sites. pRofilE CEBRA is a multidisciplinary Danish practice that focuses on progressive architecture and design, from buildings and public spaces to large scale urban planning. Architecture is universal and a meeting between cultures and disciplines. Our staff consists of skilled people with specialised talents from Denmark and all around the world with one thing in common, the passion for architecture. CEBRA’s ideology is very spacious it mutates and adapts according to circumstances, yet always remains relevant and modern. Despite the ideological diversity, there is a signature in CEBRA’s architecture a certain way of doing things in terms of design and architectural spaces, an aesthetic preference that unites the variety of our projects. CEBRA’s working process is based on dialogue and we consider our work to be interdisciplinary, collaborative and content driven with an underlying sustainable scope, making social responsibility and user needs the creative fuel for our architecture. That is why CEBRA’s architecture is often called people friendly, whether we design housings, schools or an entire neighborhood. It merges human empathy and architectural expression into individual projects that adapt to their local context, their social environment and their users. 02 human rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. CEBRA complies with the 30 articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and with Danish national legislation, which meets the standards of international conventions. As architects, we have the privilege and the proffesional responsibility to design lasting and sustainable frames for human life aiming at increasing life quality continuously. At CEBRA, social responsibility and user needs are make up the creative fuel of our architecture.Thereby, we actively support, promote and contribute to the development of environments, which secure the enjoyment of human rights. Amongst these environments, CEBRA works intensively with the development and design of the school and educational institutions of the future. CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 04 Labour PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CEBRA supports the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and complies with Danish work legislation. CEBRA is a member of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms, which collaborates with The Danish Union of Salaried Architects and the Danish Architects’ Association. These organizations safeguard and balance individual and commercial interests as regards collective bargaining, legislation concerning salaried employees, labor market, industrial and educational policies etc. and CEBRA is committed to and supports this system. CEBRA’s hiring policy and collaborative relations are solely based on educational and professional experience and skills, and do neither take race, gender, sexuality, religion nor political beliefs of the involved persons into account. CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 06 environment PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As architects, we are in the prominent and exacting porition of designing the physical surroundings of the future. Therefore, the implementation of the three principles concerning environmental responsibility are quintessential in every aspect of our practice. In the following we describe the mindset and actions, which form a red line through our our office and practice. CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 08 quality, safety & health Quality Management System the task right the first time. This principle is ensured by means of CEBRA is conducting quality management (QM) and project examinaplanning meetings and precise examination of every chosen solution tion based on instructions and DS/EN of the Danish Association of Archiin each project phase. In addition, we always aspire to prescribe high tectural Firms (DANSKE ARK) and the Danish Association of Consulting quality products expertise in the choices of building materials, subEngineers (FRI). The QMS is developed and adapted based on the followconcultants and contractors. A continuous dialog with the client and all ing guidlines and standards: other involved parties defines the right levels of quality. These levels are incorporated and ensured in the program and planning phases by means • ‘Quality management in architectural firms’ by the Danish Assoof projekt examination and planning meetings. ciation of Architectural Firms • DS/EN ISO 9001:2008 standards Systematic quality management is based on an approach, where • The Danish Business Authority’s circular letter on quality manageall activities and decisions regarding division of responsibilities are ment from November 12th 1986 registered, substantiated, documented and filed. The minutes and results of the different project examinations are written down in The QS handbooks are verified and updated continually, so that they are standardised forms and registered in project journals. in accordance with company’s goals and the experiences, which are collected during the development of various projects. The QS handbooks Safety and health are distributed to clients as general information about CEBRA’s QMS. CEBRA organizes safety, health and working environment according to Danish law and regulations (“Bekendtgørelse om projekterendes og The following pages show the index of CEBRA’s QMS manual. If there rådgiveres pligter m.v. efter Lov om Arbejdsmiljø, Arbejdsministeriets should be any need for further clarifications about the office’s QM probekendtgørelse nr. 574 af 21. juni 2001 med senere ændringer”). cedures, the QMS can be handed out on request. CEBRA has a certified safety coordinator, who has completed the “workCEBRA’s intention is to manifest the office as a strongly design oriented ing environment education for coordinators of safety and health regulaand quality conscious architectural practice, always taking into account tions on building and construction sites”. The coordinator is responsithe client’s wishes regarding architecture, building technology, scheble for the development, implementation and accomplishment of the dules and budget. We seek to reach these goals by means of an analyssafety and helth systems. ing approach and qualified consulting based on professional knowledge. The underlying principle in CEBRA’s quality management is to execute CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 09 environmental management CEBRA is conducting environmental managment according to operation costs for electricity, water, heating, climate control, waste guidelines of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms. treatment, fewer sick days and less ressource-intensive maintenance throughout the building’s lifetime. As developing, executing and advising company we have to be prepared for the society’s ever increasing demands concerning a sustainable Looking at a building’s lifespan, only a few percent of the building’s development of the building sector, which e.g. includes restrictions total energy consumption derive from its construction, while by far the regarding the energy and ressource consumption and the usage of largest part is used to operate it. From a construction economical point materials with minimum impact on the environment. of view, financial austerity hardly ever pays off in the long run. With the implementation of well prepared and made-to-measure Responsibility and competence regarding possible environmental environmentally responsible planning we can meet the demands and activities during the programming, planning, construction and wishes of developers and the society, weither it is to contribute to a operation phases are determined parallel to the project organisation. sustainable development, reduce operating costs, create a good indoor Depending on the client’s wishes and the complexity of the task at climate for employees and visitors, strengthen the building’s image or hand, a environmental coordinator is involved in the project’s planning heighten the buildings overall quality management. The environmental coordinator adopts the coordinating position across individual professional disciplines and secures the Environmentally responsible planning and sustainable initiatives connection between the environmental initiatives within the disciplines are all about ensuring environmental optimum resutls within the and the processing of the programme’s environmental goals. given framework stated by the client in the competition or building programme, based on a general main environmental policy and the IED and DGNB building task’s preconditions. In order to ensure a clear strategy for the management of a project’s sustainability aspects and parameters in order to effectively integrate In order to achieve these objectives, the group of advisers can, on the program economy and core values CEBRA applies an Integrated Energy clients initiative, contribute to: Design (IED) process. During such a process the building’s environemntal • map environmental impacts and effects, report is simulated and optimised by focusing on an optimal utilisation • determine environmental goals of passive properties from the earliest design phases. During the • lay down an environmental program and plan, incl. description of succeeding project stages the systems for covering the necessary energy activities, organisation, schedule and budget, needs by means of e.g. renewable energy sources are incorporated. • carry out environmental assessments, • propose instruments and prioritize those in consultation with the In addition, CEBRA employs a certified DGNB consultant, who has a client, specialised knowledge about the danish model of the DGNB certification • ensure that all executing parties live up to the environmental goals system. In 2012, the system has been enacted as the danish model for stated in the environmental programme. setting sustainable building standards by means of a holistic approach, which takes into account a buildings collective life cycle costs. Thus, Goal-oriented environmental management from the very first phases of DGNB considers environemental, financial, social and cultural aspects a project contributes to determine financially advantageoussolutions, as well as technology, process management and a building’s location when a building’s overall economy, including the total construction and and context. CEBRA specialises in continously designing and planning running costs over the entire lifespan of the building, are assessed. An buildings, which push the standards for the sustainable buildings and overall economic quantification includes an evaluation of the possible cities of the future. advantage of accepting higher acquisition costs i norder to achieve lower CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 10 anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CEBRA supports The United Nations Convention Against Corruption. We fully comply with Danish and International legislation and dissociate ourselves from all forms of corruption, bribery and extortion. Our practice and business relationships are based on democratic values, mutual respect and transparency. CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 12 outcome: selected projects • Children’s Home of the Future • HF & VUC Fyn • Mesterfjellet School • Nye sustainable suburb of the future • Sustainable Club House CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 14 our house Category: Health & housing care centre “Our House” – the Children’s Home of the Future building’s scale and to create self-contained, for marginalized children is a pioneering project for an entirely new varied units for the different groups of residents. Client: Kerteminde Municipality type of 24-hour care centre for marginalized The quartered shape is modified by the Contact: Birgit Hjelme, +45 6532 3334, children. The concept combines the traditional distinctive dormer profiles, which grow into and bhj@kerteminde.dk home’s safe environment with new ideas and out of the individual houses, are turned upside Location: Kerteminde, DK conceptions of what a children’s home is and down and even rise to form an observation Type/status: Public/completed which needs it should fulfill. tower. This flexible concept gives the residents Year: 2012-2014 the opportunity to set their own mark on the Size: 1.250 m2 GFA new building Thus, the project takes the familiar basic shapes arrangement, décor and use of these ‘bonus Cost: DKK 32m/ € 4,3m excl. VAT of the typical Danish home as its starting point: spaces’ according to needs and activities. Services: Architectural services, lead the classic pitched-roof house and the dormer design consultancy motif. By using the shapes in a new and playful The building’s rational organization ensures Energy class: Low energy class standard 2015 way the design marks the house as an out of short distances and proximity between the Collaboration: Søren Jensen R.I., PK3 the ordinary place, which at the same time is different units so that the personnel always are recognized as a dwelling with a safe and homely close to every resident. Thus, the personnel’s environment. working procedures are incorporated effectively in the daily routines, which frees more time for “Our House” is basically organized as four taking care of the children – more home, less interconnected houses in order to reduce the institution. CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro arkitekter Torv maa,1-3 2., DK-8000 Vesterbro Aarhus Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 8730 3439, C, T: +45Aarhus E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, C, T: +45 W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebra.info, W: CEBRAarchitecture.dk 15 hf agora & vuc hf fyn & vuc fyn Category: Education & learning adult The new educational building for HF & VUC Fyn ancient Greek cities that constituted the center education centre provide facilities for a staff of 215 and approx. of political, spiritual and artistic life in the city Client: VUC Fyn & Fyns HF-kursus 3.500 students over the course of a year. The state. The levels of activity decrease gradually Contact: Lisbeth Simonsen, +45 6265 aim of the building is to create a flexible and from the Agora and outwards with the most 6550, lsi@vucfyn.dk diverse learning environment that gives room calm and private spaces located along the Location: Odense, DK for individual needs in a collective building. The building’s outer edges. Type/status: Private commission/completed design is characterized by a system of curved Year: 2012-2014 lines and rounded forms, which cut through At the same time, this organizational principle Size: 13.600 m2 new building the building volume’s regular form and create is transferred from plan to section with the Cost: DKK 158m/ € 21,2m excl. VAT transparent and various spatialities around highest levels of activity and transparency Services: Architectural services, lead a central atrium – a duality that generates at the bottom and spaces for contemplation design consultancy interaction, diversity and versatility i regards at the top floor. Thus, the new AEC focuses Energy class: Low energy class standard 2015 of both the internal and external organization on offering specialized and at the same time Collaboration: Skjøde, Henry Jensen of the new Adult Education Centre. A series diverse learning environments, where students of curved incisions in the basic volume ensure turn to those spaces and environments, which interaction between the building’s activities and match their individual needs learning style. The functions and the city around it. functions on the different floor are organised in such a way, that the relations between class The building is organized around a transparent rooms and special rooms allow for crossand very active atrium, called the Agora and disciplinary and project-oriented lesson-plans. named after the public gathering place in CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro arkitekter Torv maa,1-3 2., DK-8000 Vesterbro Aarhus Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 8730 3439, C, T: +45Aarhus E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, C, T: +45 W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebra.info, W: CEBRAarchitecture.dk 16 mesterfjellet school Category: Teaching & learning 1st to 10th The Mesterfjellet School project combines a and outdoor areas. The school’s common areas grade school with 3 parallels new 1st-10th grade school with 3 parallels are grouped around this vertical space, which is and health centre and a public health centre in a new building similar to a traditional theater space with a tiny Client: Larvik Municipality that is linked to the existing sports facilities at stage-like floor and a number of cantilevering Location: Larvik, NO Farrishallen. The project is based on the idea of a balconies from which the children can overlook Contact: Kristin Borander, +47 9823 1496, very compact building with a minimal footprint. the heart of the school. Thus, the central area kristin.borander@larvik.komFirst of all, this makes it possible to reuse the is humming with life and activities throughout mune.no old foundations of a previous school building, the day while at the same time ensuring short Type/status: Public commission/completed which is important due to highly complicated internal distances and synergies between Year: 2011-2014 geotechnical circumstances. Secondly, it leaves different functions. Size: 6.000 m2 new building more outdoor park and playground area for the Cost: DKK 135m/ € 18m excl. VAT children and creates distance to neighboring In addition, the extrovert central space also Services: Architectural services, lead houses. This underlying idea resulted in a new acts as a linking element when the building design consultancy incl. interior building typology, which we call “the vertical is seen from the outside. The space and the design project and artistic campus”. adjacent library stand out from the school’s decoration wood clad volume with their large transparent Energy class: Energy Class A (Norwegian As opposed to a traditional atrium school with glass section, which creates visual connection standard) an introvert central space and skylights, the between all building floors and the outdoor Collaboration: Buer, Various Architects, SPINN vertical campus contains a vertical multispace. The glass section provides natural light Arkitekter, Østengen & Bergo functional space that reaches all the way to the and views and expresses the school’s openness facades creating a connection between indoor and relationship with the local community. CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro arkitekter Torv maa,1-3 2., DK-8000 Vesterbro Aarhus Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 8730 3439, C, T: +45Aarhus E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, C, T: +45 W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebra.info, W: CEBRAarchitecture.dk 17 nye Category: Planning new sustainable suburb for 10-15.000 inhabitants Client: Tækker Group Contact: Jørn Tækker, +45 8619 1844, jt@taekker.dk Location: Aarhus, DK Type/status: Private commission/ongoing Year: 2009-2012 master planning 2012-2014 political reading and public hearing 2014-2015 design phase of stage 1 Size: 220 ha Services: Process management, authorities consultancy, masterplanning, user involvement, architectural services and design consultancy Collaboration: Tækker Group, Niras Planning Over the past 50 years the population of Aarhus has doubled. However, the Architecturally, Nye combines the best elements from the dense city town footprint has grown fourfold in line with the increased popularity of centre and the green, open suburb respectively. The overall planning single family housing. Since it is believed that Aarhus will further increase strategy is based on a principle of proximity. The spaces in between the by 75,000 people over the next 20 years, the municipality recommends built up areas are given special attention, including green activity areas, more dense development to avoid sprawl in the future. biking and walking paths. In order to motivate residents to walk and bike, Nye is divided into clusters with a walking time from the centre to periphery These facts are the prime motivation for CEBRA and Tækker Group’s of no more than ten minutes. development of Nye, a sustainable suburb that will eventually house up to 15,000 people to the north of Aarhus. The master plan outlines the area’s Nye is to be a city that challenges and advances existing standards of development into a new suburb that is based on principles for holistic sustainable planning and that creates an optimal framework for living sustainable urban planning. and working, which inhabitants are proud to be living in. In short, a socially diverse and green city with a strong indiviudal identity. The master plan aims at creating a new city that is shaped by sustainable ideas and systems that include environmental, econimocal as well as social Six clusters are placed around a city centre with a light rail station and aspects. Nye is to be developed as a self-contained urban society with all shopping markets distributed in dense hexagonal city blocks. The clusters the functions and aspects of an active city life, which inhabitants look for in around it all have unique identities partly based on their local context; for historical city centres, while at the same time establishing close relations instance, The Blue City that is located to the south at the bottom of the with the surrounding landscape and nature. sloping terrain of the site and integrates rainwater treatment as a CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 18 visible and recreational element. Rainwater treatment is one of the major Nye is an example of how conscious urban planning thoughtfully sustainable initiatives, as Nye is surrounded by natural streams, ground integrates green public spaces into a densly built up urban area in order water reservoirs and a lake. Green roofs, open canals, pools and new lakes to create a strong local identity and to offer a variety of experiences for are used to gradually treat rain water, before leading it back into the natural the inhabitants and the general public. The spaces in between the built up circuit. areas are carefully developed and incorporated into the overall planning of the city as valuable tool that serves several significant purposes in order Another cluster is characterised as The Active City with sports and to ensure a high quality of urban life: establishing a strong sense of place, recreational facilities woven into the urban fabric in the form of running creating a green framework for social meeting points and leisure activities, tracks, outdoor fitness, sensory gardens for meditation etc. The activities incorporating sustainable initiatives such as rainwater treatment and literally set their mark on the cluster as its outdoor common areas are climate proofing, reducing heavy traffic and promoting walking and biking. shaped by movement, sports and play. CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 19 sustainable club house Name: Sustainable Club House The Aarhus Municipality has drawn up an ambitious climate plan that Commission: Public aims reaching CO2-neutrality by 2030. As part of this plan the city Type: Lead consultancy wishes to make the new club house for sports club LIF a sustainable Category: Sports building with a minimal CO2 footprint that can stand as a showcase Client: Aarhus Municipality of sustainability and serve as an example for larger projects. With this Location: Lystrupvej, Lystrup, DK project, the city gains knowledge about new low-emission construction Year: 2010-2013 completed methods, which consequently can influence both future behavior and Purpose: Club house legislation and show how to integrate sustainable solutions as well as Size: 450 m2 innovative design Budget: DKK 10 mio. excl. VAT The project is designed in a close collaboration between the client, Awards: Competition 1st prize the users, engineers and CEBRA by means of Integrated Energy Design Services: Lead consultancy services (incl. landscape) (IED) based on CEBRA’s process and user involvement tools. This Energy class: CO2-neutrality creative design process focused on reaching an optimal combination of Collaboration: Esbensen, Sloth Møller R.I. functionality and sustainable choices within a limited budget. The project is based on an equal share of both high and low-tech solutions. We introduced simple elements, such as heat storing sand fill, a drain layer of mussel shells and the use of eaves to protect the facade and prevent overheating and the need for cooling. Since the building is primarily used during the summer, all traffic between specific rooms takes place outside under the eaves. This essentially reduces the total surface area and heat, light and maintenance costs. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebra.info, W: CEBRAarchitecture.dk CEBRA a/s, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2., DK-8000 Aarhus C, T: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebraarchitecture.dk, W: www.cebraarchitecture.dk 20
