COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Participant: Published: 5/2/2015 Time Period: 1/1/2014 – 31/12/14 Format: Part of Social Responsibility Report Link: http://www.comergon.gr/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=132&Itemid=181&lan g=en Level: This COP qualifies for the GC Advanced Level. Self Assessment: 1) Statement of Continued support of the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles 2) Criteria Best Practices and Explanations, Implementing the 10 principles into Strategies and Operations for Human Rights, Labor, Environment, Anti-Corruption, including measurements of outcomes (self assessed) 1. STATEMENT Dear Mr. Kell, Athens, 5/2/15 With this statement we assure you that we continue offering a full support to the U.N. Global Compact and we renew our commitment to the initiative and its 10 principles. Especially, we support Human Rights approved at the most senior level of the Company. We fill sorry for the small delay. Sincerely, George Zafiriou CEO & CHAIRMAN 2. DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICAL ACTIONS A. STRATEGY, GOVERNANCE & ENGAGEMENT Criterion 1: Description of mainstreaming into corporate functions and business units CSR principles are incorporated into company strategy and mainstreaming actions in order to meet all commitment and secure objectives, so to secure Sustainable Development and added value for all stakeholders. The responsibility for CSR is assign to the Chairman Ex.Officio D.Zafiriou These actions to achieve sustainability and implementation include among others: a) The appropriate Sustainability Corporate Governance, for all compliances needed b) A Code to secure business ethics, transparency, innovation, extroversion etc. c) Specific policies are applied towards company’s employees, environment, anti-corruption actions. Internal Audit monitors and secures that the above are implemented and operate properly in order to achieve positive impact to Stakeholders. Criterion 2: Description of value implementation The Company is a small size company, consisted of a total no of 12 employees, the only one among all Insurance Broking Companies, that has incorporate CSR principles, already published the 4th Annual CSR Report. Companies Board of Directors is developing the sustainability strategy, in line with Global Compact principles and overseeing its implementation to all Stakeholders. For securing the “satisfaction” of Stakeholders, we apply policies for positive impact to all mapping risks, monitoring and assuring the success with Customers Satisfaction Survey Reports and Internal Audit, by training all employees continuously to improve their knowledge and professional attitude. The Risks under consideration are : Finance (credit, liquidity), Environmental, Operational and Insurance. B. HUMAN RIGHTS Criterion 3: Description of robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights. According to U.N Global Compact Principles, Human Rights (BRE1,5 +ARE 1,5), Company is complying with all applicable laws and Universal Declaration Directives for Human Rights, including Children & Women, supporting environment and anti-corruption of all Stakeholders and specially the employees, with consultations with them, incorporating their input into corporate strategy and business decision making. We consider Stakeholders of the Company the following: Clients, insurance companies, shareholders, authority, social partners, other insurance intermediate employees, suppliers and business community. Criterion 4: Description of management effectiveness systems, to intergrade human rights principles. The Company, is securing the respect of international human rights, by using due diligence processes which include assessment of human rights impacts of UN i.e. social investments and philanthropic contributions, as well as any UN goal and issue, offering public advocacy (BRE2,3,4,6 +ARE2,3,4,6) Criterion 5: Description of effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of labor principles STATEMENT The Company is committed to comply all applicable laws and respect human rights, stipulations human rights expectations with policy publicity available and communicated internally and externally to all personnel business partners and other relevant parties, wherever the company operates (BRE3,4 + ARE 3,4) C. LABOR Criterion 6: Description of robust commitments, strategic or policies in the area of labor The small size of the Company, enable us to secure and control ILO conventions, labor laws by: a) Securing the appropriate labor environment, without any discrimination, securing safety to prevent working accidents and health problem. b) Continuous training procedures. c) Equal opportunities for career, through a specific system. d) Extra economic benefits, i.e. Employee Benefit Scheme, corporate car etc e) Encouraging volunteerism. Company’s permanent Objective is the Satisfied Employee. Criterion 7: Description of management effectiveness systems, to integrate the labor principles Company employees are well trained to appreciate, accept and following the strategy, towards human rights. The company has the means and the mechanism to evaluate the human rights. Through a tied system of facing “Complains” and day to day observation, governance mechanism, company from feedback is monitoring the effectiveness of the actions. Also we allocate responsibilities & accountability within the organization, by training the employees on the labor principles, we announce all relevant policies, procedures & activities that the company plans to undertake, including goals, timelines, and metrics e.t.c Criterion 8: Description of effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism and labor principles integration The Company evaluates the performance of employees, based on specific metrics through H.R Dpt. With a continuous dialogue review the progress made and proposing improving schemes. All employees are informed for all activities that the company plans to undertake (goals, timelines etc.) suggesting best practices. D. ENVIROMENT Criterion 9: Description of commitment and strategies in the area of environment stewardship Company accepts the relevant international conventions & instruments, i.e Rio Declaration on Environmental & Development, including PSI (Principles for Sustainable Insurance) of UNEP Finance Initiative. Particularly PSI, provide a global roadmap to develop and expand the innovative risk management and insurance solutions that we need to promote renewable energy, clean water, food security, sustainable cities and disaster-resilient communities. Sustainable Insurance is a strategic approach, where all activities in the insurance value chain, including interactions with stakeholders, are done in a responsible way by identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risks and opportunities associated with environmental, social and governess issues, aiming to reduce risk, develop innovating solutions, improve business performance and contribute to environmental, social and economic sustainability. Criterion 10: Description of effective management systems to intergrade the Environmental Principles. Company, has reduced the environmental risk by : a) Impact assessments of lifecycle impact of products b) Establishing best practices c) Training on environmental stewardship for management and employees d) Participation in Environmental Organizations e) Supporting international organizations and initiatives, like WWF, U.N etc. and finally f) Promotion of innovating insurance products, for corporate protection of Environmental Liability and R.S.E companies (Renewable Energy Sources) Criterion 11: Description of effective monitoring & evaluation mechanism for environmental stewardship. The results of integration of company actions are the consumption of energy by 11% and reduction of water consumption by 15% , for years 2013-2012, by recycling and replacement of specific products, etc. Ε.ANTI-CORRUPTION Criterion 12: Description of robust commitments, strategies & policies, in the area of anticorruption. Company declares zero tolerance of corruption and commitment to be in compliance with all relevant laws, including the implementation of procedures to know the law, monitor changes and support all international and local legal frameworks (U.N Convention against Corruption (D2 , D4, D5), establishing the appropriate best practices. Criterion 13: Description of effective management systems, to integrate the anti-corruption principle. Company is participating in anti-corruption organizations e.i Transparency International Greece, is training the employees and encouraging Stakeholders accordingly, is διαθζτει communications channels and follow-up mechanisms for reporting and seeking advice etc. Criterion 14: Description of effective monitoring & evaluation mechanism, for the integration of anti-corruption. Top management of the Company, review and monitoring the anti-corruption results and develop relevant products, services and procedures, for best practice, to approach U.N goals and issues. E. U.N GOALS & ISSUES Criterion 15: Description of core business contributions to U.N goals & issues. Company has defined precisely the areas of Corporate Responsibility and the fundamental principles, which embraces all our operations and influences our attitude towards social, economic and environmental issues, for the benefit of our Stakeholders and the competitiveness. The 5 pillars of Corporate Responsibility are: 1. Corporate Governance 2. Society 3. Environment 4. Insurance Market 5. Human Resources For oversight the success implementation of 5 pillars, we determined, adopt and modify the necessary processes and strategies, establishing best practices. Criterion 16: Description of strategic social investments & philanthropy. The strategic for social investments and philanthropy consist, among others, of : a) Participation in local and international organizations i.e Unisef, Africa Tikkun, Medicines Sans Frontieres, etc. for supporting weak social groups. b) We participate in Research of University Institutes , Civilizations Actions and Environmental. c) We participate in professional Seminars and Forums. Criterion 17: Description of advocacy & private policy engagement. The Company supports local and international actions of U.N goals and participates in local conferences. Criterion 18: Description of partnerships& collective action Company is developing and implements partnership projects with private organizations to introduce the principles of U.N for Corporate Responsibility, i.e. with HIBA (Hellenic Insurance Brokers Association) this year. The Stakeholders Satisfaction Reports, in the area of Insurance Companies, associates, clients etc. because out of them: a) We disclose the incidents involving the company and remediate the adverse human rights impacts. b) We measure the performance in all companies’ procedures, with many Stakeholders, according to which, we score: Satisfaction Index: 74,7%, Fidelity Index: 90,50%, Quality Index: 86,20% Maturity Level: workplace 86,70% , environment 81.44%, marketplace 86.46%, Community 90,31%. d) We communicate for reviewing the processes and e) We process to positive engagement with Stakeholders. F. Governance Criterion 19: Description of CEO commitment & leadership. CEO of the Company: a) Delivers through the Corporate Responsibility Report every year, explicit statements and commitment to the U.N Global Compact. b) Promotes initiatives to enhance sustainability of the company activity and c) Cooperate with the responsible person of CSR, to develop the strategy, to define the goals and to overseeing implementation. Criterion 20 : Description of Board adoption & oversight. Board of Directors: a) Assumes responsibility and oversight for corporate sustainability strategy and performance. b) Assigns to an individual member, responsible for corporate sustainability. c) Approves reporting and COP. d) Approves all policies, procedures, best practices and activities plans to undertake to fulfill the Criteria. Criterion 21: Description of Stakeholders engagement The Company recognizes the responsibility for the impact on Internal & External Stakeholders and define sustainability strategies, goals and policies in accordance with them, asking for a continuous feedback by hearing their ideas and concerns, mainly with Satisfaction Surveys.
