The best of both worlds Haniel Annual Report 2014 Haniel Annual Report 2014 HANIEL KEY FIGURES SUMMARY OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUR million 2013* 2014 Change See page Revenue and profits Revenue 3,580 3,944 +10% 39 Operating profit 166 217 +31% 39 Profit before taxes 117 31 -74% 39 Profit after taxes 267 686 >+100% 40 Cash flow Haniel cash flow 562 175 -69% 43 Cash flow from operating activities 660 -135 <-100% 43 Capital expenditure 298 770 >+100% 43 Dividend of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH 0 30 131 Statement of financial position Total assets 13,387 6,446 -52% 44 Equity 4,556 3,973 -13% 44 +28 percentage Debt/equity ratio (in per cent) 34% 62% points 44 Net financial liabilities** 3,843 1,358 -65% 43 Employees Annual average number of employees (headcount) 50,279 11,544 -77% 45 * Prior-year figures adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see the explanations in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 74. ** Incl. net financial liabilities held for sale HANIEL IN INVESTMENT MODE SUCCESSFUL SALE OF CELESIO GENERATES EUR 2 BILLION IN PROCEEDS HOLDING COMPANY ESSENTIALLY DEBT-FREE HANIEL HAS UPWARDS OF EUR 1 BILLION AT ITS DISPOSAL FOR BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS GROUP REVENUE INCREASES TO APPROXIMATELY EUR 4 BILLION GROUP OPERATING PROFIT GROWS BY MORE THAN 30 PER CENT INVESTMENT RESULT WEIGHED DOWN BY METRO’S HIGH ONE-OFF EXPENSES CONTENTS 7 THE HANIEL GROUP 10 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 12 GROUP 12 Highlights 2014 14 Family equity – the best of both worlds 24 The Management Board 26 Report of the Supervisory Board 28 The Supervisory Board 29 Corporate Governance 31 Corporate Responsibility 35 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD 65 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 136 Responsibility Statement 137 Auditors’ Report 138 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 138 Glossary 142 Progress Report on the UN Global Compact 144 Contact 146 Publication Details 7 THE HANIEL GROUP The Franz Haniel & Cie. Holding Company It maintains a diversified portfolio and pursues a long-term investment strategy is a tradition-steeped German as a value developer. Its objective is to continually increase the value of the Comfamily-equity company. pany while also strengthening its social and environmental values. The Company has always been headquartered in Duisburg-Ruhrort, where it has been shaping the future since 1756. www.haniel.com 8 THE HANIEL GROUP CWS-BOCO ELG CWS-boco ranks among the leading international service providers of ELG is one of the world’s leading specialists in trading and recycling washroom hygiene products, dust control mats, workwear and texraw materials, in particular for the stainless steel industry. tile services. www.elg.de www.cws-boco.com EQUITY INTEREST 100% EQUITY INTEREST 100% EUR million 2013 2014 EUR million 2013 2014 Revenue 748 751 Revenue 1,880 2,213 Operating profit 64 71 Operating profit 47 59 Annual average number of employees (headcount) 7,527 7,529 Annual average number of employees (headcount) 1,224 1,267 9 THE HANIEL GROUP TAKKT METRO GROUP TAKKT is the market-leading B2B direct marketing specialist for METRO GROUP is among the premier international merchandisers. business equipment in Europe and North America. www.metrogroup.de www.takkt.com EQUITY INTEREST 50.25% EQUITY INTEREST 30.01% EUR million 2013 2014 EUR million 2013 2014 Revenue 953 981 Haniel investment result 96 14 Operating profit 96 111 Annual average number of employees (headcount) 2,551 2,528 10 LET TER FROM THE CHAIRMAN LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Sir or Madam, We look back on a year in which Haniel was able to create the leeway As a family-equity company, we pursue a long-term investment it needs in order to grow its business. At the beginning of the year – approach and make growth capital available for our divisions. This despite massive efforts by an aggressive hedge fund, to exert is also why we have a clear vision of what we are looking for: our its influence – we successfully completed the sale of the Celesio focus is directed on sustainable companies which will contribute to division. We used the proceeds from the sale to further reduce the the diversification of Haniel’s portfolio and promise an appropriate Holding Company’s financial liabilities in 2014. For instance, Haniel return on investment. It is our conviction that healthy mid-market bonds were not only repaid on schedule but also redeemed early. companies in particular generally make a good fit with a family-­ In addition, we used the proceeds of sale to strengthen the capiequity company such as Haniel. In addition, we ensure that we are tal resources of the divisions and acquired low-risk, yet currently able to acquire a significant majority in the target. low-interest, financial assets for the interim. Based on these criteria, we review all companies offered for sale – The Haniel Holding Company is thus essentially debt-free. We now as well as internally developed proposals. Haniel has analysed have sufficient means to acquire new divisions. We thus view 2014 megatrends and, based on that analysis, defined search fields in as a strategically important year, during which Haniel has paved which potentially interesting business models are carefully examthe way towards a sustainably successful future. ined. Haniel uses its investment filter to screen for well-positioned, medium-sized companies which operate in attractive niche secFULL-SCALE SEARCH FOR NEW BUSINESS DIVISIONS tors and can leverage our support and competence to become marThe primary objective is to acquire new divisions. We have been ket leaders. examining a variety of potential acquisition targets over the course of the year – thus far, without having initiated any transactions. We are back on track for growth and there is much work ahead of us Aside from high valuations and low interest rates for capital investalso in the existing portfolio. Thereby, the focus lies on sustainable ment, this was due primarily to the fact that many companies did growth and a long-term improvement in the operating profits of our not meet our standards of quality. equity interests at the highest possible level. 11 LET TER FROM THE CHAIRMAN BUSINESS REVIEW: 2014 I see a willingness to change and grow sustainably everywhere The economic development, particularly in the United States, had a I look in the Company – within the management and among the positive effect on our businesses. The uptick in business with the employees, as well as in the shareholder bodies and the Supervipublic sector in the wake of the resolution of the budget dispute in sory Board. I would like to thank you all – also in the name of my the US proved to be a plus for TAKKT. ELG benefited from an increase colleague Dr Funck – for the trust you have placed in us. We look in demand for scrap metals in the stainless steel and superalloys forward to continuing to work with you and are confident that we market segments. will be able to expand our portfolio in the coming year and together to make Haniel even more “enkelfähig” than it already is. In addition, the divisions continue to work on their strategic proj­ ects. TAKKT further aligned its business model with multi-channel Duisburg, 5 March 2015 sales – with good success. In addition to the previously reported efficiency enhancement measures in its laundry, procurement and logistics areas, CWS-boco also strengthened its sales organisation. The METRO GROUP’s strategic realignment is also advancing, although this also entailed losses in revenue, primarily as a result of divestments and negative currency translation effects. Its operating profit also declined due to massive one-off expenses, meaning that we had to record a decrease in Haniel’s investment result. Stephan Gemkow Chairman of the Management Board In order to streamline the ownership structure of METRO AG, Haniel terminated its pooling agreement with the Schmidt-Ruthenbeck family at the end of October 2014. This agreement primarily served to pool voting rights and was a unique structure amongst listed companies, which was practically never used. SUSTAINABLE GROWTH We live in an exciting era of change. Over the years to come, we will grapple with how to continue driving the portfolio restructuring forward to enable us to position ourselves so as to increase value over the long term. As a family-equity company, we act with responsibility and deliberation. Before we strike out on a new path, we reflect on the consequences of our decisions and weigh the benefits of investing against the costs. We believe that we have an obligation to the society in which we work and live. This is why we consider the common good in every business decision and try to strike the right balance between people, planet and profit. In the countries in which we operate, we follow the principles of fair competition and respect the laws as well as the traditions and social values. We help to protect the environment and support social causes. We also encourage our employees to do the same by backing them up in their commitment. In line with Haniel’s objective of being “enkelfähig”, the only candidates for acquisition are thus companies which already make a positive contribution to the environment and society through their sustainable actions, or which will be able to do so in the future. In order to underscore our commitment in this area, we joined the UN Global Compact in March 2014. We support the principles of the UN Global Compact such as human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption, and ensure that they are proclaimed loud and wide. 12 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 HANIEL CWS-BOC0 ELG In February, Haniel sold its 50.01 per cent On 1 April, CWS celebrated its 60-year anniIn May, ELG presented its first sustain­ interest in Celesio AG to the leading North versary: in 1954 the Swiss-based family ability report, “IN THE VANGUARD OF American healthcare services company, business introduced the first soft towel disGLOBAL RECYCLING”, which was prepared McKesson Corporation, which acquired a pensers developed by it into German public and certified on the basis of a comprehentotal of 76 per cent of Celesio’s shares. The washrooms. These dispensers replaced the sive survey of the relevant stakeholders transaction netted Haniel proceeds of just previously commonplace communal towel, in accordance with the latest standard of under EUR 2 billion, part of which was used thus improving washroom hygiene considthe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In the to reduce the Company’s debt, and part erably. In 1981, Haniel acquired CWS, which report, ELG lays out its vision of business of which was set aside for future portfolio it merged in 1988 with the workwear speresponsibility and identifies for the reader additions. Haniel had been the major sharecialist boco to create Haniel Textile Service the key areas for action for a globally active holder of Celesio since 1973 and has had a (HTS), which in turn was renamed CWSrecycling company and the sustainability significant impact on its growth and interboco in 2008. projects that have been initiated. nationalisation path. With an eye to the growing demand for In September, Haniel registered the brand scrap metals in the United States, ELG name “Haniel Family Equity”. Thus what acquired a new plot of land in Houston, has long been the defining feature of the Texas in September. The new facility is Duisburg-based company has been offiplanned to go into operation in early 2016 cially recognised: Haniel combines the and will significantly optimise the compabest of both worlds: the professionalism of ny’s processes and lay the groundwork for private equity and the values of a family-­ future growth in the volume of scrap proowned company. cessed by the company. In 2014, CWS-boco received additional cerAs part of the integration of the super­ tifications for sustainability. The Belgian alloys companies acquired in the previous and Dutch health and safety management year, ELG established a site in Monroe, system was commended by the OccuNorth Carolina in October to consolidate pational Health and Safety Assessment the processing capacities of two existing Series (OHSAS) in June. CWS-boco Germany locations. In addition, ELG formed a comwas granted silver status by the EcoVadis pany in Mexico. The superalloys division is initiative for its activities in the field of susthus following its customers in the aviation tainability. industry, who are increasingly producing their products in Central America. At the end of October, Haniel dissolved the On 3 September, CWS-boco opened its first pooling agreement with BVG Beteiligungscleanroom laundry in Germany at Heidenund Vermögensverwaltungs-GmbH and heim. The company has already been operthe Schmidt-Ruthenbeck family, in order ating in this area for many years in Ireland, to streamline and simplify the ownership China, Poland and Belgium. The cleanroom structure of METRO AG. The primary purpose laundry facility in Germany meets the highof the pooling agreement had been to govest certified standards of hygiene. In addiern the joint exercise of voting rights, thus tion, the company’s “boco Cleanroom line” securing a majority for resolutions by the represents an expansion of its workwear annual general meeting. However, this was collection in Germany. never necessary in the past ten years since all resolutions by METRO AG were passed with a majority in excess of 90 per cent. 13 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 TAKKT METRO GROUP In January, TAKKT subsidiary Hubert, the At the end of April, GALERIA Kaufhof U.S. market leader in the direct marketing GmbH’s department store business and of supplies and equipment for the retail and the entirety of its real property portfolio food services industry, opened a new prowere merged with the joint GALERIA Holding curement office in Hong Kong. This enabled GmbH. The new executive Holding Comthe company to further reduce procurepany comprises two pillars: multi-channel ment costs, benefiting not only the comdepartment store business (GALERIA Kaufpany but also its customers. hof GmbH) and property portfolio (GALERIA Real Estate Holding GmbH). The objective is to foster an efficient collaboration between the operating department store business and real property activities, both of which are aligned with customer needs. In June, KAISER+KRAFT launched a new pilot project to ensure compliance with social and ecological standards: the supplier code of conduct. This code lays out the key binding sustainability principles at KAISER+KRAFT, such as the creation of fair On 24 September, the Supervisory Board of employment relationships and pro­moting METRO AG renewed the service agreement environmental protection. This and the with the chairman of the Management kick-off of the climate-neutral Active Green Board, Olaf Koch, for an additional three products in its offering have once again years. In January 2012, Olaf Koch assumed placed KAISER+KRAFT at the vanguard of chairmanship of the board after serving their industry. three years as CFO at METRO AG. On 31 December, TAKKT entered into a purIn October, the METRO GROUP and the French chase agreement with Global Industrial Groupe Auchan announced an agreement concerning the sale of shares in the Plant concerning an international procurement Equipment Group (PEG) – for USD 25 million partnership. For the first time ever, two leadfree of financial liabilities. The industrial ing retail groups which operate different supplier which had previously been part business models and perfectly complement of the TAKKT AMERICA division distributes each other from a geographical perspective products for transport, warehousing and have joined forces to increase their nego­ operations to companies in the United tiating power. The agreement paves the way States, Canada and Mexico. Following the for joint price negotiations with key internasale of PEG, TAKKT has focused on its furtional suppliers of branded consumer goods ther development as a multi-channel-­plusregarding specific services and conditions company. at a global level. In addition, the agreement establishes joint global procurement of nonfood articles sold by both companies under their own brand name or as no-name brands. 14 FAMILY EQUIT Y – THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS FAMILY EQUITY THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS 15 FAMILY EQUIT Y – THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS Haniel is a family-owned We cultivate a portfolio of cutting-edge business models and develop market investment company. leaders. If we are no longer the best owner for an investment we sell it, thus creating room for new growth – both at the company being disposed of and at Haniel itself. Our actions flow from the values held by a family-owned company that has existed for 259 years: we conduct our business in a sustainable, forward-looking and future-oriented manner. As a family-­equity company, we combine the best of both worlds: the professionalism of private equity and the values of a family-owned company. It is this combination that makes Haniel „enkelfähig“! 17 FAMILY EQUIT Y – THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS STRATEGY Private equity + VALUES Family-owned company Value-driven investment The focus is on medium-sized compaAnd in 2014, we parted ways with Celesio nies whose sustainable and cutting-edge because after more than 40 years, we were strategy. Haniel invests business models will further diversify our no longer the best owner for it. By taking in companies – but not in portfolio and with which it is possible to generate an appropriate return. We are this step, we created room for new growth on both sides. just any company. interested in megatrends which we consider relevant to our portfolio – such as In order to optimise our ability to assume A fine-meshed investment new mobility patterns, climate change or a leadership role at prospective investscreen guarantees that the knowledge economy. Moreover, we are looking to acquire companies which operment targets, we look for companies which are not listed and in which we can acquire only those acquisition ate in regions characterised by stable and a majority interest. In line with Haniel’s familiar legal and economic environments. objective of being “enkelfähig”, companies targets which make a This is why we are actively seeking and anashould already be making a positive congood fit with Haniel make lysing the potential of a variety of sectors tribution to the environment and society and markets. At the same time, we review through their sustainable actions, or be the short list. offers we receive. able to do so in the future. Our brand of corporate governance aims to increase value In keeping with the principle of the “honover the long term and is the source of our ourable businessman” – a principle Franz economic success – which not only enaHaniel lived by – we develop our investbles but also obliges us to create value for ments over the long term, in the spirit of society as a whole. partnership and with a focus on fairness. For instance, over the past 32 years, we have developed ELG into an internationally active dealer in commodities for the stainless steel industry. 19 FAMILY EQUIT Y – THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS LEADERSHIP Private equity + RESPONSIBILITY Family-owned company Responsible The Haniel Holding Company is responsiIn addition, we support social causes – and ble for the strategic, human resources and encourage our employees to do the same leadership. At Haniel, financial management of its divisions – by backing them up in their commitment. As corporate governance is above all for the wholly owned subsidiaries and majority-owned interests. It develops corporate citizens, we are dedicated to further developing the locations in which we driven by the principle of all the tools needed to corporate developerate. This means that we also promote opment and strategic planning. Thus, the public exchange – for instance between separation of manageHolding Company is not merely the force members of the sciences, political and culment and ownership. As behind how the portfolio is structured. It also defines strategic objectives and tural communities – to bring about positive changes for society as a whole. early as in the beginning selects upper-echelon executives. We prefer to refill leadership positions in-house. of the 20th century, the Haniel family placed All business decisions are taken in consideration of the common good. We also responsibility for managrequire this of our divisions: we help them to ing the Company in the develop their corporate responsibility strategy and lay down individual company objechands of executives from tives. We help to protect our environment and use natural resources responsibly. outside the family. As such, business decisions are taken independently of familial relationships. 21 FAMILY EQUIT Y – THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS PROFESSIONALISM Private equity + PASSION Family-owned company A passion for A sound long-term rating will help us Innovative decisions require employees ensure that we have access to the capital with an innovative spirit. We help them to professionalism. Haniel markets and thus the necessary leeway live up to their full potential. Haniel’s commaintains a diversified to make entrepreneurial decisions. We use our know-how to professionalise new petency model ensures that our employees have the right qualifications as well portfolio. We are business models within the Group. In 2012, as the necessary passion to bring about Haniel was in debt and had considerable change within the Group. To us, passion is constantly looking into cluster risks in its portfolio. On top of that, a highly valued attribute: Haniel is family-­ investment opportunities share prices were falling and dividends were shrinking – leading to a host of ratowned. Although there is a strict separation between management and ownership, in order to increase the ings downgrades. As part of a consistent the family is able to weigh in on the major debt reduction programme, Haniel reduced strategic initiatives of the management value of our portfolio. If its stake in the listed equity investments through the Supervisory Board. The fama proposed acquisition TAKKT, Metro and Celesio, which helped lift ily’s emotional connection and financial our rating. In 2014, we sold off our interties to the Company increase the quality proves to be strategically est in the pharmaceutical wholesale comof Supervisory Board deliberations as well sound and financially pany Celesio entirely. This afforded us new financial leeway. as the personal involvement in all relevant decisions – this distinguishes us from pubworthwhile, we seize the licly owned companies. opportunity. 23 FAMILY EQUIT Y – THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS TRANSFORMATION Private equity + TRADITION Family-owned company Transformation by Back in his day, Franz Haniel invested in We are constantly striving to improve and new, cutting-edge business models such learn. We cultivate this process through tradition. Constant as steelworks, mining and shipping, thus efficient knowledge management. For change is in Haniel’s DNA. laying the foundation for the flexible and diversified family-equity company of the 20 years now, the Haniel Academy has given executives and specialists the We do not let market present, which specialises in its core busiopportunity to hone their personal and proness of portfolio management. fessional management skills and to live up events determine our to their full potential. At the same time, it actions; rather, we aim Haniel’s portfolio is currently being restructured. We see change as an opportunity. plays a key role as a knowledge hub within the Group. This will also make it possible for to play an active role in This is why we are focusing on the trends of us to transform ourselves in the future. the future and using these as a basis from shaping the markets. which to develop potential investment opportunities. We are constantly carrying out a methodical analysis, complemented by strategic initiatives which focus the Group’s concentration on megatrends. We reflect on the consequences of our decisions and weigh the benefits of investing against the costs – including those to society. The Haniel family supports us in doing so: over the long term, it has ploughed back an average of 75 per cent of the annual profits to the Company. Our high equity ratio is the basis for our financial stability. 24 THE MANAGEMENT BOARD THE MANAGEMENT BOARD HANIEL’S MANAGEMENT BOARD IS COMPOSED OF TWO MEMBERS WHOSE RESPONSIBILITIES ARE CLEARLY DEFINED. NEVERTHELESS, THEY WORK CLOSELY TOGETHER AND MANAGE THE COMPANY AS A TEAM. STEPHAN GEMKOW DR FLORIAN FUNCK CHAIRMAN Born 1971 Born 1960 Stephan Gemkow has been Chairman of the Haniel Management Dr Florian Funck has been a member of the Haniel Management Board and Chief Human Resources Officer since 1 August 2012. He Board since 1 September 2011. He is responsible for Corporate is responsible not only for overall strategy, but also for Corporate General Services, Corporate Controlling, Strategic Planning & Development/M&A, Human Resources, Corporate Legal, Internal Accounting, Corporate Finance and Corporate Tax. As a doctor of Audit, Shareholders + Sustainability and Communications. After business administration, he began his career at Haniel Holding in spending the first years of his career as a management consultant 1999. In June 2004, he was appointed to the TAKKT Management for BDO Deutsche Warentreuhand AG, the business graduate has Board in Stuttgart, where he was responsible for Controlling and held various management positions at the Lufthansa Group since Finance. Funck is a member of the Supervisory Boards of METRO AG, 1990, most recently spending six years as a member of the ExecTAKKT AG and Deutsche Annington SE. utive Board responsible for finances and, since 2009, for Aviation Services as well. Gemkow is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of TAKKT AG. He is also a member of the Supervisory Board of Evonik Industries AG as well as the Board of Directors of JetBlue Airways Corporation, New York. Dr Florian Funck Stephan Gemkow 26 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD on 26 April 2014. Christoph Böninger had been a standing member of the Supervisory Board since 2003 and aside from providing competent and far-sighted advice to the Company, he was also a driving force behind the shareholder qualification programme and strengthened the ties between the family and the company. He will remain Chairman of the Advisory Board. Baron Wolf von Buchholtz has been a member of the Supervisory Board since 1998 and has left the Board on account of age. In the past 16 years, he consistently provided critical and constructive advice on the development of the family-owned company and was a competent and important advisor when it came to transforming the portfolio. The Super­ visory Board thanks everyone for their committed, trusting and open collaboration. TRANSPARENCY IN COOPERATION As in years past, the cooperation between the Supervisory Board and the Management Board was characterised by an atmosphere of great openness and mutual trust. The Management Board informed us regularly about the status of the Haniel Holding Company and the Group as a whole – also with regard to important individual events. In accordance with my duty as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, beyond the normal meetings, I have also been in regular contact with the Chairman of the Management Board primarily, but also with the CFO. We discussed important business and strategic issues affecting the group. The Supervisory Board continually and carefully monitored the group of companies’ management and business development based on regular written and oral reports of the Management Board. We examined in depth all the decisions requiring our consent and passed the necessary resolutions. Dear Sir or Madam, The Audit Committee held four meetings in the 2014 reporting 2014 was yet another year that brought key changes for our period. It monitored the accounting process and the effectiveness family-­owned company Haniel: the sale of the entirety of our Celeof the internal control system, the risk management system, the sio investment to the healthcare services provider McKesson Internal Auditing office, and the compliance management system. was wrapped up with a good outcome and the reduction of debts Moreover, the committee examined and confirmed the independbegan in the previous year was largely completed. This means that ence of the auditor of the financial statements, and resolved, in its Haniel can once again turn its attention towards investing in future meeting on 26 April 2014, to recommend to the Shareholders’ Meetgrowth. The Supervisory Board advised the Management Board on ing to re-appoint the previous auditor. these issues, which are of fundamental importance for the future success of the Company, in four ordinary and two extraordinary ANNUAL SEPARATE AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmeetings. One further resolution was passed by way of circulation. MENTS APPROVED PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft WirtschaftsprüCHANGES ON THE SUPERVISORY BOARD fungsgesellschaft, Essen, audited the annual financial statements The sale of Celesio resulted in changes in the composition of of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH and the Report of the Management the Supervisory Board: In January 2014, the Supervisory Board Board for the 2014 financial year. The auditors confirmed that the resolved to reduce the number of members from 16 to 12. This annual financial statements and Report of the Management Board reduction in the size of the Board reflects the significant decrease comply with legal provisions and the Company’s articles of assoin the number of employees of the Group following the Celesio sale. ciation. The auditors issued an unqualified auditors’ report on the annual financial statements and the Report of the Management Employee representatives Manfred Breitenstein and Thomas Board. The auditors also issued an unqualified auditors’ report on Römer from Celesio left the Supervisory Board as at 6 February the consolidated financial statements and the Group Report of the 2014. Christoph Böninger and Baron Wolf von Buchholtz left the Management Board. The auditors participated in the Supervisory Supervisory Board at the conclusion of the Shareholders’ Meeting Board’s meeting on the financial statements and in all meetings 27 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD of the Audit Committee. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board again engaged the auditors to assess the Haniel Group’s early risk identification system. This voluntary examination was conducted in accordance with section 317 (4) of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, “HGB”). The auditors verified the suitability of the system to detect early any risks endangering the going concern assumption. The Management Board submitted the consolidated financial statements, the Group Report of the Management Board and the Group auditors’ report for 2014 to the Supervisory Board for its examination. Following an in-depth examination, the Supervisory Board approved the consolidated financial statements and the Group Report of the Management Board. The Supervisory Board also approved the annual financial statements of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH and the Management Board’s profit appropriation proposal. The annual financial statements are thereby adopted and the consolidated financial statements approved. GRATITUDE FOR A JOB WELL DONE In the context of a coordinated strategic plan, Haniel has once again turned its attention to investing in new business areas. The Management Board and Supervisory Board are working closely together on this. The Supervisory Board thanks the Management Board and the employees for their faithful collaboration and looks forward to advancing the growth in Haniel’s value together with them. Duisburg, 10 April 2015 Franz M. Haniel Chairman of the Supervisory Board 28 THE SUPERVISORY BOARD THE SUPERVISORY BOARD OUR SUPERVISORY BOARD IS COMPOSED OF SIX SHAREHOLDER REPRESENTATIVES AND SIX EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES. THE CHAIRMANSHIP HAS ALWAYS BEEN HELD BY A FAMILY MEMBER. THE SUPERVISORY BOARD IN PARTICULAR ENSURES THAT THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUP OF COMPANIES IS IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS TRADITIONAL VALUES. SHAREHOLDER REPRESENTATIVES EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES FRANZ M. HANIEL GERD HERZBERG CHAIRMAN DEPUTY CHAIRMAN Graduate engineer Former trade union secretary (Ver.di) DR GEORG F. BAUR MANFRED BREITENSTEIN DEPUTY CHAIRMAN until 6 February 2014 Businessman Commercial employee CHRISTOPH BÖNINGER RALF FRITZ until 26 April 2014 Maintenance man Graduate designer BERND HERGENRÖTHER BARON WOLF V. BUCHHOLTZ Electrician until 26 April 2014 Graduate businessman FADI K AMAL Design engineer PROF HENNING K AGERMANN Graduate physicist IRINA PANKEWITZ Textile cleaner DR PAUL-BERNHARD K ALLEN Graduate economist THOMAS RÖMER until 6 February 2014 DR MICHAEL SCHÄDLICH Division manager Graduate physicist HANS WETTENGL PROF K AY WINDTHORST Trade union secretary (IG Metall) University Professor 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Distinct responsibility structures and cooperation based on partcommits to the principle of fair competition in the Code of Conduct. nership: These are the principles that distinguish corporate govIn addition, it sets out the principles of conduct for employees of ernance at Haniel. One essential element is the strict separation the Holding Company, so that they neither offer nor accept inapof corporate management and control, in line with the requirepropriate favours, they reject all forms of discrimination, and they ments for exchange-listed companies. Both sides engage in trustdisclose any conflicts of interest between their business and priing dialogue, which is also how the Company communicates with vate affairs. Such principles of conduct are in place Group-wide. In its partners on the financial market. addition, all divisions have a compliance management system that assists in preventing, detecting and eliminating abuses. FREE FROM CONFLICTS OF INTEREST One characteristic sets Haniel apart from many other family-owned EASY ACCESS TO INFORMATION companies: Since the start of the 20th century, managers from For Haniel as a family-equity company, a solid equity base plays outside the family have been responsible for the corporate governan important role. In addition, Haniel also uses borrowed capital ance. No family members work in the Haniel Group. Entrepreneurial in its financial strategy. To gain the trust of potential investors decisions can be made free from familial obligations. The family and to maintain the appreciation of its current investors, Haniel attaches importance to sustainable growth and value enhancefocuses on transparency and fairness in its financial communicament. The steps to be taken along the way are at the discretion of tion: Every capital market participant, including banks, investors the Management Board, which confers with the board of the Comand analysts, are provided with the same information needed to pany. The basic structure of corporate governance at Haniel thus assess the Company’s performance. This applies in equal measure adheres to the standards set out in the German law governing stock to the family shareholders as providers of equity. The corporate corporations. website represents a broad information platform where, among other things, the corporate group’s portfolio and strategy are eluThe more than 680 shareholders are organised in the Shareholdcidated. Haniel also publishes its annual and half year financial ers’ Meeting. It meets once a year and elects from its midst six reports there, as well as the latest press releases. In addition, presshareholder representatives to serve five years on the Supervisory entations, information on the investment strategy and additional Board. The shareholder representatives and six employee represeparate and consolidated subgroup financial statements can be sentatives on the Supervisory Board help to shape the fundamenaccessed online under the “Creditor Relations” heading. A financial tal business policies of the Company and influence the corporate calendar contains early announcements of important events for strategy. The Supervisory Board has equal representation as a the Holding Company and the divisions. Moreover, Haniel publicly co-determined monitoring body; it is always chaired by a member declares how the Holding Company is rated by the credit rating of the family. Shareholder and employee representatives jointly agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. Haniel submits itself to appoint and dismiss members of the Management Board, monitor these external rating processes voluntarily in order to be able to their work and support them in an advisory capacity. Four memuse all the available financing options. For Haniel, transparent and bers of the Supervisory Board form the Audit Committee, which also fair financial communication is inseparably connected with contihas equal representation. This committee monitors the accounting nuity. The Company informs its partners at regular intervals and in process and the effectiveness of the internal control system, the a consistent manner about current developments. Thus, financial risk management system, the Internal Auditing office, and the comreports are always published in the customary place and in the pliance management system. Moreover, the committee examines customary form in order to make it easier for the reader to find and and confirms the independence of the auditors of the financial analyse the information. Haniel draws attention to any deviations statements. Details of the work of the Supervisory Board in the from the preceding years. 2014 financial year are contained in the Report by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board starting on page 26. The Shareholders’ DIALOGUE WITH INVESTORS Meeting elects also from its midst 30 members for the Advisory Haniel’s financial market partners can contact the staff of the CorBoard, which particularly facilitates communication between the porate Finance and Corporate Development/M&A departments executive bodies of the Company (Supervisory Board and Managedirectly. After the Company’s Annual Accounts Press Conferment Board) and the members of the family. ence, Haniel issues invitations to an Investor or Analyst Call. The Management Board is closely involved in the dialogue with the BINDING PRINCIPLES OF CONDUCT financial community. The Haniel Holding Company itself, as well as through its divisions, is active in many different economic and social systems, and thus encounters differing cultural and national standards as well as legal regulations. It is precisely this that makes it essential that all employees at every level of the Company share the same values of openness and integrity. Essential components of the Haniel culture are the principles of legality, incorruptibility and fair competition. In 2014, Haniel revised its Code of Conduct. Haniel expressly 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GROUP ORGANISATION FAMILY COMPANY SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING EMPLOYEES about 680 family members about 11,500 employees* elects elects elect FAMILY FAMILY AND EXTERNAL MEMBERS COMPANY ADVISORY BOARD SHAREHOLDER EMPLOYEE up to 30 members REPRESENTATIVES REPRESENTATIVES 4 family and 2 external members 6 members FAMILY AND EXTERNAL MEMBERS, COMPANY SUPERVISORY BOARD 12 members appoints/dis­misses/supervises/advises COMPANY MANAGEMENT BOARD OF THE HOLDING COMPANY 2 members COMPANY DIVISIONS * A nnual average (headcount); see also explanations on page 45. The German employees elect the employee representatives to the Supervisory Board. Scorecard Corporate Responsibility 2014 BRINGING VALUES TO LIFE Employees, value chain, innovation – Haniel emphasises these three action areas in the context of corporate responsibility. The Holding Company and the divisions continue to push forward with their CR activities, with individual issues, targets and measures. The CR Scorecard provides an overview of the progress made and events that marked the year 2014. For more detailed information on the CR strategy, please see the 2013 CR Report. 90 per cent of employees recorded in a training database CWS-boco Haniel Training and continuing education ELG CWS-boco’s goal is to document all trainAnchoring CR In addition to regular coming and continuing education measures Health and safety In order to avoid munication about sustainability, there in a database by the end of 2015 and to work-related accidents to the furthest was a week-long campaign in 2014 and set country-specific guidelines which extent possible in the future, ELG a practical training offering. With these are tailored to meet the individual needs launched a project designed to identify formats, the Holding Company has of employees participating in training potential risks to employee health and begun to increase employee sensitivity and continuing education programmes. safety. A first milestone was reached to the need to conduct themselves in a More than 90 per cent of the company’s in 2014, when a global reporting sysmore responsible way in their day-toemployees were already documented tem for absences due to accidents and day professional lives. by the end of 2014. illness went live. EMPLOYEES A respectful and reliable partnership for sustainable work conditions Haniel METRO GROUP TAKKT Development prospects In 2014, the Embedding sustainability The METRO Systematic personnel development Holding Company increased the penetraGROUP continues to drive forward the TAKKT is implementing a development tion and quality of annual development integration of sustainability issues programme to systematically recruit reviews: 98.6 per cent of employees within all key business processes. In and promote talented individuals. In discussed their abilities and potential order to increase employee awareness 2014, a computerised applicant manwith their direct supervisors and agreed and to bring about behavioural changes, agement system was established and on appropriate individual development the Group has developed general inforvarious measures designed to help the measures. mation campaigns as well as a variety of company retain high-potential employtraining programmes. In 2014, the proees were implemented. grammes already included an e-learning Development reviews conducted with 98.6 per cent of employees module on the issue of sustainability and procurement specialist training programmes designed to ensure that social standards are complied with along the supply chain. Scorecard Corporate Responsibility 2014 VALUE ADDED CHAIN High environmental and social standards in all activities to create value 100 per cent of investment proposals by 23.7 per cent of sourced merchandise divisions include integrated CR aspects procured from certified suppliers since mid-2014 Haniel TAKKT METRO GROUP CR in the approval process with the Cooperation with suppliers TAKKT Sustainable purchasing policy The divisions To the extent legally permisplaces high value on sustainability along METRO GROUP’s general objective is sible, the Holding Company decides on the supply chain. A supplier evaluation to source products in as sustainable a divisional investment proposals on the system launched as a pilot project in manner as possible. The Group’s probasis of its investment and enterprise 2013 was expanded to include addicurement policies form the basis for this. valuation guidelines. Since 1 November tional companies and suppliers in 2014. In addition, processes are developed by 2014, these guidelines have stipulated which ecological, social and economic that the specific positive and negative effects are assessed and objectives are impacts on the objectives laid out in defined for individual product groups. Haniel’s CR action areas be assessed in investment proposals. The updated Haniel guidelines have been in force since CR in portfolio management The Holding mid-2014. Company launched a project to inteCWS-boco grate CR review criteria in key management processes along the phases of Energy efficiency CWS-boco lowered the investment cycle. In 2014, a large the amount of energy consumed per ELG number of potential acquisition targets kilogramme of laundry – aggregated were reviewed to determine whether fit from the figures for mats, hand towel Ecological impact of transshipment with Haniel’s values and the criteria in its rolls and workwear – throughout the goods ELG lives up to its high level of investment filter, which also included CR Group by 8.5 per cent as compared to responsibility for products along the aspects. In addition, new financial invest2012. This reduction was made possible value chain by continuously raising its ments have also been scrutinised from a thanks to process optimisation, more own environmental and safety standCR perspective since the autumn of 2014. efficient facilities and equipment and ards. In 2014, the company audited the new high-tech laundries. already well-functioning alarm system for radioactivity in materials deliveries and reviewed and improved the detec8.5 per cent reduction in energy used per tion equipment used around the world. kilogramme of laundry since 2012 0.004 radioactivity alarms per thousand tonnes triggered by ELG deliveries Scorecard Corporate Responsibility 2014 100 per cent of METRO Cash & Carry shops in Germany offer tracing of fish and meat 6.6 per cent of revenue generated through products 87 per cent participation rate in employee sustainable products survey on corporate culture METRO GROUP TAKKT Haniel Traceability of products The METRO Green product lines In order to meet GROUP has implemented an internaInternal culture of innovation In order to its clients’ ecological and social standtional industry-wide solution to bring prepare the field for the development of ards, TAKKT is offering an expanding about full transparency along the entire an approach to innovation management, range of “green” products. This includes supply chain as to the resources used the Holding Company has analysed climate-neutrally produced transport and the products sourced. Customers its corporate culture. Employees and equipment, environmentally friendly of all METRO Cash & Carry shops in Gerexecutives participated in qualitative packaging solutions and office furniture many can already trace the origins of interviews and an employee survey was which is crafted using recycled materials. meat and fish products. carried out in 2014. INNOVATION Innovations: the response to global challenges and an opportunity for growth ELG CWS-boco Recycling carbon fibres ELG is continuSustainable service logistics CWS-boco ing to expand its carbon fibre recycling has equipped service drivers with the business. In 2014, the volume of carbon “Optimize my Day” dispatch planning scrap recycled was increased as comtool, thereby helping to use resources pared to the previous year from 280 to sparingly: the app calculates routes cov458 tonnes. ered in such a manner that all customer visits can be driven to in the fewest kilometres possible. 458 tonnes of recycled carbon fibre 850,000 fewer kilometres driven thanks to “Optimize my Day” dispatch tool Scorecard Corporate Responsibility 2014 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Haniel sees itself as a value developer – including where sustainmanagement and healthy diet was held in 2014, as well as a seminar ability is concerned. In 2014, the family-equity company reached which gave employees the chance to learn about the meaning of CR key milestones in integrating corporate responsibility (CR) into all in the every-day dealings of the Company on the basis of a specific relevant core processes – both at the level of interactions with the case study. A remuneration-relevant target has been agreed with divisions as well as within the Holding Company itself. every employee having signed up to participate in the CR projects initiated. Among other things, the Holding Company has launched For 259 years going, Haniel has exemplified the pairing of entreprean interdisciplinary project aimed at integrating CR aspects into neurial drive with a stable set of values. Haniel’s values – shared key management processes throughout the phases of the investand adhered to in equal measure by the Haniel family and the manment cycle. In 2014, a large number of potential acquisition targets agement – are enshrined in the Code of Conduct. Haniel revised were reviewed to determine whether fit with Haniel’s values and the and updated its Code of Conduct for all employees in 2014. The criteria in its investment filter, which also included CR aspects. New divisions also issue similar guidelines on the basis of the Code of financial investments have also been scrutinised from a CR perConduct. Among other things, the Code of Conduct reflects the ten spective since the autumn of 2014. In addition, CR aspects are sysprinciples of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, tematically taken into account by the Holding Company in granting labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against its approval to invest in or acquire divisions in accordance with its corruption. On 27 March 2014, Haniel became a participant in the investment and enterprise valuation guidelines. Since 1 NovemUnited Nations initiative, and undertook to uphold and promote ber 2014, these guidelines have stipulated that the specific posiawareness of the ten principles. The divisions have also joined the tive and negative impacts on the objectives laid out in Haniel’s CR UN Global Compact or have subscribed to its guiding principles. action areas be assessed in investment proposals. The updated guidelines have been in force since mid-2014. In 2014, the Holding CR: AN INTEGRAL COMPONENT OF MANAGEMENT DIALOGUE Company conducted an analysis of its corporate culture and gained In addition to laying the foundation for a shared understanding of valuable insight into how to structure its innovation management its values, Haniel focuses its CR activities throughout the Group in process for the future. Employees and executives participated three action areas: employees, value chain and innovation. Each in qualitative interviews and an employee survey on issues such division is responsible for implementing these action areas as they as innovation was carried out. The Holding Company also met its relate to its individual business model. To that end, Haniel’s Manobjective of increasing the number and quality of annual employee agement Board meets regularly with the divisional management development reviews: 98.6 per cent of employees have discussed teams throughout the year to set individual targets as permitted their abilities and potential with their direct supervisor and, where by law and to discuss progress. In this way, the Holding Company necessary, agreed on individual development measures. assumes the mantle of a motivational force and a sparring partner. Where necessary, overarching initiatives are discussed at the DIVISIONS MAKING PROGRESS Holding Company’s regular CEO meetings, which are held by Haniel’s The agenda for the September 2014 management dialogue between Management Board and attended by the heads of the management the Holding Company and the divisions included for the first time teams and the CEOs of the respective divisions. In addition to this progress reports on the CR programme agreed in 2013. All divisions high-level dialogue, the CR Round Table is held three times a year: have made good progress in reaching their objectives. this network of CR experts at the Holding Company and all divisions meets to exchange information, share their experiences and disCR is an integral component of CWS-boco’s business model. Under cuss best practices. the motto “Serving you, serving nature”, the specialist for washroom hygiene products, workwear and dust control mats offers its CR is also anchored in the Holding Company’s organisation analocustomers a product rental service which is centred on the respongously to the process involving the management teams of the divisible stewardship of the environment. In 2014, CWS-boco invested sions. For instance, the directors of all departments join the Manin the expansion and modernisation of its service network. Among agement Board each year at the CR Conference. There, they discuss other things, a new laundry concept was developed to place an the relevant issues faced by the Holding Company as they relate to even sharper focus on the sparing use of resources. By the end of Haniel’s three CR action areas, agree on specific targets and objec2014, CWS-boco lowered the amount of energy consumed per kilotives and kick off new projects. This is how Haniel anchors CR within all gramme of laundry – aggregated from the figures for mats, hand of the Company’s relevant core processes – both at the level of intertowel rolls and workwear – throughout the Group by 8.5 per cent actions with the divisions as well as within the Holding Company itself. as compared to 2012. This reduction was made possible thanks to a comprehensive range of measures which included process HOLDING COMPANY INVESTS SUSTAINABLY optimisation, more efficient facilities and equipment and new highHaniel is laying the foundation for a shared understanding of CR and tech laundries. The use of the innovative dispatch planning tool raising employee awareness of the need to conduct themselves “Optimize my Day” has also enabled CWS-boco to save resources: responsibly in their day-to-day professional lives. In addition to in 2014, the service fleet drove 850,000 fewer kilometres thanks regular communications on the topic of sustainability, a weekto improved dispatch planning. CWS-boco is also on track when it long campaign covering the issues of energy efficiency, waste comes to training and continuing education: the company’s goal is 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y to document all training and continuing education measures in a to society and the environment, the international retailer group has database by the end of 2015 and to set country-specific guidelines taken steps to make certain that the origins of its merchandise can which are tailored to meet the individual needs of employees parbe traced. To accomplish this, it has taken an innovative approach: ticipating in training and continuing education programmes. Over the company has implemented an international industry-wide solu90 per cent of the company’s employees were already documented tion to bring about full transparency along the entire supply chain by the end of 2014. More information: www.cws-boco.com/en-US/ as to the resources used and the products sourced. Customers of all sustainability-0. METRO Cash & Carry shops in Germany can already trace the origins of meat and fish products. Shoppers can use a smartphone app to ELG trades and recycles commodities for the stainless steel indusaccess product information such as the type of animal, its origin, try and operates in the market segment for superalloys. Sustainafishing and farming practices and the date it was processed. The bility is firmly anchored in the recycling company’s business model. METRO GROUP’s general objective is to source products in as sustainELG is a driving force behind the Group’s commitment, and it pubable a manner as possible. The Group’s procurement policies form the lished its first CR report in the spring of 2014. The company lives up basis for this. In addition, processes are developed by which ecologto its high level of responsibility for products along the value chain ical, social and economic effects are assessed. In order to increase by continuously raising its own environmental and safety standemployee awareness of sustainability and to bring about behavioural ards. The division wishes to further improve its (already) effective changes, the Group has developed general information campaigns as alarm system for radioactivity of material deliveries at trans-shipwell as a variety of training programmes. In 2014, the programmes ment centres. In 2014, the technology department reviewed and already included an e-learning module on the issue of sustainability improved its radioactivity audits as well as the detection equipand procurement specialist training programmes designed to ensure ment it uses around the world. In addition, ELG kicked off a project that social standards are complied with along the supply chain. More aimed at identifying health and safety risks to employees so that it information: www.metrogroup.de/en/responsibility. can better avoid workplace accidents in the future. A first milestone was reached in 2014, when a global reporting system for absences CR PROGRAMME TO BE FURTHER EXPANDED IN 2015 due to accidents and illness went live. In the innovation action area, In addition to the advances already made in the CR activities it has the division’s objective is to further expand its carbon fibre recylaunched, in September 2014 Haniel discussed and agreed with cling activities. In 2014, ELG increased the volume of recycled carthe divisions the next objectives for the three action areas and bon scrap to 458 tonnes. Further details can be found in ELG’s CR the measures designed to bring them about. In the summer, the Report at www.elg.de/en/about-elg/philosophy.html. Holding Company also set itself new objectives for 2015. TAKKT intends to establish itself as a shining example for susHaniel tainability within the industry by 2016 on the basis of the GroupEmployees: In 2015, CR aspects will be factored in to the variable wide “SCORE” (Sustainable Corporate Responsibility) programme. remuneration of top executives of the Group for the first time. In order to meet its clients’ ecological and social standards, Value chain: The company will lift its energy efficiency by centralisTAKKT – a B2B direct marketing specialist for business equiping heating and cooling equipment and by constructing a combined ment – is offering an expanding range of “green” products such as heat and power unit; it expects this to lead to savings of approxiclimate-­neutrally produced transport equipment, environmentally mately 40 per cent of energy expenses by 2016. In order to test friendly packaging solutions and office furniture which is crafted the use of alternative engines in its service fleet, the Holding Comusing recycled materials. In 2014, such products made up 6.6 per pany has launched an electromobility pilot project: By the middle cent of the company’s revenue, representing an increase. TAKKT of 2015 an electric vehicle will be acquired which employees can also involves its business partners in its efforts to enhance sususe for service calls. The project also includes the installation of a tainability: a supplier sustainability evaluation system launched charging station at the company’s headquarters. as a pilot project in 2013 was expanded to include additional comInnovation: With the aim of paving the way towards innovation in panies and suppliers in 2014. TAKKT presently sources 23.7 per the Haniel Group, the Holding Company will develop processes and cent of its products from certified suppliers. In order to recruit structures in 2015 which will strengthen its ability to innovate and and promote talented individuals, the division has kicked off the promote innovation by the divisions. implementation of a systematic human resources development programme – beginning with its largest segment, the Business CWS-boco Equipment Group, which has approximately 1,000 employees. The Employees: CWS-boco’s TÜV-certified “Sales Excellence” training programme is expected to go live by the end of 2015. During the programme for career changers will strengthen the quality of its year under review, a computerised applicant management system direct sales advising even further: in 2015, programme particiwas established and various measures designed to help the compants will make up 50 per cent of new hires in sales. pany retain high-potential employees were implemented. For more Value chain: The uniform Code of Conduct for suppliers, which has information, please see TAKKT’s 2015 Sustainability Report and already been successfully established for textiles procurement, is Progress Report at www.takkt.de­/sustainability-reports.html. being rolled out in additional areas. Going forward, the new Code will also apply to procurement of non-textile products, e.g., dispensers, In keeping with its vision for sustainability, “We offer quality of life”, and the “indirect spending” procurement area, which is responsible for the METRO GROUP and its four sales divisions METRO Cash & Carry, purchasing all services and merchandise outside of the direct product Media-Saturn, Real and Galeria Kaufhof are continually pushing procurement process; these include service vehicles and IT equipforward with their strategic and operational efforts to anchor susment. The target for the middle of 2016 is for 85 per cent of textile and tainability within their core business. In order to guarantee product 70 per cent of non-textile products to be procured via suppliers who quality and safety, as well as to ensure that products are not harmful have signed the Code of Conduct. 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y Innovation: Going forward, the continued optimisation of service A RESPONSIBLE PARTNER routes and the associated reduction in kilometres driven will be Having a well-trained and well-educated workforce is essential to managed by CWS-boco on the basis of an additional performance the Group’s long-term success. Employees who are committed to indicator: By the end of 2015, 90 per cent of drivers in eight counthe Group’s corporate objectives receive the support they need in tries will be equipped with the relevant dispatch planning tool. order to continue growing individually. At their annual performance reviews, employees and their supervisors discuss which abilities ELG they would like to refine and they agree on specific measures – such Employees: ELG’s objective is to increase employee loyalty. In as a management training course at the Haniel Academy, a part-time order to further improve employee health and safety, the company course of study or advanced training in a specialised field. More­over, is expanding on the project it had initiated in 2014. Among other the Haniel Academy makes a vital contribution to the development things, it plans to establish a uniform reporting system for work-reand networking of specialists and executives within the Haniel Group. lated accidents by the end of 2015, as well as to investigate the In the tailored development programmes offered in the “Haniel Leadglobal differences in employee turnover rates. ership Curriculum”, talented up-and-comers, members of the midValue chain: In 2015, ELG plans to analyse the ecological advandle management and top executives reflect on current and future tages of recycling as compared to using primary commodities in a trends. The Group-wide Academy curriculum seizes on current topics study of its primary products. At the same time, it hopes to identify such as how to successfully deal with changes in, the ever-accelerpotential room to reduce CO2 emissions. ating pace of and complexity in the working world. Half-day “Smarty” Innovation: The division has also set itself an ambitious target when it sessions give employees of the Holding Company suggestions on comes to carbon fibre recycling: the objective is to increase the volume dealing with issues such as time and conflict management or proof processed carbon scrap produced annually from 458 to 900 tonnes moting wellness and offer insight into individual departments at by the end of 2015. In addition, the company plans to team up with its the Holding Company, including Corporate Responsibility. Moreover, partners to test the use of recycled carbon fibre in new applications in these “Smart Training” sessions have been offering special courses order to increase the share of recycled material used in the material. for employees in administrative functions since 2014. TAKKT Haniel offers its employees a diverse range of options for achieving Employees: In order to recruit and promote talented individuals, the right work/life balance, including flexitime and part-time opporTAKKT will expand the project launched in 2013: the systematic tunities. In addition, employees who are eligible for telecommuting human resources development programme will be implemented at can also work from their home offices. In 2014, a corresponding all segments by the end of 2016. works agreement entered into force at the Haniel Holding ComValue chain: The company continues to push forward with its CR pany. To help establish a better balance between work and family, efforts as they relate to the supply chain. By the end of 2016, it the Company subsidises child care for children not yet of schoolaims to procure half of the goods and merchandise it sources from ing age. In addition, it grants paid leaves of absence to employees suppliers who have been evaluated from a sustainability perspecwho must care for relatives or sick children. An employee benefit tive. The share of suppliers having been evaluated will increase to fund offers aid to employees who through no fault of their own have 10 per cent. come into hard times financially. Innovation: TAKKT aims to use advertising materials more efficiently and would like to reduce the amount of paper used per EUR As responsible employers, the divisions and the Holding Company 1 million in revenue by 35 per cent of the amount used in 2011 by are committed to employee health and wellness. In 2014, the 2016. The expansion of digital channels and the development of Haniel Holding Company initiated a project relating to a structured innovative printing concepts will help it achieve its goal. occupational health and wellness management system. This system includes measures relating to healthcare, sport and fitness, METRO GROUP nutrition and stress prevention. The TAKKT “aKKtiv” programme Employees: The strategic importance of sustainability to the also enables it to promote employee health and wellness. METRO GROUP is underscored by linking Management Board and global senior management remuneration to the group’s score on The Holding Company and the divisions would like to increase the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). employee sensitivity to the need to protect resources and the enviValue chain: When putting together its product ranges, the METRO ronment – for instance with environmentally friendly company car GROUP focuses on bundled procurement of many merchandise guidelines. The Haniel Holding Company’s Green Car Policy calls for groups at their place of origin as well as regional products on offer. a continuous reduction in CO2 thresholds. In 2014, these limits were By sourcing products such as fruits, vegetables and meats from reduced for newly acquired cars by 10 grammes per kilometre. ELG local producers, the group will not only be able to meet growing has also developed company car guidelines, which it will introduce in customer demand for regional products but also make a vital conearly 2015. TAKKT is also providing incentives to employees who do tribution to sustainability in 2015: this will enable it to support the not drive a company car to commute to work in a manner that uses businesses of suppliers and boost the economic development of resources sparingly: the company has introduced a Germany-wide the individual regions. In addition, shorter transport distances will bonus system for CO2 savers to motivate its employees to make their also improve the CO2 footprint of the merchandise. daily commute in the most environmentally friendly way possible. Innovation: After the successful conclusion of the pilot project in Germany, the group will expand its merchandise tracing solution. COMMITMENT BY TRADITION By the end of 2015, it will be implemented in additional European By Haniel’s corporate values, economic success obliges it to create countries and in the medium term it will also grow to include further added value for society. As a “corporate citizen”, the Holding Comproduct groups such as fruits and vegetables. pany has traditionally been committed to the improvement of its 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y home town of Duisburg in order to create a long-term benefit for the region and to increase the quality of life in the city – such as with Haniel Klassik Open Air concerts, which were held for the first time in 2013 and will be held again in 2015. Together with the Deutsche Oper am Rhein, the Duisburger Philharmonic and the city of Duisburg, Haniel is providing every Duisburg resident free access to the arts and allows recording companies to reach new target groups. In the Ruhrort harbour district, where the Group has been headquartered for 259 years, Haniel provides financial as well as material and non-material support in the areas of site responsibility and promoting education. The focus of this support lies in particular on socially disadvantaged children and young people. For more information on Haniel’s CR strategy and on the Group’s social commitment, go to www.haniel.de/en/responsibility. An overview of the progress made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact can be found starting on page 142. GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGE­MENT BOARD 37 GROUP STRUCTURE AND BUSINESS MODELS 39 REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION 39 Haniel Group 39 Revenue and Earnings Performance 42 Financial Position 44 Assets and Liabilities 45 Employees 46 Holding Company Franz Haniel & Cie. 48 CWS-boco 50 ELG 52 TAKKT 54 METRO GROUP 56 SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 57 REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS 63 REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS 37 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / GROUP STRUCTURE AND BUSINESS MODELS GROUP STRUCTURE AND BUSINESS MODELS The Haniel Group combines four divisions. Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH CWS-boco focuses on the rental business. The offerings range from functions as a strategic management holding company and is customised collections of employee clothing, to protective and responsible for portfolio management. The operating business is in safety clothing as well as modern hygiene products such as towel, the hands of the divisions, which act independently of one another soap and fragrance dispensers. The textiles are properly prepared and which each occupy a leading market position. in the division’s own laundries and the dispensers are regularly serviced, both under long-term service contracts. The rental busiHOLDING COMPANY DESIGNS THE PORTFOLIO ness is supplemented by the sale of consumables such as soap, Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH is a tradition-steeped German family-­ disinfectants and paper as well as washroom hygiene products equity company whose objective is to sustainably increase the and workwear. In recent years, CWS-boco has also expanded its value of its investment portfolio over the long term. Since the famoffering in the cleanroom business. The company offers customily shareholders have provided equity for an unlimited term, Haniel ers in this segment professional preparation of cleanroom apparel, pursues a long-term investment strategy. This strategy is aimed while satisfying the highest certification standards, particularly towards generating returns which permanently exceed the cost with respect to the absence of particulates. CWS-boco’s customof capital. In so doing, Haniel is attempting to harmonise this ecoers – companies of various sizes and industries – benefit from a nomic goal with ecological and social goals. The Company is pursucomprehensive service network as well as sustainable products ing this goal by following the guiding principal of the “honourable and processes. businessman”. At Haniel, capital and management are separated as a matter of principle: Although the Company is 100 per cent family Since the Focus Future repositioning project was initiated in 2010, owned, no member of the Haniel family works at the company. CWS-boco has seen a significant increase in customer satisfaction as well as significant cost savings. In future, the sales initiative When structuring the portfolio, Haniel concentrates on business modlaunched in 2014 will shift to a strategic focus – in the wake of els that are supported by global megatrends and therefore have a high which the number of sales staff will first be increased significantly. potential for increases in value over the long term. Promising markets To that end new employees will be prepared for their sales work in and business models are analysed continually in order to detect growth the Sales Excellence programme in theoretical and practical trainopportunities. Haniel strives to reach a leading market position in all ing units. The division expects significant growth momentum from divisions. Its strategy also includes the disposal of divisions if Haniel these measures. And beyond that, CWS-boco achieves additional has exhausted the potential to increase value or Haniel is no longer the growth potential by taking over local companies that supplement best owner. For this reason Haniel decided to sell the Celesio division to the existing service network. The specialist for washroom hygiene McKesson, the leading North American healthcare services company. products and textile solutions also plans to introduce a new IT sysThe transaction was successfully completed in February 2014. tem during the course of a multi-year project. In addition to portfolio management, the Haniel Holding Company’s The ELG division is the global leader in the trading and recycling task is to create the range of actions permitted for the operating of commodities, in particular for the stainless steel industry. With divisions – in this respect the Holding Company considers itself more than 40 locations in North America, Europe, Asia, Australia to be a strategic catalyst. Significant strategic thrusts and initiaand South Africa, the division has one of the industry’s largest tives are agreed on in discussion with the divisions, which are then global networks. The product line essentially comprises stainless implemented by the divisions under their own responsibility. The steel scrap and superalloys. Superalloys are high-alloy, nickel-conHaniel Management Board regularly discusses the progress with taining scrap and titanium scrap. ELG’s customers, primarily global the divisions’ management. The Haniel Holding Company is also stainless steel producers and companies from the aviation indusresponsible for selecting and developing top executives for the divitry, receive the material in exactly the composition that they need sions and offering the divisions tools and selected services. This for further processing – just in time and pursuant to the highest ensures that all divisions use their respective business models to quality standards. Scrap recycling companies in the superalloys contribute to the value enhancement of the investment portfolio in business are also certified by their customers in order to ensure the best manner possible. high product quality. DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS MODELS In order to be able to meet customer requirements in the future as Haniel’s divisions – the 100-per cent holdings CWS-boco and ELG, the well, the company is continually increasing its international presmajority shareholding TAKKT (50.25%) as well as Metro minority interence. For example, additional procurement sources for stainless est (30.01%) – act independently of one another in their respective steel scrap and superalloys are developed, and new customers are markets. The business models differ significantly from one another: gained in growth markets. Accordingly, in the previous year ELG used acquisitions to further expand the superalloys business, thus CWS-boco offers end-to-end solutions in the fields of washroom laying the foundation for additional growth. hygiene, dust control mats, workwear and textile solutions. The division is one of the international leaders in this field with activiIn addition to trading in stainless steel scrap and superalloys, ELG ties in 18 European countries as well as China. is active in the nascent business of recycling carbon fibres. 38 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / GROUP STRUCTURE AND BUSINESS MODELS The TAKKT division is a B2B direct marketing specialist for business leading operator of department stores. The METRO GROUP’s sales equipment with a comprehensive service offering and business lines distribute their products and services in sales outlets and activities primarily in Europe and North America. The product range online to customers in 30 countries across Europe and Asia. comprises operating and warehouse equipment, office furniture and accessories, transport packaging, display products as well as The METRO GROUP’s strategic objective is to create added value for equipment for the retail sales and the restaurant and hotel marthe customer. In order to achieve this objective the METRO GROUP kets. The offerings of hundreds of suppliers are bundled and clearly intends to orient its business even more strongly on the needs of presented. the customer and to promote innovation. In addition, profitable growth will be pursued in all sales lines and expansion will be driven In its sales approach TAKKT follows a multi-brand strategy that forward selectively. To take into account changing buying habcomprises multi-channel and web-focused brands. Multi-channel its among customers, Metro Cash & Carry’s delivery service and brands combine the classic catalogue business, which is aimed multi-­channel sales function are being further expanded. As part of more at medium-sized and larger companies, with an online offertheir multi-channel activities, the sales lines are increasingly doveing, telephone sales and field representatives in an integrated tailing their retail business with online sales. At Media-Saturn and approach. TAKKT’s web-focused brands are concentrated on cusGaleria Kaufhof, customers can have the merchandise they order tomers who cannot be reached efficiently using the traditional catonline shipped to them, but they can also pick it up at the nearest alogue business and the related online offerings. When a customer location or use services there. has ordered the desired product via one of these channels, TAKKT offers its customers fast delivery using sophisticated logistics VALUE-ORIENTED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM systems that are individually tailored to the target countries. Sustainably increasing shareholder value is at the core of the activities of the divisions and the Haniel Holding Company. In order to TAKKT intends to increase its profitability by several paths. This ensure that the conduct of all participants is oriented on this goal, includes extending e-commerce, which encompasses the further financial and non-financial indicators are utilised within the dividevelopment of web-focused brands, as well as the expansion of sions and the Haniel Holding Company. Haniel uses financial indimulti-channel activities. TAKKT strives for a balanced combinacators to manage the Group: In addition to revenue figures, the tion of the catalogue business, e-commerce activities and direct Management Board uses operating profit to assess the operational sales using telephone sales and field representatives. Additional development of the divisions. Additionally, the profit before taxes is initiatives include the continual expansion of the product line and used as an indicator, which includes the investment result and the increased use of private labels in the product line. In addition, the result from financing activities in addition to the operating profit. portfolio company is fostering the international expansion of existing successful business models and acquiring promising compaA benchmark for value contribution at Haniel is the indicator Haniel nies to supplement previous business activities. value added (HVA). This figure illustrates whether Haniel and its divisions are generating results that at least cover the cost of capAnother division of the Haniel Group, the METRO GROUP, is among ital. The cost of capital comprises the yield required by debt and the most important international retail groups. The METRO GROUP equity providers and reflects the risk attributable to the Company’s includes the four autonomous sales lines: METRO Cash & Carry, business activities. The return on capital employed (ROCE) is also Media-Saturn, Real and Galeria Kaufhof. METRO Cash & Carry is in used as a yield indicator in addition to Haniel value added. Recogthe self-service wholesale business and focuses on commercial nised investments in non-current assets as well as the Haniel cash customers, in particular hotels, restaurants and catering compaflow, in the sense of a cash-earnings indicator, are used to manage nies. The electronics retailer Media-Saturn sells household devices liquidity. and consumer electronics under the Media-Markt and Saturn brands. Real offers an extensive and wide-ranging product line The indicators used for Group management are also used in the in the self-service hypermarkets business. Galeria Kaufhof is a Haniel Group’s compensation systems. FRANZ HANIEL & CIE. GMBH CWS-boco ELG TAKKT METRO GROUP EQUITY INTEREST 100% EQUITY INTEREST 100% EQUITY INTEREST 50.25% EQUITY INTEREST 30.01% CWS-boco ranks among the leading interELG is one of the world’s leading speTAKKT is the market-leading B2B direct METRO GROUP is among the premier national service providers of washroom cialists in trading and recycling raw marketing specialist for business equipinternational retail groups. hygiene products, dust control mats, materials, in particular for the stainless ment in Europe and North America. workwear and textile services. steel industry. 39 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / HANIEL GROUP / REVENUE AND EARNINGS PERFORMANCE HANIEL GROUP REVENUE AND EARNINGS PERFORMANCE The Haniel Group has successfully lifted its operating profit in REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT 2014 by more than 30 per cent.* A primary decisive factor for this EUR million EUR million +10% +31% positive development was the encouraging momentum in ELG’s and TAKKT’s sales markets, but CWS-boco and the Haniel Holding Company also contributed to this success. Moreover, the disposal of Celesio resulted in EUR 696 million in disposal gains – and thus 3,580 3,944 166 217 also in a considerably higher after-tax result. STABLE MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT With global gross domestic product increasing by 3.3 per cent in 2014, growth of the global economy was comparable to that in the preceding year. At the beginning of last year, an overall improvement in the economic momentum was still initially assumed for 2014. This estimate was not confirmed, however. The expectations for economic growth had to be corrected downward again during the course of the year as a result of a general economic slowdown. 2013 2014 2013 2014 Economic development in individual regions of the world varied greatly in 2014: While economic momentum in emerging markets weakened from the high level of the previous year, the developed economies, in at ELG, where the increased demand for production of stainless which the Haniel Group primarily operates, posted slight to moderate steel and superalloys led to substantially higher output tonnage. growth. For example, the euro zone ended the economic contraction Higher prices of nickel and titanium, significant raw materials process of previous years and again grew slightly by 0.8 per cent. The for ELG’s business, also made a positive contribution to revenue regional differences within the euro zone remained, however: Gergrowth. The TAKKT division benefited from the improved general many posted above-average growth of 1.5 per cent, while economic economic conditions and also generated a revenue increase. In growth in France was just 0.4 per cent and economic performance the US in particular, TAKKT was able to increase its revenue thanks in Italy dropped by 0.4 per cent. The US economy developed signifto strong growth companies and the upturn in the public sector icantly more positively than the euro zone. Following a brief period business. At the same time, slightly better business development of economic weakness in the spring, the indicators at year’s end in Europe contributed to revenue growth. The CWS-boco division improved noticeably, adding up to growth of 2.4 per cent. reached the previous year’s revenue level despite intense competition in the market. In addition to the economy, the development in the stainless steel market segment is of particular significance for the ELG division: OPERATING PROFIT INCREASED BY 31 PER CENT overall heightened global demand in 2014 from industries which The Haniel Group improved its operating profit from EUR 166 million consume stainless steel resulted in an increase in global stainless to EUR 217 million – an increase of 31 per cent. This is attributable steel production. The price of nickel, which is also a significant raw in particular to ELG’s considerable gains, but also to the positive material for ELG’s business, also ranged at a higher price level than business development at TAKKT. In addition, CWS-boco experiin the previous year. enced a strong increase in earnings thanks to savings in the area of operating expenses through the modernisation of its laundry netThe rather positive economic development in the US and Germany, work and its supply chain. The Haniel Holding Company also made as well as the encouraging development in the stainless steel mara positive contribution to the increase in earnings. This was due, ket had an overall positive effect on the Haniel Group’s revenue and among other factors, to non-recurring income from the reversal of earnings performance. provisions which were no longer necessary. ELG PROVIDED A SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN CONSOLIDATED PROFIT BEFORE TAXES FALLS REVENUE Despite significantly higher operating profit, profit before taxes The Haniel Group posted a significant increase in revenue in 2014, declined from EUR 117 million in the previous year to EUR 31 million rising 10 per cent to EUR 3,944 million. In addition to the positive in 2014. This is attributable to the fact that the increase in operatbusiness development, the first full-year consolidation of the coming profit was offset by a decrease in both the result from financing panies acquired by CWS-boco and ELG in the prior year also made a activities and investment result. positive contribution. By contrast, currency translation effects did not have a significant influence on revenue development. Adjusted The result from financing activities, which is composed of finance for business combinations and disposals as well as currency transcosts and other net financial income, worsened from EUR -169 millation effects, the Haniel Group increased revenue by 8 per cent. lion in the previous year to EUR -200 million in 2014. The primary reaThis is primarily attributable to the positive revenue development son for this was that the proceeds from the disposal of Celesio were * P rior-year figures have been adjusted in the report of the Management Board in accordance with IFRSs; also see the explanations in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 74. 40 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / HANIEL GROUP / REVENUE AND EARNINGS PERFORMANCE used in part to redeem bonds with a principal amount of EUR 413 profit before taxes was lower, the tax expense increased from EUR million. The premiums paid on the repurchase had a negative impact 35 million in the previous year to EUR 59 million. This increase was on the result from financing activities in the current financial year. caused by non-recurring tax income in the previous year and the Going forward, however, these buy-backs will significantly relieve fact that, while the premiums to be paid on the repurchase of bonds pressure on the net interest result of the Haniel Holding Company. and the lower result from the Metro investment reduced earnings before taxes, they did not result in a reduction in taxes. The investment result was also down in 2014, amounting to EUR 14 million, compared to EUR 120 million in the previous year. A decisive The Haniel Group’s aggregate profit after taxes in 2014 was EUR factor here was the decrease of the result from the Metro invest686 million, thus significantly exceeding the previous year’s EUR ment from EUR 96 million to EUR 14 million. The causes for this 267 million. included portfolio, currency translation and non-recurring effects as well as lower income from property sales at METRO GROUP: In HANIEL VALUE ADDED AND ROCE IMPROVED particular, the missing earnings contribution due to the disposal of In addition to the revenue and earnings figures, the Haniel Group Real’s eastern European business, impairment losses on goodwill also uses Haniel value added (HVA) and the return on capital at Metro Cash & Carry, negative impacts on earnings from store cloemployed (ROCE) as value-oriented performance indicators.* HVA sures at Real and restructuring measures at Media-Saturn weighed expresses the value contribution generated within a single year. down the result. Adjusted for the aforementioned effects, howPositive value is added if earnings after taxes and before finance ever, METRO GROUP’s operating profit was up slightly compared costs, i.e., the return, exceeds the cost of capital. The cost of capito the previous year. In addition, Haniel Group’s investment result tal is calculated by multiplying the weighted average cost of capital declined year-on-year because in the previous year it included with the average capital employed. The weighted average cost of income from the disposal of two investment funds capital reflects the return expectations of equity and debt holders, factoring in the risks associated with providing capital. The costs HIGH PROFIT AFTER TAXES DUE TO DISPOSAL OF CELESIO of equity and debt are determined each year, as is their weighting. Celesio has been reported as a discontinued operation since 2013 A weighted average cost of capital of 8.1 per cent was used to caland is therefore no longer included in the Haniel Group’s revenue, culate HVA in 2013 and 2014. operating profit and profit before taxes. The profit after taxes from discontinued operations in 2014 was comprised solely of EUR million 2013 2014 the earnings from Celesio and totalled EUR 714 million. Celesio’s Return 607 907 profit after taxes from operating activities is accounted for up to – Cost of capital 824 634 the disposal date and was EUR 18 million; the disposal gain after Haniel value added (HVA) -217 273 taxes amounted to EUR 696 million. In the previous year, profit after taxes from discontinued operations was EUR 185 million and solely comprised Celesio’s current operations. Return 607 907 / Average capital employed 10,173 7,832 At EUR -28 million, profit after taxes from continuing operations Return on capital employed (ROCE) 6.0% 11.6% was below the previous year’s figure of EUR 82 million. Although the HVA was EUR 273 million in 2014 and EUR -217 million in the previous year. The increase had two causes: first, at EUR 907 million in PROFIT BEFORE TAXES PROFIT AFTER TAXES 2014, the return was significantly higher than in 2013 due to the EUR million EUR million disposal gain from the Celesio transaction. Second, the cost of capi-74% >+100% tal fell because the average capital employed declined significantly as a result of the disposal of Celesio. The performance indicator ROCE reflects the return realised on the 117 31 267 686 average capital employed. The Haniel Group’s ROCE increased from 6.0 per cent in the previous year to 11.6 per cent in 2014. Hence, the return on capital employed during the 2014 financial year was significantly above the weighted average cost of capital of 8.1 per cent; it had been below that figure in the previous year. EXPECTED INCREASE ATTAINED IN REVENUE AND PROFIT AFTER TAXES In last year’s annual financial statements, Haniel Holding Company forecast that the improved economic environment in par2013 2014 2013 2014 ticular would have a positive impact in the Haniel Group’s business * For a detailed calculation of the HVA and ROCE indicators, see the explanation in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 101. 41 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / HANIEL GROUP / REVENUE AND EARNINGS PERFORMANCE development in 2014. ELG and TAKKT particularly benefited from an improved economic environment in 2014 in their markets and increased their operating profit even more than expected. In comparison, the CWS-boco division did not increase its revenue as forecast due to intense competition; however, it did achieve a significant increase in operating earnings compared to previous years. As expected, the METRO GROUP posted a slight increase in revenue adjusted for business combinations and disposals as well as currency translation effects. As assumed, the operating profit before non-recurring expenses was below the previous year’s level. This was due to lower income from property sales and the loss of the earnings contribution from Real’s eastern European business, which was sold. Currency translation effects also had a negative impact. The result from the Metro investment at Haniel was – contrary to the projection – below the previous year’s level: While the METRO GROUP did achieve improvements in its net financial income and tax expense as expected, there were unexpectedly high non-­ recurring expenses. The Haniel Group’s profit before taxes was not – as assumed – above the previous year’s level, but rather well below it. This was due in part to the result from the Metro investment remaining below expectations, but also to bond repurchases turning out higher than originally planned. These repurchases weighed down the result from financing activities as a result of the premiums to be paid in 2014, albeit with the objective of achieving significant savings on the interest expense in subsequent years. As expected, Haniel obtained a high net disposal gain of EUR 696 million on the disposal of Celesio. The Haniel Group therefore posted high positive profit after taxes – as expected – in the 2014 financial year despite a lower result from the Metro investment and a decline in the result from financing activities. Haniel value added and ROCE, the value-oriented performance indicators, improved significantly as expected because, on the one hand, the net disposal gain on the disposal of Celesio increased the return significantly, and on the other hand, the outgoing assets significantly reduced the annual average capital employed. 42 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / HANIEL GROUP / FINANCIAL POSITION HANIEL GROUP FINANCIAL POSITION The disposal of the Celesio division has enabled the Haniel Group level. In addition, the number and weight of the individual equity to further reduce its net financial liabilities. The company now has investments in the Haniel investment portfolio influence the rata broad liquidity base. Thus, there is sufficient latitude available ing. Thanks in particular to the significantly lower net financial liato again invest in new profitable business divisions at any time. bilities, Haniel successfully reduced its market value gearing as at 31 December 2014. FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE BETWEEN THE HOLDING COMPANY AND THE DIVISIONS The improved market value gearing had a positive impact on the The ultimate objective of financial management is to cover the classification by the rating agencies. While the long-term ratings financing and liquidity needs at all times while maintaining entrefrom Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s were left at BB+ and Ba1, preneurial independence and limiting financial risks. The Holding respectively, following the recent increase in the second half of Company prescribes principles to the divisions in order to establish 2013, Standard & Poor’s has already factored in the significantly minimum organisational requirements and to govern the structure more favourable financial conditions and raised its outlook to “posof key financial management processes – including financial risk itive”. Moody’s continues to assess the rating of Franz Haniel & management. These directives are documented in guidelines for Cie. GmbH as “stable”. The improved outlook for Haniel is another the treasury departments of the Holding Company and the fully important step toward the desired stable investment grade rating. consolidated divisions. The divisions use this basis to identify, analyse and evaluate the financial risks that the operating business BROAD-BASED FINANCING is responsible for – in particular liquidity, credit, interest rate and Diversification of financing is a significant core element of financurrency risks – and take measures to avoid or limit these risks. In cial management. The use of various financing instruments with addition, the Holding Company sets the financing and financial risk a broad range of business partners not only ensures access to management strategy and approves the financial counterparties liquidity at all times, it also reduces the dependency on individual and financial instruments used, as well as limits and reports. financial instruments and business partners. In addition, the Group can respond flexibly to developments on the capital markets and in While staying within these guidelines, the divisions manage their the banking sector. Binding commitments for credit facilities which own financing based on their own financial and liquidity planning. are, however, utilised to only a limited extent, are an expression of Cash management is also the responsibility of the divisions. In the effort to obtain secure and independent financing. The Haniel order to leverage economies of scale, the Holding Company and its Group has used and unused credit facilities on the scale of EUR 2.2 finance companies support the divisions and, together with partbillion. ner banks, offer cash pools in various countries. Combining central directives with the autonomy of the divisions in terms of their Additional financing security is ensured by a balanced maturity financing takes into account both the different levels of investment structure with appropriate long-term financing, in particular in the by the Holding Company in the divisions as well as the divisions’ form of corporate bonds. The financial liabilities reported in the individual requirements for financial management. Haniel Group’s Statement of Financial Position were EUR 1,468 million as at 31 December 2014. Of that amount, EUR 392 million is due TRUSTING COOPERATION WITH FINANCING PARTNERS in less than one year, EUR 970 million is due in one to five years, As a family business with stable but limited equity financing, and EUR 106 million is due in more than five years. The majority of access to sources of debt capital are of high importance to Haniel. liabilities are denominated in euros. Liabilities in foreign currencies Accordingly, a good reputation with financial partners is essenare primarily in US dollars. tial. A significant aspect of this is providing rating agencies and business partners with timely and transparent information while In addition to bank loans, Haniel also obtains financing regularly maintaining equal treatment with respect to financial information on the capital market using bonds, commercial paper and promisand material contractual components. Only if this is ensured a comsory loan notes. To that end, the Haniel Holding Company updates pany can earn a high degree of trust from banks and investors as its commercial paper programme at longer intervals and its debt a long-standing and reliable business partner, such as Haniel has issuance programme in the current amount of EUR 2 billion annuenjoyed for many years. ally. Based on information contained therein, bonds can be placed very flexibly in terms of the timing and amount and adjusted to the IMPROVED RATING OUTLOOK respective market conditions. A stable good rating is evidence of the corresponding creditworthiness and creates transparency that is necessary for a trusting In 2014 the Haniel Holding Company used proceeds from the Celesio relationship with financing partners. For that reason, Haniel voldisposal to redeem bonds with a principal amount of EUR 413 miluntarily submits to external ratings. The rating agencies’ classifilion. These redemptions, as well as the scheduled repayment of a cations of the Haniel Holding Company are based in particular on bond in October, reduced the carrying amount of outstanding bonds the market value gearing, which is the ratio between net financial in the Haniel Group from EUR 1.3 billion as at 31 December 2013 to liabilities at the Holding Company level and the value of the investEUR 0.5 billion at year’s end 2014. In addition, the CWS-boco, ELG ment portfolio, as well as the cash flows at the Holding Company and TAKKT divisions have increasingly financed themselves on the 43 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / HANIEL GROUP / FINANCIAL POSITION market for promissory loan notes in recent years, thus broadening in 2014 due to its short financial year, which comprised only nine their financing base. The value of promissory loan notes, commermonths. cial paper and other securitised debt in the Haniel Group amounted to EUR 0.2 billion at year’s end. In addition, the CWS-boco and ELG Cash flows from operating activities, which supplement Haniel cash divisions maintain programmes for the continual sale of trade flow in depicting the change in current net assets, amounted to EUR receivables to third parties. -135 million in 2014, and were thus lower than the Haniel cash flow. This is attributable to the fact that financial resources were tied up NET FINANCIAL LIABILITIES SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED as a result of the increase in current net assets. At ELG in particuThe disposal of the Celesio division in February 2014 and the prolar, inventories and trade receivables increased as expected, priceeds of EUR 1,999 million resulted in a substantial reduction in marily as a result of the higher prices for nickel and greater output the Group’s debt: net financial liabilities, i.e., financial liabilities less tonnage. In the previous year, cash flows from operating activities cash and cash equivalents, fell within the Group from EUR 3,843 milamounted to EUR 660 million, which was substantially higher than lion at the end of 2013 to EUR 1,358 million as at 31 December 2014. the Haniel cash flow. This was due to a reduction in inventories in terms of value and volume at ELG in 2013. At the level of the Haniel Holding Company, net financial liabilities fell from EUR 1,586 million to EUR 647 million. Financial assets, EUR million 2013 2014 including current and non-current receivables from affiliated Haniel cash flow 562 175 companies, amounted to EUR 737 million. That figure primarily Cash flow from operating activities 660 -135 includes financial assets with short and medium terms which the Haniel Holding Company intends to use for future acquisitions. As Cash flow from investing activities 309 779 the financial assets are greater than the net financial liabilities, the Cash flow from financing activities -964 -1,093 Haniel Holding Company is de facto debt-free. HIGH CASH FLOW FROM DIVESTMENTS HANIEL CASH FLOW DECLINES Cash flow from investing activities, i.e., the net outlays for capital Haniel uses the performance indicator Haniel cash flow to assess expenditure and proceeds from divesting activities, amounted to the strength of its liquidity position in its current business activEUR 779 million in 2014. Payments for investments in property, ities. This indicator reveals the extent to which Haniel generates plant and equipment, intangible assets and business acquisitions sufficient financial resources through its current business activamounted to EUR 770 million. That figure primarily included payities to secure funding both for its current net assets* as well as ments for financial assets by the Haniel Holding Company following its investing activities. Haniel cash flow fell from EUR 562 million the disposal of Celesio, as well as investments in property, plant to EUR 175 million in 2014 – as anticipated in the previous year. and equipment and other assets by the divisions. Proceeds from The causes of this decline were rooted in lower earnings contribudivestment activities amounted to EUR 1,549 million in 2014. That tions from Celesio’s operating activities, as the division was only amount primarily consisted of the proceeds from the disposal of included in 2014 prior to the date on which the disposal was comthe Celesio division, less cash and cash equivalents disposed of by pleted. In addition, Haniel cash flow was lower because, unlike in the Haniel Group. the previous year, the METRO GROUP did not distribute a dividend In the previous year, cash flows from investing activities amounted to EUR 309 million. That figure included EUR 298 million in payHANIEL CASH FLOW CAPITAL EXPENDITURE ments, primarily for investments by the divisions in property, plant EUR million EUR million and equipment. Proceeds from divestment activities amounted to -69% >+100% EUR 607 million in the previous year and were thus already high; that figure included in particular inflows of cash at the Haniel Holding Company level from disposal of shares in METRO AG and two investment funds. 562 175 298 770 Cash flows from financing activities amounted to EUR -1,093 million, compared with EUR -964 million in 2013. That figure includes the scheduled repayment and redemption of bonds with a total principal amount of EUR 849 million and the distribution of dividends to the shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH amounting to EUR 30 million. In the previous year, Haniel also significantly reduced its debt, although it did not distribute any dividends to the shareholders of the Holding Company. 2013 2014 2013 2014 * Net current assets consist essentially of trade receivables and inventories less trade payables. 44 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / HANIEL GROUP / ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HANIEL GROUP ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The Haniel Group has further strengthened its balance sheet strucfell, in particular due to the disposal of liabilities of the sold Celesio ture and significantly raised its equity ratio. This was due to the division as well as the scheduled repayment of a bond of the Haniel disposal of the Celesio division, which significantly reduced total Holding Company, falling from EUR 6,591 million to EUR 899 milassets. In addition, a portion of the proceeds was used to reduce lion. Thus the Group successfully further strengthened its balance indebtedness by repurchasing and redeeming outstanding bonds. sheet structure as at 31 December 2014. LOWER TOTAL ASSETS INCREASE IN RECOGNISED INVESTMENTS The disposal of Celesio reduced the total assets of the Haniel Group Despite the disposal of Celesio, the Haniel Group’s recognised from EUR 13,387 million as at 31 December 2013 to EUR 6,446 milinvestments increased from EUR 309 million in the previous year lion as at 31 December 2014. This manifested above all in current to EUR 357 million in financial year 2014. The elimination of the assets, which fell from EUR 8,620 million to EUR 1,662 million: As at Celesio division’s investments was more than compensated for by 31 December 2013, the Celesio division’s assets were still included extensive investments by the Haniel Holding Company in mid-term as assets held for sale, which have now been completely disposed financial assets with a term of more than one year. The remaining of by way of the sale. Current assets increased due to the fact that recognised investments are attributable in particular to the pura portion of the sale proceeds flowed to current financial assets. chase of textiles and towel dispensers intended for rental and the In addition, the ELG division’s inventories and trade receivables expansion of the laundry network in the CWS-boco division. increased, particularly as a result of higher commodities prices. Non-current assets increased from EUR 4,767 million to EUR 4,784 million. The growth resulted from newly acquired mid-term financial assets with a maturity of more than twelve months, in which Haniel has temporarily invested following the Celesio disposal. A decline in the carrying amount of investment in METRO AG, which is accounted for using the equity method, reduced total assets. EQUITY RATIO INCREASED SHARPLY Equity fell from EUR 4,556 million as at 31 December 2013 to EUR 3,973 million as at 31 December 2014. This is because the disposal of the Celesio divisions resulted in the corresponding non-­controlling interests also leaving the Group. Nonetheless, the equity ratio increased significantly due to the lower total assets: this figure increased from 34 per cent to 62 per cent, thus underscoring the Group’s investment potential. In contrast, non-current liabilities declined from EUR 2,240 million to EUR 1,574 million. The decisive factor here was that the Haniel Holding Company used some of the proceeds from the disposal of the Celesio division for the early repurchase of outstanding bonds. Current liabilities also CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ASSET STRUCTURE EQUITY AND LIABILITY STRUCTURE EUR million EUR million 13,387 6,446 13,387 6,446 49% 14% Current liabilities 64% 26% Current assets 17% 24% Non-current liabilities 36% 74% Non-current assets 34% 62% Equity 2013 2014 2013 2014 45 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / HANIEL GROUP / EMPLOYEES HANIEL GROUP EMPLOYEES The disposal of Celesio reduced the headcount in the Haniel Group considerably. While the average number of employees was 50,279 in the 2013 financial year, the number of employees in 2014 averaged 11,544. CELESIO DISPOSAL REDUCES HEADCOUNT The number of people employed by Celesio was 38,754 in 2013; they had been accounted for in the previous year under discontinued operations. The disposal of the Celesio division sharply reduced the overall headcount in the Haniel Group in 2014. In continuing operations, the number of employees was 11,544 in 2014, almost unchanged from 11,525 in 2013. Development in the divisions varied. At ELG the number of employees in the financial year just ended increased from 1,224 to 1,267, which is attributable primarily to the expansion of the superalloys business. The first full-year consolidation of Metals Management Aerospace, the company acquired in 2013 in this market segment, impacted that figure as well. The average number of employees at TAKKT dropped slightly from 2,551 to 2,528 due to the planned discontinuation of Topdeq business operations. By contrast, CWS-boco recorded overall stable development of the staffing level, although it was further reduced as planned due to the modernisation of the laundry network. Given that new jobs were created concurrently in sales operations, the number of employees remained largely unchanged at 7,529 following 7,527 employees in the previous year. EMPLOYEES Annual average (headcount) -77% 50,279 11,544 2013 2014 46 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / HOLDING COMPANY FR ANZ HANIEL & CIE. HOLDING COMPANY FRANZ HANIEL & CIE. The Haniel Holding Company* succeeded in creating new entrepreDue to these actions, the net financial liabilities at the Holding neurial leeway in 2014. Following the successful disposal of the Company level went from EUR 1,586 million at the end of 2013 to Celesio division and the reduction in liabilities, the family-equity EUR 647 million as at 31 December 2014. Taking into account the company concentrated on the structured search for new divisions. current and non-current receivables from affiliated companies, these liabilities are offset by financial assets valued at EUR 737 TRANSACTION PROCEEDS CREATE FINANCIAL LEEWAY million. The Haniel Holding Company is thus essentially debt-free. Haniel received EUR 1,999 million from the disposal of Celesio at Thus, Haniel has created a solid liquidity buffer which will enable it the beginning of the financial year. That formed the basis for new to acquire new divisions. entrepreneurial leeway. Among other things, Haniel used the proceeds from the Celesio transaction to repay bonds valued at EUR STRUCTURED SEARCH FOR NEW BUSINESS DIVISIONS 436 million as scheduled and to redeem bonds with a principal As a family-equity company, Haniel pursues a long-term investamount of EUR 413 million early. These bond redemptions will also ment approach and makes capital available to future investments, significantly reduce the Haniel Holding Company’s interest payfor example for implementing growth strategies. Haniel’s investments over the coming years, although this resulted in a one-off ment filter is used to screen for well-positioned, small and medifinancial charge in 2014. In addition to the scheduled repayment um-sized enterprises which operate in attractive niche sectors and and redemption of bonds, low risk, but currently low interest financan leverage Haniel’s support and expertise to expand their leading cial assets were acquired temporarily and the capital base of the market position over the medium to long term. Their business activdivisions was strengthened for their further development. ities should make a contribution to the diversification of the Haniel * I ncl. the Holding Company’s financing and service companies. The separate financial statements of Franz Haniel & Cie. are published at www.haniel.com under “Creditor Relations”. 47 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / HOLDING COMPANY FR ANZ HANIEL & CIE. portfolio and promise an appropriate value contribution. In addition, pool voting rights and was a unique structure amongst well-known Haniel gives preference to non-listed companies in which it can listed companies, which was effectively not required. This action acquire a significant majority stake. In line with Haniel’s objective of did not change Haniel’s 30.01 per cent interest in the voting rights being “enkelfähig”, the only candidates for acquisition are compain METRO AG. nies which already make a positive contribution to the environment and society through their sustainable actions, or which will be able HANIEL HOLDING COMPANY INCREASES ITS EARNINGS to do so in the future. Based on these criteria, the Holding Company CONTRIBUTION reviews all companies offered for purchase – as well as companies The amount contributed by the Haniel Holding Company to operatidentified internally whose business models appear interesting for ing profit improved in 2014 due to non-recurring income from the Haniel. In this connection, Haniel has analysed mega­trends and, reversal of provisions no longer needed, among other items. based on that analysis, defined search fields in which potentially interesting business models are carefully examined. During the course of the year the company has already examined a number of companies available for sale. SOLID FINANCING SECURED After the acquisition of new divisions, Haniel aims to have debt of around EUR 1 billion at the level of the Holding Company over the medium to long term, thus representing a considerably lower level than in the past years. Therefore, significantly lower lines of credit and capital market financing are necessary. Accordingly, the Group has already cut back considerably on both forms of financing, among others, by redeeming on schedule the 2009 issued bond in October 2014. In spite of the scheduled reduction of outstanding bonds, Haniel will continue to rely on the two proven cornerstones of financing – bank loans and bonds. However, the major part of financing is and remains the equity made permanently available by the Haniel family. Haniel submits itself to external rating assessments voluntarily, thus ensuring broad access to capital markets. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have already raised their ratings in the second half of 2013 to BB+ and Ba1, respectively. Standard & Poor’s supplemented this during the first half of 2014 with a positive outlook. This reflects the expected expansion of the portfolio as well as conservative debt targets and is another step towards a stable investment-grade rating. MARKET VALUE OF THE PORTFOLIO DECREASED The value of the investment portfolio minus remaining net financial liabilities at the Holding Company level amounted to EUR 4,428 million as at 31 December 2014. At the end of 2013, it was EUR 5,320 million, primarily as a result of the higher Metro share price. The value of the investment portfolio is calculated as the sum of the valuations of the divisions, financial assets and non-current and current receivables from affiliated companies. Listed divisions are valued on the basis of three-month average share prices, while the remainder of divisions are valued on the basis of market multipliers. Despite the lower value of the investment portfolio, the important rating input, the market value gearing – which is the ratio of the net financial liabilities to the market value of the investment portfolio – declined in 2014 because Haniel was able to use the proceeds from the Celesio disposal to significantly reduce net financial liabilities. SIMPLIFICATION OF THE METRO SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE Haniel ended the pooling agreement with the Schmidt-Ruthenbeck family as of 31 October 2014. This agreement primarily served to 48 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / WHOLLY-OWNED INVESTMENT CWS-BOCO CWS-boco increased its operating profit again in the 2014 financial year. This was made possible in particular through the sharp REVENUE REVENUE focus placed by the entire division on cutting costs and improvEUR million by division in % ing quality over several years – especially in the modernisation of its laundry network and its supply chain. CWS-boco’s revenue remained stable compared to the previous year. The positive business development in the core German market compensated for the +0% Washroom hygiene/mats 50 Textile services 50 slight revenue declines in some European countries with difficult 748 751 market environments. OPERATING PROFIT LIFTED Thanks to greater efficiency in operating processes and better quality of service, CWS-boco increased operating profit in 2014 compared to the previous year from EUR 64 million to EUR 71 million, thus continuing the positive earnings trend of previous years. Key measures implemented in this context included the optimisation of the Europe-wide laundry network as well as the construction of a central warehouse and service location in Poland in which, 2013 2014 2014 49 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / WHOLLY-OWNED INVESTMENT among other things, replacement clothing for customers is stored CWS-BOCO EXPANDS SALES AND CLEANROOM BUSINESS and prepared in accordance with customer requirements. The modCWS-boco is expanding its sales function in order to enable further ernisation of the laundry network focused primarily on enhancing growth in the highly competitive sector. To that end, the division efficiency and reducing the use of resources such as energy and increased the number of sales employees and launched the Sales detergents. Moreover, the aim of the central warehousing and Excellence programme. This twelve-month programme offers a service location in Poland is to ensure that uniformly high quality variety of theoretical and practical training units to sales employstandards are applied in the workwear business throughout Europe ees, culminating in a TÜV certificate. In addition, participants are and that processing times are reduced. also assigned a mentor for the full term of the course, who supports them in honing their skills and applying them in practice. After the STABLE REVENUE DEVELOPMENT first participants successfully completed the training programme At EUR 751 million, CWS-boco’s revenue in 2014 – also adjusted for in Germany, it is now being adapted to specific products and business combinations and disposals as well as currency transextended to additional foreign subsidiaries. lation effects – was at the previous year’s level. While CWS-boco posted positive business development, above all in Germany, revAdditionally, CWS-boco has strengthened its competitive position enue development in other countries such as the Netherlands or in the growth market of the cleanroom business in the past year. Italy was characterised by a difficult market environment. In addiBased on the existing cleanroom expertise gained in Belgium, Iretion, the strategic decisions to exit the flat linen business and the land, Poland and China, the first cleanroom laundry was opened in related intensified focus on the cleanroom business at the Beijing Germany during the first half of 2014. In addition to this, CWS-boco location contributed to this development. initiated the acquisition of an established provider in southern Germany in the second half of the year. Hence, CWS-boco now also Revenue in CWS-boco’s core business – the rental service for workoffers professional preparation of cleanroom apparel in Germany, wear, washroom hygiene products and dust control mats – remained while satisfying the highest certified standards for particle-free stable in 2014. Among other things, CWS-boco succeeded in further clothing. The target group includes companies in the pharmaceutireducing contract cancellation rates for dust control mats and washcal, medical technology and electronics industries. room hygiene products. Cancellation rates remained virtually stable at a low level for workwear. The division achieved this by further intenWith respect to the product portfolio, CWS-boco brought an imporsifying customer care and expanding its focused complaint and cantant addition to the market to complete the no-contact washcellation management efforts. Adjusted for business combinations room: the hygienic Clean Touch door handle. A hygienic film that and disposals as well as currency translation effects, revenue from is replaced automatically enables the handle to be used without the rental business remained at the previous year’s level as well. direct skin contact. CWS-boco supplements its service business by selling consumables, such as soap, disinfectant and paper, as well as dispensers and workwear. Revenue in this trade business increased in 2014 by 1 per cent year on year – adjusted for business combinations and disposals as well as currency translation effects, trade revenue remained stable. OPERATING PROFIT EMPLOYEES EUR million Annual average (headcount) +11% +0% 64 71 7,527 7,529 2013 2014 2013 2014 50 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / WHOLLY-OWNED INVESTMENT ELG The ELG division increased both its output tonnage and operatOPERATING PROFIT EMPLOYEES ing profit significantly in 2014. The company benefited primarily EUR million Annual average (headcount) +26% +4% from increasing demand for scrap in the stainless steel market segment and the higher price level of nickel, a key raw material for ELG. ELG also achieved encouraging gains in the successfully expanded superalloys business, to which business combinations 47 59 1,224 1,267 in the previous year also contributed IMPROVED MARKET ENVIRONMENT AND RISING NICKEL PRICES IN STAINLESS STEEL SCRAP BUSINESS In spite of an increasing slowdown as a result of geopolitical crises in the second half of the year, the global economy grew at a similar rate in 2014 compared with the preceding year. The demand for production of stainless steel increased significantly in this general economic environment, which was positive overall. The production of stainless steel increased accordingly, in particular in China and the US where, above all, the ramp-up of a new stainless steel mill 2013 2014 2013 2014 contributed to the increase. Following negative growth in recent years, production in Europe also increased slightly. This growth in the US and Europe resulted in stronger demand for stainless mid-September. This is attributable above all to market particisteel scrap, which had an overall positive effect on ELG’s output pants expecting a significant shortage of nickel after Indonesia tonnage. The stainless steel market segment was again characimposed export restrictions on nickel ore, which is used in the terised by high competitive pressure in 2014, not least due to the production of nickel pig iron, at the beginning of the year. As a significant increase in demand. Dealers in both the European and result of inventory levels of nickel pig iron in China still exceeding the US markets contended with strong competition for the limited expectations and the uncertainties due to the geopolitical crises, stainless steel scrap available. By contrast, the increase in Chinickel prices plateaued at year’s end at approximately USD 15,000 nese production did not lead to an increased demand for stainless per tonne – the same price level as at the beginning of the year. steel scrap. Companies in China primarily use a substitute known Despite this, the price averaged USD 16,900 per tonne in 2014, as nickel pig iron rather than stainless steel scrap to produce 12 per cent higher than the previous year’s price. In contrast, the stainless steel. prices for chrome and iron – the other significant components in stainless steel scrap – declined during the course of the year due The stainless steel market segment also benefited from rising to high supply. prices for nickel, the most valuable element in the stainless steel scrap processed by ELG. In the first months of the financial year, POSITIVE MARKET DEVELOPMENT FOR SUPERALLOYS the price of nickel rose steadily to USD 21,000 per tonne, and subThe superalloys market segment was characterised by stronger sequently ranged around a level of USD 19,000 per tonne until demand compared to the previous year – over the entire course of 2014. Companies in the aviation industry in particular had increased demand for superalloys scraps, which in turn had a posREVENUE REVENUE itive impact on ELG’s output tonnage. The prices of the commodiEUR million by sales region in % ties significant for ELG’s superalloys business, such as nickel, tita+18% Europe nium, tungsten and cobalt, also developed positively. For example, 52 the price level for titanium was approximately 30 per cent higher Americas than that of the previous year. 32 1,880 2,213 Asia OUTPUT TONNAGE AND OPERATING PROFIT IMPROVED 16 SIGNIFICANTLY ELG took advantage of the significantly improved environment in the stainless steel market segment to increase its output tonnage for stainless steel scrap by 15 per cent year on year. Including the acquisitions of ABS Industrial Resources and Metals Management Aerospace in this market segment in 2013, ELG’s superalloys business increased tonnage by 38 per cent. Both new companies displayed encouraging development in 2014. This has allowed ELG to significantly expand its superalloys business as an additional pil2013 2014 2014 lar. By diversifying its operating activities, ELG has strengthened 51 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / WHOLLY-OWNED INVESTMENT its foundation for sustainable growth. Even adjusted for the two 7 million. This non-recurring income was primarily attributable to business combinations, ELG increased output tonnage by 16 per the sale of a receivable written down in previous years as well as cent year on year as a result of the strong demand for superalloys. to insurance payments. ELG boosted revenue by 18 per cent to EUR 2,213 million in 2014 thanks to the higher output tonnage and price increases for nickel and titanium. Despite the improved demand for scrap, ELG’s margins in the stainless steel scrap business declined slightly, above all as a result of higher procurement prices. On the other hand, the sharp increase in demand and the limited recycling capacity for superalloys resulted in higher margins at ELG. ELG’s operating profit also experienced significant growth, increasing from EUR 47 million in the previous year to EUR 59 million in 2014. Positive effects in this regard were attributable to the increase in revenue and the expansion of the high-margin superalloys business. It should also be noted that 2013 operating profit was affected positively by non-recurring items totalling EUR 52 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / MA JORIT Y INTEREST TAKKT Business development at TAKKT was characterised by positive REVENUE REVENUE growth momentum in Europe and the US in 2014. Both revenue and EUR million by division in % operating profit increased. In addition, TAKKT continued to drive forward the expansion of its multi-channel business and continued to focus its portfolio with the disposal of the Plant Equipment +3% TAKKT EUROPE 53 TAKKT AMERICA 47 Group and the discontinuation of business operations at Topdeq. 953 981 TAKKT REMAINS ON EXPANSION COURSE TAKKT division revenue increased by 3 per cent to EUR 981 million – adjusted for the planned discontinuation of Topdeq’s business operations and for currency translation effects, revenue actually increased significantly by 6 per cent. The business operation of Office Equipment Group, including the Topdeq brand, was discontinued incrementally as scheduled by September 2014. This process – in particular the clearance sale of the existing inventories – was financially satisfactory. In 2013 2014 2014 53 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / MA JORIT Y INTEREST addition, TAKKT was able to sell the Topdeq trademarks to a competHowever, projects launched in connection with the DYNAMIC initiaitor. Adjusted for the Topdeq discontinuation and currency transtive led to higher expenses in 2014. lation effects, revenue at TAKKT EUROPE increased by 3 per cent thanks to improved general economic conditions. Within TAKKT EXPANSION OF THE MULTI-CHANNEL SALES FUNCTION EUROPE, both segments contributed to revenue growth – however, CONTINUED the Packaging Solution Group experienced stronger growth than TAKKT is integrating various sales channels in connection with the the Business Equipment Group. Business development was parexpansion of its multi-channel sales function in order to address ticularly positive in the high-revenue home market, Germany. customers as needed: through the catalogue, online, by telephone and via employees in the external sales force. To that end, the B2B Adjusted for currency translation effects, TAKKT AMERICA increased direct marketing supplier launched the DYNAMIC initiative in 2012 revenue by 8 per cent, with business in the three segments varywith the goal of orienting business activities even more strongly ing. The Office Equipment Group recorded especially solid growth. on the multi-channel sales approach. DYNAMIC comprises approxiAmong other factors, higher demand from US state government mately 50 projects, which are individually tailored to the Group cominstitutions contributed to this growth. The Specialties Group benpanies in question. The first projects have already been successefited from positive development in the North American restaurant fully concluded. sector and from strong growth momentum from GPA, a B2B direct marketing supplier for display products. E-commerce is an important component of the multi-channel activities, which again developed very well in 2014. After reaching By contrast, the Plant Equipment Group, which operates in a highly 28 per cent in the previous year, e-commerce’s share of total revecompetitive environment and owns the C&H main brand, recorded nue expanded to 30 per cent during the financial year. a slight decline in revenue. In order to create better opportunities for development at the Plant Equipment Group, TAKKT concluded an agreement on its disposal with the strategic investor Global Industrial in December 2014. The transaction was completed at the beginning of 2015. By taking this step TAKKT can concentrate more resources on further developing its integrated multi-channel business. OPERATING PROFIT LIFTED Due to its strong business performance, TAKKT increased its operating profit from EUR 96 million in 2013 to EUR 111 million in 2014. This increase resulted – in addition to the elimination of oneoff expenses for the Topdeq closure in 2013 – above all from the positive business development at TAKKT AMERICA. TAKKT EUROPE also increased profits slightly – adjusted for the Topdeq business. OPERATING PROFIT EMPLOYEES EUR million Annual average (headcount) +16% -1% 96 111 2,551 2,528 2013 2014 2013 2014 54 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / MINORIT Y INVESTMENT METRO GROUP The METRO GROUP made additional progress in its strategic realignonline offerings are being further expanded, in particular under the ment and increased revenue adjusted for business combinations Redcoon brand. Real further increased the revenue share of own and disposals as well as currency translation effects. However, operbrands primarily by adding to the product portfolio. ating profit decreased due to one-off expenses, negative currency translation effects, portfolio measures as well as lower income from ADJUSTED REVENUE HIGHER property sales. Therefore, the Haniel Group’s investment result from The METRO GROUP ’s revenue fell by 4 per cent in 2014 to EUR the METRO GROUP was significantly below that of the previous year. 62,625 million. The primary causes for this were negative currency translation effects as well as the disposal of the Real’s eastern STRATEGIC REALIGNMENT CONTINUES European business. Adjusted for business combinations and disThe strategic objective of the METRO GROUP is to create added posals as well as currency translation effects, revenue increased value for the customer. In order to achieve this objective it intends by 2 per cent. One particular reason for this was the expansion of to expand its supply and multi-channel activities, improve product the international location network: METRO GROUP opened 55 new ranges and strengthen own brands. The METRO GROUP made furlocations in nine countries during the financial year. The Christmas ther progress in all of these measures in 2014. For example, METRO business was also positive overall in 2014. Cash & Carry increased revenue significantly from its delivery business, which is now offered in all sales countries. In addition METRO Revenue at Metro Cash & Carry fell by 3 per cent. The decisive cause Cash & Carry made additional investments in its own delivery of this was negative currency translation effects, in particular as a warehouses, from which parts of the delivery business are settled. result of the exchange rate trend of the Russian rouble. Adjusted for Online revenue at Media-Saturn was also increased significantly. currency translation effects, however, revenue increased. This was This is attributable in part to the expansion and close networking due in part to international expansion, above all in China and Russia, of the sales channels at Media-Markt and Saturn. For example, cusand also to slight organic growth. The drivers here were Asia and tomers can order merchandise online, and if available, pick it up the eastern Europe, including Russia. Development in Germany was same day at the store or use services there. On the other hand, pure stable, while revenue fell in the other western Europe. 55 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON BUSINESS SITUATION / MINORIT Y INVESTMENT Media-Saturn increased revenue by 1 per cent – despite negative currency translation effects in particular as a result of the development of the rouble. The expansion of the distribution chain, in particular in eastern Europe, was of decisive importance here. Following somewhat restrained development in the first nine months of the year, organic revenue growth edged into the black due to positive Christmas business in all regions. However, development in Germany, the core country, declined slightly overall. The disposal of Real’s eastern European business in Romania, Russia and Ukraine was completed in 2013; Poland and Turkey followed in 2014. This resulted in a significant decline in revenue for the sales line Real. In the remaining business in Germany, revenue fell slightly due to location closings. Organic revenue growth remained stable, however. The intense competition, in particular by discounters, was countered by successfully modernising numerous locations. Revenue from Galeria Kaufhof was at the previous year’s level. Here, the positive development of the online business offset the rather weak textiles business selling winter wear. ONE-OFF EXPENSES WEIGH DOWN OPERATING PROFIT The METRO GROUP’s operating profit was EUR 1,187 million in 2014, following EUR 1,797 million in the previous year. The reason for this decrease was higher one-off expenses in 2014, stemming primarily from write-downs on goodwills at Metro Cash & Carry, Real store closures and restructuring measures at Media-Saturn. Adjusted for one-off expenses, the operating profit declined from EUR 1,801 million to EUR 1,678 million. This was due primarily to negative currency translation effects, the missing earnings contribution from Real’s eastern Europe business, which was sold off, and lower income from property sales. This was offset by cost savings and improved margin, in particular at Media-Saturn. On a like-forlike basis, the operating profit was above the previous year’s level. LOWER EARNINGS CONTRIBUTION FOR HANIEL The significant decrease in the METRO GROUP’s operating profit had a proportionately negative impact on the investment result HANIEL INVESTMENT RESULT the Haniel Group derives from the METRO GROUP. Despite the EUR million -85% METRO GROUP’s improved result from financing activities and lower tax expense, its investment result declined from EUR 96 million in the previous year to EUR 14 million in 2014. The improvement in the METRO GROUP’s result from financing activities was due to in par96 14 ticular lower indebtedness as well as income from the disposal of the equity interest in Booker Group PLC. SIMPLIFICATION OF THE METRO SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE Haniel ended the pooling agreement with the Schmidt-Ruthenbeck family as at 31 October 2014. This agreement primarily served to pool voting rights and was a structure which was effectively not required. The ending of the pooling agreement allowed the shareholding structure in METRO AG to be simplified significantly. 2013 2014 56 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT No reportable events took place after the reporting date. 57 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Being a successful entrepreneur means exploiting opportunities Haniel sees opportunities for further growth by strengthening that present themselves. However, this frequently entails risks. its presence in these markets and in the fast-growing economies This risk to business development in the Haniel Group must be throughout the world – either by founding or acquiring businesses. recognised early, analysed in detail, and where appropriate, mitiThe divisions are already active in various ways in eastern Europe, gated to a reasonable level. and will further expand their presence there. The other regions, in particular Asia, offer many different expansion opportunities. EXPLOITING OPPORTUNITIES TO INCREASE VALUE In the Haniel Group opportunities are viewed as entrepreneurial Sustainability as a competitive factor: Corporate responsibility has courses of action that must be leveraged in order to attain addia long tradition in the Haniel Group. It is expressed in its striving to tional profitable growth. Opportunities are identified primarily by increase economic value in accordance with ecological and social continually observing markets. To that end, both the Holding Comcontributions. In order to live up to this vision, Haniel has identipany and the operating divisions collect and analyse market, trend fied three action areas in the field of sustainability: employees, and competitor information. As a result, Haniel is in a position to value chain and innovation. Each of the divisions and the Holding identify trends and requirements on often fragmented markets Company are responsible for improving on these areas of emphaearly on and to advance innovations. sis, regardless of their respective business model and taking into account their unique features, with the overarching objective Opportunity management is closely integrated into the process of developing the potential for additional profitable growth. You of strategy development. As part of strategic planning, entreprecan find detailed information on the subject of sustainability in neurial options are systematically evaluated and initiatives are the Haniel Group in the “Corporate Responsibility” section startdeveloped in order to use these options to increase value. In the ing on page 31. next step, strategic initiatives are specified in detail in operational planning and actions are derived from those plans. Multi-channel activities: Continuing digitalisation gives rise to growth opportunities through the consistent expansion of METRO The strategy and its implementation are discussed in depth by the GROUP’s retail and wholesale activities and of TAKKT’s mail-order members of the Haniel Management Board with the management business into a multi-channel business. These growth opportuniof the divisions in regularly scheduled discussions. Over and above ties at the METRO GROUP reside in the dovetailing of the stationary that, the Holding Company’s strategy is continuously reassessed. business with the e-commerce activities. The METRO GROUP can On that basis the Holding Company realigns the divisional portfolio create real added value for the customer on this basis. TAKKT, the by making acquisitions and disposals if necessary. To that end, the specialist mail-order company, is strengthening its existing distriManagement Board engages in regular dialogue with the Supervibution channels, including catalogue, telemarketing, field service sory Board. and e-commerce, and improving the links between them. TAKKT is thus developing into a multi-channel company, whose offerings are OPTIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE AND PROFITABLE GROWTH present wherever customers inform themselves about products The Haniel Group enjoys a large number of options for entrepreneurand make purchasing decisions. This is opening up opportunities ial action. The Holding Company and divisions continually search for additional growth. for possibilities that secure sustainable and profitable growth. The opportunities identified in the Haniel Group are listed below. Increasing demand for raw materials: ELG’s core business is the trading and recycling of raw materials, particularly for the stainOptimising the business portfolio: Haniel continually reviews the less steel market segment. Growth opportunities for ELG result strategic alignment of its portfolio. New divisions should be able from increasing global demand for stainless steel products that to make a long-term value contribution to the economic success of is an­ticipated over the medium and long term. It must also be the Group and be in accordance with its ecological and social valassumed that the superalloys segment will continue to gain sigues. The Holding Company follows two parallel approaches in this nificance. In this sector, ELG recycles very high-grade materials. regard. On the one hand, it analyses the potential of various sectors These include in particular titanium scrap and high-alloy, nickand markets on the basis of global megatrends with the objective el-containing scrap which are used in, e.g., the aerospace industry of identifying and contacting attractive companies. On the other and energy generation. ELG has strengthened this area of operahand, the Holding Company continually reviews current takeover tions by making acquisitions in recent years, thus significantly offers. Based on this, the Haniel investment portfolio will be develexpanding its foundation for future growth. In addition to trading in oped further by business acquisitions and disposals in order to stainless steel scrap and superalloys, ELG is active in the nascent enhance value creation while always maintaining a solid financing business of recycling carbon fibres. ELG is planning to expand this structure. innovative business model further. International expansion: All Haniel divisions are widely represented From an overall perspective, there remain a number of opportuniin western Europe, and ELG and TAKKT in North America as well, and ties open to the Haniel Group for sustainable and profitable growth enjoy a strong position there with their various business models. in the future. While the Celesio disposal removed the opportunities 58 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS related to that division – in particular the opportunity resulting As part of their interim reporting of revenue and results, the divifrom the growing demand for healthcare services – the Haniel sions submit not only key financial figures but also company-speHolding Company hence has sufficient financial resources for cific non-financial figures and issues to the Holding Company so acquiring new attractive business segments that offer many new that undesirable developments can be detected in good time. This opportunities. reporting is supplemented by risks that exceed defined thresholds. SYSTEMATIC RISK MANAGEMENT An additional element of risk management is the ongoing collection The objective of the risk management system at the Haniel Group and analysis of information on markets, trends and competitors. is a forward-looking evaluation of risks with respect to the overriding corporate objectives of value creation, growth and liquidity. The Investment controlling comprises annual budgeting as well as the purpose is to identify those risks at an early stage that negatively regular review of the capital spent. Capital spending projects are impact strategic and operating initiatives and hence the realisation assessed using uniform discounted cash flow (DCF) calculations. of value and growth potential or that endanger having adequate Minimum risk-adequate rates of return are specified for each diviliquidity available at all times. This does not mean avoiding all sion and each strategic business unit. potential risks. Rather, risks should be identified early so that rapid and effective countermeasures can be taken or conscious deciFinancial risk reporting and management include liquidity risks, sions can be made to take on manageable ones – also thereby to default risks, risks resulting from changes in interest and exchange exploit entrepreneurial opportunities. rates, and price fluctuations in the commodity markets. The objective is to avoid or limit financial risks. To that end, the Holding ComHaniel’s risk management system is based on an integration conpany has laid out general principles for financial risk management. cept and accordingly comprises multiple components. The Holding These principles are prescribed in guidelines for the treasury Company stipulates the scope of activities for the key components departments of the Holding Company and the fully consolidated and sets minimum central requirements which must be impledivisions. In addition, the Holding Company has special guidelines mented at the discretion of each of the divisions, as suiting the for the investment of financial resources. The management of individual business models. financial risks is explained in detail in the notes to the consolidated financial statements starting on page 112. The organisational structure for risk management is defined throughout the Group and includes all fully consolidated divisions. The internal control system is designed to ensure that existing At the level of these divisions, the controlling or internal auditing regulations for risk reduction are adhered to at all levels within departments coordinate risk identification and are responsible the Group. This is intended to ensure the functionality and cost-­ for risk assessment as part of corporate planning. Identified risks effectiveness of business processes and to counteract impairare discussed by the Risk Management Board with the participaments of assets. The internal control system is implemented in the tion of the Management Board, and any need for additional action Holding Company and divisions according to their specific business to manage risks is examined. Furthermore, there is also a Risk models, and incorporates both process-integrated and process-inManagement Committee at the Holding Company level in which dependent control measures. It covers all significant business prothe Management Board and the heads of all corporate and staff cesses including the accounting process. departments are represented. This body serves above all to foster a cross-disciplinary exchange of information on the risks faced by The internal auditing departments in the divisions and the Holding the Holding Company. The Risk Management Officer at the Holding Company are integrated into the risk management system. They Company level coordinates the risk identification process across monitor the processes within the companies of the Haniel Group, all divisions and is responsible for further developing the early risk in particular from the perspectives of operating performance, cost-­ identification system. effectiveness and adherence to statutory regulations and internal guidelines. These efforts also include monitoring the implementaIn connection with the strategic and operational planning process, tion and effectiveness of the risk management system, including material risks and measures for their mitigation are identified. the internal control system. In its risk-orientated audit plan, InterA risk is defined as the danger of a negative deviation from the nal Auditing also takes account of the information from the risk planned or expected development. The identified risks are systeminventory and examines significant risk issues where necessary. atically assessed with regard to their probability of occurrence and amount of damage, with measures for avoiding or mitigating the The compliance management system comprises preventative risks incorporated as part of the assessment. The identified risks measures designed to ensure compliance with statutory and are discussed in the planning meetings by the Management Board internal corporate rules and regulations. To that end, Haniel has of the Holding Company and the management of the fully-consolprescribed uniform minimum standards throughout the Group. idated divisions. The risks are subsequently discussed in greater Compliance risks in the Group are systematically captured and detail in the Risk Management Board. In addition to this risk analevaluated as part of the compliance management system, and ysis, a risk inventory is conducted at the Holding Company level. discussed between the management of the divisions and ManageThe results are discussed by the Risk Management Committee. The ment Board of the Holding Company. A hotline for reporting possiHaniel Group risk report is prepared based on the divisions’ risk ble compliance violations is also a component of the compliance reports and the Holding Company’s risk inventory. The members of management system. In addition, training sessions on compliance the Management Board discuss the findings and inform the Audit issues are held. Furthermore, the divisions and Holding Company Committee about the Group’s overall risk situation and about sigeach have compliance officers who serve as employee liaisons to nificant individual risks. help clarify potential issues. 59 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Corporate bylaws and regulations derived from them ensure that competitive pressure from e-commerce. If the METRO GROUP fails the elements of the risk management system are adhered to and to react appropriately to these challenges and fails to successapplied in the intended manner in the Haniel Group as allowed by fully implement the transformation projects it has launched, this law. Codes of conduct for the Holding Company and the divisions may have a detrimental impact on its business development. In supplement these regulations. They set forth the basic principles addition, a deterioration of the macroeconomic environment and of conduct for employees, based on practised value concepts. an erroneous assessment of markets for international expansion could also have a negative effect on METRO GROUP’s business. The The effectiveness of the risk management system is monitored task of managing these risks primarily falls to the management of regularly and improvements are introduced where necessary. the METRO GROUP. As the largest shareholder, Haniel supports management in managing these risks with its representatives on the In 2014 the auditors were again commissioned by the Supervisory supervisory board and by exercising ownership rights in the Annual Board to subject the Group’s early risk identification system to a General Meeting. voluntary audit analogously to § 317 (4) of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, “HGB”). The auditor verified the suitabilCorporate strategy: Corporate strategy risks can arise above all ity of this system. from the erroneous assessment of future developments in the market and competitive environment. Erroneous assessments CLEARLY DEFINED RISK FIELDS can also relate to the attractiveness of new regional markets or to A prerequisite of systematic risk management is that risks are the future feasibility of business models overall. The Haniel Group identified in a timely fashion. The central, currently identified counters this risk by conducting in-depth analyses of the marrisks to which the Haniel Group is anticipated to be exposed over kets and competitors and by holding regular strategy discussions the shortand medium-term are listed below. The identified risks between the Management Board of the Holding Company and the are assigned to ranges in terms of their probability of occurrence management teams of the divisions. In addition, the diversified and amount of damage, with the amount of damage presented as portfolio of business fields helps to mitigate the effects of adverse a possible impact on profit per year. Risk mitigation countermeasdevelopments in individual sectors. However, the high relevance of ures are incorporated before assigning risks to the ranges. By comstrategic decisions to success means that the related risks in the bining the two criteria – probability of occurrence and amount of Haniel Group count among the material risks. damage – the individual risks are allocated to the following categories in the Haniel risk matrix: “significant risks”, “material risks” Business acquisitions and disposals: In order to effectively counter and “other risks”. The central, identified risks are presented below risks associated with corporate transactions, investments and divesbroken down by these categories, commencing with “significant”. titures are carefully examined before their conclusion – including the assistance of qualified external consultants – and are evaluated using Investments: Haniel holds a substantial equity interest in the uniform DCF rate of return calculation methods. An acquired comMETRO GROUP in particular. Factors that exert an unfavourable pany is subsequently integrated into the Haniel Group on the basis of influence on the consolidated profit of METRO AG also have a negadetailed timetables and action plans as well as clearly defined respontive effect on Haniel Group’s net investment income or could have a sibilities. Additionally, the success of previously executed business negative effect on the carrying amount of the investment. This risk acquisitions is reviewed on a regular basis. If, despite all diligence, in the Haniel Group must be classified as significant due to the size the objectives envisaged with an acquisition are not or only partially of the interest in the METRO GROUP. Risks to which the METRO GROUP attained, impairment losses on goodwill and other assets may be is exposed arise in particular from changes in consumption patnecessary. In the case of business disposals, the resulting committerns and customer expectations of retailers, as well as increasing ments remaining in the Group are regularly monitored and assessed. In connection with the disposal of the previous Xella division, this also includes claims asserted in litigation arising from allegedly defective HANIEL RISK MATRIX sand-lime bricks from previous Haniel building materials plants. The risks resulting from business acquisitions and disposals are matePotential amount rial risks due to the high significance of portfolio management in the of damage > 50 EUR million Haniel Group and the inherently related imponderables. Overall economic development: The demand for the divisions’ ser20 – 50 vices and products is also influenced by overall economic developments. However, the extent and timing of this dependency varies in the fully consolidated divisions: While a weakening economy directly impairs business development at ELG and TAKKT, at CWS10 – 20 boco it is felt to a comparatively lesser extent and after a delay. This is due to the long-term nature of the contracts with customers in CWS-boco’s core rental business. Overall economic development 5– 10 represents a material risk even though the diversification of the Haniel business portfolio and its presence in various regions mitigates the effects of economic fluctuations. The strong market posiHighly Unlikely 50-50 Likely Probability unlikely of occurrence tion of the individual divisions, comprehensive product and service offerings, a heterogeneous customer base and flexible capacities Significant risks Material risks Other risks and cost structures also mitigate risks. 60 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Human resources: The corporate success of the Haniel Group is forfeiting programmes. Even after factoring in these countermeasdependent largely on the expertise and commitment of its employures, the default on receivables represents a material risk. ees. Executives must exhibit the necessary competence, experience and personality in order to make correct decisions in the sense Exchange rates: Because the Haniel Group has business activities of a value-driven and long-term development of their departments. of a considerable scope in countries that do not use the euro as the Accordingly, the selection of executives who do not meet these local currency, its operating business and financing transactions requirements and who make poor decisions can noticeably impair are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have a negthe Company’s successful development. That is why the Haniel ative impact on the Haniel Group’s profit. On the one hand, this conGroup strives to recruit qualified staff, to provide them with contincerns transaction risks that arise primarily from earning revenue uing education and to foster their long-term loyalty to the Company. and incurring the accompanying costs in different currencies. On To that end the Haniel Group offers attractive compensation models the other hand, there are translation risks that stem from transand conducts regular succession planning aimed at filling jobs which lating income and expenses in other currencies into euros. While become available with qualified internal candidates. But above all, the translation risks are not normally hedged against exchange rate Haniel Group invests in the continuing education of its employees: fluctuations, the Group uses a variety of hedging instruments to The internal Haniel Academy offers specialists and managers from limit transaction risks. These are explained in detail in the notes to the Group seminars and modular programmes for interdisciplinary the consolidated financial statements starting on page 114. In the continuing education and to strengthen their leadership skills. The Haniel Group, exchange rate risks are among the material risks, in programmes in the Haniel Leadership Curriculum prepare emerging particular with regard to the unhedged translation risks. management talent, experienced executives and top managers for future challenges and management tasks. Detailed information on Interest rates and financing: Changes in interest rates can result training and continuing education at the Haniel Group can be found in in higher financing costs and thus have an adverse effect on profthe “Corporate Responsibility” section starting on page 31. Overall, its. In this regard, changes in the market interest rate must be risks from human resources are deemed to be material. differentiated from the change in the margin that must be paid in addition to the market rate. The Group uses a variety of hedging Information technology: Well-functioning IT systems tailored to instruments to limit the risks from fluctuations in market interest strategy represent a necessary precondition for Haniel Group’s rates. These are explained in detail in the notes to the consolioperating activities and administrative departments. Insufficient dated financial statements starting on page 113. Long-term credit customisability of IT systems may entail significant competiagreements, promissory loan notes and bonds are appropriate tive disadvantages when strategic requirements change. Haniel forms of financing for limiting the volatility of interest margins. In Holding and the divisions therefore review their IT strategy reguthe case of such financing, the interest margin also depends on larly and modernise or replace systems if required. In order to counthe Holding Company’s rating. This is based on the market value ter risks that are inextricably linked with such projects, systematic gearing, that is, the ratio between net financial liabilities and the and substantiated selection processes and modern project manmarket value of the investment portfolio as well as the cash flow agement methods are applied when introducing new IT systems. at the Holding Company level. In addition, the number and weight Furthermore, the ongoing use of IT systems entails the risk of an of the individual equity investments in the Haniel investment portoutage and unauthorised data access. In addition to heightened folio influence the rating. security awareness of employees, professionally organised IT operations prevent such risks from materialising. There are uniIn addition to equity, financing requirements for the operating busiform minimum standards throughout the Group for IT operations. In ness are secured in the Haniel Group primarily through debt capital. compliance with these standards, Haniel Holding and the divisions When outside financing is used, the company seeks to diversify have additional emergency systems available, perform regular its financing instruments and its circle of investors in order to be backups of relevant data and ensure that unauthorised persons able to respond flexibly to developments on the capital markets cannot access IT systems. Overall, the risks resulting from inforand in the banking sector. In addition to committed bilateral lines mation technology in the Haniel Group are considered material. of credit, which are drawn upon only to a limited extent, capital market programmes at the Holding Company, such as the Debt Commodity prices: The ELG division’s performance is considerably Issuance Programme, are updated regularly. When financing with influenced by the price trend for commodities – particularly for borrowed capital, it is of benefit that the Holding Company and its nickel, which is in turn affected by economic developments in the divisions, both as established and reliable partners, enjoy a high industry. Price hedges using derivative financial instruments stadegree of trust from banks and other investors. The Haniel Group bilise business development at ELG, as does the broad geographic is thus able to ensure the continuation of the operating business, distribution of commodity flows in both procurement and distrieven if for example economic conditions cause declines in incombution. Nevertheless, fluctuations in commodity prices remain a ing payments from business activities. material risk due to the business model. Regarding the temporary investment of financial resources followReceivables: Given the nature of the sector in which it operates, ing the disposal of the Celesio division, there is, in principle, a risk ELG in particular delivers its products to a small number of very that a counterparty will become insolvent and hence a risk of a loss large customers. In some instances this can lead to extensive of receivables. To counter that risk, Haniel divides the investments receivables per customer. In order to limit the risks resulting from among a large number of contracting parties and sets limits cornon-payment, ELG has a comprehensive receivables management responding to their creditworthiness. This is documented in the system, systematically obtains default insurance to cover this risk guidelines for the investment of financial resources and is reguwhere possible and sells accounts receivables within the context of larly monitored. 61 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS In the Haniel Group, risks from interest rates and financing are cureffectiveness of procedures. However, even an appropriate and rently of comparatively minor significance as a result of the Celesio functional internal control system cannot guarantee that all risks disposal and thus counted among the other risks. will be identified and avoided. The Haniel Group’s internal control system is based on the COSO publication “Internal Control-InteCompliance: The Haniel Group’s business activities are subject to grated Framework”. COSO is the Committee of Sponsoring Organizastatutory and internal corporate rules and regulations. A failure tions of the Treadway Commission. to comply with these rules and regulations may damage the company’s reputation and may jeopardise its economic success. In The existing risk and control structure is systematically recorded order to prevent compliance risks effectively, the Haniel Group has and documented. For this purpose, the most important risk fields established a comprehensive compliance management system. are regularly updated and checked on the basis of clearly defined For this reason compliance risks are classified as other risks. qualitative and quantitative materiality criteria. In the event of changed or newly emerged accounting-related risks or identified Litigation: Neither Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH nor any of its current control weaknesses, it is the divisions’ responsibility, in coordinasubsidiaries are involved in ongoing or currently foreseeable litigation with Corporate Accounting, to implement appropriate control tion that could have a significant impact on the Group’s assets or measures at the earliest possible opportunity. The effectiveness financial position or results. of the defined controls is checked and documented at regular intervals by means of self-assessment on the part of the controlling NO RISKS ENDANGERING THE GOING CONCERN ASSUMPTION officers or their supervisors. The results of these self-assessCompared to the previous year, the risk situation of the Haniel ments are subject to regular validation by independent third parGroup has improved due to the disposal of Celesio at the beginning ties. Responsibility for establishing and supervising the internal of 2014. The risks arising from that division, in particular from govcontrol system lies with the Management Board. In addition, the ernmental regulations in the pharmaceutical market, are no longer Audit Committee monitors the system’s effectiveness. relevant. Furthermore, the significance of risks from interest rates and financing has declined because a portion of the proceeds from The Haniel Group is distinguished by its clear and decentralised the Celesio disposal was used to considerably reduce the financial management and corporate structure. The local accounting proliabilities of the Haniel Holding Company. cesses are managed by the divisions, each of which prepares its own subgroup financial statements. The management of the entiConsidered separately, the remaining risks presented above could ties included in the subgroups controls and monitors the risks have adverse effects on the Haniel Group. With regard to the overall concerning the operational accounting processes. The Group comrisk situation, however, the diversification of business models and panies are responsible for compliance with the guidelines and proregions has a positive effect: Many risks are restricted to individual cedures that apply throughout the Group. They are also answerable divisions or regions and are therefore of comparatively minor sigfor the proper and timely flow of their accounting processes. They nificance in relation to the Group as a whole. Where risks inherently are supported in that respect by Corporate Accounting. affect all divisions and the Holding Company, it can be assumed that they do not impact all business units in the same manner and Corporate Accounting prepares the consolidated financial stateat the same time. This diversification therefore results in the Haniel ments and the Group Report of the Management Board. The relevance Group being well prepared with respect to identifiable risks. of ongoing developments of the IFRS standards and other applicable statutory provisions and their impact on the consolidated financial There are no recognisable individual or aggregate risks which jeopstatements and/or the Group Report of the Management Board is conardise the Group as a going concern, nor are there any noteworthy tinuously assessed. The Management Board and Group companies future risks beyond the normal entrepreneurial risk. For Haniel, the are informed, as necessary, of any consequences on consolidated risks presented are also accompanied by numerous opportunities reporting. Financial reporting is governed by accounting guidelines for sustainable, profitable growth. applicable throughout the Group, a uniform Group chart of accounts, and a financial statements calendar applicable throughout the Group. CONTROLLED ACCOUNTING PROCESSES The accounting guidelines are updated annually, considering releThe Haniel Group applies an internal control and risk management vant changes in the law. There are binding provisions and uniform system to its accounting processes. The purpose is to ensure that instruments for complex issues, such as goodwill impairment testing its financial reporting is reliable and that the risk of misstatements and the measurement of deferred taxes. Outside experts are brought in the external and internal Group Reports is minimised. Misstatein if required, for example, to measure pension obligations or to prements are most likely to originate from complex transactions or pare expert opinions on the purchase price allocation for acquisitions. consolidation procedures, mass transactions, the materiality of individual items of the financial statements, the use of discretion The Haniel Group’s formal analysis and reporting process seeks and estimates, unauthorised access to IT systems, and inadeto ensure that the information contained in the published annual quately trained employees. Checks are performed regularly to report is reliable and complete. Corporate Accounting performs determine the extent to which these factors can jeopardise the analytical checks in order to identify potential errors in consoliintegrity of the consolidated financial statements. dated reporting. The checks are documented and reviewed according to the principle of dual control. A detailed timetable and fixed In order to counter potential risks, the Haniel Group installed an responsibilities apply for the preparation of accounts. internal control system that seeks to ensure the reliability and propriety of the financial reporting processes, compliance with the Standardised and centrally managed IT systems are used to relevant statutory and internal regulations, and the efficiency and prepare the consolidated financial statements. This applies to 62 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS consolidation at all stages of the Haniel Group and to the process of preparing the notes to the financial statements. The closing process is supported by numerous validations. The IT systems used in the accounting department are protected against unauthorised access. Separations of functions and change management systems are installed. As an important element of internal process monitoring that is independent of the relevant processes, the Internal Auditing departments are responsible for systematically auditing and independently assessing the internal control systems. As part of the audit of the consolidated annual financial statements, external auditors report on their material audit findings and any weaknesses in the internal control system relating to the entities included in the financial statements. 63 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS For the 2015 financial year Haniel expects that the Haniel Group’s At CWS-boco, slight revenue growth adjusted for currency transprofit before taxes will increase significantly. In addition to an lation effects is expected overall for 2015. In addition to the ecoexpected improvement in the divisions’ operating profit, this nomic development in Europe, this will primarily be attributable development will be attributable in particular to the significant to the expansion of sales operations. While sales activities will anticipated improvement in the result from financing activities. already have a positive impact on revenue, they will continue to weigh down earnings in 2015 and not make a positive earnings conSTABLE MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT tribution until subsequent years. It can nevertheless be assumed The International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects gross domestic that CWS-boco will slightly improve upon the previous year’s strong product to grow globally by 3.5 per cent in 2015, which would thus profit in the 2015 financial year. Additional measures to modernbe just above the 2014 level of 3.3 per cent. This estimate already ise the international laundry network and systematically optimise factors in the economic slowdown observed in the second half operating processes will contribute to that increase. of 2014. Based on the current forecast, the Haniel Management Board is confident going into the new financial year, particularly The ELG division expects to benefit primarily from increasing stainas the markets in which Haniel divisions are active are expected less steel production in the US in 2015. For this reason ELG expects to see somewhat better economic development than in the previan increase in output tonnage in the single-digit percentage range. ous year: For example, the US, with forecast growth of 3.6 per cent For the superalloys business in 2015, ELG expects continuing strong following 2.4 per cent in 2014, may also be the primary driver of demand, in particular from the aviation industry. For nickel, an imporglobal growth in 2015. In addition, following euro zone growth of 0.8 tant commodity for the business, ELG is also planning on higher prices per cent in 2014, the IMF is forecasting somewhat higher growth of compared to 2014, in which nickel prices averaged USD 16,900 per 1.2 per cent for 2015. Not only Germany is expected to contribute tonne. Based on these assumptions, ELG anticipates revenue growth to this growth with 1.3 per cent, but also France and Italy, whose in the single-digit percentage range for 2015. As a consequence, ELG economies have recently been weaker. Development in the euro assumes operating profit will improve noticeably. As development on zone is of special significance for all divisions because a considerathe commodity markets is very volatile, ELG’s revenue and operating ble portion of their business activities takes place there. profit may also deviate significantly from this forecast, however. For ELG, the development of the stainless steel market is also key. TAKKT is also anticipated to benefit from an improved economic cliGlobal production of stainless steel in 2015 is anticipated to grow mate, particularly in the US, but also in Europe. The discontinuation of by about 5 per cent, which is attributable in particular to increasing the Topdeq business in 2014 as well as the disposal of the Plant Equipproduction figures in China, but also in the US. In Europe, however, ment Group at the beginning of 2015 will have a negative impact on production of stainless steel is expected to remain at the previous revenue. Adjusted for business combinations and disposals as well year’s level. With regard to nickel, an important commodity for the as currency translation effects, TAKKT expects a slight increase in stainless steel business, experts expect a shortage in 2015 as a revenue. Operating profit is expected to increase moderately. TAKKT result of the Indonesian export restrictions on nickel ore – and thus will continue to consistently pursue its growth initiatives in 2015. a higher nickel price level. The DYNAMIC initiative better coordinates the various sales and marketing channels, thus further optimising the sales approach. FurtherHowever, the Haniel Management Board also sees significant risks more, TAKKT intends to generate growth in its business with existing for economic development in 2015: In addition to the debt crisis and new customers through new products and services. in the euro zone, for which a long-term solution has not yet been found, hotbeds of regional conflict have formed or strengthened, For the METRO GROUP, revenue adjusted for business combinations among other things. Such threats have the potential to contribute and disposals as well as currency translation effects is expected to to a significant worsening of the global economic trend. Since the increase slightly. This growth will continue to be driven by expansion various divisions are active internationally, the results of the Haniel of the international network of stores as well as by the continuing Group also depend on the development of various exchange rates, expansion of multi-channel sales. The METRO GROUP will continue its particularly the US dollar, the British pound and the Swiss franc. strong focus on efficient structures and strict cost control. A slight In addition, the Metro investment result is impacted significantly increase in operating profit before one-off expenses and adjusted by the development of the Russian rouble. Deviations from the for currency translation effects is therefore expected for 2015. assumed economic development and the future exchange rates However, the METRO GROUP also anticipates one-off expenses in compared to the planning assumptions could significantly change 2015, albeit to a lesser extent than in 2014. Based on this assumpthe forecast Haniel Group’s profit. tion and considering the current changes in foreign exchange rates for the Russian rouble, Haniel expects its investment result from the HIGHER OPERATING PROFIT AT CWS-BOCO, ELG AND TAKKT METRO GROUP to be at the previous year’s level. In addition to the continuation of the strategic initiatives in the divisions, the economic outlook in 2015 is anticipated to have a posiSIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN PROFIT BEFORE TAXES tive effect on the Haniel Group’s business development. However, Overall, Haniel expects the Group to generate revenue growth, the economic situation will impact the divisions to varying degrees. adjusted for currency translation effects, in the single-digit 64 GROUP REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD / REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS percentage range in financial year 2015. This forecast is based in particular on ELG’s expectation of significantly higher revenue. Operating profit is expected to experience a moderate increase, driven by higher operating profit at the divisions. Profit before taxes is expected to increase considerably. In addition to the increase in operating profit, this will derive in particular from a noticeable improved result from financing activities. This income was weighed down significantly in the 2014 financial year by bond redemptions by the Haniel Holding Company. In 2015 this will lead to considerable savings on interest, which will contribute clearly to an increase in profit before taxes. However, the high disposal gain from the disposal of the Celesio division had a positive impact on profit after taxes in 2014. Therefore profit after taxes in 2015 is expected to be significantly below the previous year’s level. The development in profit after taxes is reflected in the value-oriented performance indicators, Haniel value added and return on capital employed in 2014. As the disposal gain from the disposal of the Celesio division was included in the 2014 return, this return will decline significantly in 2015. This will result in a significant degradation of the value-oriented performance indicators, even though the average capital employed, and thus the cost of capital, will be lower due to the deconsolidation of Celesio. By contrast, Haniel cash flow, which was not impacted positively in 2014 from the income from the Celesio disposal, is expected to be significantly above the previous year’s level in 2015. In contrast to 2014, METRO AG will again distribute a dividend to Haniel in the 2015 financial year, which will positively impact Haniel cash flow. In addition, the one-off expenses incurred in connection with the bond redemptions in 2014 will not be incurred in the result from financing activities, and in addition, the envisaged savings on interest payments will be realised. Both effects will positively impact Haniel cash flow. The focus of the Haniel Holding Company’s activities will continue to lie on its search for new business divisions. Should there be a business acquisition in the coming financial year, the investments in non-current assets in 2015 would likely increase considerably over 2014. But even excluding the investments at the Holding Company level, capital expenditures are anticipated to be higher, which is attributable in particular to the planned modernisation of IT systems in the CWS-boco and TAKKT divisions. If the search for new business divisions or supplementary acquisitions for existing divisions is successful, the changes in revenue and earnings expected for the Haniel Group will differ from the changes presented. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 68 INCOME STATEMENT 69 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 71 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 72 SEGMENT REPORTING 74 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 74 General Basis of Presentation 84 Notes to the Statement of Financial Position 108 Notes to the Income Statement 112 Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 66 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HANIEL GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS EUR million Note 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013* 31 Dec. 2012* Property, plant and equipment 1 479 482 1,031 Intangible assets 2 1,041 1,019 3,394 Investments accounted for at equity 3 3,012 3,215 3,282 Financial assets 4 188 13 278 Other non-current assets 29 7 76 Income tax assets 5 0 0 2 Deferred taxes 5 35 31 137 Non-current assets 4,784 4,767 8,200 Inventories 6 579 429 2,094 Trade receivables 7 407 360 2,500 Receivables from investments and other current assets 8 80 81 447 Financial assets 9 408 10 37 Income tax assets 5 48 41 92 Cash and cash equivalents 10 111 22 560 Assets held for sale 11 29 7,677 539 Current assets 1,662 8,620 6,269 Total assets 6,446 13,387 14,469 * P rior-year figures adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see the explanations in the explanatory notes on page 74. 67 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EUR million Note 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013* 31 Dec. 2012* Equity of shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH 3,790 3,275 3,110 Non-controlling interests 183 1,281 1,210 Equity 12 3,973 4,556 4,320 Financial liabilities 13 1,076 1,773 4,670 Pension provisions 14 335 247 581 Other non-current provisions 15 110 116 182 Other non-current liabilities 16 2 54 65 Deferred taxes 5 51 50 94 Non-current liabilities 1,574 2,240 5,592 Financial liabilities 13 392 726 750 Current provisions 15 103 122 269 Trade payables and similar liabilities 17 151 125 2,470 Income tax liabilities 5 18 12 69 Other current liabilities 18 226 200 922 Liabilities held for sale 11 9 5,406 77 Current liabilities 899 6,591 4,557 Total equity and liabilities 6,446 13,387 14,469 * P rior-year figures adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see the explanations in the explanatory notes on page 74. 68 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HANIEL GROUP INCOME STATEMENT EUR million Note 2014 2013* Revenue 19 3,944 3,580 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress -1 -3 Gross revenue 3,943 3,577 Cost of materials 2,617 2,293 Gross profit 1,326 1,284 Other operating income 20 33 40 Total operating income 1,359 1,324 Personnel expenses 21 561 536 Other operating expenses 22 419 449 379 339 Depreciation and amortisation 162 165 Impairment of goodwill 0 8 Operating profit 217 166 Result from investments accounted for at equity 14 96 Other investment result 23 0 24 Finance costs 24 209 195 Other net financial income 25 9 26 Net financial income -186 -49 Profit before taxes 31 117 Income tax expenses 26 59 35 Profit after taxes from continuing operations -28 82 Profit after taxes from discontinued operations 27 714 185 Profit after taxes 686 267 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 44 116 of which attributable to shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH 642 151 * P rior-year figures adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see the explanations in the explanatory notes on page 74. 69 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HANIEL GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME EUR million Note 2014 2013 Profit after taxes 686 267 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans recognised in other comprehensive income -81 -24 Deferred taxes on remeasurements of defined benefit plans recognised in other comprehensive income 24 -3 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans -57 -27 Pro-rata other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss from investments accounted for at equity -100 6 Total other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss -157 -21 Income and expenses recognised in equity from remeasurement of derivative financial instruments -7 12 Reversals recognised in profit or loss 22 21 Deferred taxes on remeasurement of derivative financial instruments -4 -7 Remeasurement of derivative financial instruments 11 26 Income and expenses recognised in equity from remeasurement of financial assets available for sale 1 3 Reversals recognised in profit or loss -1 -24 Deferred taxes on remeasurement of financial assets available for sale 0 0 Remeasurement of financial assets available for sale 0 -21 Income and expenses recognised in equity from foreign currency translation 37 -126 Reversals recognised in profit or loss 130 0 Currency translation effects 167 -126 Income and expenses recognised in equity from changes recognised directly in equity of investments accounted for at equity -107 -1 Reversals recognised in profit or loss 0 0 Other comprehensive income from investments accounted for at equity -107 -1 Total other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss and reversals recognised in profit or loss 71 -122 Total other comprehensive income -86 -143 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 9 -64 of which attributable to shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH -95 -79 Comprehensive income 12 600 124 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 53 52 of which from discontinued operations 14 34 of which from continuing operations 39 18 of which attributable to shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH 547 72 of which from discontinued operations 841 33 of which from continuing operations -294 39 70 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HANIEL GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CHANGES IN 2014 EUR million Subscribed Capital Accumulated Retained Treasury Equity of Non-controlling Equity capital reserve other earnings shares shareholders interests com­prehensive of Franz Haniel income & Cie. GmbH As at 1 Jan. 2014 1,000 678 -572 2,174 -5 3,275 1,281 4,556 Dividends -30 -30 -11 -41 Changes in the scope of consolidation 77 -77 0 -1,140 -1,140 Changes in shares in companies already consolidated 0 0 Capital measures 0 0 Changes in treasury shares -2 -2 -2 Comprehensive income -95 642 547 53 600 As at 31 Dec. 2014 1,000 678 -590 2,709 -7 3,790 183 3,973 CHANGES IN 2013 EUR million Subscribed Capital Accumulated Retained Treasury Equity of Non-controlling Equity capital reserve other earnings shares shareholders interests com­prehensive of Franz Haniel income & Cie. GmbH As at 1 Jan. 2013 1,000 678 -503 1,940 -5 3,110 1,210 4,320 Dividends 0 -34 -34 Changes in the scope of consolidation 4 -4 0 0 Changes in shares in companies already consolidated 6 87 93 53 146 Capital measures 0 0 Changes in treasury shares 0 0 Comprehensive income -79 151 72 52 124 As at 31 Dec. 2013 1,000 678 -572 2,174 -5 3,275 1,281 4,556 For further explanatory comments concerning equity, see note 12. 71 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HANIEL GROUP STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS EUR million Note 2014 2013* Profit after taxes 686 267 Depreciation and amortisation, impairment losses and reversals on non-current assets 162 286 Change in pension provisions and other non-current provisions -6 -8 Income/expenses from changes in deferred taxes 13 -15 Non-cash income/expenses and dividends of investments accounted for at equity -14 2 Gains/losses from the disposal of non-current assets and consolidated companies and from remeasurement for changes in shares -696 -26 Other non-cash income/expenses and other payments 30 56 Haniel cash flow 175 562 Change in inventories, receivables and similar assets -212 -61 Change in current non-interest-bearing liabilities, current provisions and similar liabilities -98 159 Cash flow from operating activities -135 660 Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 41 553 Payments for investments in property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other assets -766 -256 Proceeds from the disposal of consolidated companies and other business units 1,508 54 Payments for acquisitions of consolidated companies and other business units -4 -42 Cash flow from investing activities 779 309 Proceeds from contributions to equity 0 0 Payments to shareholders -43 -34 Payments from changes in shares in companies already consolidated 0 146 Proceeds from issuance of financial liabilities 654 1,148 Repayments of financial liabilities -1,704 -2,224 Cash flow from financing activities -1,093 -964 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 22 560 Cash and cash equivalents classified as assets held for sale at the beginning of the period 536 1 Increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents -449 5 Non-cash increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents 2 -8 Cash and cash equivalents classified as assets held for sale at the end of the period 0 536 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 31 111 22 The cash flow from operating activities includes dividends received in the amount of EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 107 million), interest income of EUR 9 million (previous year: EUR 7 million) and interest payments of EUR 223 million (previous year: EUR 334 million). EUR 61 million was paid in income taxes (previous year: EUR 106 million). * Prior-year figures adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see the explanations in the explanatory notes on page 74. 72 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HANIEL GROUP SEGMENT REPORTING 2014 BY DIVISION EUR million CWS-boco ELG TAKKT Metro Holding and Consolidation Continuing Discontinued investment other entities operations operations Segment revenue from external customers 751 2,213 980 3,944 1,851 Segment revenue from transactions with other segments 1 -1 0 Revenue 751 2,213 981 0 0 -1 3,944 1,851 Depreciation and amortisation of segment assets 109 16 26 2 153 Operating profit 71 59 111 0 1,179 -1,203 217 41 Result from investments accounted for at equity 14 14 Finance costs 25 22 11 163 -12 209 12 Other net financial income 1 2 24 -18 9 -1 Profit before taxes 47 40 99 14 1,075 -1,244 31 29 Material non-cash income (+) and expenses (-) other than depreciation and amortisation -33 -14 -19 14 -18 -4 -74 -6 Total assets 676 978 960 3,012 1,638 -818 6,446 0 of which carrying amount of investments accounted for at equity 3,012 3,012 of which goodwill 271 91 554 916 Financial liabilities 158 497 222 0 744 -153 1,468 0 Recognised investments in non-current segment assets 117 17 14 0 408 -205 351 6 Average number of employees (headcount) 7,529 1,267 2,528 0 220 11,544 0 See note 32 for a description of the segments. 2014 BY REGION EUR million Germany France United Norway USA Netherlands Other Total Kingdom countries Continuing operations Segment revenue from external customers, by location of company 1,006 259 299 6 1,090 601 683 3,944 Non-current intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 896 9 29 350 19 217 1,520 Discontinued operations Segment revenue from external customers, by location of company 379 549 404 93 426 1,851 Non-current intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 0 73 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 BY DIVISION* EUR million CWS-boco ELG TAKKT Metro Holding and Consolidation Continuing Discontinued investment other entities operations operations Segment revenue from external customers 748 1,880 952 3,580 21,427 Segment revenue from transactions with other segments 1 -1 0 Revenue 748 1,880 953 0 0 -1 3,580 21,427 Depreciation and amortisation of segment assets 115 15 27 2 159 106 Operating profit 64 47 96 0 62 -103 166 427 Result from investments accounted for at equity 96 96 4 Finance costs 18 22 15 146 -6 195 145 Other net financial income 2 30 -6 26 -4 Profit before taxes 46 27 81 96 66 -199 117 288 Material non-cash income (+) and expenses (-) other than depreciation and amortisation -11 -13 -14 96 42 100 -128 Total assets 667 770 929 3,215 1,495 -1,366 5,710 7,677 of which carrying amount of investments accounted for at equity 3,215 3,215 78 of which goodwill 272 86 529 887 2,143 Financial liabilities 240 391 279 0 1,601 -12 2,499 1,902 Recognised investments in non-current segment assets 115 36 9 0 53 -33 180 129 Average number of employees (headcount) 7,527 1,224 2,551 0 223 11,525 38,754 See note 32 for a description of the segments. 2013 BY REGION EUR million Germany France United Norway USA Netherlands Other Total Kingdom countries Continuing operations Segment revenue from external customers, by location of company 979 204 282 6 955 494 660 3,580 Non-current intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 875 10 64 313 20 219 1,501 Discontinued operations Segment revenue from external customers, by location of company 4,176 6,235 4,535 1,190 5,291 21,427 Non-current intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 181 191 1,601 263 552 2,788 * Prior-year figures adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see the explanations in the explanatory notes on page 74. 74 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A. GENERAL BASIS OF PRESENTATION ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The consolidated financial statements of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, Duisburg, for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been prepared in accordance with the mandatory International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) in effect on the reporting date and adopted by the Commission of the European Union, and in accordance with the supplementary requirements applicable under Section 315a (1) HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch, German Commercial Code). These consolidated financial statements were prepared by the Management Board on 5 March 2015. They were approved by the Supervisory Board at their meeting on 10 April 2015. At the end of October 2013, Haniel resolved to sell Celesio, at that time its largest fully consolidated division, to further develop its investment portfolio. The sale was completed as at 6 February 2014. All assets and liabilities of the Celesio division are presented separately in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013 in the lines assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale. In the income statement, the income and expenses realised by Celesio up to the disposal date and the gain on disposal are presented as a single line item as profit after taxes from discontinued operations. Up to Celesio’s disposal date the incoming and outgoing payments of the discontinued operations are presented together with the corresponding payments of the continuing operations in the statement of cash flows. A detailed description of discontinued operations may be found in notes 11 and 27. The reporting currency is the euro; figures are shown in EUR million. In rare cases, this can give rise to rounding differences. For enhanced transparency of presentation, certain items in the statement of financial position and the income statement have been combined. These are explained in the notes. In accordance with IAS 1, the statement of financial position has been classified into non-current and current items. The income statement has been prepared using the nature of expense method. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS The following standards and interpretations that were revised or newly-issued by the IASB (International Accounting Standards Board) or the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC), as adopted by the Commission of the European Union, were applicable for the first time beginning with the 2014 financial year: IFRS 10 (2011): “Consolidated Financial Statements” IFRS 11 (2011): “Joint Arrangements” IFRS 12 (2011): “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities” IAS 27 revised (2011): “Separate Financial Statements” IAS 28 revised (2011): “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 (2012): “Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: Transition Guidance” Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 (2012): “Investment Entities” Amendments to IAS 32 (2011): “Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” Amendments to IAS 36 (2013): “Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets” Amendments to IAS 39 (2013): “Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting” IFRS 10 combines the two principles previously governed by IAS 27 and SIC 12 on determining a parent-subsidiary relationship and introduces a new, uniform concept of control. Control now exists if an entity has power over another entity, is exposed to variable returns from its involvement, such as interest or profit sharing, and can use its power to affect these returns. 75 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 11 governs the accounting of joint arrangements in which several partners exercise joint control. Such control exists if the partners must mutually decide on activities that significantly affect the returns arising from the arrangement. The standard differentiates between joint ventures and joint operations. In the latter, the partners have direct rights to the individual assets, and direct obligations for the individual liabilities relating to the joint arrangement. Accordingly, these assets and liabilities are recognised directly in the consolidated financial statements of the partner. In contrast, with joint ventures the partners have an interest in the net assets or profits of the joint venture. Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. The initial application of the new or revised consolidation standards IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IAS 28 resulted in a revised presentation in the Haniel Group’s financial statements. Previously, those shares in METRO AG held jointly by a holding company were presented as loans to or receivables from investments in the consolidated statement of financial position. Since the beginning of the financial year all shares in METRO AG are presented uniformly as investments accounted for at equity. Accordingly, there is a reclassification in the income statement from other net financial income to the result from investments accounted for at equity. All related cash flows are considered in the line item non-cash income/ expenses and dividends of investments accounted for at equity as part of the cash flow from operating activities in the statement of cash flows. The transition guidance provides for retrospective application of the revised consolidation standards. Therefore the previous year’s figures have been adjusted. The following tables summarise the effects on the Haniel Group’s statement of financial position, income statement and the statement of cash flows: EUR million 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 Assets Investments accounted for at equity 576 568 Non-current financial assets -554 -546 Receivables from investments and other current assets -22 -22 Total assets 0 0 EUR million 2013 Result from investments accounted for at equity 21 Other net financial income -21 Profit after taxes 0 EUR million 2013 Non-cash income/expenses and dividends of investments accounted for at equity 22 Haniel cash flow 22 Change in inventories, receivables and similar assets -11 Cash flow from operating activities 11 Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other assets -5 Payments for investments in property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other assets -6 Cash flow from investing activities -11 76 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 12 bundles and expands the disclosure requirements previously governed in various standards regarding interests in other entities and the resultant risks. In the Haniel Group, the initial application of new disclosure requirements results in particular in new disclosures on significant non-controlling interests in fully consolidated subsidiaries, on consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities and on material investments accounted for at equity. Beyond that, the first-time application of the revised or new standards in the financial year did not give rise to any effects on the presentation of the Haniel Group’s net assets, financial position, and results of operations. REVISED PRESENTATION In connection with the revised presentation described above, the investment accounted for at equity in METRO AG is presented in the segment reporting as a separate segment since the beginning of the financial year. Figures for the previous year have been adjusted accordingly. The IASB and the IFRS IC have issued new and amended rules whose application is not mandatory for the Haniel Group until financial year 2015 or later. For these standards to be applicable, the required endorsement by the Commission of the European Union is still pending in some cases. The relevant Standards and Interpretations are: IFRS 9 (2014): “Financial Instruments” IFRS 14 (2014): “Regulatory Deferral Accounts” IFRS 15 (2014): “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 (2014): “Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception” Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (2014): “Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture” Amendments to IFRS 11 (2014): “Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations” Amendments to IAS 1 (2014): “Disclosure Initiative” Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 (2014): “Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation” Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 (2014): “Agriculture: Bearer Plants” Amendments to IAS 19 (2013): “Defined Benefit Plans – Employee Contributions” Amendments to IAS 27 (2014): “Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements” IFRIC 21 (2013): “Levies” Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle (2013) Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle (2013) Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle (2014) The option of early application of standards already issued was not exercised. Based on our current estimates, early application of the standards already adopted by the Commission of the European Union would have had no material effects on the presentation of the net assets, financial position, and results of operations in the 2014 financial year. The potential effects from IFRS 15 on revenue recognition and from IFRS 9 on accounting for financial instruments as at the date of first-time mandatory application are being analysed. CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES Subsidiaries directly or indirectly controlled by Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH in accordance with IFRS 10 are fully consolidated in the consolidated financial statements. Control exists if Haniel has power over another entity, is exposed to variable returns from its involvement, such as interest or profit sharing, and can use its power to affect these returns. Joint ventures as defined by IFRS 11 and associates as defined by IAS 28 are accounted for using the equity method. In the case of joint ventures, the Haniel Group exercises joint control with partners and has an interest in the net assets and/or profits of the joint venture. Associates are companies on which significant influence is exercised. This is normally assumed to be the case with an equity investment of between 20 and 50 per cent. To the extent the Haniel Group has an interest in a joint operation as a joint operator, the joint operation’s assets and liabilities as well as income and expenses that relate to Haniel’s interest are recognised in Haniel’s consolidated financial statements. 77 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The reporting date for the separate financial statements of the consolidated subsidiaries is identical with the date for the consolidated financial statements, namely 31 December 2014. The separate financial statements of the consolidated domestic and foreign subsidiaries are prepared according to uniform accounting policies. Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method on the basis of the fair values as at the date control was obtained (IFRS 3). The portion of the consideration that was transferred in expectation of future positive cash flows from the acquisition and that cannot be allocated to identified or identifiable assets as part of their remeasurement to fair value is reported as goodwill under intangible assets. The full goodwill method was not applied. Non-controlling interests are therefore measured at the proportionate fair value of the identifiable net assets. In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised. Depending on the outcome of annual or, if there are indications of impairment, interim impairment tests, goodwill is written down if necessary to the lower recoverable amount, which is equal to the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal. Any goodwill impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. Transactions that change the ownership interest in a subsidiary without resulting in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. Transactions that result in a loss of control are recognised in profit or loss as a gain or loss on disposal. If shares continue to be held after the loss of control, the remaining equity interest is measured at fair value. Any difference between the existing carrying amount of those shares and their fair value is included in the gain or loss on disposal. Intragroup profits and losses, sales, income and expenses as well as receivables and payables between companies included in the consolidated financial statements are eliminated. Intercompany profits and losses contained in non-current assets and inventories from intragroup transactions are adjusted to the extent that they are not of minor significance. SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION Besides Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, 529 domestic and foreign companies were included in full in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2013. In the financial year, the number of subsidiaries changed as follows: Additions due to acquisition of shares or obtaining control 8 Additions due to new company formation 4 Disposals due to sale of shares or loss of control 341 Disposals due to mergers or liquidation 31 Accordingly, in addition to Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, a total of 169 subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2014. Of that figure, 34 companies belong to the CWS-boco division, 48 to ELG and 73 to TAKKT. 14 subsidiaries are allocated to the Holding and other companies segment. Among these subsidiaries one asset leasing company is included in Haniel’s consolidated financial statements because, although Haniel does not hold the majority of the voting rights, based on the contractual provisions it does direct activities that are significant for the amount of returns and therefore exercises control within the definition of IFRS 10. In addition, the Haniel Group leases real estate from two asset leasing companies. The corresponding agreements are accounted for as finance leases pursuant to IAS 17. In these arrangements and based on the contractual provisions, the Group has neither a legal interest in the companies nor can it direct activities that are significant for the returns. As at the reporting date, the lease liabilities to these two unconsolidated leasing companies presented in financial liabilities totalled EUR 18 million. Aside from the fully consolidated subsidiaries, 3 (previous year: 5) associates are accounted for in Haniel’s consolidated financial statements using the equity method. As in the previous year, no joint ventures are included in the consolidated financial statements. 78 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Business transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency in the separate financial statements by applying the spot rate prevailing at the time of the transaction. Gains and losses arising from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities as at the reporting date are recognised in profit or loss. Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH’s reporting currency is the euro. The foreign currency amounts indicated in the financial statements of companies outside the euro zone that are included in the consolidated financial statements are translated using the concept of functional currency in accordance with IAS 21. Given that the subsidiaries operate as financially, economically and organisationally independent entities, their respective local currency is the functional currency. The assets and liabilities of companies outside the euro zone are translated at the closing rate, while their income statement items are translated at average annual exchange rates. Goodwill resulting from the acquisition of foreign companies is assigned to the acquired company and translated at the closing rate. All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. The exchange rates for non-euro countries that are most significant for the continuing operations in Haniel’s consolidated financial statements are: 2014 2013 Euro Average Closing Average Closing exchange rate rate exchange rate rate UK pound sterling (GBP) 0.8058 0.7789 0.8491 0.8337 Swiss franc (CHF) 1.2145 1.2024 1.2310 1.2276 US dollar (USD) 1.3262 1.2141 1.3276 1.3791 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The consolidated financial statements are generally prepared based on historical cost. A material exception to that are the (derivative) financial instruments measured at fair value. Property, plant and equipment (tangible assets) are recognised at cost less depreciation and, if applicable, impairment losses. If the reasons for an impairment loss no longer exist, appropriate reversals are recognised, provided that the resulting carrying amount does not exceed the depreciated cost of the asset. The cost of internally generated property, plant and equipment includes direct costs as well as directly attributable overheads. Allocable borrowing costs are recognised in the cost of qualifying assets. Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of land, are depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Depreciation is based on the following useful lives: Buildings 5 to 50 years Technical equipment and machinery 2 to 20 years Operating and office equipment 2 to 20 years If, in the context of lease transactions, the Haniel Group, as a lessee, bears all material risks and rewards and is thus regarded as the beneficial owner, the requirements for finance leases under IAS 17 are met. In these cases, the relevant assets are capitalised at the lower of their fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments, and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their useful life or the term of the lease. The present value of the payment obligations resulting from the future lease instalments is recognised under current and non-current financial liabilities. Call options exist at the end of the basic term of the lease, in line with general market terms, for the majority of buildings leased under finance lease agreements. In addition to the finance leases, the Haniel Group has entered into lease agreements under which the lessor remains the beneficial owner of the leased assets (operating lease). Lease payments are recognised in profit or loss. The lease agreements contain common rental and pre-emption provisions for the respective items leased. 79 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Purchased intangible assets are recognised at cost less amortisation and, if applicable, impairment losses. Intangible assets are generally amortised over their contractual or estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Licences and similar rights, as well as purchased customer lists are amortised over a period of 2 to 20 years. With the exception of goodwill, brand names and works of art with an indefinite life, all useful lives are definite. An indefinite useful life is attributable to the Company’s intention to continue using the relevant assets. Internally generated intangible assets from which the Group is likely to benefit in future, and which can be measured reliably, are stated at their cost of production. The cost of production includes all costs directly attributable to the development process as well as appropriate portions of the attributable overheads. Attributable borrowing costs for qualifying assets are included. Research and development costs are treated as current expenses if the requirements for capitalisation of development costs under IAS 38 are not met. In accordance with IAS 36, the carrying amount of goodwill is tested for impairment annually and upon the occurrence of triggering events, on the basis of cash-generating units or groups of units. The Haniel Group performs the regular impairment tests during the fourth quarter of each year. As at the reporting date, there were a total of 21 cash-generating units within the Haniel Group (previous year: 23). In the context of the impairment tests, the carrying amounts of the individual or groups of cash-generating units are compared with their recoverable amount, which is equivalent to the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal, determined in a second step if necessary. The fair value is the best estimate of the amount that an independent third party would pay for the (groups of) cash-generating units on the reporting date. Any disposal costs that would be incurred according to best estimate are deducted. The value in use is measured based on detailed plans of the future cash flows, on the basis of the cash flows before interest and taxes, less maintenance and replacement investments and a perpetual annuity for the years after the detailed planning period. The detailed plans are generally based on five-year financial plans adopted by the responsible management and are used for internal purposes as well. The underlying sales trend and the operating profit margin constitute key planning assumptions. The detailed plans are formulated according to past developments and projected market trends. The perpetual annuity is calculated based on expected average market growth, while factoring in expected future company growth. The cash flows thus determined are discounted at a rate reflecting the weighted average cost of capital before taxes (WACC), assigned individually for each cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units, to determine the value in use of the cash-generating unit. The average cost of capital is determined using market inputs as the weighted average of the costs of equity and debt. The cost of equity used reflects the risk-equivalent return expected from equity investors with respect to the cash-generating units. The calculation also considers parameters specific to the business model and country-specific risk premiums that are derived based on external country ratings. The cost of debt used represents the long-term financing terms of companies with comparable creditworthiness. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount of the individual cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units, an impairment loss with respect to goodwill is recognised in profit or loss and, if applicable, as well as to other assets of the unit. The table below summarises the parameters applied to determine the values in use in the context of the regular impairment tests for each segment as well as for cash-generating units with significant goodwill: Weighted average cost of Expected future Goodwill as at capital before taxes company growth 31 Dec. 2014 (perpetual annuity) % % EUR million CWS-boco 8.9 to 10.9 1.5 271 of which CWS-boco Germany 9.7 1.5 206 ELG 11.6 to 13.3 0.0 to 4.5 91 TAKKT 9.7 to 11.3 2.0 554 of which Specialties Group 11.3 2.0 193 of which Packaging Solutions Group 9.7 2.0 153 80 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Aside from goodwill, the Haniel Group also has EUR 52 million (previous year: EUR 50 million) in other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. These relate predominantly to brand names acquired through business combinations. They are subject to impairment testing at the level of the cash-generating units. No impairment of goodwill was recognised pursuant to IAS 36 as a result of the regular impairment tests during the financial year based on the calculated values in use (previous year: EUR 8 million). In the previous year, the impairment of goodwill concerned the Carbon Fibre cash-generating unit in the ELG division and resulted from reduced expectations with regard to the short-term business outlook as a result of delays in penetrating new sales markets. Based on a 12.7 per cent weighted average cost of capital before taxes for the cash-generating unit and a 0.0 per cent growth rate for the perpetual annuity, the recoverable amount was EUR 21 million. In addition, the previously recognised contingent consideration from the acquisition of Carbon Fibre was derecognised through profit or loss in connection with the previous year’s impairment of goodwill. The evidence for recoverability at all cash-generating units is based on the value in use. The values in use as determined in the course of the regular impairment tests were checked for plausibility using scenarios relating to key assumptions. No hypothetical need for an impairment loss resulted from these analyses, whether due to a 0.5 percentage points increase in the weighted average cost of capital before taxes, as deemed feasible by the management, or due to a 0.25 percentage points decrease in the growth rates after the detailed planning period. The same applies to a 5 per cent across-the-board reduction in cash flows before interest and taxes in the perpetual annuity. In addition to the regular impairment tests previously described, an unscheduled impairment test was required in the TAKKT division in the financial year pursuant to IAS 36.12 because the Plant Equipment Group cash-generating unit was classified as held for sale. This test confirmed the recoverability of the assets in question. Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method defined in IAS 28 and IFRS 11, respectively. Based on the acquisition cost of the shares in associates and joint ventures at the date of acquisition, the carrying amount of the investments is increased or decreased by the Haniel Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the investment and other equity changes in the investment. Goodwill included in the carrying amount and determined according to the full consolidation principles is not amortised. An impairment test is conducted if there is objective evidence, as defined in IAS 39, of a possible impairment of the total carrying amount of the investment. Alongside loans, the financial assets primarily include investments and securities. Loans are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost by applying the effective interest rate method. If there is objective evidence within the meaning of IAS 39 that assets are impaired, they are written down to the lower present value of the expected cash flows, based on the original effective interest rate. With regard to investments and securities, a distinction is made in accordance with IAS 39 between those that are available for sale, those held at fair value through profit or loss, and those that are held to maturity. The classification is determined at the date of acquisition and reviewed as at each reporting date. In addition to long-term investments and investment funds that are not traded in an active market, listed bonds that are not necessarily intended to be held to maturity are in particular classified as available for sale. Regular way sales and purchases of financial assets of all categories are recognised as at the settlement date. Available for sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently shown at their respective fair values on the reporting date (see note 28 for the determination of fair values). The resulting unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income, taking deferred taxes into account. If no active market is available and a fair value cannot be reliably measured, the assets are shown at cost. If there is an objective evidence that assets may be impaired, they are written down through profit or loss. If the reasons for the impairment no longer exist, appropriate reversals of impairment losses are recognised. In the case of equity instruments, these reversals are recognised in other comprehensive income; in the case of debt instruments, they are recognised in profit or loss, provided that the conditions of IAS 39 are fulfilled. If these assets are sold, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reversed to profit or loss. Financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised using their fair value as at each reporting date. Any transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss upon posting. Fluctuations in fair value are recognised directly in the income statement. Financial assets classified as held to maturity are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. If there is objective evidence that assets are impaired, they are written down to the lower present value of the expected cash flows, based on the original effective interest rate. Financial assets and liabilities are offset in the statement of financial position if there is a legal right to offset at the present time. In addition, there must be an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the related liability simultaneously. Otherwise, the financial asset and liability are presented at gross in the statement of financial position. 81 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inventories are stated at cost in general. In addition to the direct material and production costs, production-related portions of the required material and production overheads, as well as depreciation of property, plant and equipment attributable to production, and amortisation of intangible assets are included. Borrowing costs are not taken into account. If acquisition or production costs exceed the net realisable value at the end of the financial year, inventories are written down to the net realisable value. Depending on the specific circumstances of each division, different inventory cost formulas are applied. Normally, the costs of inventories are assigned by using a weighted average or a first-in, first-out (FIFO) cost formula. In addition the standard cost method is also applied. Trade receivables, receivables from investments and other current assets are, in the case of loans and receivables, initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Valuation allowances are determined to take into account existing risks. Tax assets and tax liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be reimbursed from or paid to the tax authorities. Derivative financial instruments, such as forward contracts, options and swaps, are generally used for hedging purposes to minimise exchange rate, interest rate other market price risks arising from the operating business and/or from the associated financing requirements. Under IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments must be recognised at their fair values, irrespective of the purpose or intention for which they were concluded. Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments to which hedge accounting applies are reported either in the income statement (fair value hedge) or, in the case of a cash flow hedge, in other comprehensive income, taking deferred taxes into account. Derivatives used to hedge items in the statement of financial position are referred to as fair value hedges. The gains and losses from the fair value measurement of the derivatives and the underlying hedged items are recognised in profit or loss. Derivatives used to hedge against future cash flow risks from existing or planned transactions are referred to as cash flow hedges. The changes in fair values of the derivatives attributable to the effective portion of the hedge are initially reported in other comprehensive income. A transfer to the income statement is made at the time the hedged item impacts profit or loss. The changes in the fair values of the derivatives attributable to the ineffective portion of the hedge are immediately recognised in the income statement. In cases where hedge accounting is not applied, the changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are immediately recognised in profit or loss. Non-current assets and groups of assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts are mainly derived from their potential sale and not from their ongoing use. This condition is deemed to be fulfilled if, among other things, the sale is highly probable, the asset or the group of assets is available for immediate sale and the sale is expected to be completed within one year starting from the time of the classification. Non-current assets and groups of assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated as from the reclassification date but measured at the lower of the carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell. These fair values are normally determined based on concluded purchase contracts or purchase price offers that are already sufficiently specific. Assets and groups of assets and their respective liabilities (disposal groups) held for sale are shown as a separate line item within current assets and current liabilities in the statement of financial position as from the reclassification date. The previous year’s figures in the statement of financial position are not adjusted to reflect reclassifications. If the disposal group comprises a material business segment or operation, the profit or loss after taxes from discontinued operations is reported separately in the income statement. The previous year’s income statement is adjusted accordingly. The profit after taxes from discontinued operations comprises the operation’s current earnings, the result of the measurement described above, and the gain or loss on disposal. In the statement of cash flows, the incoming and outgoing payments of the discontinued operations are presented together with the corresponding payments of the continuing operations. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for temporary differences between the values in the tax balance sheets of the individual companies and the carrying amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position – with the exception of goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes – as well as for tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognised only if their realisation is ensured with reasonable certainty. Deferred taxes are determined on the basis of the tax rates that will be in effect in future under current legislation. Deferred taxes are offset in accordance with IAS 12 if there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority for the same taxable entity. In accordance with IAS 19, provisions for pensions and similar obligations are determined using the actuarial projected unit credit method. In addition to biometric calculation principles, this method primarily takes into account the current long-term capital market interest rate as well as assumptions about future increases in salaries and pensions. Remeasurements are recognised directly in other comprehensive income in their full amount. These amounts are not reclassified to profit or loss. Remeasurements comprise actuarial gains and losses as well as the difference between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return recognised in net interest expense. In addition, effects from an asset ceiling may be included in the remeasurements. The net interest expense presented in the finance costs includes the expense from compounding the present value of defined benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets. 82 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS With the exception of provisions for personnel calculated according to IAS 19 or IFRS 2, all other provisions are recognised on the basis of IAS 37 if there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past business transactions or events. The outflow of resources embodying economic benefits required to settle the obligation must be probable, and it must be possible to estimate the amount reliably. Provisions with a maturity of more than one year are discounted at market interest rates that are in line with the risk and the period until settlement. Financial liabilities, with the exception of derivative financial instruments and financial liabilities held for trading, are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method. Liabilities under finance leases are recognised in the amount of the present value of the future lease payments, taking into account the interest rate that was used as the basis at the time the lease was signed, as well as the repayments on principal made in the meantime. Portions of assets and liabilities originally recognised as non-current with a remaining maturity of less than one year are generally reported under current items in the statement of financial position. Revenue comprises revenues from the sale of products and services less discounts, rebates, and if necessary, deferred income from customer loyalty programmes. Revenue is realised at the time ownership and risks are transferred to the customer. Provisions are established to account for customers’ return rights. If amounts are collected as an agent for third parties, such amounts are not revenue because they do not represent an inflow of economic benefits. Only the compensation for brokering the business is accounted for as revenue in such transactions. Other operating income is recognised if the economic benefits are probable and the amount can be reliably determined. Dividends are recognised when a legal right to receive payment is established. Interest income and interest expenses not requiring capitalisation pursuant to IAS 23 are recognised in the proper period using the effective interest method. In accordance with IAS 20, government grants are recognised at fair value only if there is reasonable assurance that the company will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received. Grants received as compensation for expenses are recognised as income in the same period in which such expenses are incurred. Grants received for the acquisition or production of assets are deferred as a general rule. Advertising costs are expensed as soon as there is a right to access the advertising material or services were received in connection with the advertising activities. The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the basis of certain assumptions and estimates which have an effect on the amount and presentation of the reported assets, liabilities, income, expenses and contingent liabilities. The assumptions and estimates primarily concern the items set forth below. Goodwill arises in the course of business combinations. All identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value upon first-time consolidation. The recognised fair values represent key estimates. If intangible assets are identified, the fair value is determined by recognised valuation methods depending on the type of asset. These valuations are closely related to the management’s assumptions concerning the future development of the assets and the applied discount rates. In addition to the determination of fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the valuation of contingent consideration for business combinations is based on estimates and assumptions made by the management regarding the future development of the acquired entity. If the actual development of the entity in the future deviates from the expected development, this may affect the amount of contingent consideration and the profit after taxes. Impairment tests of goodwill, other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and investments are based on forward-looking assumptions. Paying due regard to past developments and assumptions concerning the future development of markets, the test is generally performed on the basis of a five-year planning period. The key assumptions when assessing impairment are estimated growth rates after the detailed planning period, weighted average cost of capital and tax rates. Further key planning assumptions relate to the future sales trend and the operating profit margin. The premises above and the underlying calculation model can significantly influence the individual values and ultimately the amount of a possible impairment. In the case of trade receivables, valuation allowances on doubtful debts rely to a large extent on estimates and assessments made on the basis of the relevant customer’s creditworthiness, the current economic developments and the analysis of historical losses on bad debts on a portfolio basis. Actual cash inflows may deviate from the carrying amounts recognised in respect of the receivables. 83 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The key assumptions and estimates for the measurement of provisions, especially those for pensions, real estate, litigations, pending losses, those related to business combinations and disposals and restructuring measures, concern the probability of the provisions being used, the amount of the obligation and, in the case of non-current provisions, the interest rates applied. In addition, pension obligations under defined benefit plans require actuarial assumptions regarding salary and pension trends, life expectancies and employee turnover. The actual development, and hence actual payments due in the future, may deviate from the expected development and the recognised provisions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on the basis of assumptions and estimates made by management. In addition to the interpretation of the tax regulations applicable to the taxable entity concerned, the key factor in the calculation of deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards is an assessment of the likelihood that adequate taxable income will be generated in future or that appropriate tax strategies for utilising tax loss carryforwards will be implemented. All assumptions and estimates are based on the circumstances prevailing on the reporting date. Future events and changes in general circumstances often give rise to differences between the actual amounts and the estimates. This applies in particular to obligations that cannot be measured because their existence, amount and timing of occurrence are uncertain. In case of differences, the assumptions and, if necessary, the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities affected are adjusted accordingly. At the time the consolidated financial statements were prepared, there was no indication of any material changes affecting the underlying assumptions and estimates. 84 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B. NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT EUR million Land, buildings Technical Operating and Prepayments Total and similar assets equipment and office equipment and assets under machinery construction Cost As at 1 Jan. 2014 470 307 396 5 1,178 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 8 6 2 16 Additions to scope of consolidation 0 Additions 12 22 98 6 138 Reclassifications 1 1 2 -4 0 Disposals 30 19 94 143 As at 31 Dec. 2014 461 317 404 7 1,189 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 Jan. 2014 215 215 266 0 696 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 4 4 2 10 Additions 0 Depreciation 17 20 95 132 Impairments 6 2 8 Reversals of impairment losses 1 1 Reclassifications 0 Disposals 24 18 93 135 As at 31 Dec. 2014 218 222 270 0 710 Net carrying amounts As at 31 Dec. 2014 243 95 134 7 479 As at 1 Jan. 2014 255 92 130 5 482 Property, plant and equipment includes assets totalling EUR 35 million (previous year: EUR 38 million) recognised based on finance leases. Of this amount, EUR 33 million (previous year: EUR 35 million) relates to land, buildings and similar assets and EUR 2 million (previous year: EUR 3 million) to operating and office equipment. As in the previous year, no non-cash investments were made in property, plant and equipment (finance leases). Additions and disposals during the financial year relate primarily to textiles and hand towel dispensers to be rented out by the CWS-boco division. Of the disposals during the previous year, EUR 1,585 million reported under cost and EUR 1,061 million reported under accumulated depreciation resulted from the reclassification of the Celesio division’s assets as held for sale. The EUR 8 million in impairments in the financial year essentially relates to write-downs of real estate no longer required for operations in the Holding and other companies segment. The recoverable amount of assets written down is EUR 10 million; this amount was calculated using the discounted cash flow method (DCF method) as the fair value less costs of disposal (Level 2). In the previous year, the impairments of EUR 6 million were essentially attributable to laundries in the CWS-boco division. 85 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUR million Land, buildings Technical Operating and Prepayments Total and similar assets equipment and office equipment and assets under machinery construction Cost As at 1 Jan. 2013 1,138 563 1,013 15 2,729 Foreign exchange rate adjustments -13 -8 -18 -39 Additions to scope of consolidation 8 4 1 13 Additions 22 28 139 17 206 Reclassifications 6 6 3 -15 0 Disposals 691 286 742 12 1,731 As at 31 Dec. 2013 470 307 396 5 1,178 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 Jan. 2013 579 409 710 0 1,698 Foreign exchange rate adjustments -6 -5 -12 -23 Additions 0 Depreciation 38 32 142 212 Impairments 5 1 6 Reversals of impairment losses 0 Reclassifications 0 Disposals 396 226 575 1,197 As at 31 Dec. 2013 215 215 266 0 696 Net carrying amounts As at 31 Dec. 2013 255 92 130 5 482 As at 1 Jan. 2013 559 154 303 15 1,031 As in the previous year, legally and economically owned property, plant and equipment are not subject to any restrictions on title. As in the previous year, no property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for own liabilities. Purchase commitments for property, plant and equipment amounted to EUR 3 million (previous year: EUR 5 million). 86 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 INTANGIBLE ASSETS EUR million Goodwill Licences and Other intangible Prepayments Total similar rights assets Cost As at 1 Jan. 2014 926 301 108 6 1,341 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 32 7 7 1 47 Additions to scope of consolidation 0 Additions 4 1 5 10 Reclassifications 2 -2 0 Disposals 2 25 3 30 As at 31 Dec. 2014 956 289 113 10 1,368 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 Jan. 2014 39 239 42 2 322 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 1 6 3 10 Additions 0 Depreciation 17 4 21 Impairments 1 1 Reversals of impairment losses 0 Reclassifications 0 Disposals 25 2 27 As at 31 Dec. 2014 40 237 47 3 327 Net carrying amounts As at 31 Dec. 2014 916 52 66 7 1,041 As at 1 Jan. 2014 887 62 66 4 1,019 In the previous year the impairments of EUR 8 million on goodwill were attributable to the ELG division. The additions to licences and similar rights and prepayments during the financial year result essentially from software. Of the disposals during the financial year, EUR 24 million reported under cost and EUR 21 million reported under accumulated depreciation resulted from the reclassification of assets within the TAKKT division as held for sale. Of the disposals during the previous year, EUR 2,930 million reported under cost and EUR 666 million reported under accumulated depreciation resulted from the reclassification of the Celesio division’s assets as held for sale. 87 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUR million Goodwill Licences and Other intangible Prepayments Total similar rights assets Cost As at 1 Jan. 2013 3,553 571 170 48 4,342 Foreign exchange rate adjustments -86 -11 -9 -2 -108 Additions to scope of consolidation 3 3 Additions 15 15 3 9 42 Reclassifications 6 -6 0 Disposals 2,556 283 56 43 2,938 As at 31 Dec. 2013 926 301 108 6 1,341 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 Jan. 2013 445 414 76 13 948 Foreign exchange rate adjustments -7 -6 -1 -14 Additions 0 Depreciation 43 10 53 Impairments 8 8 Reversals of impairment losses 0 Reclassifications 0 Disposals 414 211 38 10 673 As at 31 Dec. 2013 39 239 42 2 322 Net carrying amounts As at 31 Dec. 2013 887 62 66 4 1,019 As at 1 Jan. 2013 3,108 157 94 35 3,394 Other intangible assets include assets with indefinite useful lives totalling EUR 52 million (previous year: EUR 50 million). These relate predominantly to brand names acquired through business combinations. As in the previous year, legally and economically owned intangible assets are not subject to any restrictions on title. As in the previous year, no intangible assets have been pledged as security for own liabilities. As at 31 December 2014 purchase commitments for intangible assets amounted to EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 0 million). 88 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR AT EQUITY EUR million 2014 2013 As at 1 Jan. 3,215 3,282 Additions 7 Changes in equity interest recognised in profit or loss 14 100 Profit distribution -101 Changes in equity interest recognised in other comprehensive income -207 5 Impairments Reclassification as assets held for sale -78 Disposals and transfers -10 As at 31 Dec. 3,012 3,215 Investments accounted for at equity mainly comprise the investment of EUR 3,012 million in Metro AG by Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH (previous year: EUR 3,215 million). METRO AG, domiciled in Düsseldorf, is the holding company of the METRO GROUP, an international retail group. The METRO GROUP’s independent sales lines operate self-service wholesale (METRO Cash & Carry), retail electronics (Media-Saturn), self-service hypermarket (Real) and department store (Galeria Kaufhof) businesses in Europe and Asia. Haniel and Schmidt-Ruthenbeck, two of the METRO GROUP’s founding shareholders, increased their stakes in METRO AG in 2007. Since then Haniel has directly and indirectly held 34.0 per cent of the capital and 34.2 per cent of the voting rights in METRO AG. Schmidt-Ruthenbeck directly and indirectly held 15.8 per cent of the voting rights. At the end of November 2012, Haniel announced it would reduce its share of voting rights in METRO AG by 4.23 per cent to 30.01 per cent. This sale was completed in February 2013. Up to 31 October 2014, Haniel and Schmidt-Ruthenbeck held contractually pooled voting rights of 45.78 per cent. Following the rescission of the agreement with Schmidt-­ Ruthenbeck, Haniel still exercises a significant influence on METRO AG based on its voting rights. The impairment test on the investment in METRO AG is performed as a general rule by applying the same model and relevant parameters that are used to test the impairment of goodwill. The impairment test, based on planning of future cash flows, a weighted average cost of capital before taxes of 9.8 per cent (previous year: 10.6 per cent) and a growth rate of 0.5 per cent – as in the previous year – for the years after the detailed planning period did not indicate a need to adjust the carrying amount of the investment accounted for at equity in the financial year. The Metro investment contributed earnings totalling EUR 14 million (previous year: EUR 96 million). Due to the nature of its industry, METRO AG has a financial year of 1 October through 30 September instead of the calendar year since 2013. However, the METRO GROUP is included in Haniel’s consolidated financial statements based on interim financial statements using results from 1 January through 31 December. 89 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Material financial information on the IFRS consolidated financial statements of METRO AG as well as a reconciliation to the carrying amount of the Metro investment reported in Haniel’s consolidated financial statements are presented below. EUR million 2014 2013 Revenue 62,625 65,042 Profit after taxes 127 443 Other comprehensive income -652 -9 Comprehensive income -525 434 Dividends received from METRO AG 97 EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Non-current assets 14,918 16,566 Current Assets 16,713 16,424 Non-current liabilities 7,420 8,053 Current liabilities 19,150 19,239 Equity 5,061 5,698 Equity attributable to shareholders of METRO AG 5,032 5,649 Haniel’s share of equity of METRO AG 1,498 1,682 Remaining adjustments from purchase price allocation 2,535 2,554 Impairments on investment accounted for at equity 1,021 1,021 Carrying amount of the Metro investment 3,012 3,215 In addition, METRO AG has contingent liabilities from suretyships, rent guarantees and other warranty contracts in the amount of EUR 58 million (previous year: EUR 63 million). The stock market value of Haniel’s 29.8 per cent interest (previous year: 29.8 per cent) in the common and preferred shares of METRO AG as at the reporting date amounted to EUR 2,462 million (previous year: EUR 3,424 million), valued at a stock price of EUR 25.31 per share (previous year: EUR 35.20 per share). Pursuant to IAS 28.13(a), the associates belonging to the Celesio division were no longer accounted for at equity from the date they were reclassified as held for sale in November 2013. Instead, they were subject to the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 until the deconsolidation date. 90 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 FINANCIAL ASSETS EUR million Financial assets Other securities Loans Total available for sale Cost As at 1 Jan. 2014 6 0 7 13 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 2 2 Additions to scope of consolidation 7 7 Additions 191 5 196 Changes in fair value -3 -3 Reclassifications 0 Disposals 26 26 As at 31 Dec. 2014 168 5 16 189 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 Jan. 2014 0 0 0 0 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 0 Impairments 1 1 Reversals of impairment losses 0 Reclassifications 0 Disposals 0 As at 31 Dec. 2014 1 0 0 1 Net carrying amounts As at 31 Dec. 2014 167 5 16 188 As at 1 Jan. 2014 6 0 7 13 The additions to financial assets available for sale in the financial year resulted from acquisitions of bonds in the Holding and other companies segment. The disposals during the financial year relate to the sale of respective bonds. The additions under other securities concern the acquisition of a promissory loan note in the Holding and other companies segment. In the financial year, the additions to the scope of consolidation for loans include a non-current receivable from finance leases in the Holding and other companies segment. In the previous year, additions to this item were attributable essentially to the Celesio division as well as the compounding of two long-term receivables in the Holding and other companies segment. These receivables were disposed of during the previous year and were first written down pursuant to IAS 39.63 based on the future cash flows. The impairments were recognised in other net financial income. 91 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUR million Financial assets Other securities Loans Total available for sale Cost As at 1 Jan. 2013 72 0 277 349 Foreign exchange rate adjustments -1 -1 Additions to scope of consolidation 0 Additions 2 36 38 Changes in fair value 1 1 Reclassifications -4 -4 Disposals 69 301 370 As at 31 Dec. 2013 6 0 7 13 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 Jan. 2013 5 0 66 71 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 0 Impairments 4 4 Reversals of impairment losses 0 Reclassifications 0 Disposals 5 70 75 As at 31 Dec. 2013 0 0 0 0 Net carrying amounts As at 31 Dec. 2013 6 0 7 13 As at 1 Jan. 2013 67 0 211 278 Of the disposals of non-current financial assets during the previous year, EUR 120 million reported under cost and EUR 11 million reported under accumulated depreciation resulted from the reclassification of the Celesio division’s assets as held for sale. 92 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXES The income tax assets of EUR 48 million (previous year: EUR 41 million) concern in particular withholding tax receivables in connection with dividends received. The income tax liabilities of EUR 18 million (previous year: EUR 12 million) essentially contain the income taxes to be paid for the financial year. Deferred taxes are calculated using the respective local tax rates. Changes in tax rates that were enacted up until the reporting date have already been taken into account. The income tax rates applied in the relevant countries varied between 10.0 per cent and 39.0 per cent (previous year: 10.0 per cent and 39.0 per cent). The following deferred tax assets and liabilities exist for temporary differences in the individual items of the statement of financial position, and for tax loss carryforwards: 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 EUR million Deferred Deferred tax Deferred Deferred tax tax assets liabilities tax assets liabilities Property, plant and equipment 11 38 12 31 Intangible assets 7 87 5 77 Miscellaneous non-current assets 2 8 1 11 Current assets 21 17 23 4 Non-current liabilities 15 1 18 1 Non-current provisions 67 1 43 6 Current provisions 9 1 9 1 Other current liabilities 8 10 2 11 Derivative financial instruments 8 3 11 6 Tax loss carryforwards 2 5 Less offsetting 115 115 98 98 35 51 31 50 Deferred tax assets include EUR 11 million (previous year: EUR 14 million) for companies that were making losses in the financial year or the previous year. These items are recognised, as future taxable profits are expected for these companies. Trade tax loss carryforwards of EUR 877 million (previous year: EUR 852 million) and unused corporate tax and similar foreign loss carryforwards of EUR 515 million (previous year: EUR 475 million) exist in the Haniel Group, for which no deferred tax assets were recognised in the statement of financial position, given that the realisation of the deferred tax assets is not deemed to be sufficiently certain from today’s point of view. Of these tax loss carryforwards, EUR 52 million (previous year: EUR 48 million) expire within five years and an additional EUR 22 million (previous year: EUR 19 million) within 15 years. In accordance with IAS 12, no deferred tax liabilities are recognised for retained earnings of subsidiaries and investments accounted for at equity because the company can control the reversal effect and therefore it is probable that the temporary differences will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. Therefore no deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary differences from subsidiaries and investments accounted for at equity in the amount of EUR 59 million (previous year: EUR 56 million). 93 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 INVENTORIES EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Raw materials and production supplies 11 9 Work and services in progress 1 1 Finished goods and merchandise 565 417 Prepayments 2 2 579 429 The inventories include EUR 142 million (previous year: EUR 70 million) that were written down to the net realisable value. Write-downs in the amount of EUR 9 million (previous year: EUR 6 million) were made during the financial year. Reversals of write-downs totalled EUR 2 million (previous year: EUR 4 million). This was due primarily to the disposal of previously impaired items of inventory. Other than industry-standard restrictions on title, no inventories were pledged as collateral for own liabilities during the financial year. 7 TRADE RECEIVABLES The CWS-boco and ELG divisions maintain programs for the continual sale of trade receivables to third parties. According to IAS 39, as a rule, these transfers qualify for derecognition of the receivables in question. Nevertheless, the divisions continue to handle the servicing of the receivables sold. In some cases, the division in question also retains a portion of the credit risk, the late payment risk or exchange rate risk from the receivables it sold. Out of EUR 29 million in receivables sold the CWS-boco division recognised at the reporting date an asset of EUR 5 million (previous year: EUR 0 million) as a continuing involvement. A corresponding liability was also recognised in the same amount. The maximum exposure to loss from the sale of receivables as at the reporting date is EUR 7 million (previous year: EUR 7 million). One factoring program within the ELG division did not lead to a transfer of material credit and interest rate risks to the factoring agent in the previous year so that receivables in the amount of EUR 16 million continued to be recognised. Liabilities to the factoring agent were recognised in the same amount. As in the previous year, no trade receivables are pledged as security for own liabilities at the reporting date. The table below illustrates the changes in valuation allowances for trade receivables: EUR million 2014 2013 As at 1 Jan. 15 107 Additions 1 26 Utilisations 9 Reversals 4 11 Foreign currency, changes in the scope of consolidation and other changes -98 As at 31 Dec. 12 15 The valuation allowances contain individual and portfolio-based allowances. The additions to valuation allowances are reported under other operating expenses. Once a bad debt is confirmed, the valuation allowance is utilised. Subsequent cash inflows in respect of written-off receivables are recognised in profit or loss. Reversals of valuation allowances are reported under other operating income. In the previous year, the foreign currency, changes in the scope of consolidation and other changes line item contained disposals in the amount of EUR 99 million in connection with the reclassification of the Celesio division as held for sale. 94 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As at the reporting date, the trade receivables that are past due, but not impaired, are structured as follows: EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Carrying amount of past due, but not impaired receivables 46 33 of which past due for < 3 months 42 29 3 to 6 months 4 4 > 6 to 12 months > 12 months With regard to the receivables that are past due, but not impaired, there is no indication that the debtors will not discharge their payment obligations. The same applies for receivables which are neither past due nor impaired. 8 RECEIVABLES FROM INVESTMENTS AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Receivables from investments 8 6 Other current assets 72 75 80 81 The other current assets item includes value added tax receivables and other tax assets in the amount of EUR 13 million (previous year: EUR 13 million), prepaid expenses in the amount of EUR 14 million (previous year: EUR 15 million) and bonuses and discount claims against suppliers totalling EUR 13 million (previous year: EUR 11 million). Other current assets of EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 11 million) are pledged as security for own liabilities. The table below illustrates the changes in valuation allowances for receivables from investments and other current assets: EUR million 2014 2013 As at 1 Jan. 0 20 Additions 8 Utilisations 1 Reversals 6 Foreign currency, changes in the scope of consolidation and other changes -21 As at 31 Dec. 0 0 The valuation allowances contain individual and portfolio-based allowances. The additions to valuation allowances are reported under other operating expenses. Once a bad debt is confirmed, the valuation allowance is utilised. Subsequent cash inflows in respect of written-off receivables are recognised in profit or loss. Reversals of valuation allowances are reported under other operating income. In the previous year, the foreign currency, changes in the scope of consolidation and other changes line item contained disposals in the amount of EUR 21 million in connection with the reclassification of the Celesio division as held for sale. 95 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As at the reporting date, receivables from investments and the other receivables in the other current assets that are past due, but not impaired, are structured as follows: EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Carrying amount of past due, but not impaired receivables 2 of which past due for < 3 months 2 3 to 6 months > 6 to 12 months > 12 months With regard to the receivables that are past due, but not impaired, there is no indication that the debtors will not discharge their payment obligations. The same applies for receivables which are neither past due nor impaired. 9 FINANCIAL ASSETS EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Derivative financial instruments 11 10 Financial assets available for sale 160 Other securities and fixed-term deposits 237 408 10 The derivative financial instruments serve to hedge interest rate, exchange rate and other price risks. Derivative financial instruments are described in detail under note 28. The available for sale financial instruments are Haniel’s current financial investments in investment funds and bonds. The line item other securities and fixed-term deposits contains commercial paper and instalment loans. 10 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Bank balances 111 22 Cash on hand and cheques 111 22 Bank balances comprise short-term deposits with an original maturity of up to three months. 96 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE In December 2014 the TAKKT division concluded an agreement on the disposal of the Plant Equipment Group belonging to TAKKT AMERICA with Global Industrial. The agreed sale price is USD 25 million free of financial liabilities. As at the reporting date the assets and liabilities of the Plant Equipment Group are presented as held for sale. The transaction was completed on 30 January 2015. Also in December 2014, it was decided to sell the real estate no longer required for operations in the Holding and other companies segment. As at the reporting date this real estate is presented as held for sale accordingly. The sale is expected to be completed during 2015. For some real estate, a purchase agreement was already concluded in the financial year. During the course of measuring the real estate, writedowns in the amount of EUR 2 million were recognised as depreciation. The table below shows the main groups of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale as at the reporting date: EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 Assets Property, plant and equipment 6 Intangible assets 3 Inventories 9 Trade receivables 8 Cash and cash equivalents Other assets 3 29 Liabilities Financial liabilities 1 Trade payables 4 Other current liabilities 4 9 On 24 October 2013, Haniel announced that Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH had entered into an agreement with the leading American healthcare services company, McKesson Corporation, on the complete sale of Haniel’s 50.01 per cent equity interest in Celesio AG. At the same time, McKesson put forward a voluntary public takeover offer to all of Celesio’s shareholders and convertible bonds holders following a review by the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority. The sale of Haniel’s shares to McKesson as well as the public takeover offer were subject to the proviso that regulatory authorities approve the transaction and that McKesson can acquire at least 75 per cent of the share capital of Celesio AG including the potential shares attributable to the convertible bonds issued by Celesio. Due to its material significance for the Haniel consolidated financial statements, the entire Celesio division has been classified as a discontinued operation since then, in accordance with IFRS 5; the corresponding assets and liabilities were presented in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013 as assets or liabilities held for sale. The income and expenses were also presented retrospectively for the comparison period in profit after taxes from discontinued operations. Since Celesio’s classification as a discontinued operation, depreciation/amortisation as well as the equity method for the pertinent associates has been halted. The takeover offer published by McKesson in October 2013 for Celesio AG was limited to the beginning of January 2014. On 13 January 2014 McKesson announced that the public takeover offer for Celesio AG was unsuccessful because the self-imposed minimum acceptance threshold of 75 per cent of the share capital of Celesio AG, including the outstanding convertible bonds, was not quite attained. That meant that the sale of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH’s 50.01 per cent equity interest also did not occur and the takeover offer was invalid. 97 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Following the failure of the public takeover offer, Haniel acquired further shares in Celesio AG in order to sell 75.99 per cent of the outstanding shares to McKesson for EUR 23.50 per share against cash consideration. This made it possible for McKesson to acquire a majority interest in the desired magnitude within a short timeframe. On 23 January 2014, McKesson announced the acquisition of more than 75 per cent of the share capital of Celesio AG, including the outstanding convertible bonds, by means of various purchase agreements. Pursuant to the contractual provisions, the shares of Celesio AG were transferred to McKesson on 6 February 2014, thus completing the disposal. Celesio was included in Haniel’s 2014 consolidated financial statements up to that date as a discontinued operation. The increase in Haniel’s existing majority investment resulting from the transaction occurred solely for the purpose of selling it on in connection with the originally planned disposal of the former 50.01 per cent equity interest in Celesio AG. This approach was taken purely as a result of the structure of the transaction and did not give rise to any additional risks for Haniel. In order to give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group and to improve the presentation of the economic substance of the arrangements in Haniel’s 2014 consolidated financial statements they are accounted for as a single transaction in accordance with IFRS 10.B97. Through the sale of its former 50.01 per cent equity interest in Celesio AG in the 2014 financial year, Haniel generates proceeds of EUR 1,999 million and a disposal gain of EUR 696 million. The table below shows Celesio’s main groups of assets and liabilities that were classified as held for sale in the previous year: EUR million 31 Dec. 2013 Assets Property, plant and equipment 524 Intangible assets 2,264 Investments accounted for at equity 78 Financial assets 109 Other non-current assets 40 Income tax assets 2 Deferred taxes 102 Non-current assets 3,119 Inventories 1,598 Trade receivables 2,083 Receivables from investments and other current assets 308 Financial assets 14 Income tax assets 19 Cash and cash equivalents 536 Current assets 4,558 7,677 Liabilities Financial liabilities 1,396 Pension provisions 337 Other non-current provisions 64 Other non-current liabilities Deferred taxes 42 Non-current liabilities 1,839 Financial liabilities 506 Current provisions 144 Trade payables and similar liabilities 2,385 Income tax liabilities 63 Other current liabilities 469 Current liabilities 3,567 5,406 The inventories reported in the above table as at the previous year’s reporting date include EUR 41 million that were written down to the net realisable value pursuant to IAS 2. 98 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 EQUITY As at 31 December 2014, the subscribed capital of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH remained unchanged at EUR 1,000 million. All shares are fully paid-in and held either directly or indirectly by the Haniel family. Changes in equity are shown in the statement of changes in equity on page 70. Treasury shares with a nominal amount of EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 0 million) were acquired during the financial year. The non-controlling interests in the equity of consolidated subsidiaries relate primarily to TAKKT AG, which is domiciled in Stuttgart. In the previous year, non-controlling interests also had an interest of EUR 1,126 million in Celesio AG, which was disposed of in the financial year. The changes in the scope of consolidation during the financial year relate to the disposal of the Celesio division. Haniel reduced its holding in TAKKT AG by 20.16 per cent during the previous year. Haniel received consideration in the amount of EUR 149 million for the shares in TAKKT AG sold. The transaction increased the carrying amount of the non-controlling interests by EUR 55 million. The difference between the consideration received and the carrying amount attributable to the shares sold was recognised in the equity attributable to the shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH. As at the reporting date, Haniel held a 50.25 per cent interest in TAKKT AG, the holding company of the TAKKT division. The following table contains the financial information on the TAKKT division recognised in Haniel’s consolidated financial statements. EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Non-current assets 741 726 Current assets 219 203 Non-current liabilities 225 385 Current liabilities 255 119 Equity 480 425 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 174 146 EUR million 2014 2013 Revenue 981 953 Operating profit 111 96 Profit after taxes 66 53 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 33 20 Other comprehensive income 9 -3 Comprehensive income 75 50 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 38 18 Cash flow from operating activities 101 78 Cash flow from investing activities -13 -9 Cash flow from financing activities -90 -68 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 10 6 During the previous year, the Celesio and ELG divisions acquired non-controlling interests of fully consolidated subsidiaries for a purchase price of EUR 3 million. The carrying amounts of the non-controlling interests amounted to EUR 2 million. This resulted in a EUR 1 million decrease in retained earnings attributable to the shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH. 99 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The total amount of accumulated other comprehensive income changed as follows: EUR million As at Changes in the Changes in Other Currency As at 1 Jan. 2014 scope of shares in comprehensive translation 31 Dec. 2014 consolidation companies income effects already consolidated Remeasurements of defined benefit plans -288 201 -81 1 -167 Deferred taxes 72 -49 24 47 Pro-rata other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss from investments accounted for at equity -131 1 -100 -230 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss -347 153 0 -157 1 -350 Derivative financial instruments -23 2 15 -6 Financial assets available for sale 0 0 Deferred taxes 6 -4 2 Currency translation effects -318 145 167 -1 -7 Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for at equity -132 -107 -239 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss -467 147 0 71 -1 -250 Accumulated other comprehensive income -814 300 0 -86 0 -600 of which attributable to non-controlling interests -242 223 9 -10 of which attributable to shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH -572 77 -95 -590 EUR million As at Changes in the Changes in Other Currency As at 1 Jan. 2013 scope of shares in comprehensive translation 31 Dec. 2013 consolidation companies income effects already consolidated Remeasurements of defined benefit plans -293 10 -24 19 -288 Deferred taxes 81 -1 -3 -5 72 Pro-rata other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss from investments accounted for at equity -137 6 -131 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss -349 9 0 -21 14 -347 Derivative financial instruments -56 33 -23 Financial assets available for sale 21 -21 0 Deferred taxes 14 -7 -1 6 Currency translation effects -179 -126 -13 -318 Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for at equity -131 -1 -132 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss -331 0 0 -122 -14 -467 Accumulated other comprehensive income -680 9 0 -143 0 -814 of which attributable to non-controlling interests -177 5 -6 -64 -242 of which attributable to shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH -503 4 6 -79 -572 The accumulated other comprehensive income presented contains a total amount of EUR 2 million (previous year: EUR -446 million) that is attributable to assets and liabilities held for sale. This includes EUR 0 million (previous year: EUR -157 million) that may not be reclassified to profit or loss. 100 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The aim of the Haniel Group’s capital management is, for one, to safeguard financial flexibility, provide scope for value-enhancing investments, and maintain sound ratios in the statement of financial position. The Group seeks to achieve investment-grade credit ratings. Another aim of capital management is to ensure that the capital employed in the Haniel Group is used to increase value. The Group manages the solidity of its balance sheet ratios by monitoring the equity ratio, gearing and interest cover ratio. EUR million 2014 2013 Equity 3,973 4,556 / Total assets 6,446 13,387 Equity ratio (in %) 61.6 34.0 (Financial liabilities, including held for sale 1,469 4,401 Cash and cash equivalents, including held for sale) 111 558 / Equity 3,973 4,556 Gearing 0.3 0.8 (Operating profit, including discontinued operations 258 593 + Result from investments accounted for at equity, including discontinued operations 14 100 + Other investment result, including discontinued operations) 1 30 / (Finance costs, including discontinued operations 221 340 Other net financial income, including discontinued operations) 8 22 Interest cover ratio 1.3 2.3 101 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In order to manage the capital employed from yield perspectives, the Group uses the Haniel value added (HVA) and the return on capital employed (ROCE) as value-based performance indicators. They show whether the profits generated with the capital employed cover the cost of capital. EUR million 2014 2013 2012 Operating profit 217 166 + Result from investments accounted for at equity 14 96 + Other investment result 24 + Other net financial income 9 26 Income tax expenses 59 35 + Profit after taxes from discontinued operations before finance costs 726 330 Return 907 607 Total assets 6,446 13,387 14,469 Current provisions 103 122 269 Trade payables and similar liabilities 151 125 2,470 Income tax liabilities 18 12 69 Other current liabilities 226 200 922 Deferred tax liabilities 51 50 94 Non-interest bearing liabilities held for sale 8 3,103 74 Capital employed 5,889 9,775 10,571 Average capital employed (current and previous year divided by two) 7,832 10,173 x Weighted average cost of capital (in %) 8.1 8.1 Cost of capital 634 824 Return 907 607 Cost of capital 634 824 Haniel value added (HVA) 273 -217 Return 907 607 / Average capital employed 7,832 10,173 Return on capital employed (ROCE, in %) 11.6 6.0 The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) reflects the expected return of equity and debt providers after taxes. In addition, investment projects are assessed using uniform DCF methods; risk-appropriate minimum rates of return are specified for each division and each strategic business unit. 102 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial liabilities comprise the interest-bearing obligations of the Haniel Group that existed as at the respective reporting dates. The different types and maturities of the current and non-current financial liabilities are shown in the table below: 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 EUR million Up to 1 year 1 to More than Total Up to 1 year 1 to More than Total 5 years 5 years 5 years 5 years Liabilities due to banks 194 289 49 532 170 362 64 596 Bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt 102 531 633 466 1,129 1,595 Liabilities to shareholders 63 100 163 55 100 155 Lease liabilities 2 15 20 37 4 9 27 40 Other financial liabilities 31 35 37 103 31 38 44 113 392 970 106 1,468 726 1,638 135 2,499 of which subordinated 92 127 35 254 84 130 43 257 The maturities of the liabilities due to banks correspond to the respective financing commitments. The decline in securitised debt compared to the previous year resulted in particular from the buyback and scheduled repayment of euro bonds by Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, as well as the repayment of promissory loan notes in the CWS-boco and TAKKT divisions. As at the reporting date, the bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt item comprises euro bonds issued by Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH in the amount of EUR 479 million (previous year: EUR 1,323 million) and promissory loan notes issued by the divisions of EUR 154 million (previous year: EUR 269 million). Liabilities to shareholders relate to shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH. Future finance lease payments and their present values are shown in the table below: 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 EUR million Up to 1 year 1 to More than Total Up to 1 year 1 to More than Total 5 years 5 years 5 years 5 years Minimum lease payments 4 20 28 52 6 16 37 59 Less interest portion 2 5 8 15 2 7 10 19 Present value 2 15 20 37 4 9 27 40 Financial liabilities include subordinated liabilities in the amount of EUR 254 million (previous year: EUR 257 million). The subordinated financial liabilities are subordinate to all other liabilities. The individual subordinated financial liabilities are shown in the table below: EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Shareholder loans Haniel family 163 155 Loans of the Haniel Foundation 36 36 Haniel Zerobonds and Zinsbonds 19 21 Haniel Performance Bonds 26 34 Other financial liabilities 10 11 Total 254 257 103 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 PENSION PROVISIONS Pension provisions are recognised for obligations arising from current pensions as well as from commitments under old-age, disability and survivors’ pension plans. The benefits paid by the Group vary from country to country, depending on the respective legal, tax and economic circumstances. The Haniel Group’s company pension schemes comprise both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. Other than the payment of the contributions, no further obligations exist in respect of the defined contribution plans. The contributions of the continuing operations are shown under personnel expenses and amounted to EUR 23 million (previous year: EUR 22 million) for the statutory pension insurances and EUR 6 million (previous year: EUR 5 million) for other defined contribution plans. The majority of the obligations from defined benefit plans exist from benefit plans based on final salaries with adjustments to counter the effect of inflation. They are financed using external pension funds and through provisions. As part of their investment strategies, the funds invest in various investment classes to avoid risk concentration. In addition, the maturity profile of the plan assets is adjusted in line with the expected benefit payment dates. The majority of the pension obligations are attributable to Germany, the United Kingdom and Switzerland. The characteristics specific to the aforementioned countries are described in greater detail below. In Germany the obligations are financed through provisions. The obligations are based either on shop agreements or individual contractual arrangements. The majority of the British defined benefit obligations are financed through external funds into which both the employees and the employer contribute. The investment strategies and minimum allocations are determined by the trustees or boards of trustees in coordination with company representatives. The pension obligations in Switzerland are based on commitments for executives and other employees. They are financed through employee and employer contributions to pension funds. The contributions vary depending on salary and age. Pension increases are factored in depending on the return on plan assets. To cover the pension claims, the plans are subject to minimum funding requirements from which future additional contribution obligations may arise. The defined benefit obligations are measured using the projected unit credit method. This measurement is based on the following specific parameters for each country: 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 % Germany United Switzerland Others Germany United Switzerland Others Kingdom Kingdom Discount rate 2.0 3.6 1.1 to 1.3 2.0 to 4.3 3.7 4.4 2.1 3.3 to 3.8 Salary trend 2.8 3.0 1.5 0.0 to 3.0 2.8 3.3 to 4.4 1.5 0.0 to 3.5 Pension trend 1.8 3.0 0.0 0.0 to 2.0 1.9 3.3 to 3.4 0.0 0.0 to 3.0 The discount rate is determined using an interest rate curve approach for each currency area based on the yields of fixed interest corporate bonds that have an AA rating from at least one respected rating agency. In exceptional cases, if there is not a sufficiently liquid market for such corporate bonds in a currency area, the yields of corresponding government bonds are used instead. The mortality tables used for the corresponding countries are based on publicly accessible data. In Germany, the measurement is based on the biometric probabilities from the 2005G Heubeck mortality tables. The average duration of the defined benefit plans during the financial year was 18 years (previous year: 17 years). Pension provisions are presented in the following items of the statement of financial position: EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Pension provisions 335 247 Other non-current assets 1 Net pension provisions 334 247 104 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The present value of defined benefit obligations developed as follows in the financial year: EUR million 2014 2013 Present value of defined benefit obligations as at 1 Jan. 356 1,150 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 5 -54 Changes in the scope of consolidation and other changes Current service cost 12 39 Past service cost -1 -1 Gains and losses arising from settlements Interest cost 13 42 Actuarial gains and losses 99 34 of which arising from experience adjustments 24 of which arising from changes in demographic assumptions of which arising from changes in financial assumptions 99 10 Employees’ contributions to plan assets 3 3 Less current pension payments 13 42 Less payments in respect of settlements 3 Reclassification of discontinued operations -815 Present value of defined benefit obligations as at 31 Dec. 471 356 The pension payments are expected to be EUR 13 million (previous year: EUR 10 million) in the next financial year, EUR 55 million in the following 2 to 5 financial years (previous year: EUR 42 million) and EUR 81 million in the next 6 to 10 financial years (previous year: EUR 61 million). The plan assets developed as follows: EUR million 2014 2013 Fair value of plan assets as at 1 Jan. 109 569 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 4 -32 Changes in the scope of consolidation and other changes Return on plan assets 4 21 Gains and losses arising from settlements Remeasurements of plan assets 18 10 Employer’s contributions to plan assets 4 42 Employees’ contributions to plan assets 3 3 Less current pension payments out of plan assets 5 26 Less payments in respect of settlements Reclassification of discontinued operations -478 Fair value of plan assets as at 31 Dec. 137 109 Employer contributions to the plan assets are expected to be EUR 5 million in the coming financial year (previous year: EUR 5 million). 105 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below shows the plan asset portfolio structure as at the reporting date: 2014 2013 EUR million with without with without active market active market active market active market Cash and cash equivalents 1 Equity instruments 15 11 Debt instruments 29 22 Real estate 1 Derivatives Investment funds Asset-backed securities Structured debt Insurance contracts 92 2 73 Others Fair value of plan assets as at 31 Dec. 45 92 36 73 The plan assets do not contain any own financial instruments of the Haniel Group or any assets used by the Haniel Group. The following table presents the development of the net pension provisions. It corresponds generally to the difference between the changes to the present value of defined benefit obligations and the fair value of the plan assets. EUR million 2014 2013 Net pension provisions as at 1 Jan. 247 581 Foreign exchange rate adjustments 1 -22 Changes in the scope of consolidation and other changes Current service cost 12 39 Past service cost -1 -1 Gains and losses arising from settlements Interest cost from compounding the defined benefit obligation 13 42 Return on plan assets 4 21 Actuarial gains and losses in respect of the defined benefit obligation 99 34 of which arising from experience adjustments 24 of which arising from changes in demographic assumptions of which arising from changes in financial assumptions 99 10 Remeasurements of plan assets 18 10 Employer’s contributions to plan assets 4 42 Less current pension payments 8 16 Less payments in respect of settlements 3 Reclassification of discontinued operations -337 Net pension provisions as at 31 Dec. 334 247 The pension expenses for the financial year are presented in the income statement in personnel expenses in the amount of EUR 11 million (previous year: EUR 11 million), in finance costs in the amount of EUR 9 million (previous year: EUR 9 million), and in the profit after taxes of discontinued operations. 106 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table presents how the present value of defined benefit obligations as at the reporting date would have changed given variations in isolated significant actuarial parameters. EUR million 2014 2013 0.5 percentage points increase in the discount rate -40 -23 0.5 percentage points decrease in the discount rate 46 27 0.5 percentage points increase in the salary trend 8 4 0.5 percentage points decrease in the salary trend -6 -6 0.5 percentage points increase in the pension trend 18 13 0.5 percentage points decrease in the pension trend -16 -13 One year increase in life expectancy 13 9 One year decrease in life expectancy -12 -8 15 OTHER NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT PROVISIONS EUR million 1 Jan. 2014 Foreign Changes in ReclassiInterest Additions Reversals Utilisations 31 Dec. 2014 exchange the scope of fication effect rate consolidation adjustments Provisions for personnel 19 3 -2 -3 17 Provisions for removal 11 2 -1 12 Miscellaneous non-current provisions 86 2 -9 3 1 -2 81 Other non-current provisions 116 2 0 -9 3 6 -3 -5 110 Provisions for personnel 36 1 41 -3 -31 44 Provisions for litigation 2 2 -1 3 Provisions for warranties 3 1 -1 -1 2 Provisions for restructuring 18 1 -2 -9 8 Miscellaneous current provisions 63 1 9 5 -19 -13 46 Current provisions 122 2 0 9 0 50 -26 -54 103 The non-current provisions for personnel comprise obligations from performance cash plans, anniversaries and partial retirement schemes. Current provisions for personnel include bonuses, obligations under social plans and termination benefits. Provisions for removal usually result from the construction and redesign of land and buildings (improvements and reconstruction) whose removal will be necessary in future because of contractual, constructive or legal obligations. The present value of expected expenses is immediately recognised as a liability and initially corresponds to an appropriate increase in the acquisition cost of the relevant tangible asset. Current provisions for restructuring include all estimated costs for the restructuring of selected companies and/or business units on the basis of a restructuring plan adopted by the responsible management. The majority of provisions for restructuring as at the end of the year relate to the CWS-boco division. In the financial year miscellaneous non-current and current provisions contain essentially provisions relating to business combinations and disposals in the amount of EUR 34 million (previous year: EUR 50 million) and provisions amounting to EUR 70 million (previous year: EUR 79 million) for damages in connection with sand-lime bricks that were produced in former Haniel building materials plants using lime substitutes, and which are being settled by Haniel on a goodwill basis. These provisions are measured based on the expected rehabilitation costs of the concerned properties. 107 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The other non-current provisions are expected to be utilised as follows: 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 EUR million Up to 2 to More than Total Up to 2 to More than Total 2 years 5 years 5 years 2 years 5 years 5 years Provisions for personnel 8 6 3 17 6 11 2 19 Provisions for removal 1 11 12 11 11 Miscellaneous non-current provisions 23 39 19 81 19 49 18 86 32 45 33 110 25 60 31 116 16 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES The decline in other non-current liabilities results from the reclassification of purchase price liabilities from business combinations as other current liabilities. 17 TRADE PAYABLES AND SIMILAR LIABILITIES EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Trade payables 146 120 Prepayments received on account of orders 5 5 151 125 18 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Liabilities for other taxes 17 25 Liabilities for payroll and social security 11 10 Accrued expenses 100 129 Derivative financial instruments 19 25 Miscellaneous current liabilities 79 11 226 200 The accrued expenses include in particular periodic expenses for interest, holiday leave not yet taken, rebates, bonuses and invoices in transit. Derivative financial instruments are described in detail under note 28. Other current liabilities include in particular liabilities from business combinations totalling EUR 61 million (previous year: EUR 0 million). 108 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C. N  OTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 19 REVENUE EUR million 2014 2013 Trade sales 3,271 2,918 Service sales 673 662 3,944 3,580 A breakdown of revenue by division and country is provided in the segment reporting on pages 72 and 73. 20 OTHER OPERATING INCOME EUR million 2014 2013 Income from disposals of non-current assets 1 3 Reversals of valuation allowances on doubtful receivables 4 8 Rental and similar income 3 2 Miscellaneous operating income 25 27 33 40 Among other things, the miscellaneous operating income includes subsidies for advertising expenses received and similar income in the amount of EUR 2 million (previous year: EUR 3 million), as well as reversals of impairment losses on property, plant and equipment in the amount of EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 0 million). As in the previous year, no reversals of impairment losses were recorded in relation to intangible assets. In the previous year, this item also included income from the derecognition of contingent consideration in the amount of EUR 6 million relating to a business combination. As in the previous year, no contingent rental income was recognised in the financial year. The following table presents the minimum incoming payments for operating leases in the coming years. 2014 2013 EUR million Up to 1 to More than Total Up to 1 to More than Total 1 year 5 years 5 years 1 year 5 years 5 years Operating leases 1 1 2 2 2 EUR 10 million in minimum lease payments are expected in the coming years from the lease of a real estate under a financial lease (previous year: EUR 0 million). The unearned finance income amounted to EUR 3 million (previous year: EUR 0 million). The present value of outstanding minimum lease payments thus amounted to EUR 7 million as at the reporting date (previous year: EUR 0 million). 109 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 PERSONNEL EXPENSES EUR million 2014 2013 Wages and salaries 462 444 Social security 83 80 Expenses for pensions and other benefits 21 20 Reversals of provisions for personnel expenses -5 -8 561 536 A breakdown of employees by division is contained in the segment reporting on pages 72 and 73. 22 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES EUR million 2014 2013 Valuation allowances on and write-offs of receivables 6 6 Losses from disposals of non-current assets 1 1 Reversals of provisions -24 -9 Other operating taxes 6 6 Rental and operating lease expenses 57 56 Repairs and maintenance 34 34 Sales freight 11 12 Legal and consulting costs 18 18 IT services 20 19 Personnel leasing 12 9 Energy costs 45 45 Advertising costs and similar expenses 82 93 Travel and training costs 14 13 Miscellaneous operating, administrative and sales expenses 137 146 419 449 The following table presents the minimum outgoing payments for operating leases in the coming years. 2014 2013 EUR million Up to 1 to More than Total Up to 1 to More than Total 1 year 5 years 5 years 1 year 5 years 5 years Operating leases 46 97 57 200 44 78 27 149 As in the previous year, the minimum outgoing payments are not offset by any future minimum incoming lease payments from subletting arrangements. Miscellaneous operating, administrative and sales expenses comprise numerous operating expenses, including communication costs, insurance premiums, auditing expenses and restructuring costs. Research and development costs are also reported under miscellaneous operating, administrative and sales expenses. As in the previous year, no noteworthy research and development costs were recognised. 110 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 OTHER INVESTMENT RESULT EUR million 2014 2013 Income from financial assets available for sale 24 Impairments of financial assets available for sale 0 24 The previous year’s income from financial assets available for sale resulted primarily from the sale of investment funds in the Holding and other companies segment. 24 FINANCE COSTS EUR million 2014 2013 Interest and similar expenses 195 183 Interest expenses for pension and other provisions 12 10 Interest expenses under finance leases 2 2 209 195 The interest and similar expenses in the financial year include expenses from bond redemptions above the principal amount in the Holding and other companies segment as well as from the early termination of cash flow hedges as a result of the elimination of hedged items. The interest and similar expenses in the previous year included income from the reduction of the carrying amounts of the euro benchmark bonds pursuant to IAS 39.AG8 as a result of the improvement in Haniel’s rating as well as offsetting expenses from bond redemptions above the principal amount in the Holding and other companies segment. 25 OTHER NET FINANCIAL INCOME EUR million 2014 2013 Interest and similar income 8 16 Miscellaneous financial income 1 10 9 26 Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments recognised in profit or loss amounted to EUR -7 million in the financial year (previous year: EUR 3 million) and are included in miscellaneous financial income. The net exchange differences amounted to EUR 8 million in the financial year (previous year: EUR -4 million). They are recognised in the miscellaneous financial income in the amount of EUR 8 million (previous year: EUR -3 million), and in the other operating expenses in the amount of EUR 0 million (previous year: EUR -1 million). 26 INCOME TAX EXPENSES EUR million 2014 2013 Current taxes 47 42 Deferred taxes 12 -7 59 35 As in the previous year, the current taxes do not include any prior-period tax expenses. Deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards in the amount of EUR 3 million were reversed to expenses in the financial year (previous year: expenses of EUR 3 million). Write-downs amounting to EUR 2 million on deferred tax assets (previous year: EUR 2 million) were offset by EUR 2 million in reversals of write-downs (previous year: EUR 3 million). 111 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table shows a reconciliation between the reported and the expected tax expense: EUR million 2014 2013 Profit before taxes 31 117 Expected effective income tax rate 30.7% 30.7% Expected tax expense 10 36 Deviation due to varying foreign tax rates -2 -4 Tax portion for tax-exempt income -1 -9 Tax portion for non-deductible expenses 60 54 Non-recognition, write-downs and utilisation of tax loss carryforwards 13 8 Result from investments accounted for at equity -4 -29 Effect of non-tax-deductible goodwill impairments 2 Prior-period taxes -11 -19 Other tax effects -6 -4 Reported tax expense 59 35 Reported income tax rate 190.3% 29.9% The expected effective income tax rate comprises corporate income tax, the solidarity surcharge and trade tax as pertinent for German corporations. 27 PROFIT AFTER TAXES FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The profit after taxes from discontinued operations pursuant to the income statement includes the income and expenses of the Celesio division. As individual units within the Celesio division were already previously presented as discontinued operations, those units are presented separately in the following table. Profit or loss from discontinued operations consisted of the following: 2014 2013 EUR million Celesio of which Celesio of which division DocMorris maildivision DocMorris mailorder pharmacy, order pharmacy, Pharmexx and Pharmexx and Movianto Movianto Revenue 1,851 21,427 19 Cost of materials 1,653 19,074 16 Gross profit 198 2,353 3 Depreciation and amortisation 106 Operating profit 41 427 Result from investments accounted for at equity 4 Other investment result 1 6 Finance costs 12 145 Other net financial income -1 -4 Profit before taxes 29 288 Income tax expenses 11 97 Profit after taxes 18 0 191 0 Revaluation and disposal gains/losses before taxes 696 -6 -5 Income taxes on revaluation and disposal gains/losses Revaluation and disposal gains/losses after taxes 696 0 -6 -5 Profit after taxes from discontinued operations according to income statement 714 0 185 -5 The discontinuation of depreciation/amortisation and the offsetting effect from the discontinuation of the equity method for the pertinent associates since the Celesio division was classified as a discontinued operation resulted in an improvement in profit after taxes by a total of EUR 9 million during the financial year (previous year: EUR 19 million). 112 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D. O  THER NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT In the context of its operating activities, the Haniel Group is exposed to financial risks. These primarily include liquidity risks, default risks, risks resulting from changes in interest and exchange rates, and price fluctuations in the commodity markets. The purpose of financial risk management is to reduce the extent of these financial risks. The Management Board lays down the basic guidelines for financial risk management and determines the general procedures to be followed for hedging financial risks. The holding companies of the fully consolidated divisions have their own treasury departments, which identify, analyse and assess the financial risks before initiating preventive or mitigating measures. The central treasury department advises the subsidiaries and, in addition to its own hedging transactions, enters into hedges on their behalf as well. All hedges relate to an underlying hedged item. No derivative financial instruments are used for speculative purposes. For financing purposes, the Haniel Group uses a variety of financing instruments in keeping with industry and commercial practice and subject to customary contractual provisions. No special financial risks arise from this practice. The two rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s raised Haniel’s rating in the previous year to BB+ and Ba1. This reduced the interest rate for the two euro benchmark bonds issued in 2009 and 2010 by 125 basis points back to the original rate. The contractual conditions governing the euro bonds issued in February 2012 by Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH with an issuing volume of EUR 400 million provide for an interest rate increase of 125 basis points if Haniel’s rating falls below BB or Ba2. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to guarantee the Haniel Group’s solvency at all times. Liquidity risk is managed by financial planning measures taken by the fully consolidated divisions’ holding companies to ensure that the necessary resources are available to fund the operating business and investments. The financing requirement is determined according to the financial plans of the subsidiaries and the Holding Company. In order to cover the financing requirement, the Holding Company has at its disposal committed, unutilised credit facilities as well as a commercial paper programme and a Debt Issuance Programme. The liquidity risk is also managed within the fully consolidated divisions, which also have their own unutilised bilateral shortand long-term credit facilities. The Haniel Group seeks as a general rule to maintain an appropriate reserve of available credit facilities. 113 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DEFAULT RISK The default or credit risk is the risk of the Haniel Group’s contractual partners not fulfilling their obligations. The Haniel Group is exposed to a default risk both in its operating business and in connection with financial instruments. In view of the Haniel Group’s diverse activities and the large number of existing customer relationships, entailing as a rule minor individual receivables, a concentration of default risks generally does not arise from trade receivables or from receivables from investments and other current assets. From the Group’s perspective, the default risk is not significant. In the ELG division, however, due to its industry there are some significant individual trade receivables vis-à-vis major customers that are hedged with default insurance policies as necessary. The investment of cash in selected financial products is governed by directives in the Haniel Group. Depending on the assessment of the counterparty’s creditworthiness, corresponding limits are prescribed and monitored in order to avoid a concentration of default risks. Based on internal and external ratings, the default risks with respect to current and non-current financial assets as well as cash and cash equivalents may be summarized as follows. EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Low credit risk 612 29 Medium credit risk 95 16 Total 707 45 In addition to the carrying amounts of the (derivative) financial instruments with positive fair values recognised in the statement of financial position, the maximum default risk of the Haniel Group also includes the nominal amount of the financial guarantee contracts issued. As at the reporting date, financial guarantee contracts with a nominal volume totalling EUR 21 million (previous year: EUR 21 million) had been granted. INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate risk is the risk of profit or loss being negatively affected by fluctuating market interest rates. The interest rate risk is limited with derivative financial instruments, chiefly interest rate swaps. Decisions on the use of derivative financial instruments are made on the basis of the planned indebtedness, the investment position and interest rate expectations. The interest rate hedging strategy is reviewed and new targets are defined at regular intervals. The Haniel Group generally seeks to maintain an appropriate hedged interest rate position. 114 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following interest rate sensitivity analysis illustrates the hypothetical effects on profit before taxes, other comprehensive income and equity, had the prevailing market interest rates changed on the reporting date. It is based on the assumptions that the figures as at the reporting date are representative for the whole year, and that the supposed change in market interest rates could have occurred on the reporting date. Tax effects are disregarded. 31 Dec. 2014 +100 basis points -100 basis points EUR million Profit Other compreEquity Profit Other compreEquity before taxes hensive income before taxes hensive income Euro market interest rates 0 0 USD market interest rates 2 1 3 -2 -1 -3 GBP market interest rates -1 1 0 1 -1 0 31 Dec. 2013 +100 basis points -100 basis points EUR million Profit Other compreEquity Profit Other compreEquity before taxes hensive income before taxes hensive income Euro market interest rates -1 8 7 1 -9 -8 USD market interest rates -1 4 3 1 -4 -3 GBP market interest rates -1 1 0 1 -1 0 EXCHANGE RATE RISK Exchange rate risks arise from investments and financing measures undertaken in foreign currencies, and from the operating business in connection with buying and selling merchandise and services in currencies other than the functional currency. The resulting risk exposure is determined continually and hedged primarily by entering into forward currency contracts and currency swaps. The majority of exchange rate risks originate from changes in the EUR-USD and EUR-GBP rates. Micro-hedges are the principal instruments used to hedge exchange rate risks. These entail the direct hedging of an underlying transaction with a currency derivative. Currency derivatives are also used to hedge forecast transactions in foreign currencies. In this case, the currency derivative (or a combination of several derivatives) that best reflects the probability of occurrence and timing of the forecast transaction is selected. An exchange rate sensitivity analysis illustrates the theoretical effects on profit before taxes, other comprehensive income and equity of changes in the exchange rates of the currencies that are significant for the Haniel Group. The exchange rate sensitivity analysis is based on the non-derivative and derivative financial instruments held by the Group companies in non-functional currencies on the reporting date. It assumes that the exchange rates change by an indicated percentage rate on the reporting date. Movements over time, actual observed changes in other market parameters and tax effects are disregarded. The mediumand long-term borrowing is predominantly done by the Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, the holding companies of the fully consolidated divisions and the financing companies located in Germany and the Netherlands. Depending on the borrowing requirements of the individual Group companies, these companies can also obtain loans in currencies other than the euro for disbursement within the Group. Since these loans are not taken out in the companies’ functional currency, IFRS 7.40 requires that they be taken into account when measuring the exchange rate risk, even though such a risk does not exist from the perspective of the Group as a whole. 115 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 Dec. 2014 +10% -10% EUR million Profit Other compreEquity Profit Other compreEquity before taxes hensive income before taxes hensive income USD-EUR exchange rate 36 36 -36 -36 GBP-EUR exchange rate 7 7 -7 -7 31 Dec. 2013 +10% -10% EUR million Profit Other compreEquity Profit Other compreEquity before taxes hensive income before taxes hensive income USD-EUR exchange rate 18 18 -19 -19 GBP-EUR exchange rate 4 4 -5 -5 OTHER PRICE RISKS These price risks concern the risks arising from fluctuating commodity prices, especially the price of nickel. The ELG division continually determines the risk exposures resulting from the purchase and sale of products and hedges these with respect to nickel primarily through the use of derivative financial instruments (nickel futures). The sensitivities are measured, taking into account the effect on profit or loss of value changes in the (derivative) financial instruments, disregarding the compensating value changes in the hedged items. A hypothetical increase (decrease) in the nickel price by USD 1,774 per tonne (previous year: USD 1,900 per tonne) (financial year: 12 per cent; previous year: 14 per cent of the spot nickel price as at the reporting date) would have reduced (raised) profit before taxes by EUR 18 (18) million (previous year: EUR 18 (18) million). The assumed change in the nickel price corresponds to the initial margin established by the London Metal Exchange (LME). This is the amount that must be deposited as margin when entering into a contract. HEDGE ACCOUNTING The Haniel Group enters into hedging transactions for the purpose of hedging both the fair values of certain assets or liabilities and future cash flows. This also includes currency hedges of planned sales and purchases of merchandise and services, and of investments and divestments. In accordance with IAS 39, all derivatives entered into by the Haniel Group are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at cost, corresponding to fair value, and are subsequently measured at their fair value as at the reporting date. When accounting for hedges, the hedge accounting rules are sometimes applied. Under the hedge accounting rules, a derivative is classified either as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge if it is used to hedge future cash flows, as a hedging instrument in a fair value hedge if it is used to hedge the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, or as a hedging instrument in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation if it is used to hedge an investment recognised in a foreign currency. Currency derivatives used to hedge existing items of the statement of financial position are usually not subjected to formal hedge accounting. The changes in the fair values of these derivatives, which, from an economic point of view, represent effective hedges in the context of the Group strategy, are recognised in profit or loss. Those changes are generally matched by opposite changes in the fair values of the hedged items. 116 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CASH FLOW HEDGES – INTEREST RATE HEDGING The Haniel Group obtains financing largely by way of long-term and short-term bilateral credit facilities, bonds and promissory loan notes. The bilateral credit facilities are generally utilised on a revolving basis with a short-term fixed-rate period. By entering into derivative financial instrument transactions, the Group hedges against rising market interest rates and thus against future increases in interest expenses. At the reporting date, the Group has hedged interest payments amounting to EUR 1 million, USD 1 million and GBP 1 million. These hedges originate from floating-rate liabilities with a nominal amount of EUR 25 million, USD 30 million and GBP 15 million. In the previous year interest payments in the amount of EUR 4 million, USD 2 million and GBP 1 million were hedged in continuing operations. These hedges originated from floating-rate liabilities with a nominal amount of EUR 263 million, USD 150 million and GBP 15 million. CASH FLOW HEDGES – CURRENCY HEDGING The Haniel Group enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge euro-denominated payments. The designated hedged items are highly probable payments denominated in various foreign currencies. The designated underlying transactions as at 31 December 2014 amount to EUR 27 million. They mature in the amount of EUR 12 million in Q1 2015, in the amount of EUR 10 million in Q2 2015, and in the amount of EUR 5 million in Q3 2015. The designated underlying transactions in continuing operations as at 31 December 2013 amounted to EUR 31 million. They matured in the amount of EUR 13 million in Q1 2014, in the amount of EUR 11 million in Q2 2014, and in the amount of EUR 7 million in Q3 2014. In connection with cash flow hedges, losses of EUR 7 million (previous year: gains of EUR 12 million) were recognised in other comprehensive income for the financial year. Losses of EUR 19 million (previous year: losses of EUR 7 million) were transferred from other comprehensive income to finance costs and losses of EUR 3 million (previous year: losses of EUR 14 million) were transferred to profit after taxes from discontinued operations. Of these amounts, EUR 16 million were recognised in finance costs in the financial year (previous year: EUR 0 million) because previously existing hedges were revoked upon the disposal of the hedged items. In the previous year, EUR 2 million was also recognised in profit after taxes from discontinued operations for the same reason. As in the previous year, there was no ineffectiveness from cash flow hedges. 117 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FAIR VALUE HEDGE As in the previous year, fair value hedge accounting was not applied in the financial year. HEDGE OF A NET INVESTMENT IN A FOREIGN OPERATION Non-derivative financial liabilities denominated in foreign currency are used to hedge the net investment in a foreign operation. As in the previous year, there were no significant ineffective portions of the net investment hedges. In compliance with the hedging strategy pursued by the Haniel Group, the total derivative financial instruments position is composed as follows: 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 EUR million Fair value of which cash flow Fair value of which cash flow hedges hedges Assets Interest rate instruments Currency instruments 1 8 Other derivative financial instruments 10 2 11 0 10 0 Liabilities Interest rate instruments 13 9 23 23 Currency instruments 5 1 Other derivative financial instruments 1 1 19 9 25 23 118 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below shows the contractually agreed, undiscounted payments of interest and principal over time of the non-derivative financial liabilities, derivative liabilities and financial guarantee contracts existing as at 31 December 2014: EUR million Cash flows 2015 Cash flows 2016 Cash flows from Cash flows from Cash flows from 2017 to 2019 2020 to 2024 2025 onwards Non-derivative financial liabilities and financial guarantee contracts Liabilities due to banks -199 -108 -194 -49 Bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt -131 -35 -517 Liabilities to shareholders -68 -48 -66 Lease liabilities -4 -4 -16 -15 -13 Other financial liabilities -39 -12 -34 -41 -2 Liabilities from business combinations -61 Trade payables -146 Financial guarantee contracts -4 -1 -2 -5 -9 -652 -208 -829 -110 -24 Derivative liabilities Hedge accounting Derivatives (net settled) -3 -3 -5 -1 Derivatives (gross settled) inflows 19 Derivatives (gross settled) outflows -19 -3 -3 -5 -1 0 Without hedge accounting Derivatives (net settled) -1 -1 -3 -1 Derivatives (gross settled) inflows 385 1 18 Derivatives (gross settled) outflows -390 -1 -18 -6 -1 -3 -1 0 -9 -4 -8 -2 0 For the financial guarantee contracts, the disclosure is made not on the basis of the estimated probable amount, but in the amount of the agreed maximum guarantee at the earliest possible date. 119 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The contractually agreed, undiscounted payments of interest and principal over time of the non-derivative financial liabilities, derivative liabilities and financial guarantee contracts that existed in continuing operations as at 31 December 2013 were as follows: EUR million Cash flows 2014 Cash flows 2015 Cash flows from Cash flows from Cash flows from 2016 to 2018 2019 to 2023 2024 onwards Non-derivative financial liabilities and financial guarantee contracts Liabilities due to banks -172 -130 -245 -64 Bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt -567 -229 -1,100 Liabilities to shareholders -64 -52 -60 Lease liabilities -6 -4 -12 -23 -14 Other financial liabilities -37 -15 -31 -46 Liabilities from business combinations -54 Trade payables -120 Financial guarantee contracts -4 -1 -2 -4 -10 -970 -485 -1,450 -137 -24 Derivative liabilities Hedge accounting Derivatives (net settled) -8 -8 -17 -4 Derivatives (gross settled) inflows 21 Derivatives (gross settled) outflows -21 -8 -8 -17 -4 0 Without hedge accounting Derivatives (net settled) Derivatives (gross settled) inflows 88 1 Derivatives (gross settled) outflows -89 -1 -1 0 0 0 0 -9 -8 -17 -4 0 The repayments of principal are classified by the earliest period in which the creditors may demand repayment. 120 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IAS 39 CATEGORISATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ASSETS EUR million Carrying Financial assets Loans and Financial assets No IAS 39 Outside the amounts as at held for trading receivables available category scope of IFRS 7 31 Dec. 2014 for sale Financial assets available for sale 167 167 Other securities 5 5 Loans 16 9 7 Non-current financial assets 188 0 14 167 7 0 Trade receivables 407 0 407 0 0 0 Receivables from investments 8 8 Other current assets 72 45 27 Receivables from investments and other current assets 80 0 53 0 0 27 Derivative financial instruments 11 11 Financial assets available for sale 160 160 Other securities and fixed-term deposits 237 237 Current financial assets 408 11 237 160 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents 111 0 111 0 0 0 Assets held for sale 29 0 8 0 0 21 121 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUR million Carrying Financial assets Loans and Financial assets No IAS 39 Outside the amounts as at held for trading receivables available category scope of IFRS 7 31 Dec. 2013 for sale Financial assets available for sale 6 6 Other securities 0 Loans 7 7 Non-current financial assets 13 0 7 6 0 0 Trade receivables 360 0 360 0 0 0 Receivables from investments 6 6 Other current assets 75 47 28 Receivables from investments and other current assets 81 0 53 0 0 28 Derivative financial instruments 10 10 Financial assets available for sale 0 Other securities and fixed-term deposits 0 Current financial assets 10 10 0 0 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents 22 0 22 0 0 0 Assets held for sale 7,677 1 2,845 62 41 4,728 122 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IAS 39 CATEGORISATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS LIABILITIES EUR million Carrying Financial Other financial No IAS 39 Outside the amounts as at liabilities held liabilities category scope of IFRS 7 31 Dec. 2014 for trading Liabilities due to banks 338 338 Bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt 531 531 Liabilities to shareholders 100 100 Lease liabilities 35 35 Other financial liabilities 72 72 Non-current financial liabilities 1,076 0 1,041 35 0 Other non-current liabilities 2 0 0 0 2 Liabilities due to banks 194 194 Bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt 102 102 Liabilities to shareholders 63 63 Lease liabilities 2 2 Other financial liabilities 31 31 Current financial liabilities 392 0 390 2 0 Trade payables and similar liabilities 151 0 146 0 5 Liabilities for other taxes 17 17 Liabilities for payroll and social security 11 11 Accrued expenses 100 30 70 Derivative financial instruments 19 10 9 Miscellaneous current liabilities 79 78 1 Other current liabilities 226 10 108 9 99 Liabilities held for sale 9 0 5 0 4 123 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUR million Carrying Financial Other financial No IAS 39 Outside the amounts as at liabilities held liabilities category scope of IFRS 7 31 Dec. 2013 for trading Liabilities due to banks 426 426 Bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt 1,129 1,129 Liabilities to shareholders 100 100 Lease liabilities 36 36 Other financial liabilities 82 82 Non-current financial liabilities 1,773 0 1,737 36 0 Other non-current liabilities 54 0 52 0 2 Liabilities due to banks 170 170 Bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt 466 466 Liabilities to shareholders 55 55 Lease liabilities 4 4 Other financial liabilities 31 31 Current financial liabilities 726 0 722 4 0 Trade payables and similar liabilities 125 0 120 0 5 Liabilities for other taxes 25 25 Liabilities for payroll and social security 10 10 Accrued expenses 129 64 65 Derivative financial instruments 25 2 23 Miscellaneous current liabilities 11 9 2 Other current liabilities 200 2 73 23 102 Liabilities held for sale 5,406 9 4,230 37 1,130 124 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT The following table shows the assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014, classified by the following input levels: Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for the identical asset or liability Level 2: Quoted prices in active markets for similar assets and liabilities or other valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are based on observable market data Level 3: Valuation techniques for which significant inputs are not based on observable market data If assets and liabilities recurrently measured at fair value must be reclassified between the various levels because, for example, an asset is no longer traded in an active market or is traded for the first time, the reclassification is made at the end of the reporting period. No such transfers between Levels 1 and 2 took place either during the financial year or the previous year. EUR million Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Not measured 31 Dec. 2014 at fair value Assets Recurring fair value measurement Non-current financial assets Financial assets available for sale 167 142 20 5 Current financial assets Financial assets available for sale 160 150 10 Derivative financial instruments 11 11 Non-recurring fair value measurement Assets held for sale 29 6 23 Liabilities Recurring fair value measurement Other current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 19 19 Non-recurring fair value measurement Liabilities held for sale 9 9 125 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below shows the assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013: EUR million Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Not measured 31 Dec. 2013 at fair value Assets Recurring fair value measurement Non-current financial assets Financial assets available for sale 6 6 Current financial assets Financial assets available for sale 0 Derivative financial instruments 10 10 Non-recurring fair value measurement Assets held for sale 7,677 5 1 7,671 Liabilities Recurring fair value measurement Other current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 25 25 Non-recurring fair value measurement Liabilities held for sale 5,406 35 5,371 The financial assets available for sale category includes securities and investments in the amount of EUR 5 million (previous year: EUR 6 million) that are recognised at amortised cost. These were primarily investments in non-listed companies. It is not possible to reliably measure the fair value of these investments for lack of an active market. In the previous year, the disclosure of the assets and liabilities measured at fair value within the assets and liabilities held for sale concerns the Celesio division’s financial instruments measured at fair value. The fair value of financial instruments traded in an active market (Level 1) is based on the quoted prices as at the reporting date. The fair values of assets and liabilities recurrently measured at fair value within Level 2 and Level 3 are determined using the DCF method. Expected future cash flows from the financial instruments are discounted using market interest rates with matching maturities. The Haniel Group takes into account the creditworthiness of the respective borrower by determining Credit Value Adjustments (CVA) or Debt Value Adjustments (DVA) based on a premium/discount method. If available, the CVA or DVA is determined using observable market prices for credit derivatives. 126 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below shows a detailed reconciliation of assets and liabilities recurrently measured at fair value in Level 3, excluding contingent consideration from business combinations. In the previous year the reconciliation presented below concerns two investment funds in the Holding and other companies segment whose fair value measurement was determined using earnings multiples and which were sold. EUR million 2014 2013 As at 1 Jan. 0 141 Foreign exchange rate adjustments Change in the scope of consolidation Additions Impairments Reversals of impairment losses Fair value changes recognised in other comprehensive income 2 Fair value changes recognised in profit or loss Disposals 143 Transfers into Level 3 Transfers out of Level 3 As at 31 Dec. 0 0 Unrealised gains or losses recognised in profit or loss relating to those financial instruments held at the reporting date 0 0 The following table shows the fair values of the financial instruments as at 31 December 2014 that are not recognised at fair value in the statement of financial position: Carrying Fair value amounts EUR million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Non-current financial assets Other securities 5 5 Loans 16 18 Liabilities Financial liabilities Liabilities due to banks 532 534 Bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt 633 543 158 Liabilities to shareholders 163 172 Lease liabilities 37 47 Other financial liabilities 103 108 Other non-current liabilities Purchase price liabilities (not contingent) 0 127 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table shows the fair values of the financial instruments of the continuing operations as at 31 December 2013 that were not recognised at fair value in the statement of financial position: Carrying Fair value amounts EUR million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Non-current financial assets Other securities 0 Loans 7 8 Liabilities Financial liabilities Liabilities due to banks 596 600 Bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt 1,595 1,479 287 Liabilities to shareholders 155 159 Lease liabilities 40 49 Other financial liabilities 113 127 Other non-current liabilities Purchase price liabilities (not contingent) 52 53 The fair value of financial instruments traded in an active market (Level 1) is based on the quoted prices as at the reporting date. The fair values for Levels 2 and 3 are measured analogously to the method for assets and liabilities recurrently measured at fair value using the DCF method. OFFSETTING FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The table below provides an overview of the financial assets and liabilities that are offset in the statement of financial position. It also presents the extent to which there are netting agreements with contractual partners that do not result in a net presentation in the statement of financial position because not all conditions of IAS 32 for a net presentation are met. Global netting arrangements in the Haniel Group relate to derivative financial instruments, for which, in the event of default, the master agreements with the financial institutions stipulate offsetting mutual receivables and liabilities existing at that date. The following disclosures concerning the previous year pertain to the continuing operations. 128 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Concerning assets the following items in the statement of financial position are affected: Master netting agreements EUR million Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities Received collateral Net amounts as at (gross amounts) set off in the presented in the not set off in the 31 Dec. 2014 statement of statement of finanstatement of financial position cial position as at financial position (gross amounts) 31 Dec. 2014 (net amounts) Derivative financial instruments with netting agreement 11 11 2 9 without netting agreement 0 0 11 0 11 2 0 9 Master netting agreements EUR million Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities Received collateral Net amounts as at (gross amounts) set off in the presented in the not set off in the 31 Dec. 2013 statement of statement of finanstatement of financial position cial position as at financial position (gross amounts) 31 Dec. 2013 (net amounts) Derivative financial instruments with netting agreement 10 10 5 5 without netting agreement 0 0 10 0 10 5 0 5 Concerning liabilities the following items in the statement of financial position are affected: Master netting agreements EUR million Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Pledged collateral Net amounts as at (gross amounts) set off in the presented in the not set off in the 31 Dec. 2014 statement of statement of statement of financial position financial position as financial position (gross amounts) at 31 Dec. 2014 (net amounts) Derivative financial instruments with netting agreement 4 4 2 2 without netting agreement 15 15 15 19 0 19 2 0 17 Master netting agreements EUR million Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Pledged collateral Net amounts as at (gross amounts) set off in the presented in the not set off in the 31 Dec. 2013 statement of statement of statement of financial position financial position as financial position (gross amounts) at 31 Dec. 2013 (net amounts) Derivative financial instruments with netting agreement 10 10 5 5 without netting agreement 15 15 15 25 0 25 5 0 20 129 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NET GAINS OR LOSSES FROM IAS 39 CATEGORIES The net gains or losses recognised in the income statement for continuing operations from the IAS 39 categories consist of the following: EUR million 2014 2013 Financial assets and liabilities held for trading -23 36 Financial assets available for sale 2 24 Financial assets held to maturity Loans and receivables 1 10 Other financial liabilities -162 -167 -182 -97 The net gain or loss on financial assets and liabilities held for trading purposes includes gains and losses from fair value changes, as well as interest income and expenses arising from these financial instruments. The net gain or loss on financial assets available for sale includes in particular income and expenses from bonds and investment funds in the Holding and other companies segment recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss from loans and receivables consists primarily of interest income and impairments and reversals of impairments on these financial instruments. The net gain or loss from other financial liabilities consists primarily of interest expenses and exchange differences arising from the measurement of non-operating liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the fair value of financial assets available for sale in the amount of EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 3 million) were recognised in other comprehensive income during the financial year. Amounts arising from fair value changes totalling EUR 1 million were transferred from other comprehensive income to the other net financial income (previous year: EUR 24 million transferred to other investment result). Interest and similar expenses include EUR 170 million from financial liabilities not measured at fair value during the financial year (previous year: EUR 165 million). Interest and similar income include interest income from financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss amounting to EUR 8 million in the financial year (previous year: EUR 16 million). Interest income of EUR 12 million was recognised in the previous year from impaired financial instruments that have since been disposed of. 29 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES EUR million 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Liabilities from bills of exchange Liabilities from guarantees 517 506 miscellaneous contingent liabilities 517 506 As in the previous year the liabilities from guarantees concern primarily the Holding and other companies segment and are related to disposals of companies. Certain provisions were also recognised in connection with these matters. These are recognised under the relevant item. The liabilities from guarantees include financial guarantee contracts within the meaning of IAS 39 in the amount of EUR 21 million (previous year: EUR 21 million). As in the previous year, no contingent receivables exist as at the reporting date. 130 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DISPOSALS OF CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES Several smaller business combinations were conducted during the financial year, particularly in the Celesio division. The consideration transferred for the acquisitions totalled EUR 3 million and represented cash transactions during the financial year. Even in the aggregate, the acquisitions are not material for the presentation of the Haniel Group’s net assets, financial position, and results of operations. There is no contingent consideration from business combinations in the financial year. The Celesio division with a total of 341 individual companies was deconsolidated during the financial year. The total assets and liabilities disposed of through this disposal are comprised as follows: EUR million Carrying amounts Assets Property, plant and equipment 527 Intangible assets 2,284 Investments accounted for at equity 78 Financial assets 109 Other non-current assets 36 Income tax assets 2 Deferred taxes 104 Non-current assets 3,140 Inventories 1,549 Trade receivables 2,157 Receivables from investments and other current assets 301 Financial assets 14 Income tax assets 20 Cash and cash equivalents 476 Current assets 4,517 7,657 Liabilities Financial liabilities 1,398 Pension provisions 335 Other non-current provisions 63 Deferred taxes 45 Non-current liabilities 1,841 Financial liabilities 513 Current provisions 147 Trade payables and similar liabilities 2,271 Income tax liabilities 61 Other current liabilities 527 Current liabilities 3,519 5,360 The consideration received for the disposal was EUR 1,999 million. Taking into account the cash and cash equivalents of EUR 476 million in the disposed division, and the paid transaction costs of EUR 15 million, the total cash amount for the disposal was EUR 1,508 million. As at the deconsolidation date, the share of non-controlling interests in the Celesio division’s net assets was EUR 1,140 million. Taking into account transaction costs incurred during the financial year and the other comprehensive income of EUR -132 million to be reclassified to profit or loss, the net result from the disposal amounts to EUR 696 million in total, and is included in the profit after taxes from discontinued operations. 131 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The statement of cash flows shows the changes in the Haniel Group’s cash and cash equivalents in the course of the financial year resulting from cash inflows and outflows. The statement of cash flows is divided into cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities. The cash and cash equivalents reported at the reporting date are the total of cash on hand, bank balances with an original maturity of less than three months, and cheques, and are identical to the cash and cash equivalents reported in the statement of financial position. The cash flow from operating activities is determined indirectly on the basis of the profit after taxes and essentially contains sales-related payments, dividends from investments accounted for at equity, interest paid and received as well as tax payments. Haniel’s internal cash earnings indicator used for management purposes, Haniel cash flow, is shown as a separate line item. Haniel cash flow is the profit after taxes, adjusted for all material non-cash income and expenses, and non-recurring, non-operating income and expenses, plus other cash components. Haniel cash flow consequently corresponds to the cash flow from operating activities excluding changes in current net assets. The cash flow from investing activities includes payments for purchases and disposals of individual assets as well as for consolidated companies and other business units. The cash flow from financing activities comprises payments in connection with shareholder transactions as well as financial liabilities. The shareholder transactions essentially include payments to shareholders and payments from changes in shares in companies already consolidated. The payments to shareholders comprise dividend payments to the shareholders of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH in the amount of EUR 30 million (previous year: EUR 0 million). The cash flow from financing activities also includes the cash changes in financial liabilities. As in the previous year, payments for the repayment of financial liabilities include in particular amounts for the repurchase of euro bonds and commercial paper in the Holding and other companies segment as well as the repayment of bank loans and promissory loan notes. The statement of cash flows contains the following cash flows which are attributable to discontinued operations: EUR million 2014 2013 Cash flow from operating activities -69 315 Cash flow from investing activities -5 -42 Cash flow from financing activities 11 -254 132 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 NOTES TO SEGMENT REPORTING In the segment reporting, the reportable segments are the three fully consolidated divisions, the investment in METRO AG accounted for at equity and the Holding and other companies segment. The breakdown of the segments reflects the Group structure. It is defined using the management approach, taking internal monitoring and reporting, as well as the organisational structure, into account. In segment reporting the Celesio division that was sold in the beginning of 2014 is reported as a discontinued operation in its entirety. Pursuant to IFRS 5, the result from the sale of the Celesio division by the Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH is presented in the income statement in profit after taxes from discontinued operations. The same accounting standards are used for segment reporting and for the consolidated financial statements. In the reported segment assets, goodwill is allocated to the relevant division. Transactions between the divisions take place on an arm’s length basis. The financial liabilities encompass the non-current and current financial liabilities contained in the statement of financial position. The sum of this amount and the other liabilities recognised in the statement of financial position is the Group’s total liabilities. Recognised investments in non-current segment assets include additions to property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments accounted for at equity and non-current financial assets. CWS-boco is a leading service provider of washroom hygiene products and textile services in Europe. CWS specialises in washroom products and dust control mats. The boco brand offers rental workwear. ELG’s core business is the trading and recycling of primary and secondary commodities particularly for the stainless steel industry. TAKKT is the leading B2B direct marketing specialist for business equipment in Europe and North America. The Metro investment concerns the investment in METRO AG accounted for at equity, which is described in greater detail in note 3. The Holding and other companies segment essentially comprises the Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH and its financing companies, excluding the Metro investment. 133 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 RELATED-PARTY DISCLOSURES The significant related parties of the Haniel Group are associates including their subsidiaries. The disclosures in this section also contain the values of the Celesio division up to the disposal date. Revenue attributable to business with associates in the financial year totalled EUR 12 million (previous year: EUR 21 million). Expenses in connection with transactions with associates amounted to EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 2 million). As at the reporting date, trade receivables from and payables to associates amounted to EUR 3 million and EUR 0 million, respectively (previous year: EUR 5 million and EUR 0 million, respectively). All business relations with associates are governed by contracts and conducted at prices and conditions that would equally have been agreed with third parties. Related persons of the Haniel Group are key management personnel. This includes the members of the Supervisory Board of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH and the members of the top-tier executive group. The top-tier executive group comprises the members of the Management Board of the Haniel Holding Company as well as the Management Board members or Managing Directors of the holding companies of the fully consolidated divisions. As in the previous year, a portion of the item liabilities to shareholders is attributable to members of the Supervisory Board of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH. Some of the bonds, commercial paper and other securitised debt that are likewise indicated under note 13 are held by key management personnel. In recent years, Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH offered the executives of the Haniel Group the opportunity to subscribe to registered debt securities (Haniel Performance Bonds). The bonds bear interest corresponding to the return on total capital of the Haniel Group before taxes, plus a subordination premium of 3 percentage points. The original maturities ranged from 5 to 10 years. As at the reporting date, a liability in the amount of EUR 5 million (previous year: EUR 5 million) from the bonds subscribed to by members of the top-tier executive group is recognised. The companies of the Haniel Group have not otherwise entered into reportable transactions with key management personnel. This also applies to close relatives of this group of persons. In some cases, key management personnel are members of executive or supervisory bodies of other companies with which the Haniel Group engages in regular business relations. All transactions with these companies are conducted at arm’s length. In the current financial year, the members of the top-tier executive group received compensation amounting to EUR 16 million (previous year: EUR 27 million). Of this total, an amount of EUR 12 million (previous year: EUR 13 million) was attributable to short-term employee benefits, EUR 2 million (previous year: EUR 2 million) to post-employment benefits, and EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 4 million) to termination benefits. Additionally, this group of persons were granted share-based payments of EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 7 million) and other long-term benefits of EUR 0 million (previous year: EUR 1 million). The two latter compensation components are described in greater detail in the following section. As at the reporting date, the present value of defined benefit obligations of members of the top-tier executive group amounted to EUR 14 million (previous year: EUR 15 million). The members of the Supervisory Board of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH received the same total remuneration as in the previous year. In addition, employee representatives to the Supervisory Board who work for the Haniel Group received salaries from their employment, which are in line with the market. 134 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPENSATION SERVING AS LONG-TERM INCENTIVE For members of the top-tier executive group, the performance compensation comprises performance cash plans as a variable component. These plans are oriented on the value growth of Haniel or of the respective fully consolidated divisions and therefore on the sustainability of the Haniel Group’s success. The performance cash plans granted during the financial year have a term of four years. The actual payment from these plans is limited in amount and is made in cash depending on target achievement and the fulfilment of stipulated requirements at the end of the term. Target attainment in the CWS-boco and ELG divisions is essentially measured on the development of value-based performance indicators. These performance cash plans are therefore presented as other long-term benefits. In contrast, target attainment in the performance cash plans for the Management Board of TAKKT AG and Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH is based primarily on the development of the share price or market value in the period under consideration. Accordingly, the performance cash plans are classified as cash-settled share-based payments as defined in IFRS 2. The future payment amount is measured at the fair value of the liability taking into account the contractual terms and conditions. At TAKKT, a binomial option pricing model is used to determine the share price-based component. Material measurement assumptions here concern the risk-free interest rate and the applied volatilities based on historical observable data. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement. Any changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. The performance cash plans for the Management Board of the disposed-of Celesio division are also classified as cash-settled share-based payments as defined in IFRS 2. The total expense from all cash-settled share-based payments was EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 7 million). The liability recognised in this respect amounted to EUR 7 million as at the reporting date (previous year: EUR 13 million). 34 DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER NATIONAL LEGISLATION COMPENSATION PAID TO THE COMPANY’S EXECUTIVE BODIES IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 314 (1) NO. 6 OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE With reference to Section 286 (4) of the German Commercial Code, the total remuneration of the Management Board of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH in the financial year is not disclosed. The total remuneration of the Supervisory Board was EUR 0.6 million (previous year: EUR 0.6 million); that of the Advisory Board was EUR 0.2 million (previous year: EUR 0.2 million). The remuneration of former members of these bodies and of their survivors was EUR 2.1 million (previous year: EUR 2.0 million). Pension provisions amounting to EUR 24.8 million (previous year: EUR 25.0 million) were recognised for the former members of the above bodies and their survivors. DECLARATION ACCORDING TO SECTION 161 OF THE GERMAN STOCK CORPORATION ACT (AKTG), ISSUED BY THE LISTED COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO SECTION 314 (1) NO. 8 OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE The following listed companies are included in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2014: TAKKT AG (fully consolidated) and METRO AG (accounted for at equity). Each of these companies has issued the declaration prescribed by Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act. These declarations have been made public on the companies’ individual websites (www.takkt.com; www.metrogroup.de). AUDITOR’S FEE PURSUANT TO SECTION 314(1) NO. 9 OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE The fee paid to the group auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Germany, for Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH and its subsidiaries amounted to EUR 0.9 million in the financial year (previous year: EUR 1.1 million). This total fee comprises services in connection with auditing financial statements in the amount of EUR 0.8 million (previous year: EUR 0.9 million) and other services in the amount of EUR 0.1 million (previous year: EUR 0.2 million). DISCLOSURE OF SHAREHOLDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 313 (2) AND (3) OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE The full list of shareholdings of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH and the Haniel Group, which forms a part of these notes to the consolidated financial statements, is published in the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) and on the www.haniel.com website. The shareholdings of TAKKT AG and METRO AG as at 31 December 2014 are indicated in the individual companies’ annual reports and/or on their websites (www.takkt.com; www.metrogroup.de). 135 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PURSUANT TO SECTION 314(1) NO. 4 OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE The number of employees in the Haniel Group, averaged from quarterly figures, was 11,544 (previous year: 50,279) based on a headcount, and 10,519 (previous year: 39,234) on a full-time basis. The disclosures for the previous year also contain the employees of the disposed-of Celesio division. A breakdown of employees by division is provided in the segment reporting on pages 72 and 73. EXEMPTION ACCORDING TO SECTIONS 264 (3) AND 264B OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE The following companies are exempt from the obligation to publish their annual financial statements pursuant to Section 264 (3) of the German Commercial Code: Haniel Finance Deutschland GmbH, Duisburg Haniel Immobilien Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Duisburg Metro Vermögensverwaltung GmbH, Düsseldorf Metro Finanzdienstleistungs GmbH, Düsseldorf 1. HSB Verwaltung GmbH, Schönefeld-Waltersdorf CWS-boco International GmbH, Duisburg CWS-boco Service GmbH, Duisburg CWS-boco Supply Chain Management GmbH, Lauterbach CWS-boco Welker GmbH, Bremen CWS-boco Deutschland GmbH, Hamburg Verwaltungsgesellschaft CWS-boco HealthCare mbH, Hamburg ELG Haniel GmbH, Duisburg Eisenlegierungen Handelsgesellschaft mbH, Duisburg ELG Haniel Trading GmbH, Duisburg ELG Utica Alloys International GmbH, Duisburg ELG Carbon Fibre International GmbH, Duisburg Metro Vermögensverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf, 1. HSB Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Schönefeld-Waltersdorf, and CWSboco HealthCare GmbH & Co. KG, Warburg, are exempt from the obligation to publish annual financial statements pursuant to Sections 264a and 264b of the German Commercial Code. 35 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE No reportable events took place after the reporting date. 36 PROFIT APPROPRIATION PROPOSAL OF FRANZ HANIEL & CIE. GMBH After deducting appropriate write-downs and recognising adequate valuation allowances and provisions, the net income for the financial year reported in the annual financial statements of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, prepared in accordance with the German Commercial Code, amounts to EUR 1,052 million. The Management Board proposes to pay out a dividend of EUR 40 million. The shareholders will therefore receive a dividend of 4 per cent on the subscribed capital of EUR 1.0 billion. This represents an amount of EUR 2.00 per EUR 50 ordinary share. Duisburg, 5 March 2015 The Management Board Gemkow Funck 136 RESPONSIBILIT Y STATEMENT RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable accounting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group, and the Group Report of the Management Board includes a fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Duisburg, 5 March 2015 The Management Board Gemkow Funck 137 AUDITORS’ REPORT AUDITORS’ REPORT We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, Duisburg, comprising the statement of financial position, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement of cash flows and notes, together with the Group Report of the Management Board for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2014. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the Group Report of the Management Board in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Section 315a (1) HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code), are the responsibility of the Company’s Management Board. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the Group Report of the Management Board based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Section 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW – Institute of Public Auditors in Germany). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the Group Report of the Management Board are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of the entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by the Company’s Management Board, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the Group Report of the Management Board. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our audit has not led to any reservations. In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Section 315a (1) HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The Group Report of the Management Board is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Essen, 5 March 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Granderath Wienands Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) 138 GLOSSARY GLOSSARY B B2B – Business-to-Business The sale of Convertible bond An interest-bearing corDeferred taxes Differences between goods or services to other companies or porate bond that carries a conversion right the requirements under tax law and the corporate customers. for a specified number of shares in the accounting and measurement regulations company. Because of this option, convertaccording to IFRS give rise to variances ible bonds have a lower interest rate than in the amounts recognised for assets C non-convertibles. and liabilities. Consequently, the tax burden anticipated on the basis of the profit Capital employed Difference between total Corporate governance Rules, statutes, reported in the consolidated financial assets and the non-interest-bearing capidirectives and recommendations pertainstatements differs from the actual amount tal provided. ing to how a company is managed and payable. To allow a corresponding tax controlled. The principles of corporate govexpense to be posted in the income stateCash flow Balance of cash receipts and ernance at Haniel are described in greater ment, the effects of these deviations are cash payments in a reporting period. A detail in the corporate governance report counterbalanced by deferrals. measure of a company’s financial and on pages 29 and 30. earning power. For example, operating Derivative A contract that is dependent cash flow indicates how much of the recogCOSO – Committee of Sponsoring Organon another asset (underlying asset). The nised net profit for the period is reflected izations of the Treadway Commission A fair value of derivative financial instruin cash inflows from operating activities. joint initiative of private sector organisaments can therefore be derived from This cash flow can be used to finance captions in the USA dedicated to the developmarket values of traditional underlying ital expenditures, repay liabilities or pay ment of frameworks and guidance on the assets, such as stocks and commodities, dividends. establishment and structuring of internal or from market prices, such as interest control systems ( ICS). rates or exchange rates. Derivatives exist Commercial paper Special instruments in a range of different forms, such as (money market paper), usually discount Cost of capital Product of the weighted options, futures, interest rate caps bonds, issued in order to finance shortaverage cost of capital and the average and swaps. In the context of Haniel’s term credit needs. As a rule, the issuer capital employed. financial management, derivatives are requires an excellent rating in order to used to hedge risk. place and deal in papers of this kind. Current net assets Current net assets essentially comprise trade receivables Divisions Various business activities and Compliance A key element of corporate and inventories less trade payables. This is investments in the Haniel portfolio. governance. It denotes the observance of an indicator used to determine the capital relevant laws and internal guidelines. needed to finance operating activities. E Consolidation In the consolidated financial statements, the Group, comprising D Early risk identification system Systemseveral legally independent companies, atic reporting measures designed to detect is depicted as if it were a single business. DCF – Discounted Cash Flow A method by adverse, risk-entailing developments in Consolidation consists of bookkeeping which future cash flows are discounted good time with the help of financial and techniques that eliminate all intragroup to determine the net present value. The non-financial company-specific indicators transactions. It eliminates the double Haniel Group uses DCF calculations to and factors. The early risk identification counting of intragroup transactions when assess the profitability of investment system forms part of risk management. consolidated financial statements are projects and business acquisitions and to being prepared from the data contained in determine the fair value of non-listed E-commerce The marketing and sale of the annual financial statements of the indifinancial instruments. products and services via internet. vidual Group companies. Debt Issuance Programme An annually renewed prospectus listed by a European stock market for the issue of medium-term bonds at any time. 139 GLOSSARY H Equity method A method for measuring Full consolidation Procedure for including Haniel cash flow An internal indicator investments in companies over whose subsidiaries in the consolidated financial at the Haniel Group that comprises the business and financial policy Haniel can statements if they are under the parent profit after taxes, adjusted for all material exert a significant influence or over which company’s control on the basis of a voting non-cash income and expenditure, and it has joint control (investments accounted right majority or other means of influence. non-recurring, non-operating income and for at equity). Under the equity method, The subsidiary’s individual assets and liaexpenses, plus other cash components. the carrying amount of the investment is bilities are included in the consolidated In detail, the profit after taxes is adjusted determined by the change in the invesstatement of financial position. for non-cash depreciation, amortisator’s proportionate interest in the investtion, impairment losses and reversals on ment’s equity. Thus, the carrying amount Future A listed derivative in which two non-current assets, the change in penis increased or decreased by the investor’s parties agree to trade a certain quantity sion provisions and other non-current share in the investment’s profit or loss for of a reference asset, such as a foreign curprovisions, the income and expenses from the period. Distributions received from the rency, at a future date at an agreed price. changes in deferred taxes, the non-cash investment reduce the carrying amount of income and expenses and dividends from the investment. investments accounted for at equity, and G the gains and losses from the disposal Equity ratio A capital management indicaof non-current assets and consolidated tor within the Haniel Group which is calcuGearing A capital management indicator companies and from remeasurement for lated by dividing recognised equity by total within the Haniel Group which is calculated changes in ownership interests and other assets. by dividing the net financial liabilities by non-cash income and expenses. the recognised equity. Haniel value added (HVA) Value-based F Goodwill An intangible asset, that cor­ performance indicator used by the Haniel responds to the amount by which the purGroup, calculated by subtracting cost of Fair value A measurement approach based chase price for a business combination capital from the return. on market prices in accordance with exceeds the total fair value of the assets IFRS. and liabilities acquired. Essentially, it repHedging A strategy for managing interest resents the favourable future prospects and foreign exchange rate and other marFamily-equity company A holding comaccompanying the acquisition of the comket price risks by means of derivatives pany owned by a family which combines bined business and the expertise of the (derivative financial instruments), which the professionalism of a private equity assembled workforce. limit the risks associated with the underlyinvestor with the values of a family-owned ing transactions. company. Goodwill impairment If goodwill is recognised in the course of an acquisition, its HGB – Handelsgesetzbuch (German ComFinancial liabilities The total non-current carrying amount must be tested at least mercial Code) Legal basis for the annual and current financial liabilities presented once a year for indication of impairment. If financial statements (separate financial in the consolidated statement of financial the anticipated future cash flows from statements) of all companies registered in position. sales and other income and expenses Germany. This is relevant to German corpoassociated with the takeover are lower rations in connection with profit distribution. Free cash flow This indicates the cash than the carrying amount of goodwill at the flows from operating activities that were time of the impairment test, the goodwill not used for capital expenditures. At Haniel, must be written down accordingly. the free cash flow is the balance of the cash flow from operating activities and the cash flow from investing activities. 140 GLOSSARY I M IAS – International Accounting Standard(s) Market value gearing Relationship Purchase price allocation Allocation of Financial reporting standard(s) within the between net financial liabilities at the the purchase price in a business combinaIFRS international regulatory framework. Holding Company Franz Haniel & Cie. and tion to the individual assets and liabilities the market value of Haniel’s investment acquired. The acquired assets and liabilIASB – International Accounting Standards portfolio. ities are measured at fair value. If the Board An independent, international body purchase price exceeds the net assets which approves and continuously develops Multi-channel Combination and integration acquired, this gives rise to goodwill. the International Financial Reporting of a variety of channels to approach cusStandards (IFRS). tomers and to market offered products and services. R ICS – Internal control system Systematic control measures for monitoring whether Rating A credit score given to companies or existing rules for reducing risks are being N financial instruments by agencies, such as observed. This is intended to ensure the Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s, or banks. functionality and cost-effectiveness of Net financial liabilities Difference between business processes and counteract any financial liabilities and cash and cash Recognised investments include the acquiimpairment of assets. It covers all material equivalents recognised in the consolidated sition of non-current assets such as buildbusiness processes, including accounting. statement of financial position. ings, machinery or software. Specifically, The purpose of the accounting-related ICS the acquisition of assets reported under is to ensure that financial reporting is reliNickel pig iron A substitute product used property, plant and equipment, intangiable and that the risk of misstatements in particularly in China to produce stainless ble assets, investments accounted for at the external and internal Group Reports is steel. Nickel pig iron is produced from lowequity or non-current financial assets. minimised. er-quality nickel ore which comes primarily from Indonesia and the Philippines. Result from investments accounted for at IFRS – International Financial Reporting equity Includes the portion of the net profit Standard(s) An international regulatory Non-controlling interests Interests in the for the period attributable to Haniel which framework of accounting standards and equity of subsidiaries of the Haniel Group is generated by companies measured in interpretations which are developed by the held by third parties. the consolidated financial statements IASB (International Accounting Standaccording to the equity method. ards Board) and ratified by the European Commission. These accounting standards O Return Operating profit of continuing are intended to ensure the internationand discontinued operations plus profit/ ally comparable preparation of accounts. Operating profit This measure of earnings loss from investments and other net finanPublicly traded companies registered in shows the profit contribution made in the cial income less income tax expenses. the EU are required to prepare their consolperiod by the operating business, that is to idated financial statements according to say from the purchase and sale of goods Return on capital employed (ROCE) Valthe provisions of IFRS. and the provision of services, after deductue-based performance indicator used ing the associated expenses. The amount within the Haniel Group that is determined IFRS IC – International Financial Reportrecognised in the income statement is the by dividing the return by the average ing Standards Interpretations Committee result before the profit/loss from investcapital employed. An independent, international body which ments and discontinued operations, interissues interpretations and guidance on est and income tax expense. Risk management Systematic procedures issues not specifically covered by the for identifying and assessing potential IFRS. Option Agreement between two parties risks for the Group, and for deciding on, granting one party the right to receive or implementing and monitoring measures Interest cover ratio A capital management sell a certain quantity of an underlying to avoid risks and/or reduce their possible indicator within the Haniel Group that is asset, such as a foreign currency, at an negative impact. derived as a quotient from certain items agreed price at a later date. of the income statement. The sum of the operating profit, result from investS ments accounted for at equity and other P investment result is divided by the sum of Scope of consolidation The companies the finance costs and other net financial Plan assets Comprise assets that are held included in the consolidated financial income. This indicator states how many by a fund invested for the long term for satstatements. times the interest to be paid to lenders and isfying payments to employees as well as financial investors is covered by earnings qualified insurance contracts. Statement of cash flows The statement of from the operating business and investcash flows is used to determine and depict ments. Publicly traded companies Enterprises cash inflows and outflows. It shows the that have issued securities, e.g. shares or cash that is generated and expended in a bonds, which are publicly listed and traded period ( cash flow). (on a stock exchange). 141 GLOSSARY Strategic business unit (SBU) The organisational level below division. The strategic business units can be structured according to various criteria, e.g. regions or product groups. The strategic business units are frequently depicted in internal controlling and planning processes for analysis purposes, in order to illuminate trends in the divisions. Superalloys At the ELG division, these are high-alloy, nickel-containing scrap and titanium scrap processed by ELG for its customers. Sustainability The model of sustainable development pursues the objective of engaging in business activity to create not only economic value, but also ecological and social benefits, without undermining the development opportunities of future generations (corporate responsibility – CR). Swap An agreement between two parties to exchange commodity or cash flows in the future. In an interest rate swap, interest payments are exchanged for an agreed principal amount on the basis of different interest rates. Thus, floating interest rates can be exchanged with fixed interest rates, for example. U United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) Initiative of the United Nations under which companies undertake to align their business activities and strategies with ten universally accepted principles relating to human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. W Web-focused brands sell their products and services primarily via the Internet. Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) Represents the return demanded by providers of capital in relation to the capital employed in the company. It is defined as the weighted average cost of equity and debt; the cost of the equity component corresponds to the return expectations of shareholders, taking into account business model-specific risks. The cost of the debt component reflects the long-term financing conditions of the company. 142 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS: UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION PRINCIPLE OBLIGATIONS AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ON PROGRESS: Human rights and labour standards 1. Support of human rights Code of Conduct UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2. No complicity in human rights abuses 3. Upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Investment and enterprise valuation 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and guidelines Corporate Responsibility is an integral component of Haniel’s corcompulsory labour 5. Abolition of child labour porate strategy. The Holding Company underscored this by joining 6. Elimination of discrimination the UN Global Compact on 27 March 2014. A: Management processes along the phases of the investment cycle In its first Communication on Progress, the Haniel Holding Company B: Decision-making processes relating to reports on management systems and measures to implement the financial investments ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, enviDevelopment and continued education ronmental protection and the fight against corruption. A: Works agreement on confidential work B: Works agreement on telecommuting/ home office Health management Environmental protection 7. Precautionary approach to environ­ Code of Conduct mental challenges 8. Promotion of greater environmental responsibility Increasing employee awareness 9. Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Reduction of Holding Company’s climate footprint Reduction of divisions’ climate footprint Anti-corruption 10. A nti-corruption measures Code of Conduct Compliance management system Compliance guidelines You have questions in the context of corporate responsibility at Haniel? Please contact responsibility@haniel.de 143 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS: UN GLOBAL COMPACT MEASURES IN 2014 ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN 2014 FURTHER INFORMATION Integration of human rights aspects and labour standards into the The updated Code of Conduct entered into force on 17 March 2014. Page 31 – 34 Code of Conduct and requiring the divisions – to the extent legally CR Scorecard 2014 permissible – to issue corresponding guidelines www.haniel.de/en/responsibility/ corporate-governance/code-of-conduct Integration of CR aspects and the principles of the Code of Conduct The updated guidelines entered into force on 1 November 2014. Page 31 – 34 into the guidelines Since then, all investment and acquisition proposals by the Holding CR Scorecard 2014 Company and the divisions must factor in CR aspects and the implications for the objectives in Haniel’s CR action areas must be weighed and assessed. Launch of a project to integrate review criteria in accordance with A: CR review criteria have been integrated into the upstream Page 31 – 34 the principles of the UN Global Compact within the key management assessment process for potential acquisition targets. CR Scorecard 2014 processes along the phases of the investment cycle and in the deciB: Since the autumn of 2014, CR aspects have been taken into conCR Report 2013, Page 35 sion-making process related to financial investments sideration when deciding on financial investments. A: Launch of a project aimed at increasing penetration of annual A: In 2014, supervisors held a review with 98.6 per cent of Holding Page 31 – 34 development reviews Company employees to discuss their abilities and potential, and CR Scorecard 2014 B: Offering of a comprehensive further education and training proagreed on individual development plans. gramme at the Haniel Academy as a central component of human resources development within the Haniel Group A: Flexible working hours through flexitime or part-time B: The works agreement on telecommuting/home office entered into Page 31 – 34 B: Offering employees option to work from home office if this is force on 1 January 2014. possible Development of a holistic approach for a company health manageIn 2014, health-promoting measures were expanded, for instance Page 31 – 34 ment system with comprehensive measures relating to health care, to include a more comprehensive sport offering and the provision sport and fitness, nutrition and stress prevention. of fruit. Integration of environmental aspects into the Code of Conduct and The updated Code of Conduct entered into force on 17 March 2014. Page 31 – 34 requiring the divisions to issue corresponding guidelines www.haniel.de/en/responsibility/ corporate-governance/code-of-conduct A: Employee training on CR issues Publication of the first CR Report on 26 April 2014 Page 31 – 34 B: Regular communication on issues relating to CR, including weekCR Scorecard 2014 long campaign with comprehensive information on waste management, paper use and energy efficiency A: Launch of a project to increase energy efficiency and identify B: 100 percent of the electricity used by the Holding Company is Page 31 – 34 potential savings and to implement initial measures generated using renewable energies. CR Report 2013, Page 15 B: Procurement of electricity from renewable sources of energy C: The CO 2 thresholds for newly acquired company cars were C: Continuous reduction of CO 2 emissions from company cars reduced by 10g/km in 2014. through Green Car Policy Agreement of targets with the divisions in order to help reduce their A: CWS-boco saved 8.5 per cent in energy used per kilogramme of Page 31 – 34 climate footprint laundry throughout the Group (aggregated from figures for hand CR Scorecard 2014 towel rolls, mats and workwear) as compared to 2012. CR Report 2013, Page 27 B: The “Optimize my Day” dispatch planning tool introduced in 2013 enabled CWS-boco to drive 850.000 fewer kilometres in 2014. C: TAKKT increased the share of revenue attributable to sustainable products to 6.6 per cent. Discussion and consolidation of compliance-relevant issues such as The updated Code of Conduct entered into force on 17 March 2014. Page 29 anti-corruption aspects in the updated Code of Conduct and requirwww.haniel.de/en/responsibility/ ing the divisions to issue corresponding guidelines corporate-governance/code-of-conduct Continuous monitoring of compliance with statutory and internal Presentation on Compliance at the 2014 Group Conference focusing Page 29 Group requirements through preventative measures, including comon anti-corruption and antitrust law issues pliance reporting, a compliance officer and a compliance helpline Development of new compliance guidelines The compliance guidelines entered into force on 1 May 2014. 144 CONTACT CONTACT Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH ELG Haniel GmbH METRO AG Franz-Haniel-Platz 1 Kremerskamp 16 Metro-Strasse 1 47119 Duisburg 47138 Duisburg 40235 Düsseldorf Germany Germany Germany Telephone +49 203 806 0 Telephone +49 203 4501 0 Telephone +49 211 6886 4252 info@haniel.de info@elg.de presse@metro.de www.haniel.com www.elg.de www.metrogroup.de CWS-boco International GmbH TAKKT AG Franz-Haniel-Platz 6 – 8 Presselstrasse 12 47119 Duisburg 70191 Stuttgart Germany Germany Telephone +49 203 806 0 Telephone +49 711 3465 80 info@cws-boco.com service@takkt.de www.cws-boco.com www.takkt.com 146 PUBLICATION DETAILS PUBLICATION DETAILS Concept and design BWKD, Cologne Paper Art Katrin Rodegast, Berlin (Front cover, page 14 to 22) Photography Jochen Manz Fotografie, Cologne (page 10, 25) Ragnar Schmuck, Berlin (Front cover, page 14 to 22) Editing Thomas Krause, Krefeld Production Druckpartner, Essen Responsible for the content Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH Franz-Haniel-Platz 1 47119 Duisburg Germany Telephone +49 203 806-0 info@haniel.de www.haniel.com Ident-No. 1546015 Printed with a zero carbon footprint on recycled paper made entirely from waste paper. A small contribution towards a better environment. This Annual Report is published in German and English. Both versions can be viewed online or downloaded at www.haniel.com. The German version is controlling. The separate financial statements of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH are published in the electronic Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). They are also available on request from Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH. All statements in this brochure with regard to occupations and target groups apply, always and irrespective of the formulation, to both male and female persons. 04/15 – d/3,000 – e/400 haniel.com
