ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Attention This report comprises the annual report of state trading organization plc prepared in accordance with the companies act of the republic of maldives (10/96), listing rules of maldives stock exchange, the securities act of the republic of maldives (2/2006), securities continuing disclosure obligations of issuers regulation 2010 of capital market development authority and corporate governance code of capital market development authority requirements. Unless otherwise stated in this annual report, the terms ‘STO’, the ‘group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to state trading organization plc and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures collectively. The term ‘company’ refers to STO and/or its subsidiaries. STO prepares its financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (IFRS). References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references to the Company’s financial year ending 31st december 2014. In this report, financial and statistical information is, unless otherwise indicated, stated on the basis of the Company’s financial year. Information has been updated to the most practical date. This annual report contains forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events. These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward looking statements often use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘will’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘would’, ‘could’ or other words of similar meaning. Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and STO plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. Among the factors are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions. STO cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Contents our story 2 PERFORMANCE 4 Letter to our Shareholders 6 Interview with Ahmed shaheer, md 8 business review 2014 12 sustainability report 28 board of directors 32 Executive management 34 corporate governance report 36 Corporate Governance Committee Report 42 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Report 44 Audit and Risk Committee Report 48 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS 52 financial statements 53 COMPANY INFORMATION 100 OUR GROUP 102 sto directory 104 our story 2 our story STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 3 PERFORMANCE gROUP highlights for 2014 9,171 480 424 mILLION (MVR) MILLION (MVR) (mvr) REVENUE NET PROFIT eARNINGs PER SHARE Revenue by Group Companies STO 73% FSM 23% Maldive Gas 1.5% Allied Insurance 1.4% STO Singapore 0.8% Hotels & Resorts 0.02% Group companies revenue before adjusting intercompany transactions 4 PERFORMANCE cOMPANY highlights for 2014 8,923 470 417 mILLION (MVR) MILLION (MVR) (MVR) REVENUE NET PROFIT eARNINGS PER SHARE Revenue by Company Business Units Fuel 82% Staple Food 5% Medical Supplies 4% Home & Electronics 3% Regional 3% Construction 2% Supermart 1% STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 5 Letter to our Shareholders STO has lead the Country’s trade were taken for the betterment frequent meetings to perform their industry for the past half century of the Company. Starting at the duties. However in light of the – not because we are perfect – but very top of the organization – the trainings gained, it is a target of because we make progress. This Board. the Board to minimize the number was another such year in which of Board meetings as suggested STO made huge progress. Progress by international best practices, to for STO is about getting better, Board Training & six to ten meetings per year. Work being better and doing better. As Performance is currently on going to change the an organization we served our policies so that the management customers better, we performed Over the past year high importance is more empowered to take better and we strived to make our was given on training the Board the necessary actions and to employees better. As investors, you Directors. Trainings on areas such minimize Board level involvement can expect us to listen, learn, adapt as Strategic decision making meant in managerial decisions. At the and change so that we take the that the Directors had the right same time work is in progress to right steps to lead this industry. decision making skills to move the provide a solution for the Board in Company forward. The training on adopting technology to empower STO made record profit in 2014. corporate governance for directors the Directors with information. Though this reflects to the resulted in STO being revered as improvement that STO expects, exemplary among other public 2014 was much more than that. listed companies in the Country in STO’s commitment to progress terms of good governance. From meant that a lot of other steps the very beginning it has been a custom for the Board to have 6 Letter to our Shareholders New Business Plan opportunity and mechanism to 50 Years – STO closely monitor the performance of Another important step towards our Group. This would also ensure It is an honor and a privilege to progress was the newly structured that the group board follows the serve as the Chairman of STO as it business plan. Since the very exemplary governance principles of passes the 50th milestone – the beginning STO has continued some the parent company. Golden Jubilee. I feel happy to serve main businesses such as fuel, a company which has done so much medical and staple foods which for the country. I feel proud to know are mainly tied to the citizens as Dividend that so many great individuals has a service. The new business plan lead this company as the Chairmen. was completed with the intention Over the years the Company As we pass the 50th year, what of improving and ensuring the has been providing dividend to makes us all so proud is that we are continuity of these activities while shareholders based on a dividend seen as the exemplary organization at the same time to identify new policy. The policy specifies that a among all across the country. Our potential areas of investment certain percentage of the profit be joy is the trust that the citizens so that we can focus on the allocated as dividend. However the of the country put in us. Our diversification and growth of STO. policy does not take the cash flow happiness is to hear that they can Projects such as expansion of oil and the financial strength of the depend on us for their needs. What trade and shipping line not only Company into consideration when we hope is that we learn from the puts us in new lines of businesses declaring the dividend percentage. experiences of this 50 years so that but also strengthens our foothold The Board has decided to address we can improve our services for the in our existing businesses. Without these shortcomings in the policy next 50 years. What we promise is a proper plan for such large so that dividend is declared that we would strive to serve the investments the management based on cash flow position, nation and protect the interest of would face difficulties in funding financial performance ratios and our shareholders. We as a company and proper execution. Hence the international best practices. The would strive to be exemplary in idea of the business plan was to Board is determined to protect terms of operations, services, prepare a map so that STO can go our dividend to shareholders by governance and transparency. We where the shareholders envision it focusing on increasing free cash would not take the trust bestowed to be. flow from operational efficiency on us for granted, but rather work and cash-saving initiatives. The hard to sustain it and to ensure new approach would ensure that that STO remain as one of the best Working as One higher sustainable free cash flow is companies in the country. generated for dividend declaration Over the years the sister in the future. The new approach I would like to thank each and every companies of STO has worked would further explain to our one who served STO over the past very independently to its parent shareholders how and basis on 50 years. Without the valuable company, most of the time as a which the dividend was declared. contribution from each and every total separate entity. Though this one of you, STO will not be here has its merit we have found that Based on this financial approach as we see it today. It is the trust in this is not the best approach for a to dividend declaration, the Board employees such as you that makes group of companies. The different has recommended a final dividend me feel very confident about the practices and standards followed of 76 MVR per share. I hope that next 50 years ahead of us. by the companies sometimes this strengthens the belief of our resulted in outcome not aligned shareholders towards the Company with our expectation. Hence this and give confidence in the business prompted the Board to revise the and its ability to provide returns approach in managing the group to them. The main objective for of companies. The new approach the Board is to ensure that the widens the role of the parent dividend to our shareholders grows company to set guidelines for along with the growth that the the subsidiaries to ensure that Company is seeing today. corporate governance guidelines Ahmed Niyaz and international best practices Chairman are met. Under this new approach the subsidiaries will regularly share their performance with STO’s Board of Directors which gives the insight, STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 7 Interview with Ahmed shaheer, md Consecutive record profits backed us invaluably by With a sense of urgency, were made in each of the supporting us with the foreign STO launched various quarters in the past year. exchange required to maintain initiatives to cut cost and What is your assessment of our imports and cash flows. save on running expenses the past year? And what is (Save 50 Million, Cool at behind this success? In spite of the challenges 25). How do you think these we faced during the year we programs have affected were able to strengthen the the organization and how We have managed to keep current infrastructure as well successful has it been? focus on our core businesses as make plans for our future by optimizing performance expansions and investments, in order to add value to the in order to add more value to These initiatives were launched Company and its stakeholders. our stakeholders. in order to begin a program The Management kept of savings in our operational steering the course set in its expenditure. By the efficient business plans as well as the planning and execution of the remarkable efforts made by Import and clearance process our most valuable asset – the we were able to cut unplanned employees. and un-warranted costs to our inventory. The staff were also Our main shareholder the made aware of the importance Government of the Maldives of saving on costs, which was 8 Interview with Ahmed shaheer, md well received and we were able The start of ‘All Island Recently some stakeholders to achieve the set goals of Pharmacy’ project has been raise concern over the these programs. well received by most of progress of the line of the citizens. How does this businesses STO is in. What The most striking expenditure enormous project go in line are your thoughts on the we were facing for a number of with the business plan of the current businesses of STO? years was the cost of financing Company? due to the in-availability of foreign exchange. With the Overall we are doing well in support received from the As said, it is a very successful the lines of businesses we are Government as well as the project with 114 pharmacies currently in. STO is the only commercial banks we were established so far. With company in the Maldives that able to overcome this hurdle Allah’s grace, we are opening ensures security in Staple Food and reduce the finance cost pharmacies on schedule as and Energy to its citizens. We significantly. planned and the currently are the leaders in the sector established pharmacies are of fuel by importing and Our participation in It's Cool considered to be a huge distributing higher quality at 25 campaign initiated by success. Hence, it is estimated products at a reasonable price, the Ministry of Environment that we would be able to which ensures that this does and Energy, the Company was open all the pharmacies in not have a direct impact on the able to save energy costs by all inhabited islands and inflation of the country, which creating awareness among successfully complete this is vital for the growth of the employees. project before the forecasted Maldivian economy. deadline. Apart from that, A new business plan was we are continuing the We have never failed in the made during the last replenishment and supply of distribution of staple food year. Please outline the pharmaceuticals and health throughout the country action steps taken to align care products as per the through careful planning and this business plan to the requirements of the health forecasting. Our electronics, business strategies? Which industry. paints and home improvement of the major projects have products are among the been the focus of the favorites in the market, due to investment under the new its better quality and reliability. business plan? ( growth We have successfully stabilized strategy) the price of essential food items through our super market and regional outlets. With the direction from We are re-establishing our the government, we have growth in the construction formulated a new business plan industry. Last but not least, we last year to affirm our strategic are growing faster in the sector direction for the future. In which of medical, especially due to four core areas of businesses the All Pharmacy Project in fuel, medical, construction that we are implementing and staple will be concentrated in collaboration with the along with foreign trade. Government. Despite the various line of businesses we are in, at the moment we are relying too much on fuel sector. Our new plan will help us to diversify the business into four key sectors, creating more sustainable model for the Company to operate in the future. Thus, we will strengthen our footprint beyond the boarder of the country. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 9 Recently you have been appointed as the Managing Director of STO. What are the major challenges lie ahead for STO? With regards to the challenges, currently the biggest challenge Would STO venture into a for STO is to improve the new line of business while financial status of the expanding to existing line organization and raising funds of businesses and trade for all the projects that have activities? been planned. We currently have substantial investments planned to start within this In context of new lines of year. In order to expand our businesses, apart from the fuel business, we had to core businesses, we are very double our storage capacity. interested in venturing into Furthermore, to achieve the real estate market too. economy of scale, we have to Maldives is a country that acquire a bigger oil tanker which has limited land due to the would also be a challenging geography of the country and investment. In the medical hence has a high demand for Identification and services sector, procurement, housing for its ever increasing communication of clear supplying and replenishment population. Since catering to vision is one of the most of pharmaceuticals, health the needs of the general public important element of care products and consumable is our core vision, we plan success in an organization. nation-wide is another tough to venture into this area of Can you elaborate on the assignment for us. business. long term vision of the company? When looking into staples In addition, with the aim of tax sector, we do not have subsidizing, STO has previously enough warehousing facility and are currently continuing The long term vision is to to distribute nationwide. The repacking and distribution improve and expand our core warehousing facilities in Male’ is of certain products such as lines of businesses. Maldivian very limited and is running short LPG gas, Lafarge cement economy is booming and of storage capacity. It is the main and steel roofing products. comparatively the market staples warehousing facility. Hence in the future, we aim has grown rapidly. Hence, We need to establish more to repack and distribute food increasing the fuel storage, regional warehousing facilities products as well. We are acquisition of bigger tanker, to maintain adequate amount already conducting a study on strengthening fuel distribution of stock to cater to the growing penetrating into this venture. network and penetration needs in various regions of the into the bunker market will country. be the key part our vision. Meanwhile, we are working Hence, huge capital cost on regaining market share in is required to initiate and the construction industry by implement these projects providing total solution for without delay and interruptions. the end user. As such, we are working on introducing new In addition to this, maintaining technologies such as batching a healthy net profit margin plant for the first time in for some line of businesses Maldives. Moreover, expansion and regional outlets, without of business across the border increasing the price of the will be the main focus for the products is a challenge for the Company. Company. 10 Interview with Ahmed shaheer, md STO has its overseas presence too. What actions are being taken to strengthen STO business in the international market? Previously, STO Singapore held a strong base in representing STO and its trade activities in foreign markets. Over the years, the progress and performance of STO Singapore declined. However, the situation has changed in recent How proud are you to years and STO Singapore be leading STO as the has started to show signs of company passes the prosperity and improvement historic milestone of 50 in its performance again. In years? Where do you see conjunction, STO Singapore the company in the next 50 Maldives is also allocating years? more effort to gradually expand commodity trading. Hence, these are the main It is a great achievement current international trade and and I am privileged to be the investments conducted. Managing Director of the Company. Personally, I have been a part of this great organization for over 20 years. What message you like to convey to employees, Within the last 50 years, shareholders and investors? STO has been one of the most reliable and successful companies but we only STO is and has always been resident within the boundaries a company of the public, the of the Maldives. So the main general population. Our core objective for the next 50 years vision is to serve the public and is to strengthen and grow our provide the necessary goods core lines of businesses and and services at a competitive to have a global foot print by price for the public. As for expanding globally. shareholders and investors, STO, as an organization would strive for the betterment of the shareholders interest and would put our utmost effort to improve the benefits realized by the shareholders at the same time. Ahmed Shaheer Managing Director STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11 business review 2014 1,390 480 1,860 mILLION (MVR) MILLION (MVR) MILLION (MVR) gross profit NET PROFIT shareholder's fund Economy Financial year 2014 commenced with stable economic sector. Apart from tourism, other major sectors such and political environment and it remained so for the as construction, transport, communication and real most part of the year. However the new business estate also posted reasonable growth rates during the environment presented its own challenges. There year. was considerable growth in competition from certain business segments. Hence, STO needed to re-evaluate The year 2014 also presented stabilization of the and drastically change its strategy of such business inflation rate in the economy. The Maldives Monetary segments. Authority (MMA) reported an inflation rate of 1.2% for the month of December 2014. The prices of goods Though the economy grew, the key structural problems in the market have remained constant compared to did not show major improvements. The foreign previous years. The planned changes in import duty is exchange situation which hindered operations of STO likely to lead to an increase in prices during the year for the past 4 years remained, albeit at a much reduced 2015. scale than the previous years. Despite the structural economic problems, the stable and improving economy coupled with reduced foreign exchange cost enabled STO Group to close the year with much better performance than previous years. However, the economic growth that continued from year 2013 was stagnated in the last quarter of 2014. During the last quarter of 2014 a fall in the performance of both Tourism and Fishing industry was observed. Overall the Maldivian economy expanded in the year 2014, mainly due to significant growth in the tourism 12 business review 2014 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 13 Trading STO is a company with incredible purpose. Everyday, Home Improvement our employees work tirelessly to provide the necessary products and services required by our nation. We are Growth in our Home Improvement business providing critically important services for our nation by accelerated during 2014. and was reflected from 51% catering to the growing demands of the population. increase in revenue for the year. Home improvement Our reputation for leadership extends well beyond the business was robust with sustainable demand for market leading products in each of our trading sectors. our brands such as Philips, Hitachi and Makita, which contributed better quality life to our customers. Revenue from trading activities increased from MVR 1,382 million in 2013 to MVR 1,615 million in 2014. The Home Improvement interior was refurbished and The positive contribution is mainly due to improved redesigned during the year. This had led to an increase performance from Home Improvement and Medical in capacity and improved the shopping experience for segment. our customers. 14 business review 2014 Food and Beverage Our Supermart revenue had a positive growth of 5% in 2014. This is mainly due to introduction of new product lines and on-going promotional activities held throughout the year. Our Supermart expansion project, which is expected to add double capacity is on schedule and expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2015. The total revenue of Staple Food amounted to 390 million, which is an increase of 7% compared with the previous year. This was largely attributable to increase in sales across the regional atolls. This segment is subsidized by the government of Maldives. Construction Materials The Construction Materials revenue grew by 19% during the year. The increase was mainly related to the improved performance of construction industry and is expected to grow further. We continue to focus on the development of our existing facilities through further improvement of warehouse capacity and with additional investment in Medical Supplies heavy equipment. Medical business unit, which accounts for nearly Our Construction Materials segment is further 24% of trading revenue, posted solid growth of 33%, contributed by Maldives Structural Products (MSP) boosted by additional pharmacies established in the and Lafarge Maldives Cement (Lafarge). MSP being country under 'All Island Pharmacy' project. Medical the leader in roofing sheet, provide customers with sales volume increased throughout the country, products designed to meet the demands in a wide particularly in regional atolls. variety of colors. In broadening its offer to product range, the company has extended its leadership across We continued to support the medical sector of the the entire field of roofing materials. country by providing quality products and services in this field. Today, we are a recognized leader in MSP continue to improve its performance from supplying essential drugs and healthcare equipments. previous year. The Company reported an increase in Moreover, we deliver medically prescribed healthcare revenue of 12% in the year 2014. In addition to that, the specialist supplies for hospital treatments and patients Company’s gross profit increased by MVR 2 million in suffering from chronic illnesses. year 2014 compared with 2013. In 2014, STO in collaboration with the Government Likewise, our associate company Lafarge reported initiated 'All Island Pharmacy Project' to establish a another successful year from its operation. The pharmacy in every inhabited island of the Maldives. Company increased its revenue by 10% in the year Being a small and geographically dispersed country, 2014 compared with 2013 revenue. Furthermore, the operating a pharmacy in each island is a challenge. Company also reported a higher gross profit for 2014. Regional Sales Real estate development remains a key priority for STO’s diversification strategy. Proficient use and We continued to distribute our products and servicess development of our existing land coupled with through our regional outlets around the country. Our opportunities through joint ventures and acquisitions network reaches over 13 regions excluding pharmacies. are long term plans for the company. Development of Despite the challenges faced in this segment, the commercial and residential buildings are areas of focus company maintained its revenue in the year 2014, in this industry. contributing to 18% of trading revenue. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 15 16 business review 2014 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 17 Fuel and Gas STO is the leader in fuel and gas industry. Our vision is to expand this business to cater the growing demand of the Country and the South Asian region. As such, the Company is to increase its infrastructure by expanding our storage facilities. In addition to this, we plan to strengthen our distribution network to benefit from economies of scale. We continue to supply to strategically important businesses in the Maldives, such as Maldives Airports Company Limited, State Electric Company Limited and Fenaka Corporation Limited. We also provide to a large percentage of the private sector. Revenue from our fuel & gas segment reported a decrease in revenue of 23%, mainly due to the falling of fuel prices in the international market. The reduction in cost of fuel was passed on to the customer resulting in a lower revenue figure in 2014. However, our strategic steps helped prevent adverse impact on our performance in this segment. 18 business review 2014 Our fuel and gas segment is contributed by Fuel Supplies Maldives (FSM), STO Maldives (Singapore), Maldives National Oil Company (MNOC) and Maldive Gas (MGPL). As a key subsidiary of STO, FSM plays a vital role in contributing to the group’s profitability. FSM seeks opportunities to strengthen the financial position of the Company. The Company also started expanding its distribution network by adding new vessels and storage tanks. This is believed to reduce occurrence of reactive maintenance and operating costs as well as optimize asset/equipment performance. Our fuel distribution arm FSM continued its strong performance in the year 2014. The Company increased its revenue in year 2014 compare with previous year. FSM contributed to 28% revenue of this segment. The foremost strategic project of MNOC and STO Singapore is to embark on the ambitious oil and gas exploration in the Maldives with the support of global leaders in the industry and under initiation of the STO Maldives (Singapore) operations improved in 2014. Government of Maldives. The Company commenced The revenue for the year increased to MVR 104 million preliminary work to undertake the project and is also from MVR 0.8 million in the year 2013 and gross profit focusing on oil infrastructure developments such as increased to MVR 1 million in 2014 from MVR 0.1 million international oil storage and terminal facilities in the in the year 2013. Special Economic Zone of the Maldives together with the full effort of developing international trade. MGPL is our supplier and distributer of industrial, process and specialty gases. The lack of storage capacity has always been a challenge to the Company. Despite this, we lead the domestic household sector with over 75 percent of the market and with more than 300 agents located throughout the Maldives; the Company has the largest distribution network in the country. However, the Company has yet to maximize its reach across the nation. The year 2014 proved to be a successful year for the Company, both in terms of its infrastructure and projects launched. As the Company’s first clear priority is to run safe and reliable operations, whilst nurturing a productive and open working environment, the focus was on enhancing operating efficiency and process optimization by establishing infrastructure and mechanisms by which this could be achieved. As such, the Company introduced its premium range of cylinders under the brand 'Lui fulhi' in 2014. Further to this, in order to address customer concerns over productivity and delivery time, a sales automation project was launched. The year 2014 was another successful year for MGPL. Revenue from operations increased from MVR 176 million in year 2013 to MVR 188 million in the year 2014. The Company made a profit after tax of MVR 20 million from its operations while it contributed to 2.2% of revenue in this segment. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 19 20 business review 2014 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 21 Insurance Introduction of an Islamic Takaful Window called ‘Ayady Takaful’, 'Select Gold' Health Insurance Plan; the widest Year 2014 proved to be a challenging for our insurance insurance coverage in Maldives and Inbound Travel company Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Insurance Plan are the additional products added during Pvt. Ltd. (Allied Insurance) in some aspect due to 2014. Allied was the first ever company to provide travel fluctuations in the market. To mitigate these effects, insurance in Maldives targeting to the tourists visiting the Company adopted an aggressive marketing and the country. In addition to this a MoU was signed selling technique allowing us to maintain a steady between the Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture in growth in all lines of our business. order to develop a new insurance scheme for farmers and fishermen. A tripartite MoU was also signed Geographical limitations of Maldives contributed to between Ministry of Health, National Social Protection the struggle of Allied Insurance trying to reach the Agency (NSPA) and Allied Insurance to develop a people living in remote islands. This has been one General Practitioner Registration and Patient Records of the challenges for the Company in creating public Archiving System. Furthermore, our authorized share awareness on insurance and insurance products. capital was increased to MVR 50 million and paid up capital to MVR 30 million. As a part of the continuous effort to reach the Company’s corporate vision to be the 'the preferred Allied Insurance improved its performance in the year market – responsive insurer, providing diversified 2014. The Company reported a revenue of MVR 167 services in the Maldives and beyond' Allied has million for the year 2014, which is 49% more than year invested in several new businesses and has introduced 2013. The profit for the year 2014 is MVR 62 million, new products to the existing product portfolio, during while in 2013 it was recorded as MVR 48 million. the years. Note: Revenue figures to the group are given before adjusting intercompany transactions 22 business review 2014 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 23 Revenue Financial Performance STO Group as a whole faced a decline in sales due to STO aims to remain a sustainable and responsible revision of fuel prices during the latter part of the year, business while providing a reasonable return for the coupled with reduction of foreign sales made through shareholders. The year 2014 was a successful year for STO Singapore. the Group as it was able to earn a profit of more than MVR 400 million, most of which was contributed by The fuel prices were hugely affected by a combination the fuel segment. of market forces in 2014. The prices of crude oil dropped below USD 50 for the first time in many years. This led STO being a majority Government owned enterprise to a decrease in fuel purchase cost to STO. As a result, the Company remained committed to securing overall revenue from the fuel segment decreased basic imports of the country, which STO believes compared to 2013. is its founding objective. Balancing the Company’s social objectives and national interest with business Revenue from other operations declined from MVR objectives has always remained a challenge for STO. 11,130 million in 2013 to MVR 9,171 million in 2014 and this However the Company believes that it has reasonably is a decrease of 18% compared with the previous year. discharged its obligation towards all its stakeholders during the year 2014. Profit Analysis Group key financial figures (mvr, in millions) In 2014, STO Group reported the highest gross profit and 2014 2013 operating profit to date. In the year 2014 the reported gross profit amounted to MVR 1,390 million compared Revenue 9,171 11,130 to MVR 1,292 in 2013. Profit before taxation showed Gross profit 1,390 1,292 major improvement from MVR 178 million to MVR 573 Operating profit 761 686 million. Profit before tax 573 178 Gross profit margin for 2014 is 15% while for 2013 it was Net profit 480 165 12%. This improvement was also reflected in net profit Earnings per share (MVR) 424 144 margin as it improved from 1.5 % in the year 2013 to Net assets per share 5.2% in the year 2014. 1651 1267 (MVR) Net cash flow used in A key reason for the improvement in the profitability of (19) (61) operating activities the Company was reduction in finance cost during 2014. Return on capital 34 42 Finance Cost employed (%) Debt / equity ratio 1.9 2.8 Net Finance cost of the Group decreased by a Dividend per share (MVR) n/a 24 staggering 62% in the year 2014. This was mainly Interest cover ratio 3.9 1.3 due to the facilitation of foreign currency by the Interest yield 7.5 11.3 Government through Maldives Monetary Authority. This led to a reduction in cost of foreign currency purchase 1390 (commission on foreign exchange) for the Group. This 1292 saving is reflected in the annual profit of the Group. 1229 Gearing of the Group decreased from 71% in 2013 to 61% in 2014 due to reduction in net debt. Interest rate on 827 cost of borrowing remained consistent over the year. 688 Taxation 480 Taxation payable on profit for the year 2014 amounted to MVR 73 million. In addition, STO Group paid GST 238 143 192 165 and Withholding Tax as part of tax related expenses. Moreover, STO Group paid non tax expenses such as royalties, lease rent and other fees that are required by 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 laws and regulations. GROUP GROSS PROFIT & NET PROFIT (MVR, MILLIONS) 24 business review 2014 Cash Flow Net Cash flow from operating activities improved from negative MVR 61 million in 2013 to a positive MVR 18 million in 2014. Major improvements were made in inventory control of the business. Further, interest paid on borrowing also declined during the year 2014. Net cash generated from investing activities continued to be negative in the year 2014. However, the net cash generated from investing activities increased by 46%. Share Performance Our Group continues to invest in fixed assets required for its operation. Moreover, net cash generated from Share capital structure of the Company remained financing activities improved to MVR 179 million in the unchanged with 1,126,910 shares of which the year 2014 from a negative MVR 30 million in 2013. Government owned 81.6% and the remaining 18.4% owned by the general public. No single party other Overall, net cash and cash equivalent increased by MVR than the Government directly or indirectly own more 121 million during the financial year. At the end of the than 5% shares of the Company. The nominal value of year we had MVR 348 million cash and cash equivalent. the share is MVR 50 and each share entitles the holder The performance in cash flow indicates that the to 1 vote at the Annual General Meeting. business has improved compared to the year 2013. During the year 2014, a total of 292 shares were traded. Balance Sheet The highest reported sales price is MVR 550 and the lowest in the year 2014 was MVR 400 per share. During the year, shareholders fund increased from MVR Weighted average share price was 451 for the year. The 1,428 million in 2013 to MVR 1,860 million in 2014. The Company’s market capitalization, calculated using the improvement was mainly due to increase in retained closing price of MVR 400 per share is 450.8 million. earnings. Dividend In addition, liquidity position of the Group improved as current ratio increased from MVR 0.92 in 2013 to The Group’s performance improved considerably MVR 1.1 in 2014. This improvement was also reflected in compared with previous year with an increase in net quick ratio as it improved from MVR 0.71 to MVR 0.88 profit margin from 1.5% to 5.2% in the year 2014. in the year 2014. During the year the Company paid a total dividend of MVR 27 million. This is MVR 24 per share. The Company Our borrowings increased from MVR 919 million to MVR has been consecutively paying dividend since 2002. 1,110 million in 2014. This was due to our continued The Board has proposed a dividend payout of MVR 76 expansion of the business resulting in increase in long per share for approval at the Annual General Meeting term borrowings of the Company. 2014. Share performance MVR 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Highest 550 510 450 450 600 Lowest 400 360 350 300 400 Weighted average 451 411 387 390 429 No. of trades 9 41 17 14 12 No. of share traded 292 520 346 192 931 Last trading price 400 380 400 450 489 No. of shares issued 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 Market capitalization (millions) 450.8 428.2 450.8 507.1 551.1 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 25 26 business review 2014 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 27 sustainability report Today the world expects much from us. Focusing only social responsibility. We believe that connecting with on maximizing return at the cost of other stakeholders the community and various stakeholders is not just a does not create a sustainable model for managing business concept, but an obligation. businesses. Ethics and corporate social responsibility play a vital role in the success of any organization. Green Future As such STO is one of the leading Companies in complying with the 10 universally accepted principles Our environment policy advocates promotion of of UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, eco-friendly technology, utilization of resources labour, environment and anti-corruption. more efficiently, minimizing wastage and promoting cleanliness. As such, we import and market ecoIn this sustainability report, we attempt to inform friendly products, particularly inverter technology, lead and elaborate on the measures we have adopted free and ozone free products. to address the issues engaged and managed in the reporting period. Going forward with our values in 2014, the launching of 'Saafu STO' campaign encouraged cleanliness, recycling and re-using materials, especially paper within the Value Creation organization. For over five decades, we at STO have been in the Furthermore, we participated in global and national forefront of our nation's drive for wealth creation. Our level campaigns against global warming and climate business practices across our network have embraced change. As such, STO consistently takes part in the good governance, protection of environment, timely Earth Hour Celebration, each year. risk management and comprehensive strategic planning. We have made our mark as a dependable, Similarly, on the occasion of world energy day, the well managed entrepreneur while concentrating on campaign 'It’s cool at 25', initiated by the Ministry of creating value for all our stakeholders. Environment and Energy was launched in STO. We inspire economic development while improving the STO Group provided logistical assistance to Cadet quality of life of our employees as well as of the local Association of Maldives and Maldives National Defense community and society at large. Force (MNDF) in collecting empty water bottles, post the Male’ water crisis in December 2014. Approximately For investor and shareholders, we strive to deliver high 6 million empty water bottles were collected within returns on their capital in a consistent manner. For the one week. customer, it entails acquiring products and providing services that customers find consistently useful, particularly a reliable supply of basic commodities in fuel, medicals, staple foods and construction materials at affordable price. STO group believes that the trust and goodwill carried along with the core business of the Company can only be strengthened by our commitment to corporate 28 sustainability report Youth Development We believe, a supportive and participatory environment significantly contributes to youth development. Likewise, education empowers youth with the much needed skills and innovation to drive this country forward. In this regard, we have granted financial assistance to accomplish numerous educational events in schools and colleges throughout the country. Similarly, we have helped and supported youth in the development of the sport sector in the country. Our aim is to promote community’s well-being through facilitating sports. Thus, we worked hand in hand with MNDF in the construction of futsal arenas in Vili-Male, Fuvahmulah, Kulhudhuffushi and Addu City. Moreover, we are proud to have been the main sponsor of the Carom World Cup in 2014. Community Well-being At STO we firmly believe in being a steadfast partner in enriching our communities. Apart from the financial assistance that we provided In-house Software Development during the water crisis in Male’, STO provided its full support 24/7 to MNDF by providing logistics, man Throughout the years we have managed to develop power and other resources. STO staff volunteered in and successfully implement many in-house developed various operations while giving a special consideration softwares to cater the various different business in the distribution of water to special needs people. sectors of our Group. Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives sponsored As such in 2014, we developed our own software, the Coca-Cola Long Run conducted by the Total Fitness to enhance our pharmacy services while integrating Group. This event was held in May 2014 at Hulhumale’. it with 'Aasandha'. This has greatly contributed to The aim here was to promote a healthy life style speed up the process and reduction in cost due to community while contributing to many other key streamlining of operations. causes in the society. Similarly, Allied in collaboration with the Maldives Responsible Entrepreneur Police Services, launched the 'Rahkkaa – Drive Safe, Save Lives', Road Safety Campaign in November 2014. We play a significant role as an entrepreneur and The campaign was instigated to promote safe roads an investor, in creating wealth in key sectors in for the people of Male' City, aiming to minimize the the economy. With our huge network and scale of possibilities of accidents by creating community operations, we create opportunities for smaller awareness on negative impact of road accidents. enterprises to do business with us. As part of this, we purchase some general consumables and supermarket Moreover, one of our founding purposes of assisting items, from local traders, which help them to grow the nation in providing necessities and stabilizing with us simultaneously. the market, across the country continued with much effort. As such, the Ministry of Economic Development We have successfully implemented our procurement defined 27 essential food items were made available in policies to ensure a fair, equitable and transparent the Supermarket throughout the year. procurement process for our business partners. To move further, we support foreign investment in the Country and have actively participated while financially assisting the Maldives Investment Forum 2014 in Singapore. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 29 Employees Most Important Asset technical trainings, etc. Staff for these programs were selected on need basis. Dedicated staff and outstanding leaders are crucial for STO Group to achieve its mission and vision. As Similarly, staffs were sent abroad to attend seminars, such, we strive to attract and retain the best, to workshops and short term trainings to bolster much bring STO to the next level. Our main focus on human needed skills and knowledge from technical areas. resources component of the Company includes workforce planning, staffing, training, organizational STO Smile Campaign development, performance management and employee retention. STO launched its Smile Campaign on 24th August 2014. The purpose of this campaign is to remind staff on Improvement of Organizational Structure the importance of greeting and servicing colleagues and customers, with a smile. To retain the campaign We always aim to have a balanced organizational and to encourage staff to serve with a smile, a training structure with a good mix of employee categoriesprogram 'service with a smile' was held for targeted operational staff, managers and executives which employees. It was decided to continue the training gives a firm platform to translate decision making into until we achieve the required outcome. action. Career Day Thus, in 2014, our structure was thoughtfully amended to suite the changes that occurred both in internal and In order to exhibit the opportunities we have here external environment. within STO 'Our Guidance, Your future' fair was held in Dharubaruge on 14th November 2014. It was Acquisition of Best Talent a successful interactive fair with several positive feedback from attendees. Apart from career guidance, Our recruitment is well structured and transparent. It several training opportunities were also given to the is designed in such a way that we select the best talent registered visitors. from the market in consideration of qualifications, skills, expertise, experience, personality traits and Recognition and Rewarding attitude. Our process of rewarding and recognition is based Welcoming New Employees on the performance and the commitment of the employees throughout his/her career. On an annual We have inplace a simple induction program to brief basis, we do evaluate performance of all staff and our vision, mission, policies, procedures and guideline reward them accordingly. The process is constantly for new recruits. In addition to that, we give them an reviewed from time to time, to ensure that it is overview of our group operations in different sectors participative, unbiased and transparent. to enable their quick onboard to the Company. Apart from this, the performance management process Training and Development was reviewed and fine-tuned in consultation with BDO Partners, Sri Lanka. Our aim is to re-design the This is an essential element of our company success. whole process to derive maximum benefit by earning We have continuously invested over the years employees trust while also motivating them to work to enhance job required skills, talents, attitude, for the long-term success of the Company. personality and professionalism of our employees. In this on-going process, due consideration is given to align employees aspiration with corporate goals of the Group. During the year, we sponsored long-term study programs to expedite development of a better work force for the future and to smooth out succession planning when it arises. Meanwhile, various in-house training programs were also conducted. Some of the trainings included customer care trainings, management trainings, Dhivehi Language workshops, inventory trainings, 30 sustainability report Rewarding Performance To support employee development and measure performance, our group companies have implemented different performance appraisal systems that best suit their nature of work. Recreation Club Activities In the year 2014, we continuously strived to offer Unity.Leadership. Discipline. This is what State Trading our employees challenging jobs, development, Organization Recreation Club (STORC) represents training opportunities and interesting career paths. and what it strives to achieve. Year 2014 was of A competitive and market-driven compensation no difference in such that STORC organized and structure supports our vision to become the employer conducted various activities. of choice in the market, ensuring that we can retain and motivate our skilled professionals and attract new Sign Language Training talents. A sign language learning program was held at STO, in Strengthening Security Through Need Base collaboration with Deaf Association of Maldives. Training STO Family Day It’s been a priority of STO Group to enhance the skills, technical thinking and opening new frontiers for the We value togetherness and team work at STO. As such, staff to maximize their daily work and to understand we organized a Family Day evening at STO Head office their work environment. As such trainings were for past and present staff, along with their families and fabricated to relevant departments to meet their loved ones in the month of February 2014. training needs. Futsal Fiesta In 2014 STO had made a broad attempt to ensure that staff are up to date, highly trained and with proper One of the annual event which attract maximum motivation to complete their daily task with ease. support from our staff is futsal tournaments. Thus, a Futsal Fiesta was organized by STORC Futsal Club. The Special trainings were conducted in collaboration Tournament was held in FAM Turf Ground, with the with MNDF, to security staff of STO. Namely security objective of creating togetherness and unity among awareness, fitness, first aid and firefighting trainings. staff. Development of Skill for Health Sector Ramazan Cricket Carnival 'Dhasvaru Program' organized by Ministry of Education STO participated in the Ramazan Cricket Carnival, a in collaboration with STO, was commenced in training highly popular sport among our foreign staff. We pharmacy assistants. Ministry of Education and claimed the runners up position in the tournament. STO recognized the need to increase the number of Maldivians in the technical and vocational sector in the STORC Mas Race field of pharmaceuticals and medicine. The annual fishing tournament was held this year 'Dhasvaru Program' is an apprenticeship program with as well, to foster employee engagement. In the 700 hours of training (within 8 months approximately). tournament, awards were presented to team who The program is targeted for students who complete scored the best catch. secondary school education in order to provide them with the opportunity to experience the work STORC One Day Volley Ball Tournament environment, specifically in the area of pharmacy operations. This approach of training is an exciting This event was held at Indoor Volley court, Social development for those looking for careers in this field. Centre to give an opportunity for staff to show their A combination of on-the-job and off-the-job trainings skills in this sport. The tournament was well received enable the trainees to obtain extensive necessary skills. with 28 teams taking part. Club Maldives Cup When it comes to futsal in Maldives, STO is the team to beat for any opponent. It is a privilege to declare that we are the champion of Club Maldives in the year 2014. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 31 board of directors Abdul Hadi Hussain Amir Mansoor Ahmed Niyaz Fulhu Non-Executive, NonChairman Non-Executive, Independent Director Non-Executive, Independent Director Independent Director Amir was appointed to the Hadi was appointed as an Board as an independent, nonNiyaz was initially appointed independent, non-executive executive Director in May 2012 to the Board on May 2012 Director by the majority by the majority shareholder and as the Chairman on shareholder (Government), in (Government). 19th December 2013 by May 2012. the majority shareholder (Government). 32 board of directors Ahmed Shaheer Mohamed Farshath Aishath Rafiyya Managing Director, Non-Executive, Non-Executive, Independent Executive Director Independent Director Director Shaheer was appointed Farshath was appointed to Rafiyya was appointed to the to the Board on 25th the Board as an independent Board in August 2014 as an December 2013. He was non-executive director at the independent, non-executive appointed as the Managing 2012 Annual General Meeting, Director by the majority Director of the Company as the only Director elected shareholder (Government). on 09th March 2015. by the public shareholders. Detailed profiles available on pages 108 and 109 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 33 Executive management Fathimath Ashan Senior General Manager – Regional Sales, Food and Beverages Ahmed Shaheer Managing Director Mohamed Mihad Chief Financial Officer Ibrahim Ziyath Executive Director / General Manager – Procurement (Essential Goods) Ahmed Shifan General Manager – Administration and Human Resources Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz Chief Internal Auditor Aishath Shaffana Rasheed Company Secretary 34 Executive management Musthafa Azmy Chief Information Officer – Information, Communication & Technology Ramzee Aboobakuru General Manager – Energy and Construction Materials Mariyam Nuzla General Manager – Corporate & Legal Affairs Abdul Wahid Moosa General Manager – Transport Mohamed Murad General Manager – Home Improvement and Service Center Muslih Maseeh Assistant General Manager / Media Cordinator Business Development & Public Relations Hussain Sobaah General Manager – Medical Services Ahmed Kurik Riza Assistant General Manager – Procurement (General Goods) Detailed profiles available on page 110 and 111 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 35 corporate governance report Compliance with Board Diversity the past 1 year has held a key position the Capital Market in the Company and non of their Development Authority The Company recognizes the immediate family members have had importance of diversity, including any substantial financial dealings Corporate Governance gender diversity, at all levels of with the Company. Code (CMDA CG Code) the Company as well as the Board. The Company is committed to Other than a provision of service The Company adheres to the increasing diversity across its done between Grape Expectations a governance principles set out in operations to support and develop company where Amir Mansoor holds the CMDA CG Code. We believe gender diversity. Further to this the shares and STO, there were no other that throughout the year 2014, Board Director evaluation policy significant contracts or provisions for the Company applied to the main encourages Board Directors to be services which a Board Director had principles of this Code. However, in balance with skills, knowledge any direct or indirect material interest where there have been exceptions, and experience. in regard to the Company or any of its it has been explained further in this subsidiaries. report. Every year the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board discuss and recommend Chairman The Board their opinion on the current board diversity, where it is further Ahmed Niyaz The Board is collectively discussed and actions identified. accountable to the shareholders Executive Directors of the Company. The Board directs Adam Azim and supervises the Company’s Composition of the Board (Managing Director till 9th March 2015) affairs to promote long-term success. The Directors devoted As of 31st December 2014, the Ahmed Shaheer (Senior General Manager till 9th March 2015, sufficient time and efforts to Board comprised of 7 Directors. Managing Director from then on) their duties. No Director held However, the Board operated with Directorship in more than 2 public 6 Directors earlier during the year, Ibrahim Ziyath (appointed on 20th April 2015) listed companies. The Directors until the appointment of a 7th had disclosed their interests in Director in August 2014. On 9th Non-Executive Directors accordance with the Conflict of March 2015, Managing Director Interest Policy of the Company. Adam Azim was replaced by Ahmed Amir Mansoor There is no Director exceeding a Shaheer as the new Managing Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu term of 6 years in Directorship, in Director of the Company. With this the Company. change the Board consisted of 6 Aishath Rafiyya Directors until the appointment of (appointed on 7th August 2014) an executive director on 20th April Mohamed Farshath 2015. (public shareholder representative) All Non-Executive Directors except Amir Mansoor are believed to fit the Biographical and related information independent director requirements about the Directors is set out on page described in the CMDA CG Code 108 and page 109. where neither a Director nor his/her immediate family members during 36 corporate governance report Chairman and Managing Management In 2014, only 1 nominee from the Director public shareholders submitted his The management constitutes of interest to apply for directorship in The Chairman and Managing the Managing Director, Executive the Company. As such, a vote was Director are separate persons and Team and the Managers. Profiles taken at the AGM where he was their roles and responsibilities are of the members of the Executive elected with the vote of majority of clearly established in writing and Team are provided on pages 110 to shareholders present. agreed by the Board through the 111. separate charters approved for both the functions. The Chairman The responsibilities of the Board Board Meeting is responsible for leading the Board and the Management are defined in while ensuring its effectiveness the Articles of Association and the The Board had 26 meetings during and setting its agenda. The Governance Codes of the Company. the year. Managing Director is responsible for leading and managing the dayThe attendance of the Directors to to-day operations of the business Directors Charters the meetings is shown below. and for the implementation of board strategy and policy within No individual or group dominates Ahmed Niyaz the authorities delegated to the the Board’s decision-making Initial appointment date: 26/26 07 May 2012 management by the Board. and all Directors promote good (100%) governance in their actions. All Last appointment date: Directors upon appointment 17 February 2015 The Executive Directors has signed the Directors Charter Adam Azim agreeing to their roles and Initial appointment date: As stated earlier, with the responsibilities set out in the 25/26 18 November 2013 (96%) appointment of Ahmed Shaheer document. Last appointment date: as Managing Director, the Board 17 February 2015 comprised of just one executive Removed date: director until the appointment Re-election / Nomination 09 March 2015 of Ibrahim Ziyath to the Board. of Directors Relevant authorities were notified Ahmed Shaheer of a second director’s appointment According to the Articles of Initial appointment date: 23/26 and its importance, hence Association of the Company, the (89%) 25 December 2013 appointed on 20th April 2015. Board must consist of 6 Directors Last appointment date: to represent the Government 09 March 2015 It is the key responsibility of (Majority Shareholder) and Amir Mansoor executive directors to ensure that 1 Director to represent the Initial appointment date: the Board strategies and policies public shareholders (Minority 25/26 07 May 2012 are implemented and followed Shareholder). As such, the (96%) Last appointment date: through for effective running of Nomination and Remuneration 17 February 2015 the business. Committee provided adequate notices to both group of Abdul Hadi shareholders on the appointment Hussain Fulhu The Non-Executive of Directors. Both group of 26/26 (100%) Initial appointment date: Directors shareholders were given a 21 07 May 2012 day notice period to nominate Last appointment date: The Non-Executive Directors of their candidates. The nominees 17 February 2015 the Company are experienced, for public share representative Aishath Rafiyya educated and well versed Directors were then evaluated Initial appointment date: individuals in the business industry, against the Directors Evaluation 08/09 21 August 2014 enabling them to make significant Policy of the Company and (89%) Last appointment date: contributions in decision-making. interviewed. Recommendations by 17 February 2015 They provide entrepreneurial the Committee were then provided leadership, set strategic aims, for Board approval. Mohamed Farshath and provide direction to the Initial appointment date: management. 26/26 14 June 2012 (100%) Last appointment date: 22 May 2014 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 37 The senior executives were invited Information Flow Directors Shareholding to make presentation to the Board on matters included in agenda for The Company Secretary acts as the The Directors have the right to both strategic and operational mean to provide information to subscribe for securities in the issues. Papers for the meeting are the Board at appropriate times, in Company. However, they do not provided to the board members consultation with the Chairman and have the right to subscribe for electronically and are sent at least the Managing Director. Apart from securities of the subsidiaries. 2 days prior to the meeting, along formal meetings, the Chairman and with the notice or as allowed by the Managing Director maintain regular Director’s shareholding as at 31st Articles of Association. contact with each other and on December 2014 is; occasions with the Executives. As The Directors are also regularly such, there was 1 Non-Executive provided information on the Directors meetings held during the Direct securities held financial performance and board year. All Directors have separate decisions status updates. Any company email accounts and are Ahmed Niyaz 0 additional information may be further provided with iPad/laptop requested by any Director as and to encourage easier access to Adam Azim 25 when required. board papers and company affairs. Ahmed Shaheer 50 The Company is further working on Amir Mansoor 0 Board Committees a Board Portal enabling Directors to access board papers, board Abdul Hadi Hussain 60 The Board has 3 board calendar, board evaluation, updates Fulhu committees. These are Audit and on board decisions compliance list, Aishath Rafiyya 0 Risk Committee, Nomination company information, company and Remuneration Committee calendar and events, online. It Mohamed Farshath 50 and the Corporate Governance is planned to implement this and Compliance Committee. The programme within the first quarter membership, responsibilities of 2015. Indirect securities held and activities of each of these committees are further described Ahmed Niyaz 0 in this report. Furthermore, Conflict of Interest the remuneration report of the Procedure Adam Azim 0 Nomination and Remuneration Ahmed Shaheer 125 Committee is available on page 46. The Company has a Board approved The Nomination and Remuneration Conflict of Interest Policy for the Amir Mansoor 0 Committee is combined for the Directors. As part of this process, purpose of expediency, since the Directors must disclose any Abdul Hadi Hussain 220 majority of same Directors are company, association or other Fulhu entrusted with the functions of affiliation where he/she and his/ Aishath Rafiyya 0 both committees. Membership and her immediate family members performance of these committees hold a significant interest. This Mohamed Farshath 0 are reviewed annually. However, information is reviewed and tallied in 2014, the membership of the by the Registrar of Companies to committees were reviewed twice, confirm the information provided. once after the AGM and once after the appointment of the There were no known substantial 7th Director to the Board. Each or material third party transactions committee has a set of guidelines made by the Directors or the in the form of charters, approved Management, during the year. by the Board and signed by the members. 38 corporate governance report Board Activities ▫ Reviewed feedback received on Based on this audit and the management meetings with result of 2014 evaluation, the During the year, key activities and the majority shareholder Directors believe that the Board decisions made by the Board of is functioning effectively and that Directors include; ▫ Received and reviewed reports the Board’s principle committees from board committees were also continuing to function Strategy efficiently. Furthermore, all ▫ Reviewed 6 month Directors were believed to have ▫ Held meetings to develop a 5 performance reports of group made a valuable contribution, year strategic business plan companies twice the year including time, to their respective roles. ▫ Provided strategic directions to AGM the subsidiary boards Based on the list of recommended ▫ Reviewed the preparations actions raised from the evaluation Governance and Risk for the holding of AGM and and the audit, areas identified subsequently discussed issues for action from 2014 evaluation ▫ Approved company’s monthly, arising from the meeting include; quarterly and annual results Policy Gap ▫ Decided on the dividend for Board Performance the year 2013 Evaluation ▫ To develop a policy and procedure development ▫ Participated and held board An evaluation was carried out on framework while identifying performance evaluation for the the performance of the Company, the policy gaps year 2013 held in early 2014 Chairman, Managing Director, Individual Directors, Committees Group-wide Board ▫ Participated and held board and the Company Secretary. This Responsibility performance evaluation for the evaluation is carried out annually year 2014 – held in early 2015 with the aim of improving the ▫ Group wide objectives need to effectiveness of the Board and its be articulated and practiced in ▫ Reviewed the composition and members and the performance all areas size of board committees of the group. The current board evaluation procedure and form was Risk Management ▫ Reviewed regulatory matters reviewed by an external party (BDO Committee periodically Partners, Sri Lanka) during the year and their recommendations were ▫ The importance of Performance Monitoring accepted to the procedure. separation of Audit and Risk functions both in Board and ▫ Reports on directors trainings Performance evaluation of Management was identified and share market were sent Directors for the year 2014 was to Chairman and Managing carried out in February 2015. Internal Control Director The results were tabulated and Assessment discussed in the Board. ▫ Board Decisions update and ▫ To strengthen monitoring of compliance list is emailed to all Apart from this, a Corporate internal controls group wide directors weekly for their review Governance Audit was carried out by an independent party, ▫ Regular presentations were the Columbus Circle Governance, Director Remuneration made to the Board on policies, an independent firm based in regulations and other relevant Malaysia. This audit focused on Details on director remuneration information by management the Company’s adherence to is provided in the remuneration and implementation of good report of Nomination and ▫ Approved the financial budget governance within business. Remuneration Committee. Refer for 2015/16 page 47 for this information. ▫ Approved write off documents for the year 2014 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 39 Board Development Engaging with Media Releases Shareholders The Chairman, with the support The Company ensures that of the Company Secretary is The Board works to ensure media releases are made to the responsible for the induction effective liaison with the media on all significant corporate of new directors and their Company’s shareholders so that developments and business continuous development. Training both its objectives and those of initiatives through its Business and development is provided to shareholders are understood. Development and Public Relations all Directors. During the year, 4 Department. Non-Executive Directors; Ahmed The Company discloses its Niyaz, Abdul Hadi Hussain achievements and prospects to Fulhu, Mohamed Farshath shareholders through quarterly Company Website and Amir Mansoor attended reports, monthly financials, annual the Singapore Management reports, announcements, press Information on the Company’s University – Singapore Institute releases and other postings on the performance, financial information, of Directors Diploma on Company’s website. Furthermore, press releases, annual reports, all Directorship programme. All the Chairman, the Managing relevant announcements, related 4 Directors participated and Director, the Executive Director information and other corporate have successfully completed and the Chief Financial Officer information are available on the all modules of this programme. have met the majority shareholder, Company’s website at www.sto.mv. Furthermore, all Directors of the occasionally, to discuss the Board have completed the Institute business strategy and current for Corporate Directors and performance. Systems for Raising Secretaries, Maldives Directorship Concern programme. The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications on Appropriate mechanisms are matters of corporate governance in place to enable employees, while the Head of Department for management or other stakeholders Some trainings attended Business Development and Public to raise any concerns, whether on Relations act as the focal point for a confidential basis or otherwise Leadership, Critical Thinking communications on matters of of any non-compliance or fraud and Innovation: Igniting corporate social responsibility. or other misdemeanor within creativity for work place excellence or to the Company. STO has Institute: GLOMACS implemented a Fraud Response Annual General Meeting Policy and a Whistleblower Policy. Budgeting, Forecasting and (AGM) The Company has established the Planning Process a whistleblower facility for the Institute: GLOMACS The AGM will be held on 29th May employees through the intranet Professional Leader 2015 at 2100 hours at the Hotel and a 'Raise your concern' facility Institute: GLOMACS Jen. The notice of the meeting was for other stakeholders through our announced on media and is also website. SID-SMU Directorship available in the Investors section Program on the Company’s website. All In addition, the Company has also Institute: Singapore Institute of Directors Singapore Management University attendees through proxy is advised implemented a Disciplinary and to fill in their proxy forms and Grievance Committee that looks Financial Analysis, Planning provide to the Secretariat before 24 into concerns and grievances raised and Control hours of the meeting. No individual by the staff. Institute: GLOMACS can represent shares exceeding 100 Advanced Financial Statement shares when attending through Analysis proxy. Institute: GLOMACS All resolutions passed at the Master class for Directors meeting will be through show Institute: Institute of Directors of hands, unless 10% of the shareholders of the Company request for a poll vote. 40 corporate governance report Accountability, Financials ▫ In accordance with the Dividend and Audit International Financial Reporting Standards In accordance with the dividend We confirm that, to the best policy of the Company, the Board of our knowledge, the financial ▫ Conforming to applicable laws has declared MVR 76 per share statements for the period from 1st and regulations for shareholders’ approval in the January to 31st December 2014 has upcoming Annual General Meeting been prepared in accordance with ▫ To provide information that are 2014. applicable accounting standards true and fair and gives a true and fair view of the Group and the Company’s ▫ Certified by the Managing Future Outlook consolidated and separate assets, Director and Chief Financial liabilities, financial position and Officer, and approved by the The Board has reviewed the results of operations. The Annual Board of Directors strategic plans and business plans Report provides a true and fair of the Company and the Directors view of the development and are confident that the Company performance of the business Internal Controls posseses the resources to continue and the position of the Group / the business as a going concern Company together with the a The Board of Directors are pleased and pursue the objectives set forth description of the key risks and and are constantly reviewing in the plans. uncertainty factors that we face. on the adequacy of the internal controls including financial, On behalf of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors, Executives operational, compliance controls and Staff exerted a tremendous and the risk management systems effort to manage the Group within implemented in the Organization. the principles of the Corporate Governance Code, Listing rules, In order to protect the resources Securities Act, CDOI Regulations and interests of the shareholders, and the Company’s Act. The Board a pragmatic system of internal of Director has complied with the controls have been maintained. Ahmed Niyaz recommendations by CMDA and The Board relies on the Audit and Chairman has declared where it has not Risk Committee and the Internal complied and the reason behind it. Audit Department in discharging its resonsibility to establish Every effort was made to bring internal controls are operating as success to the Group while prescribed within the Company. ensuring transparency, fairness and diligence in all respects with the A number of process audits, ultimate purpose of protecting and special audits and surprise audits Ahmed Shaheer promoting shareholder interests. were conducted during the year. Managing Director The Management has taken The consolidated and separate satisfactory measures to mitigate financial statements consists of the the issues identified in the report. Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, Statement of Changes in Shareholder Equity Independent Audit and Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. The Board of Directors welcomes The Consolidated and Separate the impartial opinion and Financial Statements of the year recommendations of the appointed ended 31st December 2014 have independent auditors and will been prepared; strive to improve any findings pointed out in the auditor’s report. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 41 Corporate Governance Committee Report Members & their Key Duties Attendance ▫ Develop and monitor the ▫ Ensure that an appropriate Company’s overall approach to business code of ethics is Mohamed Farshath corporate governance issues, established and reviewed Chairman 04/04 Period of service (in 2014): implement, administer, and necessarily for the Company (100%) Till date continue to develop a system of corporate governance within ▫ Ensure that appropriate the Company methods are being established for the stakeholders to submit ▫ Undertake an annual review of their recommendations and Amir Mansoor corporate governance issues inquiries to the necessary Member 04/04 and practices for the Company established regulatory bodies Period of service (in 2014): (100%) Till date and make recommendations in the Company for improvements where necessary ▫ Advise the Board or any of Abdul Hadi its committees on corporate Hussain Fulhu 02/02 Member governance issues (100%) Period of service (in 2014): 01 January 2014 till 02 ▫ Develop and implement an September 2014 orientation and educational program for new recruits to the Board Aishath Rafiyya Member 02/02 Period of service (in 2014): ▫ Develop a process for (100%) 02 September 2014 till assessing the effectiveness of date the Company, Board, individual Directors and its committees and ensure that the Board conducts these evaluations annually ▫ Ensure that Board and its committees review its Charters, annually ▫ Develop and ensure implementation of a conflict of interest disclosure policy for the Directors and employees of the Company 42 Corporate Governance Committee Report Governance The Committee comprises of 3 non-executive members, with majority being independent. Executive Directors, members of the Management and other parties are invited to attend the meetings as appropriate. The Committee has the authority to take independent professional advice on matters covered by its terms of reference at the Company’s expense. Meetings The Committee Charter is annually The Committee had 4 meetings reviewed and signed by the during the year under review. Directors. Committee Activities During The Committee Chairman reports the Year the outcomes of the meetings to the Board, regularly. Some of the major committee decisions made during the year The Committees effectiveness is include; reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board’s performance ▫ Reviewed committee decisions evaluation process. list and charter compliance ▫ Discussed on the feedback report of Corporate Governance Campaign ▫ Reviewed changes brought to the CMDA Corporate Governance Code ▫ Reviewed the comments received to the Board Evaluation procedure provided by the Independent HR Consultants (BDO Partners, Sri Conclusion Lanka) and decided to adopt the suggestions The Committee is satisfied with the activities carried out during the ▫ Developed a code of conduct year. for the group companies of STO On behalf of the Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee Mohamed Farshath Chairman STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 43 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Report Members & their Key Duties Attendance ▫ Develop a policy on employee ▫ Oversee any major changes in remuneration and fixing the employee benefit structures Amir Mansoor structure and the amount throughout the Company Chairman 05/05 of remuneration packages Period of service (in 2014): (100%) Till date of individual directors and ▫ Regularly review the structure, general employees of the size and composition Company. When setting (including the skills, knowledge this policy and structure, experience and diversity) no director or manager is of the board and make Mohamed Farshath involved in any decisions as recommendations to the board Member 05/05 to their own remuneration. with regard to any changes Period of service (in 2014): (100%) Till date In determining such policy, the committee shall take into ▫ Give full consideration to account all factors which it succession planning for deems necessary including directors and other senior relevant legal and regulatory executives in the course of its Abdul Hadi requirements, the provisions work, taking into account the Hussain Fulhu 05/05 Member and recommendations of the challenges and opportunities (100%) Period of service (in 2014): CMDA CG Code and associated facing the Company, and the Till date guidelines skills and expertise needed on the Board and management in ▫ Review the ongoing the future appropriateness and relevance Aishath Rafiyya of the remuneration policy ▫ Be responsible for identifying Member 03/03 Period of service (in 2014): and nomination for the (100%) 02 September 2014 till ▫ Approve the design of and approval of the Board, date determine targets for, any candidates to fill board performance related pay vacancies as and when they schemes operated by the arise Company and approve the total annual payments made ▫ Ensure that all directors under such schemes disclose any business interests that may result in a conflict of ▫ Determine the policy for, interest with the Company and scope of, pension arrangements for the Company ▫ Review the Board performance as required by law evaluation process from time to time ▫ Ensure that contractual terms of termination and any payments made are fair to the individuals and the Company 44 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Report Governance The Committee comprises of 4 non-executive members, with majority being independent. Executive Directors, members of the Management and other parties may be invited to attend the meetings as appropriate. The Committee has the authority Meetings to take independent professional advice on any matters covered The Committee had 5 meetings by its terms of reference at the during the year under review. Company’s expense. Committee Activities During The Committee Charter is annually the Year reviewed and signed by the Directors. Some of the major committee decisions made during the year The Committee Chairman reports include; the outcomes of the meetings to the Board, regularly. ▫ Reviewed retirement policy The Committees effectiveness is ▫ Reviewed bonus policy reviewed on an annual basis as part of the board’s performance ▫ Reviewed conflict of interest evaluation process. and disclosure policy ▫ Discussed and approved board directorship announcements, interviewed candidates and made recommendations to the Board on eligible candidates from public shareholders ▫ Discussed and recommended board on board diversity, ▫ Sent letter to Privatization structure and size and Corporatization Board recommending on nominating ▫ Reviewed committee decisions Directors to represent majority list and charter compliance shareholder ▫ Discussed and recommended Conclusion board on some structural changes The Committee is satisfied with the activities carried out during the year. On behalf of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Amir Mansoor Chairman STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 45 Remuneration improvement targets and ▫ Annual bonus – All executive Report attainment of certain financial objective directors are eligible for an annual bonus. The overall company bonus was based on This section reports on the ▫ The Company's remuneration the equal disbursement of a remuneration of both Executive policy is formulated to specific percentage of the net and Non-Executive Directors. The attract and retain high profit among all employees. As remuneration of the Executive calibre executives and to such, the executive directors Directors is set in accordance with motivate them to develop and received their bonus in the salary structure inspected by implement the Company's accordance with the bonus the Nomination and Remuneration business strategy in order to policy of the Company Committee and approved by optimize long term shareholder the Board of Directors. The value creation. ▫ Deferred bonus – no deferred Committee had further last made bonus was provided to the its recommendations to the salary ▫ All employee remuneration Directors structure of the Managing Director comprises of 2 basic principles in 2013. No changes to the package fixed and performance based ▫ Share / stock options – no has been brought since then. components share options were provided to the Directors The remuneration of the Non▫ The Company has a systematic Executive Directors is set by evaluation methodology to ▫ Pension – the Executive the shareholders at the Annual evaluate each employees Directors receive pension as General Meeting, based on the performance annually, which per the Company policies recommendation of the Board. accesses the degree to which each employee is satisfying the ▫ Severance fee – A severance The Remuneration policy of the requirement of their role and fee of three month Company indicates that; performance objectives remuneration was paid to the former Managing Director ▫ At least half the board should (a) Executive Directors Adam Azim, upon removal comprise of non-executive from his post on 9th March directors with majority of such ▫ Salary – no changes were 2015 directors being independent brought to the salary structure of the executive directors ▫ Notice periods – No notice ▫ Non-executive directors during the year. The amount periods were provided to any shall be remunerated by way of salary and other payments existing Director or previous of fees paid, including fees are decided on the basis of Directors paid in recognition of their educational qualifications and memberships on the Board and experience. Apart from this, ▫ Subsidiary directorships and its sub-committees the Executive Directors are fees entitled to – Former also provided with the same Managing Director Adam Azim ▫ The executive directors should remuneration as the Nonsat in the Board of Directors be paid the same fee as that Executive Directors for their of STO Maldives (Singapore) received by the non-executive works on the Board Pte Ltd, Maldives National directors, for their board Oil Company Ltd, STO Hotels membership ▫ Service contracts – there are & Resorts Pvt Ltd and Addu no specific service contracts International Airport Ltd. He ▫ Executive directors shall agreed between the Company received a monthly salary of also receive variable salaries and the executive directors MVR2,500.00 and a sitting fee in addition to the Board other than the employment of MVR300.00 per meeting membership fees. This salary contract for the job from both STO Maldives must be a market median of (Singapore) Pte Ltd and companies comparable in, ▫ Other benefits – are provided Maldives National Oil Company market segment, business as per the benefits list Ltd. He also received a monthly complexity and international approved by the Board. salary of MVR5,000.00 and scope. The executive’s personal This include transportation, a sitting fee of MVR300.00 performance is also considered insurance and discount per meeting from Addu where performance is related benefits from the Company International Airport Pvt to the fulfillment of various Ltd. He does not receive any 46 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Report remuneration from STO Hotels ▫ Annual bonus – Non Executive & Resorts Pvt Ltd. The Current Directors are not entitled to Managing Director Ahmed receive annual bonus Shaheer, sits on the same boards and receives the same ▫ Deferred bonus – no deferred remuneration bonus was provided to the Directors Any changes to these benefits are approved only after discussion ▫ Share / stock options – no in N&R committee and approval share options were provided to of the Board. Change is further the Directors subject to the results of board evaluation. ▫ Pension – the Directors do not receive any pension on their (b) Non-Executive Directors service ▫ Salary – no changes were ▫ Severance fee – No severance brought to the salary fee was provided to any structure of Non-Executive existing Director or previous Directors during the year. The Directors remuneration and sitting fee has been approved at the ▫ Notice periods – No notice Annual General Meeting, in periods were provided to any accordance with the Articles of existing Director or previous Association of the Company. Directors As such, the Directors receive In 2014, MVR964,124.80 was paid a monthly allowance of ▫ Subsidiary directorships to Directors as remuneration MVR10,000.00 and a sitting and fees entitled to – Nonwhile a total of MVR10,479,043.23 fee of MVR500.00 per meeting. Executive Directors do not sit was paid to the top management A further remuneration of in any group company boards as basic salary and allowance. MVR10,000.00 is provided Due to salary disparities in the to Chairman for his current employment market, the responsibilities for being the Board of Directors has chosen chairman and the highest not to disclose the individual authority in office remuneration and package of top management. ▫ Service contracts – there are no specific service There were no service contracts, contracts agreed between notice periods, severance fees or the Company and the Nonstock options given to the Top Executive Directors other than Management during the year. the Director Charters which indicates that the Board is appointed from one Annual Director Total board remuneration received in 2014(in MVR) General Meeting to the next. However, the Government Ahmed Niyaz (Chairman) 256,435.56 holds the right to change its appointments as per Articles of Adam Azim (Former MD) 135,580.65 Association at any given time they prefer Ahmed Shaheer (MD) 133,162.90 ▫ Other benefits – are provided Amir Mansoor 114,965.49 as per the benefits list approved by the Board. Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu 135,300.00 This include transportation, insurance and discount Aishath Rafiyya 49,300.21 benefits from the Company Mohamed Farshath 138,900.00 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 47 Audit and Risk Committee Report Members & their Key Duties Governance Attendance ▫ Monitoring the integrity of the The Committee comprises of 3 nonannual and interim financial executive members, with majority statements, accompanying being independent. The Committee Abdul Hadi reports to shareholders Chairman is a graduate in Finance Hussain Fulhu 08/08 and corporate governance and all members are believed to Chairman (100%) Period of service (in 2014): statements have adequate experience and Till date knowledge in the business field. ▫ Reviewing and monitoring the Executive Directors, members of effectiveness of the Company’s the Management and other parties Amir Mansoor internal control to ensure that are invited to attend the meetings Member adequate measures are taken as appropriate. Meetings of this 08/08 Period of service (in 2014): (100%) to safeguard Company’s assets Committee is further facilitated by Till date either the Chief Internal Auditor ▫ Overseeing the Company’s and/or the Chief Financial Officer. relations with the external Mohamed Farshath auditors The Committee has the authority Member to take independent professional 08/08 Period of service (in 2014): ▫ Making recommendation to advice on any matters covered (100%) Till date Board on the appointment, by its terms of reference at the retention and removal of the Company’s expense. external auditors The Committee Charter is annually ▫ Ensure the independence and reviewed and signed by the credentials of independent Directors. auditors The Committee Chairman reports ▫ Review performance of the the outcomes of the meetings to internal audit function and the Board, regularly. independent auditors The Committees effectiveness is ▫ Approving the terms of reviewed on an annual basis as reference and plans of the part of the board’s performance internal audit function evaluation process. ▫ Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular reports from the head of internal audit on effectiveness of the internal control system ▫ Ensuring compliance to statutory requirements and ethical standards 48 Audit and Risk Committee Report Meetings The Committee had 8 meetings during the year under review. External Audit Committee Activities During the Year The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the External Audit plan Some of the major committee including the scope and the fee decisions made during the year for the annual audit and also had include; discussions with the external Internal Audit auditors prior to the year-end audit ▫ Reviewed committee decisions to discuss their audit approach The Audit and Risk Committee is list and charter compliance and procedures, including matters supported by the Internal Audit relating to the scope of the audit. Department, which is headed by Dr. ▫ Discussed on the internal audit Ibrahim Mahfooz, the Chief Internal work plans and its progress The Committee reviewed the Auditor who directly reports to from time to time results of external audit and the the Audit and Risk Committee. The recommendations contained in Department has staff experienced ▫ Discussed on the internal audit the Management Letters arising and qualified in the fields of department, functions and its from the audit and annual financial finance, sales & marketing and budget statements. They further ensured auditing. that appropriate follow up actions ▫ Discussed on the planned were taken. The Departments audit plans are audit reports and special audit reviewed and approved by the reports conducted The independence and objectivity Audit and Risk Committee. The of the external auditors were performance of Internal Audit ▫ Discussed on the management reviewed by the Committee, which Department is appraised by the letter held the view that the services Committee on an annual basis outside scope of the statutory against the audit plan and pre▫ Evaluated the Chief Internal audit provided by the external determined key performance Auditor auditors have not impaired their indicators. Key issues were independence. The Committee highlighted and recommendations ▫ Discussed and presented recommended to Board, to change were made for management recommendations to Board on external auditors to KPMG for actions in the audit reports. Budget 2015 the financial year 2014 and the Committee further recommended ▫ Discussed on the self-review to the Board to re-appoint the Conclusion of internal audit department same auditors for the year 2015. and made recommendations Throughout the year, Audit for action and Risk Committee gave key importance to address the issues ▫ Reviewed and made related to audit and risk as recommendations to Board recommended by the auditors. and Management on the Audit Committee is satisfied with whistleblowers received the activities carried out by the Committee during the year. On behalf of the Committee Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu Chairman STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 49 Risk Report Our management systems, structures, processes, standards and codes of conduct together form a system of internal control that governs how we conduct the business and manage associated The Company’s risk governance risks. and oversight functions are further disbursed on the following Our audit team provides authorities within the Company. Strategic and Commercial independent assurance to the Risks management and board through ▫ Executive team meeting – for Audit and Risk Committee, on the strategic, financial, trading and Save MVR 50M Plan effectiveness of the system of commercial risks internal controls. In 2014 the Company set out a ▫ Emergency, Organization save MVR50M plan to address Health & Safety Committee efficient management of operating – for health, safety, security, expenditure, investments and environment and operations timely delivery of projects. The plan integrity risks also focused on ensuring employee accountability and reducing other ▫ Bonus, Staff Evaluation, means of wastage in resources. Remuneration and Scholarship Committee – for employee Political Challenges risks The diverse locations of our ▫ Investment Review Committee operations around the Country – for risks related to expose us to a wide range investment decisions of political developments and consequent changes to ▫ STO Board of Directors the economic and operating environment. We seek to manage ▫ Audit & Risk Committee this risk actively through the development and maintenance of ▫ Corporate Governance relationships with government and Compliance Committee stakeholders in each region. ▫ Nomination and Remuneration Cyber Security Committee The threats to the security of our digital infrastructure continue to evolve and, like many other global organizations, our reliance on computers and network technology is increasing. A cyber security breach could have a significant impact on business operations. We seek to manage this risk through adhering to cyber security's best standards, ongoing monitoring of threats, close cooperation with authorities and awareness initiatives throughout the Company. We also maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity management plans. 50 Audit and Risk Committee Report Compliance and Control Risks Ethical Misconduct and Legal or Regulatory Non-compliance Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws or regulations could damage our reputation, adversely affect operational results and shareholder value. This compliance is assured by an effective team of legal and compliance in the Company. Safety and Operational Additionally, we have adopted the Risks UN global compact requirements covering areas such as anti-bribery Process Safety, Personal and corruption, anti-money Safety and Environmental laundering, competition/anti-trust Risks law and trade sanctions. We keep abreast of new regulations and The nature of the group’s legislation and plan our response operations exposes us to a wide to them. We also provide a range of significant health, safety range of compliance training and and environmental risks such as monitoring programmes for our incidents associated with releases employees. Our company is open of chemicals while operating in to feedback and listens to its the oil and gas industry, cement employees, contractors and other manufacturing and other similar stakeholders, closely. operations. We apply our operating management system (OMS) and Business Process Compliance the best practices in engineering techniques to address these risks. In the normal course of business, Activities include inspection, we are subject to risks around our maintenance, testing, business trading activities which could arise continuity and crisis response from shortcomings or failures in planning, and competency our systems, risk management development for our employees Security methodology, internal control and third parties. processes or employees. We have Hostile acts such as terrorism specific operating standards and or piracy could harm our people control processes to address and disrupt our operations. We these risks. As such the effective monitor for emerging threats implementation of SAP has been a and vulnerabilities to manage development in the management our physical and digital security. of risks and control in standard of Physical security threats tend to businesses. vary geographically and by type of business. Our emergency, health and safety committee together with regional sales team provides guidance and support to conduct assurance with respect to the management of security risks affecting our people and operations. We also maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity management plans in the subsidiaries. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 51 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of State Trading Organization PLC (the consider internal control relevant to the Group’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated and separate “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together with the “Group”), financial statements in order to design audit procedures which comprise the consolidated statement of financial that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the position as at 31st December 2014, and the consolidated purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and of the Group’s internal control. An audit also includes cash flows for the year then ended and notes, comprising evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used a summary of significant accounting policies and other and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by explanatory information set out in page 3 to 55. management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of We have audited the accompanying separate financial the consolidated and separate financial statements. statements of State Trading Organization PLC (the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is “Company”), which comprise the separate statement of sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit financial position as at 31st December 2014, and the separate opinions. statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended and notes, comprising Opinion Group a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information set out in page 3 to 55. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31st December 2014, and of its consolidated Management’s Responsibility for the consolidated and financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the separate Financial Statements year then ended in accordance with International Financial Management is responsible for the preparation and fair Reporting Standards. presentation of these consolidated and separate financial statements in accordance with International Financial Opinion Company Reporting Standards and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the In our opinion, the separate financial statements give a preparation of consolidated and separate financial statements true and fair view of the separate financial position of the that are free from material misstatement, whether due to Company as at 31st December 2014 and of its unconsolidated fraud or error. financial performance and its unconsolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Other Matter consolidated and separate financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with The consolidated and separate financial statements of the International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require Group and the Company for the year ended 31st December that we comply with relevant ethical requirements and plan 2013 were audited by another auditor who expressed and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about unmodified opinions on those consolidated and separate whether the consolidated and separate financial statements financial statements on 29th April 2014. are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Chartered Accountants consolidated and separate financial statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated and separate financial statements, whether 13th May 2015 due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we Male' 52 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Group Company FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2014 2013 2014 2013 Note MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) Revenue 7 9,171,144,489 11,129,746,585 8,923,127,481 10,782,422,632 Cost of Sales (7,780,961,195) (9,838,240,213) (7,637,448,604) (9,665,528,712) Gross Profit 1,390,183,294 1,291,506,372 1,285,678,877 1,116,893,920 Other Income 8 127,368,484 113,944,912 70,598,442 53,125,665 Administrative Expenses (408,068,784) (343,814,018) (256,091,539) (211,539,452) Selling & Marketing Expenses (328,929,247) (372,303,243) (399,089,224) (364,203,950) Other Operating Expenses (19,724,353) (3,589,975) (10,453,148) (1,735,609) Operating Profit 760,829,394 685,744,048 690,643,408 592,540,574 Finance Income 9 36,014,744 45,152,742 73,920,021 83,727,726 Finance Costs 9 (231,626,174) (559,291,544) (222,833,869) (552,146,183) Net Finance Costs 9 (195,611,430) (514,138,802) (148,913,848) (468,418,457) Share of profit of equity accounted investees net of tax 7,358,535 6,502,556 Profit Before Tax 10 572,576,499 178,107,802 541,729,560 124,122,117 Income Tax Expense 11 (92,648,821) (13,465,424) (71,979,768) 2,798,643 Profit for the Year 479,927,678 164,642,378 469,749,792 126,920,760 Other Comprehensive Income Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-Sale financial assets net change in fair value 19 (1,250,000) (7,999,810) (7,999,810) Foreign operations foreign currency translation differences (311,826) 400,072 Total Other Comprehensive Income (1,561,826) (7,599,738) (7,999,810) Total Comprehensive Income for the Year 478,365,852 157,042,640 469,749,792 118,920,950 Profit attributable to: Owners of the Company 478,301,743 162,599,008 469,749,792 126,920,760 Non Controlling Interest 1,625,935 2,043,370 479,927,678 164,642,378 469,749,792 126,920,760 Total Comprehensive Income attributable to: Owners of the Company 476,739,917 154,999,270 469,749,792 118,920,950 Non Controlling Interest 1,625,935 2,043,370 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year 478,365,852 157,042,640 469,749,792 118,920,950 Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share 12 424 144 417 113 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 59 to 99. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 52. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 53 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC 54 (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Group Company AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Note MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR ( Restated ) ( Restated ) ( Restated ) ( Restated ) ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, Plant and Equipment 13 1,693,073,062 1,528,954,327 1,427,017,213 1,418,826,165 1,261,697,136 1,154,189,946 financial statements Investment properties 14 11,820,687 7,693,488 9,678,433 11,820,687 7,693,488 9,678,433 Intangible Asset 15 31,582,994 42,597,618 44,685,656 20,731,587 33,559,686 37,612,935 Prepaid Lease Rent 16 38,382,822 40,697,364 43,011,905 38,382,822 40,697,364 43,011,905 Investment in Subsidiaries 17 117,249,835 117,249,835 117,249,835 Equity Accounted Investees 18 40,943,142 43,584,606 45,261,345 15,267,267 15,267,267 25,267,267 Investment Available for Sale 19 27,490,800 176,222,400 172,653,410 12,740,800 160,222,400 156,653,410 Receivables from Related Parties 22 28,558,305 48,087,048 57,291,033 28,558,305 48,087,048 57,291,033 Deferred Tax Assets 11.3 61,150,173 59,503,822 27,191,151 57,574,769 56,325,127 26,026,724 Total Non-Current Assets 1,933,001,985 1,947,340,673 1,826,790,146 1,721,152,237 1,740,799,351 1,626,981,488 Current Assets Inventories 20 706,352,275 794,072,037 595,366,749 636,086,651 749,386,120 507,580,657 Trade and Other Receivables 21 1,138,185,913 687,079,364 805,908,062 298,111,212 157,492,817 205,925,000 Prepaid Lease Rent 16 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 Loan granted to related parties 23 10,986,414 14,068,923 Amount Due from Related Parties 22 690,687,709 1,252,685,206 1,463,007,469 1,575,338,170 1,708,305,231 2,138,495,681 Reinsurance Contracts 24 203,516,065 156,266,299 92,493,780 Investment Held to Maturity 25 90,684,601 62,643,934 70,684,817 Cash and Cash Equivalents 26 670,429,290 527,377,480 867,188,153 521,412,962 354,575,477 753,499,927 Total Current Assets 3,502,170,395 3,482,438,862 3,896,963,572 3,033,263,537 2,983,060,601 3,621,884,730 Total Assets 5,435,172,380 5,429,779,535 5,723,753,718 4,754,415,774 4,723,859,952 5,248,866,218 financial statements EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share Capital 27 56,345,500 56,345,500 56,345,500 56,345,500 56,345,500 56,345,500 Share Premium 27 27,814,500 27,814,500 27,814,500 27,814,500 27,814,500 27,814,500 Claim Equalization Reserve 27 29,028,054 23,495,445 17,465,979 Currency Translation Reserve 27 334,411 646,237 246,165 General Reserve 27 498,978,237 401,350,213 373,969,167 493,303,277 399,353,319 373,969,167 Fair Value Reserve 27 (1,250,000) 19,113,088 27,112,898 19,113,088 27,112,898 Retained Earnings 1,238,680,332 890,585,062 845,914,816 974,703,677 625,949,683 608,931,325 Total Equity Attributable to Equity holders of the Parent 1,849,931,034 1,419,350,045 1,348,869,025 1,552,166,954 1,128,576,090 1,094,173,390 Non-Controlling Interest 28 10,071,163 8,445,228 6,668,110 Total Equity 1,860,002,197 1,427,795,273 1,355,537,135 1,552,166,954 1,128,576,090 1,094,173,390 Liabilities Non-Current Liabilities Loans and Borrowings 29 391,859,569 217,597,788 92,489,882 391,859,569 217,597,788 92,489,882 Deferred Income 31 8,899,504 3,104,500 2,320,119 Deferred Tax Liability 11 2,992,637 3,346,595 3,476,959 Total Non-Current Liabilities 403,751,710 224,048,883 98,286,960 391,859,569 217,597,788 92,489,882 Current Liabilities Loans and Borrowings 29 717,898,010 701,018,064 833,837,157 635,079,290 591,018,064 833,837,157 Derivative financial instruments 32 10,011,577 17,890,509 25,687,485 10,011,577 17,890,509 25,687,485 Deferred Income 31 3,929,482 2,982,755 2,229,133 Trade and Other Payables 30 1,607,424,590 2,460,763,007 2,765,557,789 1,545,837,843 2,414,895,762 2,700,138,137 Amounts due to related parties 35 117,774,457 30,112,429 46,789,541 254,268,396 52,293,026 83,192,198 Insurance Contracts 33 319,062,091 244,599,685 159,360,955 Current tax liabilities 34 72,994,284 20,556,000 29,375,035 60,541,458 12,669,986 16,735,224 Bank Overdrafts 26 322,323,982 300,012,930 407,092,528 304,650,687 288,918,727 402,612,745 Total Current Liabilities 3,171,418,473 3,777,935,379 4,269,929,623 2,810,389,251 3,377,686,074 4,062,202,946 Total Liabilities 3,575,170,183 4,001,984,262 4,368,216,583 3,202,248,820 3,595,283,862 4,154,692,828 Total Equity and Liabilities 5,435,172,380 5,429,779,535 5,723,753,718 4,754,415,774 4,723,859,952 5,248,866,218 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 59 to 99. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on page 52. These consolidated and separate financial statements were approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by; 55 13th May 2015 Mohamed Mihad Chief Financial Officer Ahmed Niyaz Ahmed Shaheer Mohamed Farshath Chairman Managing Director Director STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 56 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2014 GROUP Attributable to Equity holders Claim Currency NonShare Share Equalization Translation General Fair Value Retained Total Controlling Total Capital Premium Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings Interest Equity MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR As at 1st January 2013 as Previously Stated 56,345,500 27,814,500 17,465,979 246,165 373,969,167 27,112,898 885,444,856 1,388,399,065 6,668,110 1,395,067,175 Impact of Restatements (Note 45 a) (39,530,040) (39,530,040) (39,530,040) Restated balance as at 1st January 2013 56,345,500 27,814,500 17,465,979 246,165 373,969,167 27,112,898 845,914,816 1,348,869,025 6,668,110 1,355,537,135 financial statements Restated Profit for the Year 162,599,008 162,599,008 2,043,370 164,642,378 Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (Note 19) (7,999,810) (7,999,810) (7,999,810) Foreign operations foreign currency translation differences 400,072 400,072 400,072 Total comprehensive income for the year 400,072 (7,999,810) 162,599,008 154,999,270 2,043,370 157,042,640 Transfer to / (from ) during the year general reserve 27,381,046 (27,381,046) claim equalization reserve 6,029,466 (6,029,466) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (84,518,250) (84,518,250) (266,252) (84,784,502) Total transaction with owners of the Company (84,518,250) (84,518,250) (266,252) (84,784,502) As at 31st December 2013 56,345,500 27,814,500 23,495,445 646,237 401,350,213 19,113,088 890,585,062 1,419,350,045 8,445,228 1,427,795,273 As at 1st January 2014 56,345,500 27,814,500 23,495,445 646,237 401,350,213 19,113,088 890,585,062 1,419,350,045 8,445,228 1,427,795,273 Profit for the Year 478,301,743 478,301,743 1,625,935 479,927,678 Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (Note 19) (1,250,000) (1,250,000) (1,250,000) Foreign operations foreign currency translation differences (311,826) (311,826) (311,826) Total comprehensive income for the year (311,826) (1,250,000) 478,301,743 476,739,917 1,625,935 478,365,852 Transfer to / (from ) during the year fair value reserve (19,113,088) (19,113,088) (19,113,088) general reserve 97,628,024 (97,628,024) claim equalization reserve 5,532,609 (5,532,609) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (27,045,840) (27,045,840) (27,045,840) Total transaction with owners of the Company (27,045,840) (27,045,840) (27,045,840) As at 31st December 2014 56,345,500 27,814,500 29,028,054 334,411 498,978,237 (1,250,000) 1,238,680,332 1,849,931,034 10,071,163 1,860,002,197 The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 59to 99. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on page 52. FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2014 COMPANY Share Share General Fair Value Retained Total Capital Premium Reserve Reserve Earnings Equity MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR As at 1st January 2013 56,345,500 27,814,500 373,969,167 27,112,898 608,931,325 1,094,173,390 Profit for the Year 126,920,760 126,920,760 Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (Note 19) (7,999,810) (7,999,810) Total comprehensive income for the year (7,999,810) 126,920,760 118,920,950 Transfer to / (from ) during the year general reserve 25,384,152 (25,384,152) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (84,518,250) (84,518,250) Total transaction with owners of the Company (84,518,250) (84,518,250) As at 31st December 2013 56,345,500 27,814,500 399,353,319 19,113,088 625,949,683 1,128,576,090 As at 1st January 2014 56,345,500 27,814,500 399,353,319 19,113,088 625,949,683 1,128,576,090 Profit for the Year 469,749,792 469,749,792 Total comprehensive income for the year 469,749,792 469,749,792 Transfer to / (from ) during the year fair value reserve (19,113,088) (19,113,088) general reserve 93,949,958 (93,949,958) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (27,045,840) (27,045,840) Total transaction with owners of the Company (27,045,840) (27,045,840) As at 31st December 2014 56,345,500 27,814,500 493,303,277 974,703,677 1,552,166,954 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 57 The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 53 to 99. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on page 52. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Group Company FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2014 2013 2014 2013 Note MVR MVR MVR MVR Cash Flows from Operating Activities Profit Before Tax 572,576,499 178,107,802 541,729,560 124,122,117 Adjustments for: Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment 13 75,206,723 82,066,963 46,708,525 51,754,259 Depreciation on Investment Properties 14 1,268,102 2,854,648 1,268,102 2,854,648 Amortization of Intangible Asset 15 14,620,957 11,735,538 12,828,099 10,804,372 Gain on Disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment 8 (35,302) (18,939) (35,302) (3,026) Gain on Disposal of available-for-sale investments 8 (29,346,841) (29,346,841) Provision for impairment of receivables 10 5,974,762 120,983,920 9,901,089 111,326,410 Provision for slow and non moving inventories 20 2,523,771 4,540,835 (2,410,653) 4,439,996 Provision for impairment of assets 13 671,375 671,375 Receivable written off 179,041 64,366 179,042 64,366 Gain on dilution of significant influence 8 (9,820,705) Share of profit of equity accounted investees, net of tax (7,358,535) (6,502,556) Currency translation differences (311,987) 393,210 Interest Expense 9 169,847,721 211,819,445 161,055,713 205,066,594 Interest Income 9 (19,226,265) (20,771,830) (19,448,301) (20,410,252) Dividend Income 9 (3,738,483) (11,223,702) (54,471,721) (63,317,475) Operating profit before working capital changes 782,180,163 564,900,370 667,957,312 427,373,384 Working capital changes Change in Inventories 85,195,991 (203,246,124) 115,710,122 (246,245,458) Change in Trade and Other Receivables (433,933,205) 147,362,145 (127,371,377) 99,243,094 Change in Amount due from Related Parties 558,199,091 59,017,247 129,168,655 278,885,434 Changes in Reinsurance Contracts (47,249,766) (54,872,344) Changes in Deferred Revenue 6,741,731 1,538,003 Change in Amount due to Related Parties 87,662,028 (16,677,112) 201,975,370 (30,899,172) Change in Trade and Other Payables (892,983,321) (368,534,851) (902,301,330) (348,982,443) Changes in Insurance Contracts 74,462,406 88,958,506 Cash Generated from Operating Activities 220,275,118 218,445,840 85,138,753 179,374,839 Interest Paid 9 (159,292,235) (225,048,814) (150,500,221) (218,295,963) Income Tax Paid 34 (42,210,845) (54,727,494) (25,357,938) (31,564,998) Net Cash generated from / (used in) Operating Activities 18,772,038 (61,330,469) (90,719,406) (70,486,122) Cash Flows from Investing Activities Purchase and Construction of Property, Plant and Equipment 13 (233,169,939) (176,548,197) (203,459,496) (151,624,265) Purchase and Construction of Investment Properties 14 (5,395,301) (869,703) (5,395,301) (869,703) Purchase of Intangible Assets 15 (3,606,333) (9,272,706) (6,376,329) Proceeds from sales of property, Plant and Equipment 2,595,987 239,798 1,971,788 35,712 Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale investments 158,090,353 158,090,353 Loan repayment received from related party 23 10,986,414 3,082,509 Purchase of available for sale financial assets 19 (375,000) (1,568,800) (375,000) (1,568,800) Purchase of held to maturity financial assets 25 (362,314,336) (618,547,548) Proceeds from sale of held to maturity financial assets 25 334,273,669 626,588,431 Interest received 19,226,265 19,079,144 19,448,301 18,717,566 Dividend Received 13,738,483 19,223,702 54,471,721 63,317,475 Net Cash (used in) / generated from Investing Activities (76,936,152) (141,675,879) 35,738,780 (75,285,835) Cash Flows from Financing activities Loans and borrowings obtanied 29 641,268,319 708,574,327 591,268,319 558,574,327 Repayments of Borrowings 29 (450,126,592) (716,285,514) (372,945,312) (676,285,514) Net payment made for currency SWAPs 32 (7,878,932) (7,796,975) (7,878,932) (7,796,975) Dividend paid (4,357,923) (14,216,565) (4,357,923) (13,950,313) Net Cash generated from / (used in) Financing Activities 178,904,872 (29,724,727) 206,086,152 (139,458,475) Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 120,740,758 (232,731,075) 151,105,525 (285,230,432) Cash and Cash Equivalents at beginning of the Year 227,364,550 460,095,625 65,656,750 350,887,182 Cash and Cash Equivalents at end of the Year 26 348,105,308 227,364,550 216,762,275 65,656,750 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The consolidated and separate financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and separate financial statements of the Company set out on pages 59 to 99. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on page 52. 58 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT 1. REPORTING ENTITY The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statement from the date that control commences until the date 1.1 Parent Company that control ceases. State Trading Organization PLC (the “Company”) is a Company (iii) Interests in equity – accounted investees incorporated and domiciled in the Republic of Maldives as a public The Group’s interest in equityaccounted investees comprise interests in limited liability Company since 2001 and presently governed under associates and joint venture. the Companies’ Act No. 10 of 1996 with its registered office at Associates are those entities in which the group has significant influence, Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Maafannu, Male’ 20345, Republic of but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. Maldives. A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, The main business of the Company is importing and trading of various whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather types of consumable and industrial goods than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. Interest in the associates and the joint venture are accounted for using the 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION equity method. It is recognized initially at cost, which include transaction (a) Statement of Compliance costs. Subsequently to initial recognition, the consolidated financial The consolidated and separate financial statements have been statement include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and OCI of equity prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting – accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint Standards (IFRSs). venture ceases. (b) Basis of Measurement (iv) Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation The consolidated and separate financial statements have been Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealized income and prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following items, expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing which are measured on an alternative basis on each reporting date. the consolidated financial statements. Unrealized gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the Items Measurement basis investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains, but only to the Derivative Financial instrument at fair Fair value extent that there is no evidence of impairment. value through profit or loss (v) Non-Controlling interest NonDerivative Financial instrument Fair Value at fair value through profit or loss Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and Available for sale financial Assets Fair Value net assets not held by the Group and are presented separately in the consolidated income statement and within equity in the consolidated statement of financial position, separately from parent shareholders’ equity. (c) Functional and Presentation Currency Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of These consolidated and separate financial statements are presented in control are accounted for as equity transaction. Maldivian Rufiyaa, which is the Group’s functional currency. All financial (vi) Common Control Transactions information presented in Maldivian Rufiyaa has been rounded to the nearest Rufiyaa. A business combination involving entities or business under Common Control is a business combination in which all the combining entities (d) Use of Estimates and Judgements or businesses ultimately are controlled by the same party or parties The preparation of consolidated and separate financial statements both before and after the Combination and Control is not transitionary. in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, Acquisitions under Common Control transactions in the group are estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting accounted applying book value accounting on the basis that the investment policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and simply has been moved from one party of the group to another. expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. (vii) Loss of Control Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing When the Group losses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes the basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, and any related NCI and other in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. components of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit Information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and or loss. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most fair value when control is lost. significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated and separate financial statements are included in the respective notes. 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 Basis of Consolidation The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated and separate financial (i) Business Combinations statements, and have been applied consistently by the Group/ the The Group accounts for business combination is prepared using the Company. acquisition method when control is transferred to the Group. The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at 3.1 Foreign Currency fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill (i) Transactions in Foreign Currencies that arise is tested for annually for impairment. Any gain on a bargain Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Rufiyaa purchase is recognized in profit or loss immediately. Transaction costs at the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction. Monetary assets are expensed as incurred, expensed as incurred, except if related to the and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to issue of debt or equity securities. Maldivian Rufiyaa at the exchange rate ruling at the reporting date. The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognized in settlement of pre – existing relationship. Such amounts are generally the profit or loss. recognized in profit or loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities, which are measured at historical Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at cost, denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as Rufiyaa at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of transactions. equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for Non monetary assets and liabilities, which are stated at fair value, within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Rufiyaa contingent consideration are recognized in profit or loss. at the exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were determined. (ii) Subsidiaries However, foreign currency differences arising from the translation of Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the the following items are recognised on OCI: Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and Available – for –Sale equity investments (excepts on impairment, in operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 59 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) which case foreign currency differences that have been recognized in Cash and Cash equivalents OCI are reclassified to profit or loss) Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and cash in hand. (ii) Foreign Operations For the purpose of cash flows, the cash and cash equivalent is shown The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill net of bank overdraft. and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into Held – to – Maturity Financial Assets Maldivian Rufiyaa at the exchange rate ruling at the reporting date. These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they Maldivian Rufiyaa at the average exchange rate. are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Foreign currency differences are recognised in OCI and accumulated (ii) Financial liabilities (Non-derivative) in the translation reserve, except to the extent that the translation differences is allocated to NCI. The Group initially recognizes debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated. All other financial are When a foreign operation is disposed of in its entirely or partially recognized initially on the trade date at which the Group becomes such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The Group cumulative amount in the translation reserve related to that foreign derecognizes a financial liability when its contractual obligations are operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on discharged or cancelled or expire. disposal. If the group disposes of part of its interest in a subsidiary but retain control, then the relevant proportion of the Cumulative Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented amount is rearrtibuted to NCI. When the group disposes of only part in the statement of financial position when, and only when, the of an associate or joint venture while retaining significant influence Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either or joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability reclassified to profit or loss. simultaneously. If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable The Group has non-derivative financial liabilities such as Loans and to a foreign operation is neither planned not likely to occur in the borrowings, Amounts due to related parties, Insurance contracts, foreseeable future, then foreign currency differences arising from Derivative financial instrument, trade and other payables. These such item from part of the net investment in the foreign operation. financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value plus any directly Accordingly, such differences are recognised in OCI and accumulated in attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, these the translation reserve. financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 3.2 Financial instruments 3.3 Share Capital (i) Financial Assets (Non-derivative) Ordinary Shares The Group and Company initially recognizes trade and other receivables and deposits on the date that they are originated. All other financial Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly assets are recognized initially on the trade date at which the Group attributable to the issue of Ordinary shares are recognized as a and Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the deduction from equity. instrument. 3.4 Property, Plant and Equipment The Group and Company derecognizes a financial asset when the (i) Recognition and Measurement contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. Any Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition interest in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of the Group and Company is recognized as a separate asset or liability. materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount bringing the assets to a working condition for their intended use, the presented in the statement of financial position when, and only costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site when, the Group and Company has a legal right to offset the on which they are located and capitalized borrowing costs. Purchased amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The Group and is capitalized as part of that equipment. Company has the following financial assets (non-derivative): When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have ▫ Available for Sale Financial Assets different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. ▫ Loan and Receivables Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and ▫ Cash and Cash equivalents equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal ▫ Held – to – Maturity Financial Assets with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, and are Available for Sale Financial Assets recognized net within other income in profit or loss. The Group’s investment in equity securities are classified as available (ii) Subsequent Costs for sale financial assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, measured at cost less impairment loss since the fair value cannot be plant and equipment that is accounted for separately, including major ascertained using the appropriate valuation techniques. inspection and overhaul expenditure, is capitalized. Other subsequent Loans and Receivables expenditure is capitalized only if its probable that the future economic benefits embodied with the item will flow to the Company and the cost Loans and Receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable of the item can be measured reliably. All other costs are recognized in payments that are not quoted in an active market. Such assets the income statement as an expense as incurred. are recognized initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, receivables are (iii) Depreciation measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less Depreciation is calculated over the depreciable amount, which is the any impairment losses. cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residual Receivables comprise trade and other receivables, loans given to value. related parties, amounts due from related parties. Depreciation is recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over Trade and other receivables and Amounts due from Related Parties are the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant initially recognition at the fair value of the consideration received or and equipment, since this most closely reflects the expected pattern of receivable. Subsequent to initial recognition, insurance receivables are consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset. measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest rate method. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. 60 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are method includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, as follows: production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing Over the lease period or 20 years whichever is lower. them to their existing location. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of production All the assets except leasehold buildings are depreciated over the overheads based on normal operating capacity. following estimated useful lives. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Leasehold Buildings Over the lease period course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling Freehold buildings 5 20 Years expenses. Vessels and Fleet 5 15 Years 3.8 Impairment Motor vehicles 4-5 Years (i) Financial Assets (including receivables) Plant and Machinery 3 20 Years A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss, including Air Conditioners 3-4 Years an interest in an equity accounted investee are assessed at each Office Equipment 3-5 Years reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it Furniture and Fixtures 3-5 Years is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future at each financial year-end and adjusted if appropriate. The charge for cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably. the depreciation commences from the subsequent month in which The Group considers evidence of impairment for receivables at the property, plant and equipment is commissioned for commercial both a specific asset and collective level. All individually significant operation. receivables are assessed for specific impairment. All individually iv) Capital Work in Progress significant receivables found not to be specifically impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but Capital work in progress is stated at cost and includes all development not yet identified. Receivables that are not individually significant are expenditure and other direct costs attributable to such projects collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together receivables including borrowing costs capitalized. Capital work in progress is with similar risk characteristics. not depreciated until its completion of construction and the asset is put into use upon which the cost of completed construction works An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortized is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and equipment. the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. Losses are recognized in 3.5 Investment Property profit or loss and reflected in an allowance account against receivables. Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognized through Investment properties are properties held either to earn rental the unwinding of the discount. When a subsequent event causes the income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods is reversed through profit or loss. or services or for administrative purposes. Investment properties are measured at cost initial recognition and subsequently cost less The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets and accumulated depreciation. However, if there is impairment in value, inventories (Refer Note 3.7) are reviewed at each reporting date to other than of a temporary nature, the carrying amount is reduced to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such recognize the decline. indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet Depreciation on investment properties is recognized on a straight line available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each year at the basis over the following estimated useful lives. same time. Leasehold Buildings and Structures 20 to 25 years The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the On the disposal of an investment property, the difference between the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is charged or credited value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their to the profit or loss. present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the 3.6 Intangible Assets asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be (i) Recognition and Measurement tested individually are grouped together into the smallest group of Intangible assets that are acquired by the Company, which have finite assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely useful lives, are measured at cost less accumulated amortization and independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the accumulated impairment losses. “cash-generating unit, or CGU”). Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and For the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which implementation of identifiable and unique software products by goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which the Company are recognized as intangible assets. Expenditures that impairment is tested reflects the lowest level at which goodwill is enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programmer monitored for internal reporting purposes. Goodwill acquired in a beyond their original specifications and lives are recognized as a capital business combination is allocated to groups of CGUs that are expected improvement and added to the original cost of the software. to benefit from the synergies of the combination. (ii) Subsequent expenditure An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses Subsequent expenditure is only capitalized if costs can be measured are recognized in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognized in respect reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill economic benefits are probable and the Company has sufficient allocated to the units, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the resources to complete development and to use the asset. other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro rata basis. (iii) Amortization An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over other assets, impairment losses recognized in prior periods are assessed the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased from the date that they are available for use. The estimated useful or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An Computer Software 3 to 10 Years impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 3.7 Inventories determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. had been recognized. The cost of inventory item is based on the Weighted average method except in Maldive Gas Private Limited, which is on firstin-first-out STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 61 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 3.9 Insurance and investment contracts Reported, and Incurred but Not Enough Reported IBNR / IBNER) and IFRS 4 – Insurance contracts, required contracts writing by insurer to the provision for unearned premium and the provision for premium be classified as either “Insurance” or “Investment” defending on the deficiency. level of insurance risk transferred. The outstanding claims provision is based on the estimated ultimate Product Classification cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the reporting date, whether reported or not, together with related claims handling costs Insurance Contracts and reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. Insurance contracts are contracts under which the Group (the Insurer) Delays can be experienced in the notification and settlement of certain accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) types of claims, therefore, the ultimate cost of these cannot be known by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain with certainty at the reporting date. The liability is calculated at the future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. reporting date using a range of standard actuarial claim projection Significant insurance risk exists if an insured event could cause an techniques, based on empirical data and current assumptions insurer to pay significant additional benefits. Insurance contracts can that may include a margin for adverse deviation. The liability is not also transfer financial risk. The classification of contracts identifies discounted for the time value of money. No provision for equalization both the insurance contracts that the Company issues and reinsurance or catastrophe reserves is recognized. contracts that the Company holds. Insurance contracts can also At each reporting date, the Company reviews its unexpired risk and a transfer financial risk. liability adequacy test is performed in accordance with IFRS. Subsequent Classification (iii) Reserve for Unearned Premiums (UPR) Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains The reserve for unearned premiums represents that portion of an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have not insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights yet expired at the reporting date. The provision is recognized when and obligations are extinguished or expire. Investment contracts contracts are entered and is brought to account as premium income can, however, be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance risk becomes significant. insurance service provided under the contract. Provision for unearned premium is calculated on a 1 /24 basis except for marine / cargo class 3.10 Employee Benefits which is subject to 1/6 basis. Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is 3.14 Revenue provided. 3.14.1 Sale of Goods A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized in the profit or loss short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Company has a when significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result to the buyer. No revenue is recognized if there are significant of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated estimated reliably. costs or the possible return of goods. 3.11 Events Occurring After the Reporting Date 3.14.2 Revenue from Service Rendered The materiality of the events occurring after the reporting date has Revenue from services rendered is recognized by reference to the time been considered and provisions have been made in the consolidated of services rendered. and separate financial statements where necessary. 3.14.3 Gross Written Premium (GWP) 3.12 Liabilities and Provision (i) Non Life Insurance GWP A provision is recognized in the reporting date when the Group / the Gross written premiums comprise the total premiums receivable for Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered into during past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will the accounting period. They are recognised on the date on which the be required to settle the obligation. policy commences. Rebates that form part of the premium rate, such as no-claim rebates, are deducted from the gross written premium. 3.13 Insurance Contact Liabilities (ii) Unearned premium reserve (UPR) (i) Insurance Contract Liabilities – Life Insurance Unearned premiums are those proportions of premiums written in Measurement De recognition a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting date. UPR Life insurance liabilities are recognized when contracts are entered represents the portion of the premium written in the year but relating into and premiums are charged. The liability is determined as the to the unexpired term of coverage. Unearned premiums are calculated sum of the discounted value of the expected future benefits, less on the 1/24 basis except for the marine and title policies which are the discounted value of the expected future premiums that would computed on a 1/6 basis. The proportion attributable to subsequent be required to meet the future cash outflows based on the valuation periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums. assumptions used. The minimum mandated amounts, which are to The proportion attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a be paid to policyholders plus any declared/ undeclared additional provision for unearned premiums which is included under Insurance benefits, are recorded in liabilities. The liability is derecognized when contract liabilities Non life. the contract expires, is discharged or is cancelled. (iii) Life Insurance GWP Liability Adequacy Test (LAT) Gross recurring premiums on life are recognized as revenue when At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the receivable from the policyholder. For single premium business, revenue recognized life insurance liabilities are adequate by using an existing is recognised on the date on which the policy is effective. liability adequacy test as laid out under IFRS 4. The liability value is (iv) Reinsurance premiums adjusted to the extent that it is insufficient to meet future benefits and Gross reinsurance premiums on life are recognized as an expense on expenses. In performing the adequacy test, current best estimates of the earlier of the date when premiums are payable or when the policy future contractual cash flows, including related cash flows such as claims becomes effective. handling and policy administration expenses, policyholder Options and guarantees, as well as investment income from assets backing such Gross Reinsurance premiums written for Non-Life comprise the total liabilities, are used. A number of valuation methods are applied, including premiums payable for the whole cover provided by contracts entered discounted cash flows to the extent that the test involves discounting into the period and are recognized on the date on which the policy of cash flows, the interest rate applied based on management’s prudent incepts. Premiums include any adjustments arising in the accounting expectation of current market interest rates. period in respect of reinsurance contracts incepting in prior Accounting periods. (ii) Insurance Contract Liabilities – Non Life Insurance (v) Unearned Reinsurance Premium Measurement Unearned reinsurance premiums are those proportions of premiums Non-life insurance contract liabilities include the outstanding claims written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting provision (Reserve for gross Outstanding and Incurred but Not 62 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) date. Unearned reinsurance premiums are deferred over the term of 3.19 Borrowing Costs the underlying direct insurance policies for risks-attaching contracts Borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the period in which and over the term of the reinsurance contract for losses occurring they are incurred, except to the extent where borrowing costs that contracts. Unearned reinsurance premiums are calculated on the 1/24 are directly attributable to the construction of an asset that takes a basis except for the marine policies which are computed on a 1/6 basis. substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, are The proportion attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a capitalized as part of that asset. provision for unearned premiums which is included under Insurance contract liabilities Non life. 3.20 Tax Expense (vi) Fees and Commission Income Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax is recognized in profit or loss. Reinsurance commission income on outwards reinsurance contracts are recognized as revenue when receivable. Subsequent to initial Current tax recognition, reinsurance commission income on outwards reinsurance Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable contracts are deferred and amortized on the 1/24 basis except for the income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted at the reporting marine policies which are computed on a 1/6 basis. date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. (vii) Investment Income Deferred tax Interest income is recognized in the income statement as it accrues Deferred tax is recognized in respect of temporary differences between and is calculated by using the effective interest rate method. Fees the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and commissions that are an integral part of the effective yield of purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. the financial asset or liability are recognized as an adjustment to the Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be effective interest rate of the instrument. applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the tax 3.15 Benefits, Claims and Expenses recognition rate enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. 3.15.1 Gross benefits and claims Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they a. Non Life Insurance relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same Gross claims expense include all claims occurring during the year, taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle whether reported or not, related internal and external claims handling current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of liabilities will be realized simultaneously. claims, a reduction for the value of salvage and other recoveries, Tax Loss and any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous years. Claims outstanding are assessed by review of individual claim files A deferred tax assets is recognized for unused tax losses, tax credits and estimating changes in the ultimate cost of settling claims. Gross deductible temporary difference to the extent that it is probable claims expense includes gross claims expense reported but not yet that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be paid, incurred but not reported claims (IBNR). The provision in respect utilized. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and of IBNR is actuarially valued to ensure a more realistic estimation of are reduced to the extent that it no longer probable that the related the future liability based on past experience and trends. Actuarial tax benefits will be provided. Transfers of tax losses between group valuations are performed on an annual basis. While the Directors companies for no payments are eliminated in the Consolidated and consider that the provision for claims is fairly stated on the basis of separate financial statements. information currently available, the ultimate liability will vary as a result 3.21 Lease Payments of subsequent information and events. This may result in adjustment to the amounts provided. Such amounts are reflected in the financial Payments made under operating leases are recognized in profit or loss statements for that period. The methods used and the estimates on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives made are reviewed regularly. received are recognized as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. b. Life Insurance At inception of an arrangement, the Group determines whether such Gross benefits and claims for life insurance contracts include the cost an arrangement is or contains lease. An arrangement conveys the of all claims arising during the year including internal and external right to use the asset if the arrangement conveys to the Group the claims handling costs that are directly related to the processing and right to control the use of the underlying asset. At inception or upon settlement of claims. Death claims and surrenders are recorded on the reassessment of the arrangement, the Group separates payments and basis of notifications received. Maturities and surrenders payments are other consideration required by such an arrangement into those for recorded when due. the lease and those for other elements on the basis of their relative 3.15.2 Reinsurance claims fair values. Reinsurance claims are recognized when the related gross insurance 3.22 Derivative Financial Instruments claim is recognized according to the terms of the relevant contract. The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign 3.16 Acquisition cost currency risk exposure. Embedded derivatives are separated from the Commission on acquisition of insurance contracts are recognized as an host contact and accounted for separately if certain criteria are met. expense when incurred. Derivatives are recognized initially at fair value. Any directly attributable transaction costs are recognized in profit or loss as 3.17 Operating Expense they are incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in measured at fair value, and changes therein are generally recognized in maintaining the capital assets in a state of efficiency has been charged profit or loss. to the revenue in arriving at profit or loss for the year. 3.23 Deferred Expenses Expenditure incurred for the purpose of acquiring, expanding or improving assets of a permanent nature by means of which to carry on (i) Deferred Acquisition Costs (DAC) the business or for the purpose of increasing the earning capacity of Deferred acquisition costs comprise commissions and other variable the business has been treated as capital expenditure. costs directly connected with acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts, are deferred to the extent that these costs are recoverable 3.18 Finance Income and Finance Costs out of future premiums. All other acquisition costs are recognized as Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested. Interest an expense when incurred. income is recognized as it accrues in profit or loss. DAC is amortized over the period in which the related revenues are Finance cost comprises interest expense on borrowings and foreign earned. The re-insurers share of deferred acquisition costs is amortized exchange losses. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a in the same manner as the unearned premium reserve is amortized. net basis. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 63 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) accounted for by changing the amortization period and are treated as 5. NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS a change in an accounting estimate. An impairment review is performed at each reporting date or more 5.1 Newly Adopted Standard by the Group and Company frequently when an indication of impairment arises. DAC is reviewed The Company has adopted the following new standard effective from for recoverability based on the profitability of the underlying insurance 1st of January 2014. contracts and when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized in the Statement of Income. Title Description DAC are derecognized when the related contracts are either settled or IAS 32 “Financial Amendment to this IFRS clarify the disposed. Instruments offsetting criteria by explaining (ii) Reinsurance commissions Unearned commission Reserve (UCR) Presentation” when an entity currently has a legally Commissions receivable on outwards reinsurance contracts are enforceable right to set-off and when deferred and amortized on a straight line basis over the term of the gross settlement is equivalent to net expected premiums payable. settlement. 3.24 Reinsurance Receivables Reinsurance assets represent balances due from reinsurers. Amounts 5.2 New Standards and Interpretations not yet Adopted by the recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with Group and Company the outstanding claims provision or settled claims associated with the reinsurer’s policies and are in accordance with the related reinsurance A number of new standards, amendments to standards and contract. interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1st January 2015. The Group is currently in the process of evaluating the Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date, potential impact these standards and interpretation may have on the or more frequently, when an indication of impairment arises during the Group’s Consolidated and Separate financial statements. reporting year. The impairment loss is recorded in the income statement. ▫ IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with customers. Gains or losses on buying reinsurance are recognized in the income statement immediately at the date of purchase and are not amortized. ▫ IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments. Reinsurance liabilities represent balances due to reinsurance ▫ Annual Improvements of IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle. companies. Amounts payable are estimated in a manner consistent ▫ Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – Classification of Acceptable with the related reinsurance contract. Premiums and claims are methods of Depreciation and Amortization. presented on a gross basis for both ceded and assumed reinsurance. Reinsurance assets or liabilities are derecognized when the contractual 6. OPERATING SEGMENT rights are extinguished or expire. FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2014 3.25 Premium Receivables A.Basis of Segmentation Premium receivables are recognized when due and measured on The group has the following four strategic divisions, which are its initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration received or reportable segments. These divisions offer different products and receivable. Subsequent to initial recognition, insurance receivables are services, and are managed separately because they are subject to risk measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest rate method. and returns that are different from those of other business segment. The carrying value of premium receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount The following summary describe the operations of each reportable may not be recoverable. Any loss is recorded in the income statement. segment. Premium receivables are derecognized when the de-recognition criteria Reportable Segments Operations for financial assets have been met. Trading Buying and Selling of Consumable 4. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES goods, Construction Material, Home improvement, electronic A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures goods and medical related supplies require the determination of fair value, for both financial and nonGas Buying and Selling of Liquefied financial assets and liabilities. Fair values have been determined for Petroleum Gas (LPG) and Medical measurement and / or disclosure purposes based on the following and Industrial oxygen production methods. When applicable, further information about the assumptions Insurance Service Providing General & Life Insurance made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes specific to Services that asset or liability. Fuel, Lubricant & crude oil Importing & selling of petroleum (i) Trade and other receivables products The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the The Group's managing director reviews the internal management present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate reports of each division at least quarterly. of interest at the reporting date. This fair value is determined for Other Operations include the development and operation of a tourist disclosure purposes. resort, airport operation, tourism related and other services. This Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is segments does not meet the quantitative thresholds for a reportable calculated based on the present value of future principal and segment in 2014 and 2013. interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at There are varying level of integration between Insurance service, the reporting date. Fuel and lubricant & Gas Segment. This Integration include providing insurance and other inter-connected services. Inter Segment Pricing is determined on an arm's length basis. B. Information about reportable segments Information related to each reportable segment is set out below. A segment's profit before tax is used to measure performance because management believe that this information is the most relevant in evaluating the result of the respective segments relative to other entities that operate in the same industries. 64 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST Trading Gas Insurance Fuel, Lubricant Other Services Group Total DECEMBER 2014 Service & Crude Oil MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR External Revenue 1,614,687,980 180,146,324 166,672,188 10,309,498,180 22,274,131 12,293,278,803 Inter-Segment Revenue (11,909,120) (17,554,810) (23,325,567) (3,069,344,817) (3,122,134,314) Segment Revenue 1,602,778,860 162,591,514 143,346,621 7,240,153,363 22,274,131 9,171,144,489 Segment profit / (loss) before Tax (203,202,803) 21,207,377 76,059,824 707,819,183 (29,307,082) 572,576,499 Interest Income 16,589,163 91,150 2,545,952 19,226,265 Interest Expense (17,414,618) (2,674,410) (149,758,693) (169,847,721) Depreciation & Amortization (53,742,523) (6,310,107) (6,297,113) (15,384,405) (9,361,635) (91,095,783) Share of Profit of Associate 567,281 567,281 Share of Profit of Joint Venture 6,791,255 6,791,255 Segment Assets 743,871,492 147,964,327 503,028,875 3,457,317,746 582,989,940 5,435,172,380 Equity accounted investees 40,943,142 40,943,142 Capital Expenditure 62,405,398 20,480,494 4,747,565 19,310,477 143,943,682 250,887,616 Segment Liabilities 559,332,181 50,565,066 365,452,132 2,548,068,826 51,751,978 3,575,170,183 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST Trading Gas Insurance Fuel, Lubricant Other Group Total DECEMBER 2013 Service & Crude Oil Services MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR External Revenue 1,381,937,292 173,023,490 112,304,819 11,954,702,006 17,846,987 13,639,814,594 Inter-Segment Revenue (8,558,622) (7,404,408) (20,221,171) (2,473,883,808) (2,510,068,009) Segment Revenue 1,373,378,670 165,619,082 92,083,648 9,480,818,198 17,846,987 11,129,746,585 Segment profit / (loss) before Tax (234,925,442) 20,390,253 39,633,635 365,701,650 (12,692,294) 178,107,802 Interest Income 19,305,330 568,393 898,107 20,771,830 Interest Expense (16,454,747) (1,121,147) (194,243,551) (211,819,445) Depreciation & Amortization (58,947,817) (9,168,407) (5,794,006) (13,910,938) (8,835,981) (96,657,149) Share of Profit of Associate 1,033,455 1,033,455 Share of Profit of Joint Venture 5,469,101 5,469,101 Segment Assets 794,457,972 127,572,399 438,495,247 3,619,197,429 450,056,488 5,429,779,535 Equity accounted investees 43,584,606 43,584,606 Capital Expenditure 44,169,410 3,114,659 5,881,253 19,321,413 122,919,915 195,406,650 Segment Liability 653,215,208 48,159,939 282,593,470 2,975,758,161 42,257,484 4,001,984,262 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 65 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) C. Reconciliations of information on reportable segment to IFRS measures 2014 2013 MVR MVR i. Revenue Total revenue for reportable segments 12,271,004,672 13,621,967,607 Revenue for other Segments 22,274,131 17,846,987 Elimination of Inter Segment Revenue (3,122,134,314) (2,510,068,009) Consolidated Revenue 9,171,144,489 11,129,746,585 ii. Profit before tax Total profit / (loss) before tax for reportable segments 687,670,336 226,006,539 Profit / (loss) before tax for other segments (29,307,082) (12,692,294) Elimination of inter-segment profit (82,542,290) (33,708,999) Dividend received from joint venture (10,000,000) (8,000,000) Share of profit of equity accounted investees 7,358,535 6,502,556 Consolidated profit before tax from continuing operations 572,576,499 178,107,802 iii. Assets Total assets for reportable segment 4,808,084,081 4,932,983,225 Assets for other segments 582,989,940 450,056,488 Equity accounted investees 40,943,142 43,584,606 Other unallocated amounts 3,155,217 3,155,217 Consolidated total assets 5,435,172,380 5,429,779,535 iv. Liabilities Total Liabilities for reportable segment 3,523,418,205 3,959,726,778 Liabilities for other segments 51,751,978 42,257,484 Consolidated total liabilities 3,575,170,183 4,001,984,262 v. Other Material items FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2014 Reportable Adjustment Consolidated Segment totals totals MVR MVR MVR Interest Income 20,684,949 (1,458,684) 19,226,265 Interest Expense (171,306,405) 1,458,684 (169,847,721) Capital Expenditure 106,943,934 106,943,934 Depreciation and Amortization (81,180,589) (553,559) (81,734,148) Impairment losses on non financial assets (4,934,424) (4,934,424) Reversal of Impairment losses on non financial assets 2,410,653 2,410,653 (127,381,882) (553,559) (127,935,441) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2013 Interest Income 21,876,751 (1,104,921) 20,771,830 Interest Expense (212,924,366) 1,104,921 (211,819,445) Capital Expenditure 72,486,735 72,486,735 Depreciation and Amortization (86,639,591) (1,181,577) (87,821,168) Impairment losses on non financial assets 5,212,210 5,212,210 (199,988,261) (1,181,577) (201,169,838) 66 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) D. Geographic information The Trading, Gas, Insurance segments are operated in Male & other Islands of Maldives. Fuel, lubricant and crude oil segment is operated in Male, other islands of Maldives and Singapore. The geographic information below analyzes the Group's revenue and non-current assets by the Company's different operating geographical areas. In presenting the following information, segment revenue has been based on the geographic location of customers and segment assets were based on the geographic location of the assets. 2014 2013 MVR MVR i. Revenue Male 11,706,306,677 13,213,809,961 Thilafushi 128,174,680 95,621,422 Hulhumale' 53,952,124 53,087,668 Other Islands 300,822,958 273,677,596 Singapore 104,022,364 3,617,947 Less : Inter-company transactions (3,122,134,314) (2,510,068,009) 9,171,144,489 11,129,746,585 2014 2013 MVR MVR ii. Non Current Assets Male 1,250,335,452 1,401,116,375 Thilafushi 37,404,788 37,356,613 Hulhumale' 438,580,720 298,021,323 Other Islands 206,597,711 210,808,867 Singapore 83,314 37,495 1,933,001,985 1,947,340,673 e. Major Customer Revenue from one customer of the Fuel, lubricant and crude oil segment represented approximately MVR 1,802,800,322 (2013: MVR 2,225,039,348) of the Group's total revenues. 7. REVENUE Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Retail and wholesale 1,602,778,860 1,373,378,670 1,613,187,702 1,379,940,530 Insurance 143,346,621 92,083,648 Gas 162,591,514 165,619,082 Fuel and lubricants 7,240,153,363 9,480,818,198 7,300,599,760 9,396,914,736 Other services 22,274,131 17,846,987 9,340,019 5,567,366 9,171,144,489 11,129,746,585 8,923,127,481 10,782,422,632 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 67 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 8. OTHER INCOME Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 35,302 18,939 35,302 3,026 Profit on disposal of investments 29,346,841 29,346,841 Gain on dilution of significant influence 9,820,705 Income from vessels and fleets 1,149,114 2,710,496 1,149,114 2,710,496 Fines and claims received 16,784,951 25,760,254 16,485,215 25,283,294 Rent income 15,905,748 17,240,614 20,901,239 21,507,206 Discounts received 432,714 2,809,430 432,714 21,358 Administration fee income Aasandha 49,500,000 44,018,507 Miscellaneous Income 14,213,814 11,565,967 2,248,017 3,600,285 127,368,484 113,944,912 70,598,442 53,125,665 9. NET FINANCE COSTS Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Finance income Interest income on loans granted 91,150 568,393 717,606 1,104,921 Interest income on Government credit scheme 11,349,337 13,101,519 11,349,337 13,101,519 Interest income on fixed deposits 7,785,778 7,101,918 7,381,357 6,203,811 Dividends on investments 3,738,483 11,223,702 54,471,721 63,317,475 Discounts on treasury bills 7,182,455 5,933,692 Other finance income 5,867,541 7,223,518 36,014,744 45,152,742 73,920,021 83,727,726 Finance costs Interest on bank borrowings (49,635,961) (47,373,462) (42,059,679) (41,741,757) Interest on bank overdrafts (46,088,405) (30,943,824) (43,413,995) (28,717,756) Interest on other borrowings (74,123,355) (133,502,159) (75,582,039) (134,607,081) Exchange Loss (61,778,453) (347,472,099) (61,778,156) (347,079,589) (231,626,174) (559,291,544) (222,833,869) (552,146,183) Net finance costs (195,611,430) (514,138,802) (148,913,848) (468,418,457) 68 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 10. PROFIT BEFORE TAX Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Profit before tax is stated after charging all the expenses including the following; Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 75,206,723 82,066,963 46,708,525 51,754,259 Depreciation of investment properties 1,268,102 2,854,648 1,268,102 2,854,648 Amortization of intangible assets 14,620,957 11,735,538 12,828,099 10,804,372 Rental expenses 18,545,451 15,586,488 11,192,812 8,442,944 Directors' remuneration 4,006,332 4,252,857 1,045,625 1,168,090 Provision for impairment of trade, other and related party receivable 5,974,762 120,983,920 9,901,089 111,326,410 Personnel Costs (Note 10.1) 335,542,537 286,893,403 226,238,967 188,432,801 10.1 Personnel Costs Salaries and wages 140,738,284 130,641,723 81,270,728 72,210,966 Staff welfare 8,028,107 4,807,096 6,710,934 3,246,757 Employer's contribution to Government pension fund 8,575,501 7,847,418 5,090,149 4,492,267 Bonus, overtime and allowances 155,668,993 129,747,936 115,191,902 96,036,309 Employee redundancy expenses 1,881,306 906,424 1,881,306 906,424 Staff training expenses 11,665,311 9,712,950 11,130,507 9,114,565 Other staff related expenses 8,985,035 3,229,856 4,963,441 2,425,513 335,542,537 286,893,403 226,238,967 188,432,801 11. INCOME TAX EXPENSE Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR 11.1 Current Tax Expense Current Tax Expense (Note 11.2) 95,712,093 45,944,837 73,937,861 27,499,760 Adjustment in respect of prior years (1,062,963) (36,378) (708,451) 94,649,130 45,908,459 73,229,410 27,499,760 Deferred Tax Expense Deferred tax asset recognised (Note 11.3) (1,646,351) (32,312,671) (1,249,642) (30,298,403) Deferred tax liability reversed (Note 11.4) (353,958) (130,364) Income Tax Expense 92,648,821 13,465,424 71,979,768 (2,798,643) STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 69 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 11.2 Reconciliation between Accounting Profit and Taxable Income : Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) Profit before Tax 572,576,499 178,107,802 541,729,560 124,122,117 Loss of subsidiaries which is not subject to Tax 3,347,821 5,247,146 Result of associates reported net of tax (567,281) (1,033,455) Result of joint venture reported net of tax (6,791,255) (5,469,101) Aggregate Disallowable Items 307,407,773 400,877,221 169,566,827 324,520,959 Aggregate Allowable Items (271,144,987) (218,305,887) (265,239,911) (237,607,224) Tax Free Allowance (285,715) (285,715) (71,429) (71,429) Total Taxable Income 638,080,618 306,298,911 492,919,071 183,331,736 Income Tax @ 15% 95,712,093 45,944,837 73,937,861 27,499,760 In accordance with the provisions of the Business Profit Tax Act No. 5 of 2011 and subsequent amendments and regulations thereto, the Group/ the Company is liable for income tax on its taxable profits at the rate of 15%. 11.3 Deferred Tax Asset Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening Balance 59,503,822 27,191,151 56,325,127 26,026,724 Deferred tax asset recognized during the year 1,646,351 32,312,671 1,249,642 30,298,403 Closing Balance 61,150,173 59,503,822 57,574,769 56,325,127 11.4 Deferred Tax Liability Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening Balance 3,346,595 3,476,959 Deferred tax liability reversed during the year (353,958) (130,364) Closing Balance 2,992,637 3,346,595 70 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 11.5 Deferred Tax Asset is attributable to the following; Group 2014 2013 Temporary Tax Effect Temporary Tax Effect Difference Difference MVR MVR MVR MVR Property, Plant and Equipment 244,332,961 36,649,944 267,207,265 40,081,090 Intangible Assets (12,586,740) (1,888,011) (18,610,603) (2,791,590) Specific Provisons on Trade and Related Party Receivable 175,921,602 26,388,240 148,095,483 22,214,322 407,667,823 61,150,173 396,692,145 59,503,822 11.6 Deferred Tax Asset is attributable to the following; Company 2014 2013 Temporary Tax Effect Temporary Tax Effect Difference Difference MVR MVR MVR MVR Property, Plant and Equipment 218,692,191 32,803,829 243,909,796 36,586,469 Intangible Assets (10,781,997) (1,617,300) (16,504,434) (2,475,665) Specific Provisons on Trade and Related Party Receivable 175,921,602 26,388,240 148,095,485 22,214,323 383,831,796 57,574,769 375,500,847 56,325,127 11.7 Deferred Tax Liability is attributable to the following; Group 2014 2013 Temporary Tax Effect Temporary Tax Effect Difference Difference MVR MVR MVR MVR Property, Plant and Equipment 19,950,913 2,992,637 22,310,633 3,346,595 12. BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on profit for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders and weighted number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year and calculated as follows. Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Profit Attributable to the Ordinary Shareholders MVR 478,301,743 162,599,008 469,749,792 126,920,760 Weighted Average Number of Shares 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share MVR 424 144 417 113 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 71 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 13.1 Group Freehold Freehold Leasehold Plant and Vessels Motor Air Office Furniture Other Total Total 72 Land Building Building Machinery and Fleet Vehicle Conditioners Equipment and Fixtures Assets 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) Cost Opening Balance 767,354,400 516,307,926 36,347,751 134,492,272 231,175,588 50,796,359 8,811,481 80,384,314 13,456,637 57,306,046 1,896,432,774 1,844,900,034 Additions during the year 4,585,944 4,037,357 3,659,191 2,442,797 26,128,677 2,246,944 8,545,860 1,742,560 9,943,227 63,332,557 39,503,859 Disposal during the year (777,218) (1,477,198) (49,800) (434,417) (71,816) (276,589) (3,087,038) (1,072,501) Transferred from Capital Work In Progress 986,620 7,814,554 4,444,472 82,152 10,080 13,337,878 12,285,555 Transfers to Intangible assets (374,794) Adjustment for unrealized profit (58,402) (19,672) 623,252 8,381 553,559 1,181,579 financial statements Exchange Gain 1,483 1,483 9,042 Closing Balance 767,354,400 521,822,088 40,365,436 145,188,799 237,208,911 76,883,617 11,058,425 88,579,392 15,127,381 66,982,764 1,970,571,213 1,896,432,774 Accumulated Depreciation Opening Balance 257,487,787 22,694,079 92,096,122 182,450,146 41,199,755 6,441,059 51,930,046 9,082,472 32,542,607 695,924,073 613,524,995 Charge for the year 21,773,084 2,681,619 7,309,549 19,073,672 2,816,749 1,305,397 12,261,038 1,491,367 6,494,248 75,206,723 82,066,963 Disposals during the year (90,675) (958,969) (17,430) (396,147) (53,674) (204,989) (1,721,884) (851,644) Adjustment for unrealized profit (58,402) (19,672) 623,252 8,381 553,559 1,181,579 Exchange loss 1,322 1,322 2,180 Closing Balance 279,202,469 25,356,026 99,314,996 201,188,101 44,007,455 7,746,456 63,796,259 10,520,165 38,831,866 769,963,793 695,924,073 Net Carrying Value As at 31st December 2014 767,354,400 242,619,619 15,009,410 45,873,803 36,020,810 32,876,162 3,311,969 24,783,133 4,607,216 28,150,898 1,200,607,420 As at 31st December 2013 767,354,400 258,820,139 13,653,672 42,396,150 48,725,442 9,596,604 2,370,422 28,454,268 4,374,165 24,763,439 1,200,508,701 Capital Work in Progress (Note 13.1.1) 492,465,642 328,445,626 Total 1,693,073,062 1,528,954,327 13.1.1 Capital Work in Progress Opening Balance 328,445,626 195,642,174 Additions during the year 178,553,425 145,760,382 Disposals during the year (1,195,531) Transferred to Property, Plant and (13,337,878) (12,285,555) Equipment Provision for Impairment (671,375) Closing Balance 492,465,642 328,445,626 13.1.2 The buildings of State Trading Organization PLC have been constructed on lands belonging to the Government of Maldives for which a rental of MVR 3 per square feet per month is paid . There is no lease agreement and accordingly no definite period of lease is identified. Under these circumstances, the Directors have considered it is prudent to provide depreciation in accordance with Accounting Policy 3.4. 13.1.3 State Trading Organization PLC conducts the operation of fuel business on a land (Funadhoo Island) taken on lease from the Government of Maldives. There is no lease agreement and accordingly no definite period of lease is identified. As per a letter sent by the government, the land was given on a rent-free basis for a indefinite period of time. Thus, there is no rental expenses accounted in relation to the lease of land in the financial statements. 13.1.4 Depreciation expense of MVR 28,813,147/(2013: MVR 33,850,290/-) is included in 'Cost of sales', MVR 20,548,162 (2013: MVR 23,477,886/-) in 'Administrative expenses' and MVR 25,845,414 (2013: MVR 24,738,787/-) in 'Selling and marketing costs' in the income statement. 13.1.5 Borrowings from Nations Trust Bank, Bank of Maldives and Bank of Ceylon are secured on STO trade center building, Super market warehouse and Staple food warehouse of the Company, respectively. 13.1.6 Capital work in progress Include Construction of a tourist hotel, which is secured for the loan from Thai Exim Bank, in Hulumale Island, two vessel and other projects. 13.1.7 During the year, the Group has capitalised borrowing costs amounting to MVR 16,839,745 (2013: MVR 779,687) on qualifying assets. Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 7.5%. 13.2 Company Freehold Buildings Plant Vessels Motor Air Office Furniture Other Total Total Land and Machinery and Fleet Vehicles Conditioners Equipment and Fixtures Assets 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening Balance 767,354,400 357,312,611 59,798,996 136,399,622 40,079,216 6,077,197 59,368,285 6,480,047 9,692,534 1,442,562,908 1,420,548,853 Additions during the year 4,585,944 3,127,967 2,442,797 24,882,307 1,910,775 6,746,559 834,354 2,228,330 46,759,033 20,343,468 Disposal during the year (777,218) (49,800) (41,550) (5,180) (19,903) (893,651) (76,354) Transferred from Capital Work In Progress 986,620 2,005,760 82,152 10,080 3,084,612 2,121,735 Transfers to Intangible Assets (374,794) Closing Balance 767,354,400 362,885,175 64,155,505 138,842,419 64,911,723 7,987,972 66,155,446 7,309,221 11,911,041 1,491,512,902 1,442,562,908 Accumulated Depreciation Opening Balance 241,186,195 56,748,203 118,863,511 32,994,144 4,502,858 35,221,473 4,929,330 9,538,142 503,983,856 452,273,264 Charge for the year 14,152,958 2,078,548 15,025,080 2,051,877 831,743 9,194,379 981,138 2,392,802 46,708,525 51,754,259 Disposals during the year (90,675) (17,430) (19,510) (5,180) (19,903) (152,698) (43,667) Closing Balance 255,339,153 58,736,076 133,888,591 35,028,591 5,334,601 44,396,342 5,905,288 11,911,041 550,539,683 503,983,856 Net Carrying Value As at 31st December 2014 767,354,400 107,546,022 5,419,429 4,953,828 29,883,132 2,653,371 21,759,104 1,403,933 940,973,219 As at 31st December 2013 767,354,400 116,126,416 3,050,793 17,536,111 7,085,072 1,574,339 24,146,812 1,550,717 154,392 938,579,052 Capital Work in Progress (Note 13.2.1) 477,852,946 323,118,084 Total 1,418,826,165 1,261,697,136 13.2.1 Capital Work in Progress (Restated) Opening Balance 323,118,084 185,914,357 Additions during the year 159,015,005 139,996,837 Disposals during the year (1,195,531) Transferred to Property, Plant and Equipment (3,084,612) (2,121,735) Impairment Loss (671,375) 477,852,946 323,118,084 13.2.2 The buildings of State Trading Organization PLC have been constructed on lands belonging to the Government of Maldives for which a rental of MVR 3 per square feet per month is paid . There is no lease agreement and accordingly no definite period of lease is identified. Under these circumstances, the Directors have considered it is prudent to provide depreciation in accordance with Accounting Policy 3.4. 13.2.3 The company conducts the operation of fuel business on a land (Funadhoo Island) taken on lease from the Government of Maldives. There is no lease agreement and accordingly no definite period of lease is identified. As per a letter sent by the government, the land was given on rent-free basis for a long period of time. Thus, there is no rental expenses accounted in relation to the lease of land in the financial statements. 13.2.4 Borrowings from Nations Trust Bank, Bank of Maldives and Bank of Ceylon are secured on STO trade center building, Super market warehouse and Staple food warehouse of the Company, respectively. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 13.2.5 Capital work in progress Include Construction of a tourist hotel, which is secured for the loan from Thai Exim Bank, in Hulumale Island, two vessels and other projects. 13.2.6 During the year, the company has capitalised borrowing costs amounting to MVR 16,839,745/(2013: MVR 779,687/-) on qualifying assets. Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 7.5%. 73 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTY Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening Balance 58,786,571 57,916,868 58,786,571 57,916,868 Addition During the year 5,395,301 869,703 5,395,301 869,703 Closing Balance 64,181,872 58,786,571 64,181,872 58,786,571 Accumulated Depreciation Opening Balance 51,093,083 48,238,435 51,093,083 48,238,435 Depreciation for the year 1,268,102 2,854,648 1,268,102 2,854,648 Closing Balance 52,361,185 51,093,083 52,361,185 51,093,083 Net Book Value 11,820,687 7,693,488 11,820,687 7,693,488 Investment Property comprises a number of commercial properties that are leased to third parties and proportion under the construction with the purpose of leasing to third parties. Market Value There was no independent valuation done on the open market value of the above properties as at 31st December 2014 for the group and the Company. Income earned from Investment Properties The rental income from and direct expenses of the investment properties are as follows; Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Rent income 16,992,279 17,409,000 16,992,279 17,409,000 Direct expenses (4,031,275) (1,660,267) (4,031,275) (1,660,267) 15. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 15.1 GROUP Goodwill Computer Total Total Software 2014 2013 Cost Opening Balance 3,155,217 75,838,407 78,993,624 63,316,665 Additions During the year 887,995 887,995 7,086,240 Transfered from Capital Work In Progress (Note 15.3) 2,774,042 2,774,042 8,215,925 Transfered from PPE 374,794 Closing Balance 3,155,217 79,500,444 82,655,661 78,993,624 Accumulated Amortization Opening Balance 36,941,247 36,941,247 25,205,709 Amortization During the year 14,620,957 14,620,957 11,735,538 Closing Balance 51,562,204 51,562,204 36,941,247 Net Book Value 3,155,217 27,938,240 31,093,457 42,052,377 Capital Working Progress (Note 15.3) 489,537 545,241 Total 31,582,994 42,597,618 74 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 15.2 Company Computer Software 2014 2013 Cost Opening Balance 63,847,243 51,212,445 Additions During the year 6,376,329 Transfered from Capital Work In Progress (Note 15.3) 5,883,675 Transfered from PPE 374,794 Closing Balance 63,847,243 63,847,243 Accumulated Amortization Opening Balance 30,287,557 19,483,185 Amortization During the year 12,828,099 10,804,372 Closing Balance 43,115,656 30,287,557 Net Book Value 20,731,587 33,559,686 15.3 Capital Working Progress (CWIP) Group Company Opening Balance 545,241 6,574,700 5,883,675 Additions during the year 2,718,338 2,186,466 Transferred to Intangible Asset (2,774,042) (5,883,675) (8,215,925) Closing Balance 489,537 545,241 15.4 Impairement test of Goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined based on value in -use calculation. The key assumptions used given below. 2014 2013 Business Growth 16.00% 19.00% Inflation 2.47% 4.03% Discount rate 9.00% 10.75% Margin 4.61% 5.93% 16. PREPAID LEASE RENT Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR ( Restated) ( Restated ) Opening Balance 43,011,906 45,326,447 43,011,906 45,326,447 Amortization during the Year (2,314,542) (2,314,541) (2,314,542) (2,314,541) Closing balance 40,697,364 43,011,906 40,697,364 43,011,906 Analysis of Lease Rent Current 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 Non-Current 38,382,822 40,697,364 38,382,822 40,697,364 The Group / the Company has entered in to an agreement on 31st July 2007 with Hulhumale' Development Corporation Ltd, to lease a land located at Hulhumale' to construct a five hundred bed five star hotel. The Group / the Company has paid MVR 57,863,550 as advance lease rent as per the agreement which allows the advance payment to be deducted from each of the quarterly installments due for the first ten years. However, as per the second amendment to the initial agreement made on 27th June 2011, the above advanced lease rent had been considered as an acquisition fee and agreed that the amount should not be deducted from future lease payments. Accordingly, the above advanced lease payment has been recognised over the lease period. 17. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Company 2014 2013 MVR MVR Maldive Gas Private Limited Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited 61,200,000 61,200,000 STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited 807,000 807,000 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 1,459,750 1,459,750 Maldives National Oil Company Limited 42,783,185 42,783,185 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited 10,000,000 10,000,000 999,900 999,900 117,249,835 117,249,835 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 75 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 18. EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Interest In Associates (Note 18.1) 8,409,299 7,842,018 10,567,267 10,567,267 Interest In Joint Venture (Note 18.3) 32,533,843 35,742,588 4,700,000 4,700,000 40,943,142 43,584,606 15,267,267 15,267,267 18.1 Investment in Associates Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Balance as at 1st January 7,842,018 6,987,858 10,567,267 20,567,267 Share of Profit 567,281 1,033,455 Gain on dilution of significant influence 9,820,705 Investment classified as Available for-sale financial asset (10,000,000) (10,000,000) Balance as at 31st December 8,409,299 7,842,018 10,567,267 10,567,267 Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited State Trading Organization PLC has acquired 10,567,267 shares, at the price of MVR 1/each on 8 of January 2002, in Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited which represents 25% of the shareholding of that company. The principal activity of the Company is trading of cement. 18.2 The summarized financial information of the associate, which is incorporated in Republic of Maldives and unlisted, is as follows. Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited 2014 2013 Percentage of Ownership 25% 25% Non-Current Assets 19,531,759 16,782,130 Current Assets 59,748,915 74,380,708 Current Liabilities (45,643,478) (59,794,766) Net Assets ( 100%) 33,637,196 31,368,072 Group's share of net Assets 8,409,299 7,842,018 Carrying Amount of interest in associates 8,409,299 7,842,018 Revenue 101,315,719 92,315,469 Profit and total Comprehensive Income 2,269,123 4,133,821 Group's share of profit and total comprehensive income 567,281 1,033,455 18.3 Investment in Joint Venture Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Balance as at 1st January 35,742,588 38,273,487 4,700,000 4,700,000 Share of Profit 6,791,255 5,469,101 Dividend Received (10,000,000) (8,000,000) Balance as at 31st December 32,533,843 35,742,588 4,700,000 4,700,000 State Trading Organization Plc has acquired 47,000 shares at the price of MVR 100/each on 31st December 2001 in Maldives Structural Products Private Limited which represents 50% of the shareholding of the company. Maldives Structural Products Private Limited is engaged in the business of manufacturing and trading of structural products. 76 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) The summarized financial information of the joint venture, which is incorporated in Republic of Maldives and unlisted, is as follows. 2014 2013 MVR MVR Percentage of Ownership 50% 50% Non Current Assest 36,072,382 45,283,546 Current Assets 39,066,136 36,866,056 Current Liabilities (10,070,834) (10,664,427) Net Assets ( 100%) 65,067,684 71,485,175 Group's share of net Assets 32,533,842 35,742,588 Carrying Amount of interest in joint Venture 32,533,842 35,742,588 Revenue 63,606,350 56,854,400 Depreciation and Amortization (244,268) (584,608) Interest Expense (2,282,417) (4,187,542) Income Tax Expense (2,313,338) (1,846,399) Profit and Total Comprehensive Income (100 %) 13,582,509 10,938,202 Group's share of profit and total comprehensive income 6,791,255 5,469,101 Dividend Received by the Group (10,000,000) (8,000,000) 19. INVESTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) Balance as at 1st January 176,222,400 172,653,410 160,222,400 156,653,410 Investments made during the year 375,000 1,568,800 375,000 1,568,800 Classified form investment in associates 10,000,000 10,000,000 Fair value loss transferred to equity (1,250,000) (7,999,810) (7,999,810) Disposal of investments available-for-sale (147,856,600) (147,856,600) Balance as at 31st December 27,490,800 176,222,400 12,740,800 160,222,400 Marketable equity securities are measured at fair value annually at the close of business on 31st December. For investments traded in active markets, fair value is determined by reference to Stock exchange quoted bid prices. During the year, the Company has disposed the investments in Bank of Maldives PLC and Dhiraagu PLC amounting to MVR 22,856,600 and MVR 125,000,000, respectively (2013: MVR Nil). Other investments (unlisted securities) are stated at cost less impairment since the fair value of those shares cannot be measured reliably. Available-for-sale financial assets are classified as noncurrent assets, unless they are expected to be realized within twelve months of the reporting date or unless they are intended to be sold to raise operating capital. Available-for-sale financial assets consist of the equity securities in the following entities and investment made in G.Dh Atoll Rayyithunge Cooperative Society. Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) G.Dh Atoll Rayyithunge Cooperative Society 4,500,000 4,500,000 4,500,000 4,500,000 Bank of Maldives PLC 22,856,600 22,856,600 Maldives Stock Exchange Company Private Limited 3,840,800 3,840,800 3,840,800 3,840,800 Madivaru Holdings Private Limited 709,148 709,148 709,148 709,148 Maldives Security Depository 500,000 125,000 500,000 125,000 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC (Dhiraagu) 8,750,000 135,000,000 125,000,000 Aasandha Private Limited 6,000,000 6,000,000 Addu International Airport Private Limited 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 Less: Provision for impairment (6,809,148) (6,809,148) (6,809,148) (6,809,148) 27,490,800 176,222,400 12,740,800 160,222,400 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 77 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 20. INVENTORIES Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Food stock 42,879,875 49,463,905 42,879,875 49,463,905 Fuel and lubricants 107,267,729 129,181,631 37,068,706 89,224,712 Home improvement and electronics 74,141,020 50,624,224 74,141,020 50,624,224 Construction materials 52,667,155 62,187,420 52,667,155 62,187,420 Pharmaceuticals 184,202,841 106,973,812 184,202,841 106,973,812 Spare parts 16,903,260 14,642,040 9,218,366 7,211,525 Retail shops 53,836,583 30,275,992 53,836,583 30,275,992 Others 19,825,556 16,559,551 19,807,908 16,559,551 Goods in transit 209,329,851 386,341,286 209,329,851 386,341,286 Less: provision for slow and non moving inventories (Note 20.1) (54,701,595) (52,177,824) (47,065,654) (49,476,307) 706,352,275 794,072,037 636,086,651 749,386,120 20.1 Provision for slow moving and non moving inventories Opening Balance 52,177,824 47,636,989 49,476,307 45,036,311 Provision made / (reversal) during the year 2,523,771 4,540,835 (2,410,653) 4,439,996 closing balance 54,701,595 52,177,824 47,065,654 49,476,307 Of the Company, the cost of inventories recognized as an expense and included in ‘cost of sales’ amounted to MVR 7,620,661,980/(2013: MVR 9,628,470,443/). The Company reversed MVR 2,410,652 /of a previous inventory provision in December 2014. The Company has sold all the goods that were considered for the provision to independent retailers in Maldives. The amount reversed has been included in ‘cost of sales’ in the statement of income. The inventories of the Group and the Company are secured against to the loans obtained from Nations Trust Bank. 21. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Trade Receivables 955,775,705 671,481,566 155,464,105 160,220,584 Due from Policyholders 57,781,845 46,581,975 Less : Provision for Impairment loss (Note 21.1) (129,666,863) (130,019,532) (69,478,783) (66,803,884) 883,890,687 588,044,009 85,985,322 93,416,700 Advances, prepayments and deposits 184,821,054 56,093,390 142,244,955 34,868,759 Government employee credit scheme 55,656,899 45,583,673 55,656,899 45,583,673 Staff advances and other loans 6,211,660 4,920,064 6,211,660 4,920,064 Advances paid for custom duty 15,197,213 1,144,024 15,197,213 1,144,024 Miscellaneous receivable 32,667,690 48,137,610 29,854,126 30,283,917 Less : unmatured interest (3,625,764) (3,210,162) (3,625,764) (3,210,162) Less : Provision for Impairment loss (Note 21.2) (36,633,526) (53,633,244) (33,413,199) (49,514,158) 254,295,226 99,035,355 212,125,890 64,076,117 Total Trade and Other Receivable 1,138,185,913 687,079,364 298,111,212 157,492,817 21.1 Provision for Impairment of Trade Receivables Opening Balance 130,019,532 109,184,843 66,803,884 54,490,883 Provision made / (reversal) during the year (352,669) 20,834,689 2,674,899 12,313,001 Closing balance 129,666,863 130,019,532 69,478,783 66,803,884 21.2 Provision for Impairment of Other Receivables Opening Balance 53,633,244 43,168,806 49,514,158 40,185,542 Provision made / (reversal) during the year (16,999,718) 10,464,438 (16,100,959) 9,328,616 Closing balance 36,633,526 53,633,244 33,413,199 49,514,158 78 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 22. AMOUNTS DUE FROM RELATED PARTIES Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited 15,347,002 9,718,702 Maldive Gas Private Limited 11,162 6,135,032 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 694,150,655 269,948,828 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited 873,808 Rainbow Enterprises Private Limited 422,046 422,046 Maldives National Oil Company Limited 241,260 5,606,501 G.Dh Atoll Rayyithunge Cooperative Society 831,492 831,492 831,492 831,492 Maldives Industrials Fisheries Company Limited 1,061,556 868,056 1,061,556 868,056 Ministry of Finance and Treasury 67,895,533 264,482,587 67,895,533 264,482,587 Koodoo Fisheries Maldives Limited 27,791 17,400 27,791 17,400 Ensis Fisheries Private Limited 402,606 State Electric Company (STELCO) 121,216,043 239,509,283 121,216,043 239,509,283 Indhira Gandhi Memorial Hospital (IGMH) 224,885,323 312,053,736 224,885,323 312,053,736 Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited 9,570 9,109 1,070 384 Maldives Structural Product Private Limited 38,825 National Social Protection Agency 1,739,837 1,739,837 Addu International Airport Private Limited 123,610,553 83,588,417 123,610,553 83,588,417 Aasandha Private Limited 79,737,730 76,862,375 60,530,802 65,542,914 Champa Oil and Gas Company Private Limited 111,055 68,430 Maldives Airport Company Limited 42,823 122,369,113 42,823 122,369,113 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited 193,391,882 176,010,184 Rasheed Carpentry and Construction Private Limited 1,131,257 1,131,257 E-Biz Maldives Private Limited 4,447 22,066 4,447 22,066 Other Government entities 233,826,705 311,783,421 233,826,705 311,783,421 853,299,446 1,416,161,231 1,737,949,907 1,871,781,256 Less : Provision for Impairment loss (Note 22.1) (128,661,440) (105,334,291) (128,661,440) (105,334,291) Less : unmatured interest (5,391,992) (10,054,686) (5,391,992) (10,054,686) Total amount due from related party 719,246,014 1,300,772,254 1,603,896,475 1,756,392,279 Non Current 28,558,305 48,087,048 28,558,305 48,087,048 Current 690,687,709 1,252,685,206 1,575,338,170 1,708,305,231 719,246,014 1,300,772,254 1,603,896,475 1,756,392,279 22.1 Provision for Impairment of Related Party Receivable Opening Balance 105,334,291 15,649,498 105,334,291 15,649,498 Provision made during the year 23,327,149 89,684,793 23,327,149 89,684,793 Closing balance 128,661,440 105,334,291 128,661,440 105,334,291 23. LOAN GRANTED TO RELATED PARTIES Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening Balance 10,986,414 14,068,923 Loans repayment received (10,986,414) (3,082,509) Closing Balance 10,986,414 24. REINSURANCE CONTRACTS Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Reinsurers' share of insurance liabilities 114,349,359 95,312,747 Reinsurance share of paid claims 17,564,787 8,900,177 Reinsurance share of incurred but not reported claims 7,763,392 Unearned premium 63,838,527 52,053,375 203,516,065 156,266,299 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 79 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 25. INVESTMENT HELD TO MATURITY Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 62,643,934 70,684,817 Purchased during the year 362,314,336 618,547,548 Matured during the year (334,273,669) (626,588,431) Closing Balance 90,684,601 62,643,934 The Group has invested MVR 90,684,601 (2013: MVR 62,643,934) in treasury bills issued by Maldives Monetary Authority for a maturity value of MVR 95,500,000 (2013: MVR 64,000,000) at the rate of interest ranging from 7.98% to 8.98% per annum (2013: 10.6% to 10.75% per annum) with the maturity period of 91 days to 364 days (2013: 28 days to 364 days). 26. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Favorable Balances Cash in hand 41,951,427 38,111,243 35,700,555 36,603,543 Balances at banks 619,223,442 338,244,446 477,999,986 168,492,143 Fixed deposits 9,254,421 151,021,791 7,712,421 149,479,791 670,429,290 527,377,480 521,412,962 354,575,477 Unfavorable Balances Bank overdrafts used for cash management purpose (322,323,982) (300,012,930) (304,650,687) (288,918,727) Cash and Cash equivalents for the purpose of Cash flow statement 348,105,308 227,364,550 216,762,275 65,656,750 27. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES A. Share Capital and Share Premium 27.1 Authorized Number of Ordinary Share Total Shares Shares premium As at 1 January 2013 1,126,910 56,345,500 27,814,500 84,160,000 As at 31 December 2013 1,126,910 56,345,500 27,814,500 84,160,000 As at 1 January 2014 1,126,910 56,345,500 27,814,500 84,160,000 As at 31 December 2014 1,126,910 56,345,500 27,814,500 84,160,000 The total number of authorised ordinary shares is 2,000,000 (2013: 2,000,000) with a par value of MVR 50 per share (2013: MVR 50 per share). The total number of issued shares is 1,126,910 (2013: 1,126,910). All issued shares are fully paid. 27.2 Dividends and Voting Rights The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the shareholders' meetings of the Company. 27.3 Dividends per share At the Annual General Meeting held on 22 May 2014, a dividend in respect of 2013 of MVR 24 per share (2013: declared dividend MVR 75 per share in respect of 2012) amounting to a total of MVR 27,045,840 (2013: declared MVR 84,518,250) was declared and approved by the shareholders and accounted for in shareholders' equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 December 2014. 80 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) B. RESERVES 27.4 General Reserve General reserve balance will be utilized for any purpose decided by the board of directors. 27.5 Fair Value Reserve The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the assets are derecognized or impaired. 27.6 Claim equalization Reserve Reserve for claim equalization represents 12% of the operating profit of the Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited before taking into account other operating income of the current year . The reserve was created to meet abnormally high claims in future by the Group. 27.7 Currency Translation Reserve The currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries. 28. NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST Group 2014 2013 MVR MVR Opening balance 8,445,228 6,668,110 Share of net result of the subsidiaries 1,625,935 2,043,370 Dividend paid (266,252) 10,071,163 8,445,228 29. LOANS AND BORROWINGS Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 918,615,852 926,327,039 808,615,852 926,327,039 Loans obtained during the Year 641,268,319 708,574,327 591,268,319 558,574,327 Repayments during the year (450,126,592) (716,285,514) (372,945,312) (676,285,514) 1,109,757,579 918,615,852 1,026,938,859 808,615,852 29.1 Sources of Finance Secured loans 876,938,859 658,615,852 876,938,859 658,615,852 Unsecured loans 232,818,720 260,000,000 150,000,000 150,000,000 1,109,757,579 918,615,852 1,026,938,859 808,615,852 29.2 Non Current Bank Borrowings 391,859,569 217,597,788 391,859,569 217,597,788 29.3 Repayment of non-current liabilities More than one year, less than two years 120,079,010 26,278,844 120,079,010 26,278,844 More than two years, less than three years 61,341,654 32,089,910 61,341,654 32,089,910 More than three years, less than four years 73,916,979 39,768,127 73,916,979 39,768,127 More than four years, less than five years 100,648,838 73,916,980 100,648,838 73,916,980 More than five years 35,873,088 45,543,927 35,873,088 45,543,927 391,859,569 217,597,788 391,859,569 217,597,788 29.4 Current Bank borrowings 717,898,010 701,018,064 635,079,290 591,018,064 29.5 Bank borrowings of the Company will mature by April 2020 and bear an average interest rate of 7.93% annually (2013: 8.21% annually). 29.6 Bank Borrowings of the Company are secured by fixed deposit in Maldivian Rufiyaa, inventories, receivables, buildings (STO trade center building, Super market warehouse and Staple food warehouse) and guarantee from the Government of Maldives. 29.7 As at the reporting date the Company has pledged MVR 415,845,209/(2013: MVR 316,959,782/-) as collateral for the US$ loans taken from banks. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 81 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 30. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) (Restated) Trade Payables 1,268,959,985 2,167,124,031 1,244,091,427 2,149,793,340 Accrued Expenses 25,656,808 23,175,562 11,698,916 13,580,260 Lease Rent Accural 36,343,015 37,125,245 36,343,015 37,125,245 Dividend Payable 197,829,407 175,141,490 197,829,407 175,141,490 Other Payable 78,635,375 58,196,679 55,875,078 39,255,427 1,607,424,590 2,460,763,007 1,545,837,843 2,414,895,762 31. DEFERRED INCOME Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening Balance 6,087,255 4,549,252 Received during the year 9,288,180 3,891,420 Recognised during the year (2,546,449) (2,353,417) 12,828,986 6,087,255 Analysis of Deferred Income Realization within one year 3,929,482 2,982,755 Realisation After one year 8,899,504 3,104,500 12,828,986 6,087,255 31.1 Deferred revenues relate to the registration fees received from customers for the initial purchase of gas cylinders. On receipt of the registration fees, they are included in liabilities as deferred revenue and are credited to income statement as revenue on a straight line basis over 5 years. 32. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR As at 1st January 17,890,509 25,687,485 17,890,509 25,687,485 Fair value realized during the year (7,878,932) (7,796,976) (7,878,932) (7,796,976) As at 31st December 10,011,577 17,890,509 10,011,577 17,890,509 The fair value of the SWAP currency is determined by multiplying the Maldivian Rufiyaa (MVR) exchange rate as at 31 December 2014 with the outstanding US Dollar (US$) commitment to Housing Development Finance Corporation Plc with regard to the Currency SWAP agreements signed on 10 February 2009, 31 July 2011, 15 October 2011, 12 February 2012 and 22 September 2014. The commitment of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts as at 31 December 2014 was MVR 253,758,579/(2013: MVR 262,877,596/-). 82 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 33. INSURANCE CONTRACTS Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Claims reported and loss adjustment 162,552,527 127,519,159 Claim incurred but not reported (IBNR) 9,128,870 Provision for unearned premiums 124,691,774 98,157,422 Unappropriated policyholders fund 791,758 270,257 Provision for unearned reinsurance commission 21,897,162 18,652,847 Total insurance liabilities, gross 319,062,091 244,599,685 34. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 20,556,000 29,375,035 12,669,986 16,735,224 Tax provision for the year 95,712,093 45,944,837 73,937,861 27,499,760 Tax paid during the year (42,210,845) (54,727,494) (25,357,938) (31,564,998) Adjustment in respect of prior years (1,062,963) (36,378) (708,451) Closing balance 72,994,284 20,556,000 60,541,458 12,669,986 35. AMOUNTS DUE TO RELATED PARTIES Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited 12,499,024 3,588,889 12,499,024 3,588,889 Maldives Structural Product Private Limited 6,883,197 1,786,726 6,883,197 1,786,726 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited 51,062,006 8,175,830 Maldives National Oil Company Limited 507,001 5,782,655 STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited 2,004,360 327,735 Koodoo Fisheries Maldives Limited 10,420,000 10,420,000 Rainbow Enterprises Private Limited 6,084 6,466 6,084 6,466 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 89,509,493 13,977,095 National Social Protection Agency 8,888,340 10,108,234 Addu International Airport Private Limited 249,469 251,063 249,469 251,063 Maldive Gas Pvt Ltd 2,299,419 4,025,516 Rasheed Carpentry Private Limited 529,542 529,542 Other Government entities 88,718,801 3,951,051 88,718,801 3,951,051 117,774,457 30,112,429 254,268,396 52,293,026 The amount due to related parties are unsecured, interest free, and have no fixed repayment period. Accordingly, these amounts have been determined to be payable on demand and clasified as a current liability. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 83 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 36. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group's ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide return for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new or sell assets to reduce debt. Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including borrowings, trade and other payables and current tax liabilities as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position) less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as 'equity' as shown in the consolidated balance sheet plus net debt. Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Total Liabilities 3,575,170,183 4,001,984,262 3,202,248,820 3,595,283,862 Less: Cash and cash equivalent (670,429,290) (527,377,480) (521,412,962) (354,575,477) Net debt 2,904,740,893 3,474,606,782 3,240,708,385 2,680,835,858 Total equity 1,860,002,197 1,427,795,273 1,552,166,954 1,128,576,090 Total Capital Employed 4,764,743,090 4,902,402,055 4,233,002,812 4,369,284,475 Gearing 60.96% 70.88% 63.33% 74.17% The decrease in the gearing ratio of the Group during the 2014 resulted primarily due to reduction in borrowings and increase in equity by virtue of the profit generated in the current year. 37. COMMITMENTS Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR 37.1 Capital Commitments Capital expenditure contracted as of the reporting date but not yet 586,245,351 378,157,534 586,245,351 378,157,534 incurred Shares subscribed as of the reporting date but not yet paid 10,000,000 11,818,000 10,000,000 11,818,000 596,245,351 389,975,534 596,245,351 389,975,534 There were no other material capital commitments outstanding at the reporting date which require disclosure in the financial statements. 37.2 Operating Leases Leases as lessee The Company has entered into an agreement with Housing Development Corporation Limited on 31st July 2007 for developing, operating and managing a five star tourist hotel in Hulhumale'. The lease rental commitment of the said project has been included in operating lease commitments. The group leases various retail outlets, offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The lease terms are between 5 and 25 years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate. 84 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) Future minimum lease payment Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Non-cancellable operating lease rentals payable for future years are as follows ; Less than one year 16,315,897 13,687,370 12,363,393 11,565,000 1 to 5 years 84,076,949 70,889,627 83,820,635 65,535,000 More than 5 years 86,573,968 227,484,478 85,245,420 225,517,500 186,966,814 312,061,475 181,429,448 302,617,500 Amount recognized in profit or loss Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Lease Expense 36,289,435 15,956,567 11,192,812 8,442,944 Leases as Lessor The Group leases out some property which have been obtained under operating leases. Future minimum lease rent receivable Group Company 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Non-cancellable operating lease rentals receivable for future years are as follows Less than one year 13,426,534 15,905,748 18,422,025 20,901,239 1 to 5 years 40,279,602 63,622,992 55,266,075 73,688,100 53,706,136 79,528,740 73,688,100 94,589,339 Amount recognized in profit or loss Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Rent Income 15,905,748 17,240,614 20,901,239 21,507,206 38. CONTINGENT LIABILITY (i) State Trading Organization Plc has issued corporate guarantees to Bank of Maldives for the facilities obtained by Maldives Structural Products Private Limited. 2014 2013 MVR MVR Type of facilities ▫ overdraft 3,855,000 3,855,000 ▫ letter of credit 15,420,000 15,420,000 19,275,000 19,275,000 (ii) State Trading Organization Plc has also issued a corporate guarantee to Maldives Hajj Corporation Limited for the facilities of MVR 50,000,000/obtained by Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited. (iii) Three customers have filed suit in Civil Court claiming compensation of MVR 6,721,210 /which was not accepted by State Trading Organization PLC. These cases are in progress. In the event the Court holds in favor of the customers, the Group and the Company will need to recognize a liability in respect of these claims. (iv) Except for the above there were no other material contingent liabilities which require disclosure in the consolidated and separate financial statements as at the reporting date other than those disclosed above. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 85 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC 86 (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT A. Accounting Classifications and fair values The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their level in the fair value hierarchy. AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2014 Group financial statements Carrying Amount Fair Value Held for Designated Held to Available Loans and Other Other Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Trading at fair value Maturity for Sale Receivables Financial Financial Financial Assets measured at fair value Assets Liabilities Investment Available for Sale 27,490,800 27,490,800 8,750,000 18,740,800 Investment Held to Maturity 90,684,601 90,684,601 90,684,601 90,684,601 27,490,800 118,175,401 99,434,601 18,740,800 Financial Assets not measured at fair value Trade and Other Receivable 1,141,811,677 1,141,811,677 1,141,811,677 Amount due from Related Parties 724,638,006 724,638,006 724,638,006 Reinsurance Contracts 203,516,065 203,516,065 203,516,065 Equity Accounted Investees 40,943,142 40,943,142 40,943,142 Cash and Cash Equivalents 670,429,290 670,429,290 670,429,290 2,069,965,748 711,372,432 2,781,338,180 2,781,338,180 Financial Liabilities measured at fair value Derivative Financial Instruments 10,011,577 10,011,577 10,479,367 10,011,577 10,011,577 10,479,367 Financial Liabilities not measured at fair value Bank Overdraft 322,323,982 322,323,982 322,323,982 Loans and Borrowings 1,109,757,579 1,109,757,579 1,107,003,661 Amount due to related Parties 117,774,457 117,774,457 117,774,457 Deferred Revenue 12,828,986 12,828,986 12,828,986 Insurance Contracts 319,062,091 319,062,091 319,062,091 Trade and Other Payables 1,607,424,590 1,607,424,590 1,607,424,590 3,489,171,685 3,489,171,685 1,107,003,661 2,379,414,106 AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2013 Group Carrying Amount Fair Value Held for Designated Held to Available for Loans and Other Other Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Trading at fair value Maturity Sale Receivables Financial Financial Financial Assets measured at fair value Assets Liabilities Investment Available for Sale 176,222,400 176,222,400 157,856,600 18,365,800 Investment Held to Maturity 62,643,934 62,643,934 62,643,934 62,643,934 176,222,400 238,866,334 220,500,534 18,365,800 Financial Assets not measured at fair value Trade and Other Receivable 690,289,526 690,289,526 690,289,526 Amount due from Related Parties 1,310,826,940 1,310,826,940 1,310,826,940 Reinsurance Contracts 156,266,299 156,266,299 156,266,299 Equity Accounted Investees 43,584,606 43,584,606 43,584,606 Cash and Cash Equivalents 527,377,480 527,377,480 527,377,480 2,728,344,851 2,728,344,851 2,728,344,851 Financial Liabilities measured at fair value Derivative Financial Instruments 17,890,509 17,890,509 17,890,509 17,890,509 17,890,509 17,890,509 Financial Liabilities not measured at fair value Bank Overdraft 300,012,930 300,012,930 300,012,930 Loans and Borrowings 918,615,852 918,615,852 918,615,852 Amount due to related Parties 30,112,429 30,112,429 30,112,429 Deferred Revenue 6,087,255 6,087,255 6,087,255 Insurance Contracts 244,599,685 244,599,685 244,599,685 Trade and Other Payables 2,460,763,007 2,460,763,007 2,460,763,007 3,960,191,158 3,960,191,158 918,615,852 3,041,575,306 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 87 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC 88 (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2014 Company Carrying Amount Fair Value Held for Designated Held to Available Loans and Other Other Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Trading at fair value Maturity for Sale Receivables Financial Financial Financial Assets measured at fair value Assets Liabilities Investment Available for Sale 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 financial statements 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 Financial Assets not measured at fair value Trade and Other Receivable 301,736,976 301,736,976 298,111,212 Amount due from Related Parties 1,609,288,467 1,609,288,467 1,603,896,475 Equity Accounted Investees 15,267,267 15,267,267 15,267,267 Cash and Cash Equivalents 521,412,962 521,412,962 521,412,962 1,911,025,442 536,680,229 2,447,705,671 2,438,687,915 Financial Liabilities measured at fair value Derivative Financial Instruments 10,011,577 10,011,577 10,479,367 10,011,577 10,011,577 10,479,367 Financial Liabilities not measured at fair value Bank Overdraft 304,650,687 304,650,687 304,650,687 Loans and Borrowings 1,026,938,859 1,026,938,859 1,024,184,941 Amount due to related Parties 254,268,396 254,268,396 254,268,396 Trade and Other Payables 1,545,837,843 1,545,837,843 1,545,837,843 3,131,695,785 3,131,695,785 1,024,184,941 2,104,756,926 AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2013 Company Carrying Amount Fair Value Held for Designated Held to Available Loans and Other Other Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Trading at fair value Maturity for Sale Receivables Financial Financial Financial Assets measured at fair value Assets Liabilities Equity Securities 141,109,312 141,109,312 147,856,600 12,365,800 141,109,312 141,109,312 147,856,600 12,365,800 Financial Assets not measured at fair value Trade and Other Receivable 160,702,979 160,702,979 157,492,817 Amount due from Related Parties 1,766,446,965 1,766,446,965 1,756,392,279 Loan Given to Related Parties 10,986,414 10,986,414 10,986,414 Equity Accounted Investees 15,267,267 15,267,267 15,267,267 Cash and Cash Equivalents 54,575,477 354,575,477 354,575,477 1,938,136,358 369,842,744 2,307,979,103 2,294,714,255 Financial Liabilities measured at fair value Derivative Financial Instruments 17,890,509 17,890,509 17,890,509 17,890,509 17,890,509 17,890,509 Financial Liabilities not measured at fair value Bank Overdraft 288,918,727 288,918,727 288,918,727 Loans and Borrowings 808,615,852 808,615,852 808,615,852 Amount due to related Parties 52,293,026 52,293,026 52,293,026 Trade and Other Payables 2,414,895,762 2,414,895,762 2,414,895,762 3,564,723,367 3,564,723,367 808,615,852 2,756,107,515 b. Measurement of fair value i. Valuation techniques and significant unobservable input The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring level 2 and level 3 fair values, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used. Financial Instruments measured at fair value Type Valuation Techniques Significant unobservable input Inter relationship between significant unobservable inputs and fair value measurement Equity Securities Market approach & Cost approach Company's own data, i.e. transaction cost less impairment N/A Forward exchange contracts Market approach Directly observable market inputs other than Level 1 inputs N/A STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Financial Instruments not measured at fair value Type Valuation Techniques Significant unobservable input Inter relationship between significant unobservable inputs 89 Other Financial Liabilities Cost approach Company's own data N/A STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) C. Financial Risk Management (i) Overview The Group / the Company has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: • Credit risk • Liquidity risk • Market risk This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s / the Company's objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s / the Company's management of capital. Further, quantitative disclosures are included throughout these group’s / the Company's financial statements. (ii) Risk management framework The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s / the Company's risk management framework. (iii) Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group / the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instruments fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s / the Company's receivables from customers and investment in debt securities. The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Group Company Carrying Amount Carrying Amount 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Trade and Other Receivables 1,138,185,913 687,079,364 298,111,212 157,492,817 Amounts Due from Related Parties 719,246,014 1,300,772,254 1,603,896,475 1,756,392,279 Loan Given to Related Parties 10,986,414 Held to Maturity Investment 90,684,601 62,643,934 Balances with Banks and Short Term Deposits 628,477,863 489,266,237 485,712,407 317,971,934 2,576,594,391 2,539,761,789 2,387,720,094 2,242,843,444 Trade and other receivables The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. There is no concentration of credit risk geographically. The management has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analyzed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Group establishes a provision for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The provision for impairment represents the specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures. Impairment Losses 2014 2013 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment Group MVR MVR MVR MVR The aging of trade, other receivables and related party receivables at the reporting date was: Not Past Due 560,404,263 168,386 554,075,636 1,631,607 Past Due 31-90 days 359,487,299 1,605,836 393,470,108 309,297 Past Due 91-180 days 390,392,997 1,890,780 178,589,940 383,267 Past Due 181-365 days 329,373,820 1,241,490 151,203,418 1,081,119 Past Due more than 365 days 521,753,132 290,055,335 1,012,764,452 285,581,778 2,161,411,511 294,961,827 2,290,103,554 288,987,068 Impairment Losses 2014 2013 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment Company MVR MVR MVR MVR The aging of trade, other receivables and related party receivables at the reporting date was: Not Past Due 599,980,246 583,511,486 Past Due 31-90 days 552,959,256 1,192,039 337,125,967 Past Due 91-180 days 185,001,727 1,411,879 160,529,086 Past Due 181-365 days 223,517,477 166,917 169,454,706 Past Due more than 365 days 581,120,158 228,782,586 898,181,033 221,652,334 2,142,578,864 231,553,421 2,148,802,278 221,652,334 90 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) Provision for impairment in respect of trade, other receivables and related party is given in Note 21 and 22 to consolidated / Separate financial statements. The Group / the Company believes that the unimpaired amounts that are outstanding are still collectible, based on historic payment behavior. Based on historic default rates, the group believes that, apart from the above, no provision for impairment is necessary. Held to Maturity Investment The group / the Company limit its exposure to credit risk by investing only in liquid debt securities and only with counterparties that have a good credit rating. Guarantees The Group / the Company policy is to provide financial guarantees only to subsidiaries, joint venture and associates. As at 31 December 2014, the Company has issued a corporate guarantees to Bank of Maldives for the facilities obtained by Maldives Structural Products Private Limited. The details of corporate guarantees are disclosed in note 38. (iv) Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group / the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s / the Company's approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s / the Company's reputation The followings are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at the reporting date. 31st December 2014 Carrying 0-12 1-2 2-5 Amount Months Years Years Group MVR MVR MVR MVR Financial Liabilities (NonDerivative) Trade and Other Payables 1,607,424,590 1,607,424,590 Loans and Borrowings 1,109,757,579 717,898,010 120,079,010 235,907,471 Amounts Due to Related Parties 117,774,457 117,774,457 Insurance Contracts 319,062,091 319,062,091 Deferred Revenue 12,828,986 3,929,482 3,929,482 4,970,022 Current Tax Liabilities 72,994,284 72,994,284 Bank Overdrafts 322,323,982 322,323,982 3,562,165,969 3,161,406,896 124,008,492 240,877,493 Financial Liabilities ( Derivative) Forward Exchange Contract 10,011,577 10,011,577 Total 3,572,177,546 3,171,418,473 124,008,492 240,877,493 31st December 2013 Carrying 0-12 1-2 2-5 Amount Months Years Years Group MVR MVR MVR MVR Financial Liabilities (NonDerivative) Trade and Other Payables 2,460,763,007 2,460,763,007 Loans and Borrowings 918,615,852 701,018,064 26,278,844 145,775,018 Amounts Due to Related Parties 30,112,429 30,112,429 Insurance Contracts 244,599,685 234,095,685 Deferred Revenue 6,087,255 2,982,755 2,982,755 121,745 Current Tax Liabilities 20,556,000 20,556,000 Bank Overdrafts 300,012,930 300,012,930 3,980,747,158 3,749,540,870 29,261,599 145,896,763 Financial Liabilities ( Derivative) Forward Exchange Contract 17,890,509 17,890,509 Total 3,998,637,667 3,767,431,379 29,261,599 145,896,763 It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier, or at significantly different amounts. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 91 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 31st December 2014 Carrying 0-12 1-2 2-5 Amount Months Years Years Company MVR MVR MVR MVR Financial Liabilities (NonDerivative) Trade and Other Payables 1,545,837,843 1,545,837,843 Loans and Borrowings 1,026,938,859 635,079,290 120,079,010 235,907,471 Amounts Due to Related Parties 254,268,396 254,268,396 Current Tax Liabilities 60,541,458 60,541,458 Bank Overdrafts 304,650,687 304,650,687 3,192,237,243 2,800,377,674 120,079,010 235,907,471 Financial Liabilities ( Derivative) Forward Exchange Contract 10,011,577 10,011,577 Total 3,202,248,820 2,810,389,251 120,079,010 235,907,471 31st December 2013 Carrying 0-12 1-2 2-5 Amount Months Years Years Company MVR MVR MVR MVR Financial Liabilities (NonDerivative) Trade and Other Payables 2,414,895,762 2,414,895,762 Loans and Borrowings 808,615,852 591,018,064 26,278,844 145,775,018 Amounts Due to Related Parties 52,293,026 52,293,026 Current Tax Liabilities 12,669,986 12,669,986 Bank Overdrafts 288,918,727 288,918,727 3,577,393,353 3,359,795,565 26,278,844 145,775,018 Financial Liabilities ( Derivative) Forward Exchange Contract 17,890,509 17,890,509 Total 3,595,283,862 3,377,686,074 26,278,844 145,775,018 (v) Market risk Market risk is the risk of changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates that affect the Group’s / the Company's income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing the return. (a) Interest rate risk Profile At the reporting date, the interest rate profile of the Group’s / the Company's interest-bearing financial instruments was: Group Company Carrying Amount Carrying Amount 2014 2013 2014 2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Variable Rate Instruments Financial Liabilities (839,418,795) (321,421,382) (738,927,036) (200,327,179) Fixed Rate Instruments Financial Assets 223,930,075 254,497,236 131,703,474 191,853,302 Financial Liabilities (1,621,582,033) (2,893,708,722) (1,669,701,743) (2,893,708,722) (1,397,651,958) (2,639,211,486) (1,537,998,269) (2,701,855,420) Cash Flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased / (decreased) equity and profit or loss by the amount shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant. GROUP Profit or Loss Equity, net of Tax 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp Increase Decrease Increase Decrease 31 st December 2014 Variable Rate Instrument (8,394,188) 8,394,188 (7,135,060) 7,135,060 31 st December 2013 Variable Rate Instrument (3,214,214) 3,214,214 (2,732,082) 2,732,082 92 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) COMPANY Profit or Loss Equity, net of Tax 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 31 st December 2014 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Variable Rate Instrument (7,389,270) 7,389,270 (6,280,880) 6,280,880 31 st December 2013 Variable Rate financial liabilities (2,003,272) 2,003,272 (1,702,781) 1,702,781 (b) Currency Risk Exposure to currency risk Group The Group’s / the Company's exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: 2014 US$ Euro SGD Cash and Cash Equivalents 4,840,656 10,353 40,674 Trade, Amount due from related parties and other receivables 28,555,589 6,198 29,818 Reinsurance Contracts 13,198,188 Trade, Amount due to related parties and Other Payables (81,739,861) (85,173) (793,458) Loans and Borrowings (56,870,224) Derivative financial instruments (649,259) Bank Overdrafts (20,902,965) Net currency exposure (113,567,876) (68,622) (722,966) Group The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: 2013 US$ Euro SGD Cash and Cash Equivalents 7,920,315 9,057 21,406 Trade, Amount due from related parties and Other Receivables 20,530,940 5,917 135,395 Reinsurance Contracts 10,134,001 Trade, Amount due from to parties and Other Payables (145,061,315) (110,915) (1,224,517) Loans and Borrowings (42,063,285) Derivative financial instruments (1,160,215) Bank Overdrafts (18,736,623) Net currency exposure (168,436,181) (95,941) (1,067,716) Company The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: 2014 US$ Euro SGD Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,427,060 3,897 Trade, Amount due from related parties and Other Receivables 15,374,297 224,497 5,638 Trade, Amount due to related parties and Other Payables (83,714,131) (85,173) (737,737) Loans and Borrowings (56,870,224) Derivative financial instruments (649,259) Bank Overdrafts (19,756,854) Net currency exposure (144,189,110) 143,221 (732,100) Company 2013 US$ Euro SGD Cash and Cash Equivalents 2,792,025 4,097 Trade, Amount due from related parties and Other Receivables 18,477,601 218,717 126,360 Trade, Amount due to related parties and Other Payables (143,272,421) (110,915) (1,173,438) Loans and Borrowings (42,063,285) Derivative financial instruments (1,160,215) Bank Overdrafts (18,736,623) Net currency exposure (183,962,917) 111,898 (1,047,079) STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 93 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) The following significant exchange rate were applied during the year: Average Rate Reporting Date Spot Rate 2014 2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 1 US$ : MVR 15.42 15.42 15.42 15.42 1 Euro : MVR 19.85 20.79 18.50 21.20 1 SGD : MVR 11.88 12.39 11.59 12.16 Sensitivity Analysis A reasonably possible strengthening (weakening) of the USD, EURO, SGD against all other currencies at 31 December would have affected the measurement of financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and affected profit or loss by the amount shown below. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecasted sales and purchases. 31 st December 2014 GROUP Profit or Loss Strengthening Weakening USD 5% Movement (87,560,832) 87,560,832 EURO 5% Movement (63,475) 63,475 SGD 5% Movement (418,959) 418,959 (88,043,267) 88,043,267 31 st December 2013 GROUP USD 5% Movement (129,864,296) 129,864,296 EURO 5% Movement (101,697) 101,697 SGD 5% Movement (649,171) 649,171 (130,615,165) 130,615,165 31 st December 2014 COMPANY USD 5% Movement (111,169,804) 111,169,804 EURO 5% Movement 132,479 (132,479) SGD 5% Movement (424,252) 424,252 (111,461,576) 111,461,576 31 st December 2013 COMPANY USD 5% Movement (141,835,409) 141,835,409 EURO 5% Movement 118,612 (118,612) SGD 5% Movement (636,624) 636,624 (142,353,421) 142,353,421 40. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed a final dividend of MVR 76/per share (total: MVR 85,645,160/-) which is to be approved at the meeting of shareholders. Except for the above no circumstances have arisen since reporting date which require adjustments to / or disclosure in the consolidated / Separate financial statements. 41. DIRECTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY The board of directors of the Group / the Company is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated and separate financial statements. 42. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES The Company is the parent company for the following subsidiary companies Country of Incorporation No of Shares Shareholding 2014 2013 2014 2013 Maldive Gas Private Limited (Note 42.1) Republic of Maldives 61,200 61,200 90.00% 90.00% Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited ( 43.2 ) Republic of Maldives 299,998 149,999 99.99% 99.99% STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited (Note 42.3) Singapore 200,000 199,999 100.00% 100.00% Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited (Note 42.4) Republic of Maldives 15,299 15,299 99.99% 99.99% Maldives National Oil Company Limited (Note 42.5) Republic of Maldives 99,999 99,999 99.99% 99.99% STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited (Note 42.1) Republic of Maldives 9,999 9,999 99.99% 99.99% 94 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 42.1 Maldive Gas Private Limited The main business activity of the Company is distributing Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) ,Medical and Industrial oxygen production. 42.2 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited The Company’s main business activity is providing the General & Life insurance service. 42.3 STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited The main business activity of the Company is trading Oil & Gas. 42.4 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited The main business activity of the Company is distributing Oil which are imported by STO. 42.5 Maldives National Oil Company Limited The main business activity of the Company is developing of Oil and Gas exploration processes in the Maldives. 42.6 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited The Company is engaged in the operation of an airport. 43. COMPARATIVE FIGURES Comparative figures of the consolidated / the Separate financial statements have been reclassified / restated wherever appropriate to conform with current year's presentation. 44. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 44.1 GROUP Name of the Related Party Relationship Nature of the Amount Balance Outstanding Due from Transaction / (to) 2014 2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Koodoo Fisheries Affiliate Sale of Goods 1,042,561 1,588,885 27,791 (10,402,600) Maldives Limited Company Service Obtained (17,375) Purchase of foreign (236,538,000) (89,436,000) currency Felivaru Fisheries Affiliate Sales of Goods 138,276 136,758 (204,475) (2,288,316) Company Purchase of goods (24,583,371) (20,378,310) Purchase of foreign (1,002,300) currency Maldives Structural Joint Venture Sale of Goods 41,528 50,852 (6,844,372) (1,786,726) Product Private Company Purchase of Goods (34,091,687) (29,569,854) Limited Dividend Received 10,000,000 8,000,000 Lafarge Maldives Associate Purchase of Goods (66,360,086) (59,703,405) (12,489,454) (3,579,780) Company Cement Private Sale of Goods 1,052,180 1,201,478 Limited Rent Received 190,453 209,160 Maldives Industrials Affiliate Sale of Goods 11,735,616 2,945,522 1,061,556 868,056 Fisheries Company Company Purchase of Goods (188,450) Limited Purchase of foreign (22,513,200) (2,313,000) currency Ministry of Finance Majority Food subsidy 332,825,065 297,142,544 17,895,533 264,482,587 income and Treasury Shareholder Sale of goods 2,375,234 34,391,526 Advance Received (50,000,000) State Electric Affiliate Service Obtained (16,353,677) (18,892,150) 119,685,483 238,496,840 Company (STELCO) Company Sale of Goods 1,285,007,036 1,232,683,680 Indhira Gandhi Affiliate Sale of Goods 214,201,631 165,466,058 224,885,323 312,053,736 Memorial Hospital (IGMH) Company Rainbow Enterprises Affiliate Purchase of Goods (287,793) (34,508) (6,084) 415,580 Private Limited Company Grape Expectations Affiliate Purchase of foreign 9,252,000 15,420,000 currency Private Limited Company Commision paid 453,000 1,700,000 Settlements (9,705,000) (17,120,000) Rasheed Carpentry and Affiliate Sale of Goods 2,498,525 2,766,514 (529,542) 1,131,257 Construction Private Limited Company Purchase of Goods (150,000) (324,740) Service Obtained (760,964) Settlements 253,340 853,189 Payment received (3,501,700) (3,164,313) STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 95 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) E-Biz Maldives Private Limited Affiliate Rent Received 71,430 4,447 22,066 Company Services provided 8,256 2,838 Payment received (25,876) (82,530) Aasandha Private Limited Affiliate Sales of Goods 146,671,183 146,491,522 79,737,730 76,862,375 Company Services provided 53,422,381 Payment received (197,238,209) (35,980,527) 44.1.1 Transactions with Key Management Personnel The Board of Directors and Managing Director of the Company are the members of the key management personnel. Key management personnel compensation comprised the following. 2014 2013 MVR MVR Short Term 8,941,047 8,173,750 Employee benefits 8,941,047 8,173,750 44.1.2 Collectively, but not individually, significant transactions. Government of Maldives is the major shareholder of the parent Company. The Company has transactions with entities directly or indirectly controlled by the Government of Maldives through its authorities, agencies, affiliations and other organizations, collectively referred to as government entities. The Company has transactions with other government related entities including but not limited to sales, purchases, rendering of services, lease of assets and use of public utilities. 44.2 COMPANY Name of the Related Party Relationship Nature of the Amount Balance Outstanding Due from Transaction / (to) 2014 2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MVR MVR MVR MVR Allied Insurance Subsidiary Sale of goods 2,177,557 56,630 (50,188,198) (8,175,830) Company of the Service Obtained (21,782,731) (17,717,749) Maldives Private Advance Received (48,119,710) Limited Interest paid (741,078) Rent Received 2,292,823 2,231,885 Dividend Received 35,250,000 33,900,000 Maldives National Subsidiary Sale of goods 1,446 (265,741) (176,154) Oil Company Limited Advanced Received (3,084,000) Maldive Gas Subsidiary Sale of goods 962,622 376,938 (2,288,257) 13,095,930 Private Limited Purchase of goods (17,178,594) (7,090,462) Dividend Received 2,396,272 Rent Received 1,033,433 533,353 Interest on Advance 717,606 1,104,921 Fuel Supplies Maldives Subsidiary Sale of Fuel 2,947,356,652 2,452,608,748 604,641,162 255,971,733 Private Limited Purchases of Fuel (17,907,552) (20,565,492) Dividend Received 6,761,988 8,415,000 Rent Received 1,669,235 1,501,355 Rebate paid on fuel (114,238,407) (34,794,516) sales Transportation charges (8,398,331) (8,087,177) paid STO Maldives Subsidiary Purchases of Fuel (103,369,625) 13,342,642 9,390,967 (Singapore) Service Obtained (370,610) (36,431) Private Limited Advance Given 5,165,700 Koodoo Fisheries Affiliate Sale of Goods 1,042,561 1,588,885 27,791 (10,402,600) Maldives Limited Company Service Obtained (17,375) Purchase of foreign (236,538,000) (89,436,000) currency 96 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) Felivaru Fisheries Affiliate Sales of Goods 138,276 136,758 (204,475) (2,288,316) Company Purchase of goods (24,583,371) (20,378,310) Purchase of foreign (1,002,300) currency Maldives Structural Joint Venture Sale of Goods 2,703 8,902 (6,883,197) (1,786,726) Products Private Company Purchase of Goods (34,091,687) (29,569,854) Limited Dividend Received 10,000,000 8,000,000 Lafarge Maldives Associate Purchase of Goods (66,360,086) (59,703,405) (12,497,954) (3,588,505) Cement Private Limited Rent Received 190,453 209,160 Maldives Industrial Affiliate Sale of Goods 11,735,616 2,945,522 1,061,556 868,056 Fisheries Company Company Purchase of Goods (188,450) Limited Purchase of foreign (22,513,200) (2,313,000) currency Ministry of Finance Majority Food subsidy income 332,825,065 297,142,544 17,895,533 264,482,587 and Treasury Shareholder Sale of goods 2,375,234 34,391,526 Advance Received (50,000,000) State Electric Affiliate Service Obtained (16,353,677) (18,892,150) 119,685,483 238,496,840 Company (STELCO) Company Sale of Goods 1,285,007,036 1,232,683,680 Indhira Gandhi Affiliate Sale of Goods 214,201,631 165,466,058 224,885,323 312,053,736 Memorial Hospital (IGMH) Company Rainbow Enterprises Affiliate Purchase of Goods (287,793) (34,508) (6,084) 415,580 Private Limited Company Grape Expectations Affiliate Purchase of foreign 9,252,000 15,420,000 currency Private Limited Company Commision paid 453,000 1,700,000 Settelements (9,705,000) (17,120,000) Rasheed Carpentry and Affiliate Sale of Goods 2,498,525 2,766,514 (529,542) 1,131,257 Constructions Private Limited Company Purchase of Goods (150,000) (324,740) Service Obtained (760,964) Settelements 253,340 853,189 Payment received (3,501,700) (3,164,313) E-Biz Maldives Private Limited Affiliate Rent Received 71,430 4,447 22,066 Company Services provided 8,256 2,838 Payment received (25,876) (82,530) Aasandha Private Limited Affiliate Sales of Goods 146,671,184 79,191,534 60,530,802 65,542,914 Company Payment received (151,683,296) 44.2.1 Transactions with Key Management Personnel The Board of Directors and Managing Director of the Company are the members of the key management personnel. Key management personnel compensation comprised the following. 2014 2013 MVR MVR Short Term Employee benefits 3,138,180 3,969,200 3,138,180 3,969,200 44.2.2 Collectively, but not individually, significant transactions. Government of Maldives is the major shareholder of the parent Company. The Company has transactions with entities directly or indirectly controlled by the Government of Maldives through its authorities, agencies, affiliations and other organizations, collectively referred to as government entities. The Company has transactions with other government related entities including but not limited to sales, purchases, rendering of services, lease of assets and use of public utilities. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 97 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 45. RESTATEMENT OF ERRORS (a) Incorrect recognition of Investment The Group had erroneously recognized the investment made in Aasandha Private limited as an investment in associate and applied equity method of accounting in recognizing the investment. However, the Group does not have either control or significant influence over the investee company. According to the facts and circumstances prevailed from inception, the Group has been a passive investor in Aasandha and the entire operation of the investee company are fully driven by the Government and the Group does not take part in any decision making process despite holding 60% stake and two representatives in the board of the investee company. As a result the board of the Group decided to restate the opening balance in this regard and accordingly, this error has been corrected and comparative figures of the financial statements have been restated accordingly. The impact arising from the restatement is summarised as follows: Group As Previously Adjustment As Stated Restated MVR MVR MVR Statement of financial position a) As at 1st January 2013 Assets Investment in associate 52,517,898 (45,530,040) 6,987,858 Available for sale Investment 166,653,410 6,000,000 172,653,410 Total assets 219,171,308 (39,530,040) 179,641,268 Equity Retained earnings 885,444,856 (39,530,040) 845,914,816 b) As at 31st December 2013 Assets Investment in associate 118,592,351 (110,750,334) 7,842,017 Available for sale Investment 170,222,400 6,000,000 176,222,400 Total assets 288,814,751 (104,750,334) 184,064,417 Equity Retained earnings 995,335,396 (104,750,334) 890,585,062 Statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31st December 2013 Share of profit of Associate 66,253,748 (65,220,293) 1,033,455 98 financial statements STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT (CONTINUED) (b) Recognition of Land Lease Rent The Company has erroneously accounted for the lease agreement entered in to on the 31st July 2007 with Hulhumale' Development Corporation Ltd (Corporation) currently named as Housing Development Corporation Limited. The land was leased out for 25 years for the development of a hotel in Hulhumale' for the construction and operation of a five hundred (500) bed five star hotel. The Company has initially paid USD 4,503,000/as an advanced payment to the lessor, however the Company has not accrued nor paid lease rent as per the agreements and thereby several amendment has been introduced to the initial agreement. Accordingly the second amendement made on 27th June 2011 has stated that the advance payment should be treated as a lease right acquisition fee which could not be reduced form future lease payments and the third amendment has introduced a revised lease rent schedule payable over a period of 10 years commencing 13th June 2013 to 30th July 2023. As per International Accounting Standards 17 Leases the Company should have amortized the advance lease payment along with the annual minimum lease rentals payable over the lease period. However the Company has recorded the entire advance lease payment at the time of payment under capital work-in-progress and failed to accrue and amortize the annual minimum lease rentals payable, over the lease period. During the year the Company has corrected this error by amortizing the advance lease payment along with the annual minimum lease payments payable for 10 years from 13th June 2013 to 30th June 2023 over the lease period as per the third amendment to the initial lease agreement and restated the comparative financial statements to this effect. The Company will reestimate the minimum lease payment once the balance lease rent payable after 2023 is agreed with the lessor. The hotel is still in the construction phase and the Company has capitalized the annual lease rent as per the International Accounting Standard 16 Property Plant and Equipment . The impact arising from the restatement is summarised as follows: Group Company As Previously Adjustment As As Previously Adjustment As Stated Restated Stated Restated MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Statement of financial position a) As at 1st January 2013 Assets Property,Plant and Equipment (10,651,652) 1,427,017,213 1,164,841,598 (10,651,652) 1,154,189,946 1,437,668,865 Prepaid Lease Rest 45,326,447 45,326,447 45,326,447 45,326,447 Total assets 34,674,795 1,472,343,660 1,164,841,598 34,674,795 1,199,516,393 1,437,668,865 Liabilities Lease Rent Accural 34,674,795 34,674,795 34,674,795 34,674,795 b) As at 31st December 2013 Assets Property,Plant and Equipment 8,716,043 1,528,954,327 1,252,981,093 8,716,043 1,261,697,136 1,520,238,284 Prepaid Lease Rest 45,326,448 (2,314,542) 43,011,906 45,326,448 (2,314,542) 43,011,906 Total assets 1,565,564,732 6,401,501 1,571,966,233 1,298,307,541 6,401,501 1,304,709,042 Liabilities Lease Rent Accrual 34,674,795 2,450,450 37,125,245 34,674,795 2,450,450 37,125,245 Amount Due to Related Parties 26,161,378 3,951,051 30,112,429 48,341,975 3,951,051 52,293,026 60,836,173 6,401,501 67,237,674 83,016,770 6,401,501 89,418,271 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 99 COMPANY INFORMATION Name of the Company Board of Directors Audit & Risk Committee State Trading Organization Plc. ▫ Ahmed Niyaz, Chairman ▫ Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu (Chairman) Company Registration ▫ Ahmed Shaheer, Managing Director ▫ Amir Mansoor Number ▫ Amir Mansoor ▫ Mohamed Farshath C186/2001 ▫ Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu Legal Form Corporate Governance ▫ Aishath Rafiyya Committee A Public Listed Company with limited liability. Incorporated ▫ Mohamed Farshath ▫ Mohamed Farshath (Chairman) as a Government Company, Athirimaafannu Trading Account ▫ Ibrahim Ziyath ▫ Amir Mansoor (ATA), on 20 December 1964 and was renamed as State Trading ▫ Aishath Rafiyya Organization on 09 June 1979. On 14 August 2001, State Trading Organization PLC became a public Nomination and limited company. Remuneration Committee ▫ Amir Mansoor (Chairman) Stock Exchange Listing ▫ Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu Ordinary shares of the Company are listed in the Maldives Stock ▫ Aishath Rafiyya Exchange. ▫ Mohamed Farshath 100 COMPANY INFORMATION Auditors KPMG, Mialani, 2nd Floor, Henveiru Sosun Magu Male’ Republic of Maldives Bankers ▫ Bank of Ceylon, Male’ ▫ Bank of Maldives Plc. Male’ ▫ BNP Paribas, Singapore ▫ Habib Bank Limited, Male’ Shareholding structure ▫ HSBC, Male’ ▫ HSBC, Hong Kong No. of Shares @MVR. 50/% ▫ Maldives Islamic Bank, Male’ Government 919,869 45,993,450 81.63 ▫ Nations Trust Bank, Colombo Public 207,041 10,352,050 18.37 ▫ Seylan Bank, Colombo Total 1,126,910 56,345,500 100 Unauthorized Capital 100,000,000 ▫ Société General Bank, Singapore Paid-up Capital 56,345,500 ▫ State Bank of India, Male’ Premium 27,814,500 Registered Address State Trading Organization Plc. Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Maafannu, Male’ 20345 Republic of Maldives Contact Details Call Centre: +960 334 4333 F: +960 334 4511 info@stomaldives.net www.sto.mv STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 101 sto maldives Registered Date Share % as at 31/dec/2014 (singapore) pte. ltd. Trading company 30 STO 100% incorporated & operated in novemBER Singapore 1997 FUEL SUPPLIES Registered Date Share % as at 31/dec/2014 MALDIVES Pvt. Ltd. FUEL DISTRIBUTOR 18 STO 99.99% MNOC 0.01% incorporated & operated in decemBER Maldives 2000 MALDIVE NATIONAL Registered Date Share % as at 31/dec/2014 OIL COMPANY LTD. FUEL tRADER 6 STO 99.99% Allied 0.01% incorporated in Maldives & OCTOBER operated in Singapore 2003 OUR GROUP ALLIED INSURANCE Registered Date Share % as at 31/dec/2014 31 COMPANY OF THE MALDIVES PVT. LTD. STO 99.99% Insurance Company MGPL 0.01% incorporated & operated in NOVEMBER Maldives 1984 102 OUR GROUP sto hotels & Registered Date Share % as at 31/dec/2014 resorts pvt. ltd. Tourism sector 7 STO 99.99% FSM 0.01% incorporated & operated in feBRuary Maldives 2012 maldive gas pvt. Registered Date Share % as at 31/dec/2014 ltd. gas distributer 3 STO 90% Champa Oil incorporated & operated in & Gas 10% october Maldives 1999 MALDIVEs Registered Date Share % as at 31/dec/2014 stuctural products pvt. ltd.* roofing sheet 23 STO 50% Rainbow manufacturer Investment incorporated & operated in OCTOBER 2000 50% Maldives lafarge maldives Registered Date Share % as at 31/dec/2014 cement pvt. ltd.** cement distributor 7 STO 25% Lafarge incorporated in Maldives & (Zurich) 75% january operated in Singapore 2002 Associate Company** Joint Venture* STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 103 sto directory Administration and Human Resources Materials Business Development Energy and Construction and Public Relations Materials Finance ▫ Construction Materials Office Corporate and Legal Home Improvement and ▫ Fuel & Lubricants Service Centre Company Secretariat ▫ STO Construction Materials, K. ▫ STO Home Improvement Thilafushi Warehouse ▫ STO Service Center Energy and Construction ▫ Construction Materials 158 ▫ STO Home Improvement ▫ STO Construction Materials Warehouse Warehouse ▫ Vehicle Garage ▫ Addu Service Center 104 sto directory Information Communication Technology Internal Audit ▫ STO B. Thulhaadhoo Pharmacy Medical Services ▫ STO Ha. Uligam Pharmacy ▫ Medical Store ▫ STO L. Hithadhoo Pharmacy ▫ Medical Warehouse ▫ STO Dh. Meedhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Gdh. Gaddhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO IGMH Pharmacy ▫ STO K. Dhiffushi Pharmacy ▫ STO K. Thulusdhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Villimale Pharmacy ▫ STO Lh. Naifaru Pharmacy ▫ STO Adh. Dhangethi Pharmacy ▫ STO Hulhumale Pharmacy ▫ STO Hdh. Hanimaadhoo ▫ STO R. Dhuvaafaru Pharmacy Pharmacy ▫ STO S. Hithadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Th. Guraidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO M. Muli Pharmacy ▫ STO S. Hulhumeedhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO K. Guraidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO S. Feydhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Gdh. Thinadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Gdh. Vaadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Adh. Dhigurah Pharmacy ▫ STO L. Gan Pharmacy ▫ STO Gdh. Rathafandhoo ▫ STO Th. Veymandoo Pharmacy Pharmacy ▫ STO Hdh. Kulhudhufushi ▫ STO V. Felidhoo Pharmacy Pharmacy ▫ STO N. Manadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Ga. Nilandhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO B. Eydhafushi Pharmacy ▫ STO Th. Hirilandhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO K. Maafushi Pharmacy ▫ STO K . Himmafushi Pharmacy ▫ STO F. Dharanboodhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Gn. Fuvahmulah Pharmacy ▫ STO Ga. Kolamafushi Pharmacy ▫ STO Th. Gaadhiffushi Pharmacy ▫ STO N. Velidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Ha. Kelaa Pharmacy ▫ STO B. Goidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO F. Feeali Pharmacy ▫ STO L. Maavah Pharmacy ▫ STO M. Dhiggaru Pharmacy ▫ STO M. Maduvvaree Pharmacy ▫ STO Ha. Hoarafushi Pharmacy ▫ STO Ga. Villigili Pharmacy ▫ STO Ga. Konday Pharmacy ▫ STO L. Fonadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO M. Kolhufushi Pharmacy ▫ STO R. Ungoofaru Pharmacy ▫ STO Th. Thimarafushi Pharmacy ▫ STO Th. Vilifushi Pharmacy ▫ STO Dh. Kudahuvadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO R. Meedhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO B. Hithaadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Ga. Dhevvadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO R. Inguraidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO L. Maabaidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Ha. Filladhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Sh. Milandhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO B. Dharavandhoo Pharmacy STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 105 ▫ STO Sh. Goidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Th. Madifushi Pharmacy ▫ STO Lh. Hinnavaru Pharmacy ▫ STO Sh. Bilehfahi Pharmacy ▫ STO AA. Feridhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Th. Dhiyamigili Pharmacy ▫ STO Ha. Maarandhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Sh. Foakaidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Sh. Feydhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO AA. Rasdhoo Pharmacy Procurement – Essential ▫ STO R. Innamaadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO AA. Mathiveri Pharmacy Goods ▫ STO AA. Thoddoo Pharmacy ▫ STO N. Henbadhoo Pharmacy Procurement – General ▫ STO Ga. Maamendhoo ▫ STO L. Isdhoo Pharmacy Goods Pharmacy ▫ STO F. Nilandhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Dh. Bandidhoo Pharmacy Regional Sales / Food and ▫ STO F. Magoodhoo Pharmacy Beverages ▫ STO Sh. Funadhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO F. Billehdhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Supermart ▫ STO Ga. Kanduhulhudhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO K. Gaafaru Pharmacy ▫ STO Supermart Warehouse ▫ STO Ha. Dhiddhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Dh. Hulhudheli Pharmacy ▫ STO Staples ▫ STO l. Mundoo Pharmacy ▫ STO N. Fodhdhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Ha. Hoarafushi Store ▫ STO V. Fulidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Sh. Kanditheemu ▫ STO S. Feydhoo Store Pharmacy ▫ STO Th. Kinbidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO B. Eydhafushi Store ▫ STO Lh. Olhuvelifushi Pharmacy ▫ STO K. Kaashidhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO L. Fonadhoo Store ▫ STO R. Rasgatheemu Pharmacy ▫ STO Gdh. Fiyoaree Pharmacy ▫ STO Gn. Fuvahmulah Store ▫ STO Adh. Haggnaameedh ▫ STO Ha. Ihavandhoo Pharmacy Pharmacy ▫ STO S. Hithadhoo Store ▫ STO Gdh. Fares Maathodaa ▫ STO Gdh. Hoandeddhoo ▫ STO Gdh. Thinadhoo Store Pharmacy Pharmacy ▫ STO S. Maradhoo Feydhoo ▫ STO N. Kedhikulhudhoo ▫ STO Ha. Baarah Pharmacy Store Pharmacy ▫ STO AA. Maalhos Pharmacy ▫ STO K. Hulhumale’ Store ▫ STO N. Kudafari Pharmacy ▫ STO L. Kunahandhoo Pharmacy ▫ STO Ga. Villingili Store ▫ STO Sh. Maroshi Pharmacy ▫ STO. M. Mulah Pharmacy ▫ STO S. Hulhumeedhoo Store ▫ STO. Hdh. Vaikaradhoo ▫ STO Hdh. Kulhudhuhfushi Pharmacy Store ▫ STO K. Villimale’ Transport 106 sto directory Group Companies ▫ Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Pvt. Ltd. ,Fen Building, 2nd Floor, Ameenee Magu, Male’, 20375, Maldives, T: +960 330 0033, F: +960 332 5035, E: info@alliedmaldives. net, Website: www.allied.mv ▫ Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt Ltd, Block A, 4th Floor, STO Aifaanu Building, Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Male’ 20-05, Maldives, T: +960 3336655 , F: +960 3313881, E: info@fuelmaldives. com, Website: www. fuelmaldives.com ▫ Lafarge Maldives Cement Pvt Ltd, 01-01 STO Trade Centre, Orchid Magu, T: +960 3315313, F: +960 3315316, E: mimcgm@ dhivehinet.net.mv ▫ Maldive Gas Pvt Ltd, 2nd Floor, STO Trade Centre, Orchid Magu, T: +960 333 5614, F: +960 3335615, E: info@maldivegas. com, Website: www. maldivegas.com ▫ Maldives National Oil Company Ltd, Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Maafannu, Male’ 20345, Maldives, T: +960 3325635, F: +960 3344533, E: info@mnoc. com.sg, Website: www.mnoc. com.mv ▫ Maldives Structural Products Pvt Ltd, G.Marline Spike Building, 2/10 Alikilegefaanu Magu, T: +960 3337720, F: +960 3337721, E: msroof@ dhivehinet.net.mv ▫ STO Hotels and Resorts Pvt Ltd, STO Building, 6th Floor, Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Maafannu, T: +960 3344388, +960 3344374, F: +960 3344599, E: hotels@ stomaldives.net ▫ STO Maldives (Singapore) Pte Ltd, 10, Anson Road,, #39-10 International Plaza,, Singapore 079903, T: (65) 6324 4668, E: stosing@stomaldives.com.sg STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 107 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Profiles Ahmed Niyaz Ahmed Niyaz was initially appointed to the Board as the Chairman by the majority shareholder (Government) on 19th December 2013. Niyaz is a well-known business figure in the Maldivian industry who is currently also serving in the Maldives Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), as the Operations and Development Manager and as an Executive Director of the Board, where he provides expertise on strategic planning, project management, financial analysis, policy implementation and operations. With an educational background in economics, sociology and political science, Niyaz has also served as a Headmaster Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu in various regional schools. Niyaz holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics, Sociology and Political Science from the University Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu was appointed as an Independent, of Mysore, India. Non-Executive Director by the majority shareholder (Government), in May 2012. Ahmed Shaheer He spent the earlier part of his career serving STO for more Ahmed Shaheer was appointed to the Board on 25th than a decade. He rose through the ranks of STO and was a December 2013. He was appointed as the Managing Director Director when he was released to Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. of the Company on 09th March 2015. Ltd. in 2003. Hadi has a wealth of knowledge in the financial sector and served as the Head of Accounts Department at Shaheer was initially appointed as a Manager in the Assets STO. In addition, during his time at FSM he served as the Head Department of the Company and has since risen through the of Department of Administration, Human Resources and ranks to be designated as the Managing Director. With over Legal. 20 years of experience in the Company, Shaheer currently also serves as the Chairman of the Board of Maldives National Oil Hadi had also represented STO as a Board Member at Maldives Company Ltd. (MNOC), STO Maldives (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. and Industrial Fisheries Company Pvt. Ltd. Hadi holds a Bachelor in STO Hotel & Resorts Pvt. Ltd. Commerce while Majoring in Accounting. Shaheer holds a Master’s Degree of Business Administration Mohamed Farshath (International Trade) from the University of Adelaide, Australia and a Bachelors’ Degree in Business Administration Mohamed Farshath was appointed to the Board at the 2012 (Marketing and Management) from the University of Charles Annual General Meeting, as the only Director elected by the Stuart, Australia. public shareholders. He is an Independent, Non-Executive Director in the Company. Farshath currently holds the post of Secretary General of Maldives Media Council. He has also provided his services to the Civil Service Commission as the Financial Controller, Director, and the acting-in-charge of several Divisions. He also served MTDC as a Board Director and worked as a Certificate Panel Member for Maldives Qualifications Authority. Farshath has also attained experience in various fields working at different Departments of former Ministry of Tourism/Civil Aviation/Arts and Culture, and former Foreign Investment Services Bureau and also at former Clique Training Center. Farshath has an educational background in Board Directorship, Management, Tourism, Business Administration, and Information Technology. He holds a Master of Arts in Tourism Management from University of Westminster, London; a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Business Administration from Northumbria University, United Kingdom; a Diploma of Higher Education (area of study on Business Information Systems and Business Studies) from Middlesex University, United Kingdom; a Diploma in Information Technology from Wollongong University, Australia; and has completed an Executive Diploma in Directorship from Singapore Management University, Singapore. 108 Profiles Amir Mansoor Amir Mansoor was appointed to the Board as an Independent, Non-Executive Director in May 2012 by the majority shareholder (Government). Amir is a well-known business figure who has founded and performed in various large companies. He is currently the Chairman of Carpediem Maldives Pvt. Ltd., the Managing Director of Lily International Pvt. Ltd. and also the Managing Director (owner) of Grape Expectation Pvt. Ltd. He has been in various business industries for over 25 years and is well versed with the past and present business norms. He is particularly interested in the Enterprise Risk Management and is completing an international training to become a Qualified Risk Director. Aishath Rafiyya Aishath Rafiyya was appointed to the Board of Directors as an Independent, Non-Executive Director by the majority shareholder (Government), in August 2014. Ms. Rafiyya started her career at the Bank of the Maldives at a very young age and served at various key positions. She also served at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and High Commission of Maldives in Dhaka as a Deputy Chief of Mission. Rafiyya is an Executive Board member and Chief Operating Officer of Women on Boards (WOB Maldives) an NGO. She is also the Deputy Leader and Co-founder of the political party Maldives Development Alliance (MDA), the coalition partner of the current government. She was a former council member and President of women’s wing of People’s Alliance (PA) and is the first elected female Deputy Leader of a political party in Maldivian history by securing 90% of votes in its formation session. Rafiyya is a Doctorate Researcher of University of Canberra, Australia focused on Women Empowerment through Tourism. She is a graduate of Master of Business Administration (Major in HRM) and BSC (Hons) in Business Information Systems from University of East London. She also holds a Graduate Diploma in Business Management and International Diploma in Computer Studies (NCC, UK). She holds memberships of Institute of Directors UK, Institute of Directors India and Board Director Training Institute of Japan. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 109 Mohamed Mihad EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT (Chief Financial Officer) Ahmed Shaheer Mohamed Mihad joined STO in the year of 2009 as an accountant continuing onto gaining vast experience and (Managing Director) knowledge in the field of finance and audit, resulting in (See page 108 for a detailed profile) the designation of the post of Chief Financial Officer of the Company. He also played a key role in the ERP implementation Ibrahim Ziyath project of the Company, acting as a core team lead of the SAP (Executive Director / General Manager – Procurement ERP finance module and has also served as a Senior Auditor Department (Essential Goods) for 4 years. Mr. Ibrahim Ziyath joined STO in the year of 1997 and has Mihad completed the Chartered Institute of Management gained over 16 years of experience in STO and its subsidiary Accountants (CIMA) examination in the year of 2009 and was Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. He is currently the Head of inducted as a certified member of the Chartered Institute of Department for Procurement – Essentials and the Chairman Management Accountants (ACMA) in the year of 2013. of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Ziyath has also served as Ahmed Shifan the Deputy Managing Director and acting Managing Director of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. During the year, he had (General Manager – Administration and Human Resource) served as a Board Director in Lafarge Maldives Pvt. Ltd. and Ahmed Shifan joined STO in the year of 2003 and is currently also as the Chairman of Maldives Structural Products Pvt. Ltd. the Head of Administration and Human Resource Department. Mr. Ziyath holds a Master’s Degree in Business Administration Prior to this he has served in many key positions of the from the University of Ballart, Australia and a Bachelor’s Company such as the Head of Department for Regional Sales, Degree of Business (Major in Management and Marketing) Home Improvement, Store Operations and ICT. He was also from Edith Cowan University, Australia. involved in the key role of the SAP HCM implementation project of the Company, as the Project Manager. Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz He currently serves as the Chairman of STO Subsidiary, (Chief Internal Auditor) Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd. and is Board of Advisor for the SAP Asia Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz joined STO in 1996 and has been the Pacific Japan Regional Services Board, since January 2013. Chief Internal Auditor of the company since July 2010 During the year 2014, he had also served as a Board Director of Maldives Structural Products Pvt. Ltd and prior to this as a Dr. Mahfooz is a member of the Association of Certified Fraud Board Director of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt.Ltd. Examiners (CFE) USA, a fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (FCCA) UK and a senior member of CPA Shifan holds a Master of Business Administration with Honors Maldives. Dr. Mahfooz obtained his Doctorate in Business from Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand and a Administration from the University of Newcastle, Australia, Bachelor of Science with Joint Honors (First Class) in Business Master of Business Administration from the Charles Stuart Information Systems and Business Studies from Middlesex University, Australia and Bachelor of Arts with Honors in University, UK. Accounting and Finance from the Oxford Brookes University, Aishath Shaffana Rasheed UK. (General Manager – Company Secretariat) Fathimath Ashan Aishath Shaffana Rasheed joined STO in the year of 2004. She (Senior General Manager – Regional Sales, Food and serves as the Company Secretary, since 2007. Shaffana is also Beverages) the Head of Department of Company Secretariat. Fathimath Ashan joined STO in the year 1994 and has since Shaffana holds a Masters in Business from the Cardiff served in many key positions of the Company during her 20 Metropolitan University, UK and a Bachelor of Business years of service. Ashan is now designated as the Head of (Marketing and Management) from Edith Cowan University, Department for Regional Sales, Food and Beverages. She Australia. had previously served in many key positions of the Company such as the Head of Department for Human Resources and Musthafa Azmy Administration and as the Company Secretary. (Chief Information Officer – Information, Communication & She is currently a Board Director of Allied Insurance Company Technology) of the Maldives Pvt. Ltd and STO Hotels and Resorts Pvt. Ltd. Mr. Musthafa Azmy joined STO in the year of 1994 and is Ashan is also the Chairman of Lafarge Maldives Cement Pvt. Ltd. currently the Chief Information Officer and the Head of Ashan holds a Master’s in Business Administration from Department for Information, Communication and Technology. University of Lincoln and a Bachelor of Arts with Honors (First He played a key role in the successful migration from the Class) in Business and Information Technology from University legacy systems to SAP ERP. of Coventry. Azmy served in the Board od Directors of Allied Insurance Company Pvt. Ltd and is currently the Chairman of Maldives Structural Products Pvt. Ltd. Azmy holds a Bachelor of Science (Hons) of Computer Science (First Class) from London Metropolitan University and is also a certified SAP ABAP and HCM Associate Consultant. 110 Profiles Mariyam Nuzla (General Manager – Corporate & Legal Affairs) Mariyam Nuzla joined STO in the year of 1999 and has since served the Company in various positions including the role of a Personal Assistant to the Managing Director from 2008 to 2013. She is currently the Head of Department for Corporate & Legal Affairs and is also as a Board Director for Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd. Nuzla holds a Bachelor’s Degree of Business (Management and Marketing) from Edith Cowan University, Australia. Mohamed Murad (General Manager – Home Improvement and Service Center) Mr. Mohamed Murad joined STO in the year of 1999 and has hence acquired substantial knowledge and experience in strategic leadership and operational knowledge with 15 years of experience in the Company. He currently serves as the Head of Department for Home Improvement and Service Center. Murad also serves as a Board Director for the Allied Insurance Abdul Wahid Moosa Company of the Maldives Pvt. Ltd. (General Manager – Transport) Murad holds a BTEC Higher National Diploma in Spatial Design Abdul Wahid Moosa joined the Company in the year of 2009. from the Academy of Design, Northumbria University, UK. He has a vast array of knowledge and experience in the field of maritime studies, chartering and shipping management. Hussain Sobaah Wahid is the current Head of Department for Transport. He (General Manager – Medical Services) also serves as a Board Director for Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Hussain Sobaah joined STO in the year of 2003 and has since excelled in many of the Company’s projects involving Wahid holds a Bachelor’s Degree of Business (Management the pharmaceutical field such as the takeover of IGMH stock and Marketing) from the Edith Cowan University, Australia. He in the year of 2010 and the All Island Pharmacy Project in has also completed various maritime related courses such as 2014. Sobaah currently serves as the Head of Department the Certificate to conduct ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management for Medical Services and also as a Board Director for Lafarge System Audit from the Bureau VERITAS, French Classification Maldives Cement Pvt. Ltd. During the year, he has also Society in Singapore. provided his services to the Board of Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd. as a Director of the Company. Muslih Maseeh Sobaah holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business (Marketing and (Assistant General Manager / Media Cordinator – Business Management) from the Edith Cowan University, Australia. Development & Public Relations) Muslih Maseeh joined the Company in the year of 2008 Ramzee Aboobakuru and is the current Head of Department for Business (General Manager – Energy and Construction Materials) Development and Public Relations. He had previously served in Faunu Travels Pvt. Ltd, Ministry of Planning and National Mr. Ramzee Aboobakuru joined STO in the year of 2007 and Development and Stern’ Textiles Australia. He is also the is now currently serving as the Head of Department for current Media Coordinator of STO and a Board Director Energy and Construction Materials. He previously served as of Maldives National Oil Company Ltd. and STO Maldives a Manager in Medical and Marketing & Sales Department. (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Ramzee is also a Board Director of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Muslih holds a Master of Business Administration from University of Nottingham and a Bachelor’s Degree (Hons) in Ramzee holds a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Marketing from the International Business from the University of East London, UK. University of Hertfordshire, UK. Ahmed Kurik Riza (Assistant General Manager – Procurement (General Goods) Mr. Ahmed Kurik Riza joined the Company in the year of 2003 and is the current Head of Department for Procurement General Goods. He had previously served in various different positions in the Company, including as a Senior Manager in Business Development and in Regional Sales Department. Kurik is currently a Board Director of Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Pvt. Ltd. and STO Hotel & Resorts Pvt. Ltd. Kurik has a BTEC Higher National Diploma in Computer Studies from Edexcel, UK. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 111 112 Profiles STO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 113
