The Adherence to the Ten Guiding Principles Principles Company's Policy & Direction Specific Actions Taken (GRI indicators correlated with) (Approach/ Process/ Deployment) (Outcomes with Key results and measurements) Human Rights Principle 1 1. Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC), which embodies our values, was adopted and is explained (in languages besides English, also in Hindi). At the entry point, all employees in the organization including new entrants sign the TCOC. Regular We follow the International Declaration of trainings are conducted. A film on TCOC has also been Human Rights. Our HR policies and prepared internally for wide circulation and reinforcement of procedures have been modelled ethical code amongst all employees & other stakeholders. accordingly. The Company's policies on Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Policy has also been Management of Business Ethics (MBE) adopted to address any form of sexual harassment faced by also are strong testimonies of this the employees. The Lady Ethics Counsellor also functions as practice. the Chief Ethics Counsellor of the Company. She is also the President of the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) to address any breach against the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH). Businesses should support and respect 2. At entry point of their engagement, all employees are the protection of internationally provided with a Service Rule book, which lay down various proclaimed human rights rules for the officers, like working hours of all employees, facilities provided by the company, including leave entitlement, etc. 3. Whistle-Blower Policy for Employees & Directors as well as a separate one for Vendors are in place. 4. Regular dialogues/feedbacks are conducted across the organization with/from all employees during various Communication Meets. The Employee Engagement & Satisfaction Surveys also serve as a means to collect feedback from the employees. 5. A separate access to the Audit Committee Chairman as well as a Toll Free Number has also been provided to all employees to report any breach of action. Principle 2 TCOC expressly commits to treat all 1. The Company ensures that it engages in business with employees with dignity and to conduct its suppliers, vendors, etc. who are compatible with the practices business fairly without making any of the Company as laid down in the TCOC. discriminations. Also, our HR/IR processes are derived Make sure they are not complicit in through a consultative process, i.e. joint 2. Any issue of conflict is addressed and peacefully resolved by human rights abuses discussion of the management with the the top management in discussion with the Union. Union. 3. There is also a Safety Council, Welfare Committee, WhistleBlower Protection Committee, Sexual Harassment Committee, Grievance Cell to address the various issues raised by the employees. Principles Company's Policy & Direction Specific Actions Taken (GRI indicators correlated with) (Approach/ Process/ Deployment) (Outcomes with Key results and measurements) Labour Standards Principle 3 TSPDL engages in a process of Businesses Should uphold the freedom 'collective bargaining' through employee The management interacts with labour Unions for fixation of of association and the effective Union and periodic negotiations take salaries, labour welfare measures, productivity bonus and all recognition of the right to collective place (every 3 years, a Negotiated Wage such decisions are arrived at with mutual consent, considering bargaining settlement is arrived at) as per our the performance parameters of the Company. Company policy. Principle 4 As per the Govt of India policies, forced The elimination of all forms of forced There is no forced and/or compulsory labour in Tata Steel and compulsory labour is banned. The and compulsory labour Processing And Distribution Limited. Company policies support this Principle. Principle 5 The Company's Recruitment & Selection 1.The Company engages employees over 18 years of age only Policy ensures that only adults over 18 and deals with suppliers and vendors who comply with this years of age are employed by the requirement. A detailed Vendor registration process is also in Company. place. The effective abolition of child labour All suppliers/ Dealers/ Vendors are also 2. There is a continuous review & monitoring policy in place to informed on this issue for strict ensure this. compliance. Principle 6 Our HR policies on recruitment and selection are strictly nondiscriminatory. Right to employment in the organization is protected & practised regardless of religion, caste, creed or We abide by TCOC and do NOT sex. This is also laid down in TCOC. However, TSPDL, as per Eliminate discrimination in respect of discriminate our recruitment & selection its Affirmative Action Policy, is committed to assist members employment and occupation process on the basis of from the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities caste/creed/sex/religion etc. for employment opportunities and as business associates, provided everything else (merit for employment; cost and quality for business associates) is equal. Principles (GRI indicators Company's Policy & Direction Specific actions taken (Outcomes with Key results and correlated with) (Approach/ Process/ Deployment) measurements) Environmental Protection Principle 7 The company is pro-environmental in its approach & practices and specific 1. Certain units of the Company are certified to ISO 14000 policies and guidelines exist to set Environment System Standards. direction that address these Principles and beyond. 2. Environmental Assessment Impact studies & Carbon Footprint exercises are conducted at regular intervals for different business units and recommendations followed up. Businesses should support a 3. Operates ETPs to neutralize effluents. precautionary approach to environmental challenges 4. TSPDL products do not have any immediate adverse impact on the society, as the process of sizing the steel through slitting, cutting-to-length, roll forming, etc. are all green . 5. Rainwater harvesting is carried out. 6. All e-wastes are disposed off in an environment-friendly 5. Maintains norms for air & water emissions, noise pollution and Forest Act. Principle 8 Awareness amongst employees for maintenance and protection of safe & 1. Reducing usage of LDPE, HDPE by using single VCI stretch Undertake initiatives to promote healthy environment as an inclusive work film in our Cold-Rolled Processing. greater environmental responsibility practice requirement is continuously imparted. 2. Replacing wood with steel pallets. 3. Carbon Footprint exercise was also done. 4. Regular office/pantry use items like paper cups, etc are disocuraged. Employees also are encouraged to practice environement-friendly habits, like switching off lights when not using, keep the AC in an acceptable temperature, etc. Awareness sessions are regularly held. Principle 9 1. Impact of products/operations on society is considered at the project feasibility stage itself so that correct technology can be chosen and used. 2. Emphasis is on the use of re-generated acid for pickling operations, or even replacing pickling opeartions entirely with Encourage the development and EPS technology. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3. Effluent water is treated to eliminate harmful elements and used for other purposes. 4. Power saving initiatives have been undertaken like switching from DC to AC drives, using power-efficient lighting, etc. Principles (GRI indicators Company's Policy & Direction Specific actions taken (Outcomes with Key results and correlated with) (Approach/ Process/ Deployment) measurements) Anti-Corruption & Prevention of Bribery Principle 10 As a Tata Group Company, there is an elaborate system and processes on the 1. A copy of Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC) is given at the time ‘Management of Business Ethics’ (MBE) of employment offer to all, read and signed by every employee. and all employees sign our TCOC. 2. The company has a Chief Ethics Counsellor and local Ethics The TCOC spells out in clear terms the Counsellors across the major locations of the Company. The norms on gifts & donations and the name and contact number of the Company's Chief Ethics ethical ways for conducting the Counsellor is displayed on all Purchase Orders of the Company company's business affairs such that to report any untoward ethical breach. A separate access to the corruption in workplace is Audit Committee Chairman as well as a Toll Free Number has prevented/eliminated. also been provided to all employees to report any breach of action. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 3. A Whistle-Blower Policy has been in place since the year 2005. It has been re-visited in the years 2008 and then in 2014 and appropriate changes made. A Gift Policy is also in place All Management and supervisory staff for some years now. In 2015, however, based on the policies of sign the Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC). the parent company (Tata Steel Limited), new and revised Gift and Whistle-Blower Policies were adopted. A Anti-Corruption & Bribery Policy is also on the way. The TCOC is also undergoing revision at the Tata Group level. 4. Breaches on ethics, after thorough probe with full transparency, are addressed through exemplary punishment At the vendor / Suppliers meets, our including dismissal, suspension & warnings, with feedback to TCOC is explained. the top management. This is an ongoing process. The Company also has a separate Whistle-Blower Policy for Vendors.
