Norske Skog Communication on Progress (COP) Norske Skog signed the Global Compact in 2003. The Global Compact embraces a worldwide network of enterprises, governments, unions, civil organisations and the UN, which is dedicated to dialogue and coordinated action to promote a sustainable and inclusive global economy. Even in demanding times for our company, we keep a strong focus on our commitments to a sustainable performance within our corporate social responsibilities. We are a large consumer of recovered paper, we source timber and woodchips from sustainably managed forests, we have a goal to reduce the environmental footprint from our activities to a minimum and to reduce our emissions of greenhouse gases by 25 per cent by 2020, compared with 2006. We are committed to the ten principles of UN Global Compact, states President and CEO Sven Ombudstvedt. Norske Skog`s core values of openness, honesty and cooperation as well as our policies and guidelines build on the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. • We have entered a partnership with the Bellona Foundation for making Norske Skog even more environmentally friendly and resource efficient. During 2014 we made environmental investments of NOK 58 million, and all business units are ISO 14001 certified. • We were accordingly the first international pulp and paper company to sign a global agreement on employee rights with the International Federation of Chemical, Energy, Mine and General Workers’ Unions (ICEM). Sven Ombudstvedt President & CEO • We have a close and good collaboration with our unions through several channels worldwide. • We accept our social responsibility to the local communities in which our operations are pursued. Business units and employees involve themselves in a number of areas in these communities, supporting activities, which help to improve the quality of life, health and knowledge. Global compact 2014 Issue Areas GC Principles Annual Report 2014 page Human Rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of 15, 23, web: Steering internationally proclaimed human rights. documents, web: GRI table Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in 15, 23, web: Steering human rights abuses. documents Labor Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 15, 19, 23, web: Steering effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. documents Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced 15, 19, 23, web: Steering and compulsory labor. documents Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 15, 19, 23, web: Steering documents Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in 15, 19, 23, 40, web: respect of employment and occupation. Steering documents Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 16, 23, 24, 40, web: environmental challenges. Steering document Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 11, 24-35, 40, web: environmental responsibility. Steering document Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 8, 24, 40 environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 16, 120, web: Steering including extortion and bribery. documents, web: GRI table
