SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO A SUSTAINABLE GIGABIT SOCIETY Making light make sense ABOUT TRANSMODE About Transmode Transmode is a global provider of packet-optical netTransmode’s Native Packet Optical 2.0 architecture working solutions that enable fixed line and mobile gives customers key advantages such as cost effinetwork operators to cost effectively address the cient Ethernet services, ultra-low latency, low power capacity needs created by the rapid growth in video consumption and future proof network design. and data traffic. These solutions are important buildTransmode is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweing blocks in next-­generation high-speed optical den and is listed on the NASDAQ Stockholm Exchange networks that support services such as broadband (TRMO). Since 2000 the company has installed more backhaul, mobile data backhaul, video delivery serthan 50,000 systems for over 650 fixed and mobile vices and cloud computing. Transmode’s solutions network operators, service providers, large enterare designed to increase the capacity, flexibility prises and public institutions in over 50 countries and functionality of metro and regional networks across the globe. and are based on Wavelength Division Multiplexing For additional information about Transmode, (WDM) and transport technologies such as Ethernet. please visit www.transmode.com. Contents Introduction1 Employees12 CEO’s Statement 2 Customers, Suppliers and Partners 16 VP Quality & Sustainability’s Statement 3 Products and Technology 18 Sustainability Context 4 Sustainability Governance 22 Sustainability Strategy 6 About the Report 23 Targets and Performance 8 GRI & Global Compact Index 24 Environment9 INTRODUCTION Reporting on Sustainability This is Transmode’s fourth Sustainability Report, responsibility, customers, suppliers and products. which provides an overview of our sustainability This Report is also Transmode’s annual communicaprogram and activities. In this Report, we commution on how our company complies with, and applies, nicate our work on those aspects of sustainability the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles for Responthat are relevant and material to our business and sible Business. This Sustainability Report is primarily stakeholders. This Sustainability Report supplements intended to serve as a reference for our stakeholders the information in our Annual Report. and the general public. Report content is based on GRI G3.1 Guidelines for A full list of GRI Indicators and UNGC require­Application Level C, and describes actions taken and ments disclosed in this Report are stated in the Index achievements concerning employees, environmental on page 24–25. Transmode joined the UN Global Compact, an initiative promoting corporate work on human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption, in 2011. Highlights of the Year • In 2014, Transmode conducted its first systematic sustainability-oriented dialogue with stakeholders to guide our sustainability work going forward. The outcome from our stakeholder dialogue provided valuable input for our Materiality Analysis, which identified three focus areas —business ethics, environmental footprint and working conditions. • Our work to ensure a high standard of business ethics continued in 2014, and we implemented an internal business risk evaluation process to monitor business risks. • All employees signed the Code of Conduct, and took web-based training, in the year. Implementation of our Partner Code of Conduct Policy commenced and some 75% of our partners had signed the Code by year-end. We also sustained our efforts to have all critical suppliers sign up to our Supplier Code of Conduct. • Transmode’s most important contribution to a sustainable society is its energy-efficient products. Transmode launched a new generation of compact and energy-efficient 100G products in 2014. • In 2014, our total CO2 emissions decreased by 27% on 2013. • Actions implemented to reduce inbound and outbound transports. • New Health and Safety Policy implemented. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 1 CEO’s Statement FOCUS ON OPENNESS AND ENERGY-EFFICIENCY “Transmode is committed to continuing to contribute to a more sustainable society. We want to lead the way in our industry, and to ensure our suppliers and partners share our ambition.” The overall target for Transmode is to grow profitably We endeavor to pass this approach on to our supand contribute to a sustainable society, as we strive pliers and partners, and are implementing separate to increase network capacity in a cost-effective and Codes of Conduct for these groups. We systemsustainable manner. In 2014, many of our customers atically evaluate potential business risks to ensure sharpened their focus on monitoring how we hancompliance with our Code of Conduct, and audit dle corporate social responsibility. We welcome this key suppliers for quality, technology and corporate interest, and are now even more convinced of the responsibility. By year-end, most of our partners and long-term importance of an effective sustainability suppliers had signed up to our principles. strategy. Employees — Crucial to Innovation Energy-efficient Products Our employees are crucial to our innovation and Transmode’s most important contribution to a susbusiness success. That’s why we focus on being an tainable gigabit society is energy-efficient products. attractive employer and creating a working environWe provide packet-optical solutions with power ment where all employees can develop and thrive. In consumption at levels significantly below most of 2014, we implemented a cost and efficiency program our competitors. In 2014, we received clear indicathat did, unfortunately, affect about 15 employees. tions that low power consumption is of great and Coincident with this, we took several measures to increasing importance to our customers, and energyimplement the program respectfully, and to mainefficiency continues to be a key priority of our product tain the motivation of our employees. development. Many of our customers include power consumption as a key decision criterion when selectWe Want to Lead the Way in Our Industry ing vendors. Transmode joined the UN Global Compact in 2011, supports its ten principles for sustainable business, Openness Builds Trust and will continue to do so in forthcoming years. Openness is one of our core values, and increasingly We are committed to continuing to contribute to a important for building trust and good partnerships. more sustainable society. We want to lead the way in One of our challenges is to promote good social our industry, and to ensure our suppliers and partners conditions, environmental responsibility and ethical share our ambition. business, particularly in new markets. Our Code of Conduct defines our environmental, social and ethical principles, and we have control systems in place to ensure that we conduct business accordingly. Karl Thedéen, CEO Stockholm, Sweden, 2015 2 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 VP QUALITY & SUSTAINABILITY’s Statement TRANSPARENCY BUILDS TRUST “We strive for continuous sustainability improvements by focusing on our prioritized aspects of business ethics, environmental footprint and working conditions.” This is Transmode’s fourth Sustainability Report, Working Conditions intended to provide an overview of our sustainOur ability to hire and retain the right people is a critiability activities. We strive for continuous sustaincal success factor. We put a big emphasis on being an ability improvements by focusing on the prioritized attractive employer with stimulating duties, a good aspects of business ethics, environmental footprint working environment and competitive employment and working conditions. terms. We have improved our performance management process and are continuously working to mainBusiness Ethics tain an open atmosphere enabling diversity. In 2014, we implemented a formalized internal business risk evaluation process, enabling us to monitor Establishing Stakeholder Dialogue activities in more detail. The need for a more forIn 2014, we approached a number of our key stakemalized process has increased as we have expanded holders to find out in more detail what sustainability geographically. aspects they regard as most important for TransThe implementation of our Partner Code of Conmode. This process concluded in January 2015 and duct Policy commenced, and by year-end, we had the results were in line with our existing strategy, signed up some 75% of our partners. Work to ensure indicating that we should retain our current priorthat all our active partners have signed the Code of itized aspects, which should continue to guide our Conduct will continue in 2015. We also sustained our work in the coming years. efforts to have all critical suppliers sign up to our Supplier Code of Conduct, and commenced an audit Transparency Builds Trust of our supply chain for the use of conflict minerals This report is based on Global Reporting Initiative GRI by subcontractors and suppliers. G3.1 guidelines, we are in the process of upgrading to GRI G4, on which next year’s Report will be based. Reducing our Environmental Footprint This will enable us to focus even more on our most Our low power design efforts are our foremost conmaterial aspects and further improve transparency. tribution to a low-carbon society. Transmode’s direct For Transmode, openness has always been imporclimate impact comes primarily from business travel tant, and we have made it one of our core values. and transport. During 2014 Transmode environmenTransmode believes transparency builds trust. tal footprint reduced by 27%. One of our objectives going forward is to further improve our close cooperation with key suppliers. In 2015, we intend to monitor how suppliers work to Lena Båvegård, reduce climate impact more closely. Vice President Quality and Sustainability Stockholm, Sweden, 2015 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 3 SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT OUR SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT Business & Sustainability Context Increasing fossil fuel taxes, for instance, are expected People are exchanging information at an everto contribute to more widespread use of video and accelerating rate, while communication methods online technologies rather than relying on travel, are becoming more and more sophisticated. The key which will boost demand for our core business. drivers are the robust increase in video transmission, greater demands for mobility and the expanding Our Value Chain usage of data centers and cloud computing serBecause our impact along the value chain (see illustravices. The overall effect of this is estimated growth tion on page 7) varies, so does our potential to influin global IP traffic averaging some 21% yearly from ence conditions and stakeholder behavior upstream 2013–2018, and traffic growth in metro networks and downstream from our operations. We can see the growing by an expected 40%-plus yearly.* To keep direct impact we have on our subcontractors and main improving the ways we communicate, we need to suppliers through our sourcing practices, and on our build the digital superhighways of a contemporary partners and customers through our offering and sales and sustainable gigabit society without increasing practices. However, our own operations, as well as energy consumption. Transmode’s energy-efficient those of suppliers, partners and customers, are also products, which enable a substantial increase in influenced by local and global trends and conditions transmission capacity through optical networks, that we must try to adapt to. are its most important contribution to sustainable Our products are primarily based on materials like development. aluminum, steel, copper, silicon, gold, semiconducThis rapid progress creates opportunities and tor compounds, ceramics, glass and plastics. Prodchallenges. In a global marketplace, where business uct packaging consists of cardboard and plastic. We practices and conditions vary, transparency and comcurrently collaborate with approximately 25 key pliance with high ethical standards are key for maincomponent manufacturers. In terms of purchased taining the trust of stakeholders. It is vital to identify amounts, our most important suppliers are located and minimize risks and negative consequences along in China, the US and Sweden, and the bulk of our supthe value chain to build robust operations and busipliers are located in Asia. All Transmode’s hardware ness strategies. As Transmode’s suppliers are globally products are manufactured by global subcontractors distributed, responsible sourcing and managing the at plants in Sweden, Poland and China. social, environmental and labor risks in the supply chain are crucial. From an environmental perspective, the energy efficiency of Transmode’s products does have a major impact, but the environmental impact of business operations are also worthy of Figure 1. Transmode’s Key Stakeholders attention. Finally, for a technologically advanced industry like Transmode’s, attracting and developing the right people, and being the employer of choice Competitors • s• Com u ser m on its various markets is also vital. End Industry a un to rs • sso ves cia t ity Risks and Opportunities Due to Climate Change in • Reseller abor community ees reholders • F y s/ Sha Climate change is a global challenge with direct o utu ers • Suppl •L financial implications for the telecom industry. The re rtn ns regulatory risks associated with climate change pose ers • Em ie Pa tom a potential financial risk to Transmode’s business. io s p Changes in fossil fuel taxation, for example, have led u l to higher transport and delivery costs. To minimize C rs those risks, we endeavor to choose transportation alternatives with the lowest emissions, depending on local conditions and available options. At the same time, the challenges linked to climate change present opportunities due to the potential increase in demand for Transmode’s products. * Source: Cisco VNI June 2014. 4 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT Our operations are concentrated in Stockholm, Sweden, and consist of R&D, Delivery & L­ ogistics, Marketing, Sales Support, Technical Support, Finance, “Our customers have increased their focus Administration and Management functions. We also and requirements related to sustainability. have a support and service center in Dallas, US, and a To date, Transmode has been able to meet smaller-scale support center in Hong Kong. In some the requirements and we will continuously markets, we collaborate with partners and resellers for sales and distribution. Our customers are tier 1 improve our performance to exceed our and incumbent operators, mobile operators, cable customers’ expectations.” TV operators and other alternative operators and Mark Burton, VP Europe. enterprises, in EMEA, the Americas and APAC. and sustainability objectives, and if we succeed, it Stakeholder Engagement will be mutually beneficial. Transmode continuously Transmode’s daily business impacts, and is influenced interacts with stakeholders through a number of by, many different stakeholders (see Figure 1). Our forums and surveys to enhance relations and identify priority is to address the issues of interest of our expectations and needs. key stakeholder groups through our business and In 2014, Transmode conducted its first systematic sustainability strategy (see Table 1). sustainability-oriented dialogue with stakeholders. Our key stakeholders are those with a high level of We contacted our main stakeholder groups through influence and interaction, and with whom we intera web-based questionnaire and interviews, asking act directly and actively in daily business-customers, them to state which areas Transmode should focus employees, resellers/partners and suppliers. All are on. The results from the stakeholder dialogue procrucial to enabling us to achieve our overall targets vided valuable input for our materiality analysis. Table 1. Transmode’s stakeholder engagement Stakeholder group Interaction Key topics Customers Customer surveys • Product energy performance Personal meetings • Environmental impact of products Demos • Business Practices Seminars and conferences • Responsible sourcing Questionnaires from customers • Innovate to reduce environmental impact Requests for quotation and inspire others Innovation collaborations Employees Employee CoC* • Customer satisfaction Staff meetings • Employee engagement Employee surveys • Product quality & safety Performance reviews • Health & safety Incident follow up • Human rights Intranet and email Resellers/Partners Partner program including web portal • Economic performance Partner CoC* • Product energy performance Personal meetings • Customer satisfaction • Innovation • Supply chain management Suppliers Supplier CoC* • Transparency and open dialogue Evaluations and procurement • Business ethics • Responsible sourcing • Labor & Human rights • Innovation and Product quality Shareholders/Investors and Annual report • Economic performance analysts Interim reports • Business Ethics Sustainability Report • Environmental legal compliance Web site • Responsible sourcing Investor & Analysts meetings • Risk Management Investor Conferences Questionnaires from investors Employee organizations Local collaborative meetings • Health & Safety • Labor & Human rights • Professional development • Transparency & Whistle-blower process • Employee engagement Community, authorities, Environmental reporting • Compliance with requirements industry associations, univerCollaborations • Corporate governance & risk management sities and certification bodies Media communication and releases • Economic performance Certification audits • Innovation and contribution *CoC= Code of Conduct. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 5 Sustainability strategy TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE GIGABIT SOCIETY Our Strategy for Sustainable Business as legal affairs, purchasing, human resources, and Our strategic objective is to contribute to a sustainsales. The group evaluated aspects starting from able society by maintaining profitable and sustainable our value chain — both risks and opportunities — growth. Our strategic priorities to achieve this are to ­covered by the UN Global Compact, the GRI reporting keep growing our customer base and geographical framework, and those that have been emphasized in footprint, develop innovative solutions and work recent customer and employee surveys. Consideraefficiently and environmentally. These strategic prition was also given to the industry and competitors, orities are supported by four stakeholder targets, each legal requirements and benchmark of best practices. critical to our success: satisfied customers, motivated The workshop also included a closer consideration employees, responsible citizenship and shareholder of who we interact with, to identify which stakevalue. To achieve profitable and sustainable growth, holders are most important in terms of their level we also need to ensure we identify and manage all of influence and interaction — customers, employmaterial risks and exploit the business opportunities ees, resellers/partners and suppliers. The next step in our value chain. We maintain focus and progress on involved engagement with stakeholders to identify our most important issues through our sustainability their expectations and key topics to be addressed, targets (see page 8). see Table 1 page 5. Sustainable business development is inherently The second step involved prioritizing the matelong term and encompasses a wide range of issues — rial aspects identified based on their level of actual some under our direct control and influence, others impact and how they affect the views and decisions more indirect. By accepting that our resources need of our stakeholders. These key aspects are presented to be allocated to those areas that are material to in Figure 3. Transmode and our most important stakeholders, The outcome of the materiality analysis was we adopt a more focused approach to sustainability. validated by management, including the CEO. The Accordingly, we have conducted a materiality analysis. materiality analysis will be reviewed and revised on Our targets are evaluated and revised annually. a regular basis to ensure our priorities are right at all times. This methodology is compliant with the Materiality Analysis fourth-generation Guidelines of the Global Reporting The first step of the materiality analysis was an interInitiative (GRI), G4, with materiality analysis applied nal workshop that involved members of manageto define the scope of Sustainability Reporting. ment, and other key functions at Transmode, such Figure 2. Transmode’s Operational Development Model PROFITABLE & SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Efficient & Customer & geographic Innovative environmentally sound expansion solutions operations Satisfied Motivated Responsible Shareholder Customers Employees Citizenship Value 6 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Sustainability strategy Key focus areas Our materiality analysis identified that our key • Promoting business ethics and anti-corruption aspects are grouped into three focus areas — through continued implementation of the Code of business ethics, environmental footprint and Conduct internally, and for partners and suppliers. working conditions. Our aim is to minimize risks and • Reducing the environmental footprint from our seize opportunities in our value chain, as outlined in products, our operations and supply chain. Figure 3 below. • Developing working conditions within Transmode, To drive performance in each area, we will focus and supporting good employment conditions in on the following in 2015 and beyond: our supply chain through continued implementation of our Supplier Conduct Principles. Vision Overall Targets Transmode’s vision is to become • To grow faster than the market. the Global Optical Star through • To grow profitably. innovation and efficiency, with the • To have very satisfied customers. most satisfied customers, the best • To be an attractive employer. employees and the most satisfied share­ • To contribute to a sustainable society. holders in a sustainable gigabit society. Figure 3. Prioritized Aspects of Sustainability in Our Value Chain Transmode Subcontractors Design, test & Sales & Product Raw materials & suppliers configuration distribution Customers end of life Business ethics, transparency & whistle blower process Corporate governance & risk management Responsible sourcing Human rights Environmental legal compliance Emissions including carbon footprint Product energy performance Waste management Labor practices Health & safety Business ethics Environmental footprint* Employee engagement Working conditions & development *Transmode’s direct environmental footprint is primarily derived from business travel and transport, and waste generated from our operations. Water use is not considered a material aspect, as Transmode’s main operations are not located in water stressed areas, and the manufacturing does not require any significant input of water. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 7 TARGETS AND PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND PERFORMANCE Transmode’s prioritized sustainability aspects guide indicators, linked to our overall sustainability objecus in defining our overall sustainability objectives. tives, and monitor performance regularly to ensure Each year, we set specific targets, or environmental continuous improvement. Objectives 2014 Targets 2014 Results Minimize environmental impact Improve the process for RoHS* and New process established. of products REACH** compliance Implementation projects are carried out  and will continue throughout 2015. Identify and communicate Low Power Metrics established. External communicaDesign metrics tion developed and executed.  Reduce overall carbon footprint relative Percentage increase of CO2 emissions from Fulfilled. Emissions from business travel to revenue business travel should not exceed percentdown 33% in 2014 on 2013. Sales down  age increase in revenue compared to 2013 10% in 2014 on 2013. Activity targets to increased efficiency of Number of shipments to customers down inbound and outbound logistics 9%. Reduced number of air freights.  Activity targets energy consumption at Analysis conducted, but improvements neiour facilities ther identified nor implemented.  Activity targets to improve environmental New purchasing policy implemented. performance in supply chain Actions implemented to reduce inbound  flight transportation. Improve awareness and internal processes Implement internal risk evaluation process New process implemented.  to secure ethical behavior and fair business Continued Code of Conduct implementaAll employees have signed the CoC and practices tion internally, for suppliers and partners received training. 75% of partners have  signed the Partner CoC. Critical suppliers have signed the Supplier CoC . Implement Health & Safety Policy New policy implemented.  Increased awareness and participation in Initiatives to create a more inclusive labor Target not completely fulfilled as no internCSR activities market ships for foreign graduates were granted.  However, there were 10 short-term interns. Achieved Still in progress/Not achieved Sustainability Objectives 2015 Objectives 2015 Target areas 2015 Business ethics Continued Code of Conduct (CoC) implementation internally, for suppliers and partners Improved monitoring of Code of Conduct implementation Environmental footprint Environmental performance in our supply chain Efficient inbound and outbound logistics Improved monitoring of Code of Conduct implementation Working conditions Improved health & safety process Improved diversity and inclusion Improved employee commitment and development * EU Directive for Restriction of Hazardous Substances, which restricts certain dangerous substances commonly used in electrical and electronic equipment. Restricted substances are lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE). ** EU Directive for the Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. Came into force on 1st June 2007, streamlines and improves the EU’s former legislative framework on chemicals. 8 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Environment OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility is a vital part of our Table 2. Energy Consumption (MWh) business. If we are to deliver products with minimal environmental impact, we need to ensure that our 2014 2013 2012 processes and working methods are environmentally Direct fuel consumption 4 4 4 Diesel 4 4 4 safe and secure. We regularly evaluate our products, services and working methods to identify potential Indirect energy consumption 1,564 1,144 833 for improvement. Transmode has been certified Electricity-hydropower 485 460 241 according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 since 2005. Electricitymixed sources 126** 104* 0 District heating-mixed sources 579 580 592 Energy and Carbon Footprint District cooling-mixed sources*** 374 – – To map our risks and opportunities, we measure the Total 1,568 1,148 837 amount of greenhouse gas emissions arising from * Include Sweden and US office. our business annually. We strive to be at the leading ** Include Sweden, US, UK and HK offices. edge of minimizing our own carbon footprint and to *** No figures available for 2013 and 2012. be proactive when managing the risks and opportunities driven by climate change. Table 3. CO2 emissions (tonnes of CO2) Transmode measures energy consumption and 2014 2013 2012 CO2 emissions from its operations every year. In 2014, Direct emission sources 1 1.3 1 our total energy consumption increased by 37% on Company owned vehicle 1 1.3 1 2013, see Table 2. The main reason for the increase Indirect energy consumption is that district cooling has been included in the cal(scope 2) 119 97 41 culations (no figures available for 2013 or 2012). The Electricity-hydropower 4 4 0 increase is also mainly due to an expansion of office Electricity-mixed sources 71 53 N/A space at the Stockholm headquarters. District heating-mixed sources 43 40 41 We estimate the carbon footprint of our business District cooling-mixed sources 0 – – in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol CorOther indirect emission sources porate Standard. Our total CO2 emissions in 2014 (Scope 3) 2,039 2,840 2,296 decreased 27% on 2013, see Table 3. The decrease is Business Travel (air, rail, car) 1,151 1,718 1,920 mainly thanks to reduced business travel (decreased Transportation of goods (air, road) 727 941 375 by 33%) and transportation (decreased by 23%). Office supply 20 13 1 Major improvements in the 2014 calculations are Commuting 140 163 N/A Upstream emissions scope 1 & 2 1 5 – inclusion of the UK and Hong Kong offices, and an Total 2,159 2,938 2,338 improved calculation method for business travel. Previous years’ general travel costs (not booked through a travel agency) have been assumed as air transport. This year, these costs were analyzed in greater depth, and a decision was taken to split them more accurately between ground and air transportation. This enhanced methodology has been applied retrospectively to 2013 and 2012. Environmental responsibility is a vital part of Transmodes business. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 9 Environment CO2 emissions per revenue decreased by 19% to 2.32 g Figure 4. CO2 emissions per Revenue and per Employee CO2 per SEK revenue, and we saw a 31% decrease in CO2 emissions per employee in the year, see Figure 4. 3.0 2.86 12 In 2014, business travel represented 53% of our 10.90 total CO2 emissions, and transport of goods 34%. 2.5 2.31 2.32 9.17 10 CO2 emissions from electricity and heating corre2.0 7.50 8 sponded to 6% of total CO2 emissions. We have been purchasing electricity from renewable sources exclu1.5 6 sively since 2011 for our Swedish facilities and use 1.0 4 district heating rather than oil-based heating fuel. Transmode utilizes online meeting tools to reduce 0.5 2 CO2 emissions from business travel, such as voice, 0.0 0 video and audio conferencing. Videoconferencing is 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 now being used regularly for management and Board CO2 emissions per Revenue CO2 emissions per Fulltime meetings, for example. (g CO2 per SEK revenue) Employee (tonnes of CO2) Our product development process focuses on Low Power Design and functionality to create products that help our customers succeed, now and in avoidance. In addition to carbon sequestration, the the future. Transmode’s Low Power Design prodproject delivers a host of environmental and social ucts offer the potential to alleviate environmental co-benefits, including biodiversity maintenance and impact and ease the necessary transition to tackle poverty reduction. the effects of climate change. To reduce CO2 emissions from distribution, we prioritize road transport rather than air freight whenCarbon Offset project ever possible. Our goal is for no more than 30% of To reduce the climate impact of business travel, our outbound shipments in Europe to be air freighted, Transmode has compensated for some 98% of emisand we achieved this goal in 2014. In 2014, around 5% sions arising from its business in 2014 (corresponding of our transports in Europe were air freighted. We to 2,112 tonnes of CO2) via Plan Vivo, a carbon offset are also evaluating ways to consolidate transport project in Mexico. This corresponds to almost 3,000 to improve efficiency and reduce emissions. In 2014, trees, or 19 soccer pitches. This project generates CO2 we reduced the number of shipments to customers emission reductions through a range of land-use by some 9%. Our target for 2015 is to consolidate activities such as afforestation and reforestation, inbound freight on one supplier. agroforestry, forest restoration and deforestation Producer Responsibility Transmode has clear design rules to ensure that products have a low environmental impact and are as energy efficient as possible. See page 18 for more information. Electronic waste is the fastest-growing type of waste globally. Transmode is committed to meeting the requirements of the European Union’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), which requires producers of electrical and electronic equipment to finance returns for product re-use or Image: Zeromission 10 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Environment recycling. Transmode’s Recycling Program has been created to collect equipment for re-use or recycling. Equipment returned to us through this program will be disposed of in an environmentally safe manner, using processes that comply with all electronic waste regulations. In 2014, 704 kg of electronic waste was returned for recycling. Our goal is to ensure that all customers receive information about our Recycling Program and instructions for product returns. We are also committed to satisfying the requirements of the European Union’s Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS). This Directive regulates the use of six hazardous substances including lead, mercury and cadmium. Their usage is restricted and these substances are only permitted in very low concentrations. However, there are a few exceptions permitted for specific products in the telecom industry, due to a shortage of viable alternatives. All Transmode products fulfill the RoHS Directive. In recent years, there has been an increasing international focus on “conflict minerals” emanating from mining operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. Transmode is committed to compliance with these requirements, read more under Supplier Conduct Principles on page 17. Table 4. Material Usage (tonnes) To provide customers with the right information, 2014 2013 2012 we enclose the following information with delivered Packaging products: Plastic 10 11 5 • The origin of components of the product or service. Cardboard 22 26 28 • Content, including compliance with RoHS, REACH, Products WEEE, NEBS, IEC/EC, FDA, FCC, ELT, etc. Plastic 32 34 33 • Safe usage of the product and service information. Metal 48 55 62 • Disposal of the product and environmental/safety Total 112 126 128 considerations. Materials and Waste Table 5. Waste (kg) In 2014, a total of 80 tonnes of materials were used in 2014** 2013* 2012 our products and 32 tonnes of cardboard and plastic Hazardouz waste for recycling were used in packaging material, see Table 4. All our Metals (kg) 2,736 336 150 hardware products are manufactured by subcontracElectronic waste (kg 3,583 2,605 800 tors, with only system configuration and quality conBatteries (no) 0 0 20 trol at Transmode’s production facility in Stockholm Flourescent lamps (no) 166 205 – before delivery. Accordingly, most waste generated Non-hazardous waste for recycling in our production facility consists of combustible Cardboard (kg) 5,800 6,800 8,000 material and cardboard from packaging materials, Paper (kg) 2,022 2,053 1,880 see Table 5. To reduce transportation bulk, we proMixed waste to energy recovery (kg) 6,675 14,668 7,630 cess waste such as paper and cardboard (cutting and Plastic (kg) 861 1,016 760 compressing), before it is transported for recycling. * Include Sweden and US office. ** Include Sweden, US, UK and HK offices. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 11 Employees EMPLOYEES HOLD THE KEY TO INNOVATION Our employees are the key to our business success worked for us for about 3–5 years. Accordingly, we — they are the key to innovation. Accordingly, our will be putting an extra focus on this group in 2015. efforts are focused on fostering a working environWe will increase internal mobility, new career paths ment where all our employees can develop and fulfill and hold even more frequent performance appraistheir ambitions. Transmode is an expansive global als for this group. Three employees transferred to company and we are determined to achieve this withforeign positions in 2013, and another one did in 2014. out compromising employee satisfaction. Three people will return in 2015. Their new competence will be a useful new resource for the company. Core Values We regard this international approach as especially Our corporate culture can be summarized in five important for maintaining the steady progress of our core values, defining the company and its people: business and satisfied customers in foreign countries, Competence, Innovation, Openness, Dedication, as well as cross-cultural understanding and satisfied and Business Focus. Every year we reward employees employees. who embody the company’s core values. The winners are selected annually in a nomination process Competence and Innovation that is open to everyone. Performance appraisals, our Learning is essential for innovation, motivation and recruitment policy and compensation review are all business development. All employees have annual aligned with, and follow, these principles and values. planning and performance appraisals with their managers. During 2014 we implemented a new perforCost and Efficiency Program mance management process with improved quality To improve profitability and enable continued investby adding additional follow-up sessions designed ments in developing products and markets, Transto further improve competence development and mode executed a cost and efficiency program in fall employee potential for professional advancement 2014. Unfortunately, this program resulted in some within the company. 15 employees leaving the company. In tandem, TransThis will provide all our employees with a personal mode executed a wide range of measures to enable competence development plan based on their unique the program to be executed with the greatest posskills and potential. In addition to courses and cersible respect for everyone involved, and to retain the tification training, we encourage our employees to motivation of people not directly affected. seek alternative learning methods actively, such as attending workshops, seminars, conferences, exhibiEmployee Satisfaction and Openness tions and participating in professional networks or To help maintain its growth and progress in the right forums on the Internet. direction, Transmode has been conducting a company-wide employee satisfaction survey for a number of years. The survey is based on a global ESI index Figure 5. Transmode’s Core Values (Employee Satisfaction Index) method, designed to help identify vital areas of improvement. Transmode achieved a high employee satisfaction index of 77% Competenc e in 2012. A new survey was planned for 2014 but was postponed until the first quarter of 2015 due to the Ope redundancy process during fall 2014. nn es on ovati Employee turnover was 6.9% in 2014, excluding s Inn the people affected by the cost and efficiency program. This is an increase on the previous years (6% in 2013 and 2% in 2012). Exit interviews did not reveal any alarming tendencies, but did show that increased turnover is a side-effect of the redundancy process. Bu sines Nevertheless, the interviewees would recommend sF on ti Transmode as an employer and would consider oc ic a us Ded rejoining the company. Another tendency from exit interviews and statistics is that most of the employees voluntarily resigning from Transmode had only 12 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Employees Internal workshops and learning activities initiated by employees and managers are another important part of our competence development and learning processes. Our objective is to stimulate a cross-functional exchange and strengthen our organization by sharing knowledge. This also enables employees to grow in their professional roles. Our Research & Development function uses agile working methods, based on iterative and incremental development. Teams are self-organized and crossfunctional, with all the competences necessary for delivery. Agile methods encourage and promote adaptive planning, evolutional development and delivery, a time-boxed iterative approach and rapid and flexible response to change. Dedication and Business Focus At Transmode, dedication means driving customer respecting the rights of all employees and worksatisfaction, but also delivering the highest standers to freely and voluntarily establish and join any ards of business ethics, environmental care and social legitimate and lawful organizations of their choice. responsibility. We believe that dedication to your work We also need to ensure that no person below the is created through participation and empowerment. minimum legal age is employed, and that Transmode That’s why we encourage our employees to take part does not treat employees differently or less favorably in the whole process and create the potential for because of characteristics unrelated to their merits cooperation, both within and across departments. or the inherent requirements for the job. Anti-corOur goal is to keep growing without compromising ruption is another segment we focus on as we expand our employee commitment. In this process, our cenand enter new geographical regions. tral priority is maintaining sound systematics in our All employees sign the Code of Conduct every year. working methods and project management. In 2014, all employees also took a 1 hour web-based training package on updates to the Code and internal Our Code of Conduct actions in 2014. To be able to deliver profitable and sustainable Ethics and values are an integral component of growth, our company is dedicated to satisfying the our daily business. This is also an important part of highest standards of business ethics, environmental our performance appraisals. care and social responsibility. Transmode has been a member of the Global Compact Leadership Initiative, Employee Diversity and Equal Opportunities founded on ten universally accepted principles in the The average number of full-time employees in segments of human rights, labor, the environment 2014 was 288, compared to 270 in 2013. We regard and anti-corruption, since 2011. Our Code of Conduct, employee diversity and equal opportunities as crucial based on the Global Compact’s ten principles, was for creating a workplace that supports imaginative launched in 2012. The purpose of the Code is to define thinking and innovation. Social and professional those ethical principles the company should comply diversity are invaluable. People with contrasting with. We initiated a whistleblower function simultabackgrounds create a dynamic working environment, neous with our Code of Conduct, enabling employees which stimulates innovation. We are proud to have to report any breaches of its principles. The Code of about 30 different native languages in our organizaConduct is available from Transmode’s website. tion, spanning a spectrum of employees with very The standpoint Transmode has adopted throughdiverse social and professional backgrounds. 27% of out its organization supports and respects the prothe new employees hired in 2014 were women, which tection of internationally accepted human rights, not is an increase on the 20% in 2013. Overall, Transmode only in the workplace but also within Transmode’s has 22% female employees. The management team sphere of influence. Within labor, this includes consists of 18% women and a total of 15% of TransTRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 13 Employees mode’s managers are female. The average age range Graduate Trainee Program of staff hired in 2014 revealed an even distribution, Seven recent MSc graduates entered Transmode’s the largest representation being in the 40–49 age new trainee program in August 2014. This six-month group (35%). program offered a broad introduction to the company We are committed to maintaining equal opporand gave the participants a head start in programming tunities for everyone in our organization, regularly and the technology Transmode applies. Although the monitoring employee financial equality, for examprimary focus was on R&D, the program included sevple. A new follow-up started in December 2014 eral internship periods with other functions to offer and will conclude in January 2015. Gender equality a broader business perspective and the opportunity and increasing gender diversity are a priority and to network at all levels of the company. Each trainee challenge for Transmode, as they are for the entire gained a personal mentor, who offered personal guidindustry. ance and helped build trainee confidence. Transmode’s intention is to offer a graduate trainee program with Employer Branding activities ranging from low-level hardware interaction Openness creates diversity, which we believe, is to high-level customer perspectives. essential for creativity and innovation, which is our goal. We want to increase the potential for diversity, Health and Wellbeing especially within management positions, which is Health and safety at work are crucial for building one goal of our employer branding work. In 2014, a sustainable business. Many of our employees’ Transmode founded a focus group with the purpose duties require little physical activity, so motivating of utilizing our employees to target the most benefiour employees to maintain active lifestyles to avoid cial employer branding activities and thus communiinjury from what, largely, is sedentary work, is a chalcate with our target audience. The aim of the group is lenge. As an aid, most employees have adjustable to enhance communication and collect information height desks to improve ergonomics and reduce the on how we can improve external employer branding, health risks associated with prolonged low physibut more importantly, internal employer branding. cal activity. The benefits package for all staff also In 2014, Transmode participated at two job fairs at includes private health insurance, a wellness grant, the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm (KTH) disability cover and parental leave, although the and the Institute of Technology at Linköping Univerdetails of these packages does vary between counsity, as well as other smaller internal and external tries due to differing regulations. student events. 14 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Employees quarterly to discuss the progress and status of health Table 6. Average Number of Employees* and safety issues at work. The Committee will now 2014 2013 2012 meet more often with brief follow-up sessions. The Total Men Total Men Total Men process for reporting accidents and incidents has Sweden 233 75%*** 231 71%*** 220 78%*** now been enhanced, including monthly follow-ups UK 14 100% 14 100% 12 100% on reports to management. Two incidents were Germany 9 100% 7 100% 7 100% reported in 2014 but neither caused any absenteeism. USA 18 89% 17 88% 15 87% Overall absenteeism is generally low (see Table 8). Italy 1 100% 1 100% 1 100% Spain** 3 100% 3 100% 3 Engaging with Society Japan** 2 50% 1 100% 0 In 2012, Transmode committed to the Korta Vägen Finland** 1 100% 2 50% 2 (“Fast Track”) project run by the University of StockNetherlands** 2 100% 0 100% 1 Poland** 3 100% 2 100% 2 holm, intended to create internships for academic Switzerland** 1 100% 2 100% 2 graduates from countries other than Sweden. In 2013, Malaysia** 0 0% 3 100% 3 we had a total of two internships, and hired one of Hong Kong** 1 100% 1 100% these trainees. The goal was to offer two internships Group total 288 78% 270 81% 255 80% per semester to Korta Vägen participants, but due In Mexico, Malaysia, Hong Kong, and Singapore Transmode hires consultants to the redundancy process in 2014 these internship on terms and conditions resembling employment. positions were unavailable in 2014. Transmode main* Share of part-time employees is 3%. tains continuous communication with Korta Vägen ** Employed in the Swedish company. and will be offering two internships per semester in *** P ercentage of men includes all employees employed in the Swedish 2015 if Stockholm University hosts a new program. company, i.e. Sweden and all countries indicated with**. Transmode usually offers a number of summer internships each year. There were ten in different We extended our accommodation within the headfunctions in 2014, plus a few more during semesters. quarters building by 1,640 square meters in 2014 to Transmode also takes on students engaged in graduimprove our facilities and social spaces at the workation projects. place. Our working environment commitments have Transmode does not give any Christmas gifts to been improved by an updated policy, new processes customers or employees, but does support multiand stronger representation on Transmode’s Health national aid organization Doctors without Borders. & Safety Committee. This Committee, consisting of In 2014, Transmode donated SEK 75,000. trade union representatives and employer representatives, ensures a proactive approach to Health and Safety. 100% of the total workforce, including management, is represented on the Health & Safety Committee, and there are union representatives for 75% of employees. The Committee usually meets Table 7. Board Members and Other Senior Managers Table 8. Absenteeism* 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Total Men Total Men Total Men Men 2.4% 2.7% 3,0% Board members 7* 86% 7* 86% 7* 86% Women 2.5% 2,0% 3,0% Chief Executive Total 2.4%** 2.6%** 3,0% Officer and other Senior Managers 11** 82% 12** 83% 8** 88% * Percentage of absent days of total workdays over a given period. Only includes employees located in Sweden, due to incomparability of account* Age groups 2014; 30–50 years: 1; over 50 years: 6 ing absentee days for employees outside Sweden. We measure and report 2013; 30—50 years: 2; over 50 years: 5 the number of accidents and absenteeism according to Swedish Work Envi2012; 30—50 years: 1; over 50 years: 6 roment Authority principles. ** Age groups 2014; 30–50 years: 5; over 50 years: 6 ** of which 0.82% long-term illness, longer than 3 months. 2013: 30—50 years: 7; over 50 years: 5 2012; 30—50 years: 3; over 50 years: 5 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 15 CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS BUILDING BUSINESS ON LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS Our business grows through customers, and our cusresult according to CFI Group. One of our main focus tomers grow by using our products and solutions. So segments and challenges will be to continue to maintogether, we can build the digital superhighways of tain and secure a high level of customer satisfaction the Gigabit Society. Transmode has a broad customer — while continuing to grow. The next customer satbase, mainly consisting of cable TV operators and isfaction survey is scheduled for the end of 2015. alternative operators, as well as mobile operators, traditional/large/tier 1 and incumbent telecom operSupplier Relationships ators and enterprises. The company has installed Transmode maintains close cooperation with key more than 50,000 systems for over 650 fixed and suppliers to ensure high product quality and delivmobile network operators, service providers, large ery performance. Our component suppliers are enterprises and public institutions in over 50 counin the electronics, optics, plating, processing and tries worldwide. packaging industries. We currently collaborate with approximately 25 key component manufacturers. Building Long-term Customer Relationships Based on purchased amounts, our most important We strive to build long-term customer relationships, suppliers are located in China, the USA and Sweden, which is why our product range is backed by a broad and the bulk of our suppliers are located in Asia. All portfolio of services that are crucial for maintainTransmode’s hardware products are manufactured ing customer relationships and satisfaction. Transby global subcontractors at plants in Sweden, Poland mode’s Technical Assistance Center offers software and China. This creates focus and efficiency, while upgrades, global servicing and support 24/7. Transallowing the company to grow without investing sigmode offers 24-hour spare parts delivery from a cennificant resources in manufacturing. Transmode has tral warehouse or local spare parts depots that can established processes for qualifying suppliers, as well cut delivery lead-times for spare parts to a few hours, as monitoring existing suppliers and contract manuanywhere worldwide. facturers that include technical, quality, environmenTransmode also provides pre-staging, which tal, social and financial standards. The assessments means equipment is assembled and preconfigured are based on a dialogue with the supplier or a physical prior to delivery, enabling faster and simpler instalaudit. If a supplier does not satisfy our performance lation for the customer. Pre-staging can cut instalstandards, we formulate improvement measures in lation lead-times on site by up to 50% compared to consultation with the supplier. traditional delivery. Transmode also offers general and customer-specific training packages including web training in network design, implementation, operation and maintenance. Figure 6: Transmode’s Customer Base Customer Satisfaction We believe that satisfied customers are the proof that we manage our business optimally. According to our independent customer satisfaction survey, Tier 1 and incumbent our customers are consistently very satisfied, as is operators reflected in their high repeat purchase frequency. More evidence is provided by the independent cusMobile operators tomer satisfaction survey conducted by consulting firm CFI Group (Claes Fornell International). Cable operators / MSO The customer satisfaction survey applies a proven methodology used worldwide, in the American CusAlternative Operators tomer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) and elsewhere, so results can be benchmarked. This survey is conducted via an e-mail questionnaire, with customers rating Enterprise customers their satisfaction within different segments of Transmode. They can also provide personal feedback. Transmode focuses on the Cable Operators and Alternative We conducted a survey in 2013 that returned an Operators but has customers in all segments above. index figure of 82 on a scale of 0–100, a world-class 16 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS Supplier Conduct Principles Ensuring good social conditions, environmental “Transmode has put a lot of effort in responsibility and ethical business methods in our recent years on signing up all critical supply chain is one of our greatest challenges. Transmode’s requirements on critical suppliers and consuppliers to its Supplier Code of tract manufacturers in this segment are described ­Conduct. Supplier monitoring will in our Supplier Conduct Principles. Transmode’s ­continue in 2015 to find shared areas Supplier Conduct Principles set standards for supof improvement for reducing our pliers and contract manufacturers on compliance with local laws, human rights, labor law issues, dis­overall environmental impact.” crimination, working conditions, health and safety, Dan Rydberg, VP Operations & Customer Service and the environment. The principles also cover issues such as corruption, gifts, money laundering and limitation of competition. Implementation of the Supplier Conduct Principles began in late-2011, and by the end of 2014, all of our significant suppliers and The next step of Transmode’s progression towards contract manufacturers had signed agreements to sustainable and responsible sourcing will be to comply with our standards. enhance its risk assessment process in 2015 to idenIn addition to Supplier Conduct Principles, Transtify and assess risks in its supply chain. This will help mode continuously evaluates subcontractors and prioritize resources and enable a focus on the areas suppliers from quality, delivery, ethical and CSR of greatest importance. perspectives involving questionnaires, face-to-face meetings and on-site audits. Transmode implePartner Code of Conduct mented a Purchasing Policy in 2014 that states guideTransmode sells products and services through its lines for responsible sourcing, risk management and own salespeople, resellers and partners; the commanaging supplier relations. pany has a total of over 50 resellers. Developing colIn recent years, there has been an increasing interlaborations with resellers and partners continued national focus on “conflict minerals” emanating in 2014. The split between direct and reseller sales from mining operations in the Democratic Republic varies between regions, but for the company overall, of the Congo and adjoining countries. Transmode is reseller and partner sales were 19% of total in 2014. committed to compliance with these requirements. Implementation of our Partner Code of Conduct Transmode has started to analyze its supply chain for commenced in 2013 and continued in 2014 to further the use of conflict minerals by subcontractors and enhance good business practice in our sales operasuppliers. First tier suppliers have been requested tions. By year-end 2014, some 75% of all partners to submit information regarding the potential use had signed the Code. Implementation will continue of conflict minerals. in 2015. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 17 PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS FOR MORE EFFICIENT NETWORKS The rapid traffic expansion of mobile and fixed telephone and data networks worldwide is increasing the Technology demand for our products and solutions. The strongTransmode delivers packet-optical networkest single explanation for this traffic expansion is the ing solutions based on WDM (wavelength divirobust growth in the transmission of video, which is sion multiplexing) and transport technologies, highly bandwidth intensive. Increasingly, users also such as Ethernet, for transporting data, voice want to access information anywhere, which means and video traffic. The fundamental benefits of more traffic being delivered mobile. Another critithese technologies are: cal driver is the usage of local data centers, which • WDM radically increases the transmission are expanding traffic volumes in metro networks. capacity of fiber, up to 80 times over in Moreover, more numerous and more advanced termetro networks. minals like tablets, smart phones, gaming consoles • By utilizing multiple wavelengths, different and laptops are also connecting. traffic types can be transmitted simultaneThis increased traffic means that our customers ously in the same fiber. need to expand the capacity of their networks — • Ethernet is a protocol optimized to manage while also keeping costs down. Additionally, fiber increasing data traffic. build-out is increasing generally, and optical fiber is • WDM and Ethernet technology are used proliferating further out in networks, reaching right worldwide by enterprises and operators. out to enterprises, mobile base stations or access points in residential areas. Transmode is addressing these challenges by offering huge increases in transmission capacity and flexibility on existing and new optical fiber networks. Energy-efficient Products through The use of products and solutions is helping Low Power Design reduce greenhouse gas emissions in two ways. Firstly, When developing products, Transmode puts great we design our products for low power consumption. emphasis on low energy consumption, as in the Secondly, our products enable the efficient use of following case study. Transmode started measurservices such as web conferencing and teleconfering energy consumption according to the ATISencing. By employing these services, Transmode can 0600015.2009 standard in 2012. Transmode’s Low help achieve the reduction of global travel and its Power Design offers lower cost and reduced environassociated negative environmental impact. mental impact, and the company has clear design rules to ensure its products are as environmentally Products friendly and energy efficient as possible. Transmode’s products address metro and regional networks, where customer needs for data cap­acity R&D are increasing rapidly. Scalability is a consistent Transmode’s product development focuses on theme of Transmode’s products, which enable cusfive areas: increased capacity and reach, increased tomers to expand capacity and functionality progresflexibility, integrated Ethernet functionality, WDM sively as their needs change. This also means that access, and operation and maintenance systems. there is limited initial investment. These products In metro networks, the most common transmishave modular design, conferring high flexibility and sion speed of optical fiber is now 10 Gbit/s (Gigabit the ability to tailor functionality to specific customer per second) per wavelength, but customer needs needs. Another consideration is that products are no for capacity are increasing constantly. Transmode more complex than they need to be. Simplicity helps launched a new generation of 100G products optito reduce costs and delivers more reliable operamized for metro networks in 2014, which cut the cost tion, with reduced power consumption, resulting in of applications of 100G in metro networks, conferred a lower environmental impact. Transmode’s product greater flexibility and simpler management of spare portfolio consists of the TM-Series, TS-Series and TGparts and operations. They also reduce power conSeries, plus Enlighten™. sumption, and enable users to get more units in a smaller space. 18 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY Low Power Design Lower power 75% Power savings compared to many competing packetconsumption optical solutions Smaller on-site DIRECT footprint SAVINGS Less need for in-building cooling Avoid expensive power upgrade INDIRECT SAVINGS Reduced CO2 emissions Reduced CO2 emissions Avoid expensive power upgrades Higher electricity costs. Limited space. Availability Lower power consumption makes it easier to deploy issues. Just a few challenges you face in developing systems in areas where power is limited. Compettomorrow’s advanced transport networks. ing systems have significantly higher power requirements which requires expensive power upgrades as In all types of networks – from power-hungry data a consequence. centers to locations at the edge of the network – the pressure is on to reduce CO2 emissions. Our transparency gives you power To make it easier for customers and prospects to Transmodes Low Power Design offers a way to meet understand and compare what they are getting, we all of these needs while reducing the environmenshare detailed power consumption data in accordtal impact. By providing products and solutions ance with the industry-standard recommendations with industry leading low power consumption up of the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry to 75% compared with other leading packet-optical Solutions. solutions. Less need for cooling Transmodes Low Power design means the need for cooling is reduces. Every kilowatt saved in equipment power saves up to 0.5 kilowatt of air conditioning as the system generates less heat. Low Power Design is Transmode’s way to minimize power consumption throughout its whole product portfolio, while simultaneously optimizing environmental performance. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 19 PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY develop their networks efficiently. New functional“Transmode puts a lot of product ity is being continuously added to enable customers to cut operating expenses and benefit from new development focus in minimizing the network functionality. Transmode has broad-based environmental impact of products competence in all technology segments central to through component choices and low its business; software, hardware, optics and communication technologies such as Ethernet. The core power consumption design.” of the company’s R&D work is gradually migrating Ingrid Nordmark, VP R&D towards software. Over two-thirds of the company’s developers now work on software. Research and development expenses amounted to Flexibility is crucial for the remote control of waveSEK 157.8 m, or 17% of the company’s sales. lengths and data streams centrally, and to enhance network functionality as needs change. Transmode’s R&D collaborations products deliver a high level of flexibility in networks. As well as ongoing efforts to limit the environmenThe development of Ethernet products is intended tal impact of its products, Transmode collaborates to further improve the control of data traffic, and to with leading universities on projects with an explicit integrate it into optical networks simply and costenvironmental focus. efficiently. The demand for this type of product is in Transmode is participating in the reference group high growth, and the segment is a high priority for for the Energy-Efficient Optical Fiber CommunicaTransmode. One of the 100G cards that Transmode tion research program directed by CTH (Chalmers launched in the year has integrated Ethernet switchUniversity of Technology, Gothenburg). This recently ing functionality. commenced five-year interdisciplinary program has In the access segment, Transmode is developing the objective of energy optimizing the system soluproducts for the needs that arise as optical fiber and tions used in optical transport. Its ambitious target, WDM technology extends further out in networks. a five-to-tenfold improvement in power efficiency The combination of intelligent access products and over current state-of-the-art systems, is indicative of cost-efficient optical filters are enabling higher what is necessary to enable continued rapid expancapacity at a lower price. sion of the Internet in the coming years. Transmode’s operation and maintenance system Standardization and multi-source agreements are Enlighten™ enables customers to plan, manage and key to driving down cost and enabling power-efficient Reducing CO2 Emissions — Case Study Consider the example of triple-play broadband users in 2013), the savings for this operator are backhaul for an operator that wants a solution €22,050 annually. At the same time, this solution for Ethernet transport. The configuration is a will reduce the amount of CO2 produced by up to Transmode TM-Series solution with a compact 170 tonnes a year, depending on energy source. chassis equipped with a Dual 10G Lite Transponder The reduced need for in-building cooling, which providing 2 x 10 Gbit/s from the node. With power can add a further 50%, subsequently increased consumption of less than 20 W for the node, it financial savings to €33,075 annually, and the offers savings of 40–60 W compared to solutions possible reduction in CO2 emissions to 255 tonnes from other leading vendors. Let’s take 50 W as an a year. With a ten-year network lifespan, the savaverage saving. ings could be €330,750 (2013 energy prices) and As this operator accesses 400 exchanges, the a reduction of 2,550 tonnes of CO2 over the life savings of 50 W become 20,000 W, or 175 MWh of the network. This reduction in CO2 is the same over a year. With the average price of electricity in as taking approximately 100 new cars off the road Europe at €126 /MWh (average price for industrial (2013 average car model). 20 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY metro WDM solutions. Transmode pursues this in tions and functionality to be quality-assured with close collaboration with module vendors. Transshort intervals, so enhancements can also be delivmode has also been actively participating in ITU-T ered to customers quickly and often. standardization of the next generation metro WDM By maintaining a close dialog with subcontracsolution, G.metro, since early-2014. The aim of this tors, Transmode can benefit from their R&D capacity, standard is to halve the number of fibers required influence their direction, and thus launch innovative by deploying bidirectional fibers instead of unidirecsolutions quickly. tional fiber pairs, thus enabling a twofold capacity Operations being largely concentrated on a sinincrease. The outcome is a significant environmental gle building — the headquarters in Stockholm — is an advantage, as no civil engineering work is required to important contributor to the high efficiency of develdouble the fiber count. opment work, and the company overall. This building houses the R&D, Delivery & Logistics, Marketing, Effective Development Sales Support, Technical Customer Support, Finance, Transmode ensures effective product development Administration and Management departments. by harboring substantial development competence, Having all these functions accessible within a and by its R&D department’s work being closely few minutes’ walk facilitates close collaboration linked to production, customers and subcontractors. between all of them. It also enables quick feedback, Understanding customer needs is fundamental fast decision-making and a clear understanding of to effective product development. Customers’ new the significance of each function to the big picture. requirements are rapidly reflected in the orientation The effect is developing the right products with the of development work and products are designed for functionality that customers want in a short time. efficient production right from the start. Transmode continuously endeavors for its development work to satisfy customer needs even more. Its R&D function applies agile working methods, enabling new soluTRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 21 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH Sustainability management approach Transmode’s standpoint and rules on business ethics Transmode’s senior management team bears overall are outlined in its Code of Conduct, the Suppler Conresponsibility for the control of the company’s susduct Principles, and the Partner Code of Conduct. To tainability strategy. Focusing sustainability efforts monitor and ensure compliance, Transmode applies on prioritized aspects spans the company’s various an internal business risk evaluation process, as well units. The Vice President of Quality and Sustainability as supplier audits. is responsible for the implementation of Transmode’s For more information on governance issues, environmental management system and business please refer to the Corporate Governance Report ethics including its Code of Conduct, while other (pages 30–34) in Transmode’s Annual Report 2014. operational responsibilities lie mainly within Human The most material risks that impact Transmode are Resources, Research & Development, Operations & presented on page 30 of the Annual Report. Customer Services, Sales & Marketing and Communication. The Vice President of Quality and SustainabilOrganizational Structure and Profile ity coordinates and reports on sustainability targets Transmode conducts its operations from its headto senior management on a quarterly basis and also quarters in Stockholm, Sweden, where research and coordinates annual external sustainability reporting. development, deliveries and logistics, marketing, Transmode’s sustainability strategy is implesales support, technical support, finance, adminmented through its sustainability objectives and taristration and management functions are located. gets, and governed by relevant policies, procedures Transmode also has a support and service center and management systems. Through an ISO14001in Dallas, US and a smaller support center in Hong certified environmental management system, TransKong. Transmode has local resources in the UK, Germode is striving for continuous improvement of its many, Switzerland, Poland, the Netherlands, Italy, environmental performance. Transmode also applies Spain, France, Russia, Malaysia, Singapore, Japan, environmental criteria to design guidelines and its Canada and Mexico. supplier qualification process. Transmode AB is the parent company of the Good working conditions and employee developTransmode group. The parent company owns and ment are supported by the implementation of our manages shares in subsidiaries and also sells certain core values, our Code of Conduct and our Supplier intra-group services to subsidiaries. The parent comConduct Principles, and enhanced by the perforpany has one directly held subsidiary, Transmode Sysmance management process and the supplier audit tems AB. Indirectly owned subsidiaries are located scheme. Our working environment commitments in the UK, the USA, Germany, Singapore, Canada, have been improved with an updated policy, new proHong Kong and Italy. cesses and stronger representation on Transmode’s Health & Safety Committee. Figure 7. Transmode AB’s Operational Structure in 2014 CEO Human Executive Resources Assistant Quality & CTO Sustainability/IT Product Operations & Marketing & Sales Nordic/ Finance R&D Management Customer Services Communication MEA/RUS/CIS Sales Europe Sales America Sales APAC 22 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 About the Report ABOUT OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Reporting Principles • Employee diversity (LA13), disclosed information: This is our fourth consecutive Sustainability Report, (i) number of different languages represented in which offers an overview of our sustainability prothe organization, (ii) gender, (iii) percentage of gram activities and the actions taken under the new employees that are women, and (iv) the largUnited Nations Global Compact principles in the est age group represented among new employees period 1 January–31 December 2014. This Report is in 2014. The number of employees in different age based on the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines groups is not fully reported due to limited access (www.globalreporting.org) GRI G3.1 Level C. The to data. Report is self-declared and accordingly has not been • Energy-efficient products (EN6), disclosed inforsubjected to third-party review. Our ambition is to mation: (i) existing initiatives on the energy publish Sustainability Reports annually to demonrequirements of major products, (ii) estimated strate our intent to maintain high levels of business average energy savings, (iii) a calculation example ethics, environmental care and social responsibility. (case study), and iv) R&D collaborations. This Report covers the Transmode group’s activi• Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts ties, including subsidiaries outside Sweden besides of products (EN26), disclosed information: (i) Malaysia if not otherwise stated. However, suppliers’ reclaiming of products for recycling or reuse, environmental, social and financial performance are (ii) materials use, (iii) emissions, and (iv) toxic not covered in this Report. materials/compounds. The purpose of this Report is to serve as a central • Significant environmental impacts of transports reference for information on the status and progress (EN29), disclosed information includes (i) energy of our sustainability work. Its content is based on GRI use and CO2 emissions from the use of company G3.1 Reporting Guidelines at Level C, actions taken vehicles, and (ii) CO2 emissions from transporting under the United Nations Global Compact, and goods and products, business travel and commutachievements concerning employees, environmening to HQ in Sweden. tal responsibility, customers, suppliers and products. This Sustainability Report is intended primarily as a Changes from previous reports key point for our stakeholders and is also available An error was discovered when computing CO2 to the general public. emissions related to business travel. The cost data A full list of disclosed GRI G3.1 information and from our travel agency was misstated, which led to UNGC requirements in this Report are stated in the overestimated Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Index on pages 24–25. standard (GHG) emissions. As this error affected the This Report is also a first step towards the implecalculations significantly (>10%), 2013 and 2012 were mentation of GRI’s latest update of its guidelines, GRI restated. We have also for 2014 and retrospectively G4. G4 is mandatory from 2016, covering the fiscal for 2013 and 2012 applied a more enhanced calcuyear 2015. The materiality and stakeholder approach lation methodology for business travel, described presented in this Report are central elements of G4, on page 9. so is the disclosure of management approach. Data Inventory and Specifications Transmode measures and reports employee statistics, numbers of accidents and absenteeism according to the Swedish Work Environment Authority’s principles. Transmode applies Greenhouse Gas Protocol principles for estimating the carbon footprint Questions on this Report should of business operations. Some limitations apply to be addressed to: the following reported indicators: • Financial implications and other risks and opporLena Båvegård tunities due to climate change (EC2), disclosed Vice President, information includes a narrative description of Quality and Sustainability, Transmode the potential financial implications and other e-mail: lena.bavegard@transmode.com significant risks and opportunities due to climate Phone: +46 (0)8 410 88000 change. Transmode has not conducted the quanwww.transmode.com titative estimate of the potential implications. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 23 GRI & GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI & GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Global Reporting initiative (GRI) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) indicators Profile Indicators UN GC Page requirements 1.1 Statement from CEO, about the relevance of sustainability to the • 2 organization and its strategy 2.1 Name of the organization Inside cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Inside cover, 18–21 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 22 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Back cover 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 22 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Inside cover, AR 26 2.7 Market Inside cover, 16, 18 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization (number of employees, net sales or Inside cover, 15, AR 28–30 net revenues, quantity of products or services provided). 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, AR 28 or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period AR 15 3.1 Reporting period 23 3.2 Date of most recent previous report June 5, 2014 3.3 Reporting cycle 23 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 23 3.5 Process for defining report content 5–7, 23 3.6 Boundary of the report 23 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 23 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries 23 3.10 Explanation of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 23 reports. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 23 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 24–25 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 22, AR 30–34 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an AR 33 executive officer 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body. AR 33 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommenda13, AR 31 tions or direction to the highest governance body 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4–5 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 4–5 engage AR = Annual Report 24 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 GRI & GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Performance Indicators UN GC Page Principle EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 36–43 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 7 4 organization’s activities due to climate change EN1 Materials used by weight 8 11 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 8 9 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 8 9 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 8, 9 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based 8, 9 18–21 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 8 9 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 8 9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 7, 8, 9 9–10 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 8 11 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 7, 8, 9 8–11, 18–21 and extent of impact mitigation EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and 8 9–10 other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce LA1 Total workforce 15 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– 1 15 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 1 15 total number of work-related fatalities by region LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 6 12–13 development reviews. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 1, 6 15 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and per7, 8, 9 10–11 centage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 16 measuring customer satisfaction. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business part1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 16–17 ners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning 1, 2, 3,4, 5, 6 13 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 1, 2, 6 No cases SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption 10 13 policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 10 No cases SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 10 None politicians, and related institutions by country AR = Annual Report TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 25 Headquarters Production: Transmode in co-operation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Transmode AB P.O Box 42114 SE-126 14 Stockholm, Sweden +46 8 410 88 000 www.transmode.com Visiting address Fredsborgsgatan 24 SE-117 43 Stockholm; Sweden
