WHY PREPARE A SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The concept of long-term profitability together with social development and environmental protection is fast gaining ground across organisations worldwide. These expectations will only increase and intensify as more and more customers, financiers and other stakeholders realise the need to move towards a truly sustainable economy. Thus, a Sustainability Report acts as a critical tool in realising this goal. A Sustainability Report not only communicates an organisation’s economic, environmental, social and governance performance, it also acts as a document that helps the management identify priorities, develop strategies, set goals, measure performance and manage changes to make their operations truly sustainable. In this context, the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) has been providing comprehensive Sustainability Reporting Frameworks since 1999 and offers a standardised approach to reporting. The GRI’s approach is multi-stakeholder engagement, thus maintaining a degree of transparency and consistency that makes information more relevant, credible and user-friendly. The guidelines are reviewed periodically to provide the best and most up-to-date guidance for effective reporting and have now emerged as the de facto standard for sustainability reporting worldwide. IDLC first published its Sustainability Report in 2012, following the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. The 2014 Sustainability Report has been prepared in line with the latest G4 Guidelines issued by the GRI. G4 has a more focused approach to reporting by highlighting only the most material sustainability issues identified through stakeholder engagement. This emerging approach integrates strategic sustainability issues with other material financial information, allowing sustainability disclosure in different reporting formats thereby, enabling organisations to better inform markets and stakeholders on their sustainability performance. IDLC CSR Highlights 2014 22 underprivileged children supported through healthcare and educational initiatives 47 marginal women received training and facilitated with employment 40 youths received capacity development orientation and training blankets distributed among 3,750 1,568 saplings planted under school children participated the tree plantation programme in the environmental awareness campaign 5,500 the disadvantaged population suffering from severe cold 50 individuals donated blood under the blood donation programme Table of Contents Reporting Parameters 1 Statement of the Chairman of the Board 2 Statement of the Chairman of the Executive Committee 2 Statement of the Chairman of the Audit Committee 3 Statement of the CEO and Managing Director 3 Chapter 1 | IDLC – A Story of Growth and Success Vision, Mission, Core Values and Shareholding Structure 6 Continuous Improvement Embedded in Our Business Model 7 Business Overview 9 SME Division 9 Consumer Dvision 9 Corporate Division 9 Capital Markets 10 Our Services 11 Sectoral Services 12 Key Financial Performance 13 Value Added Statement 14 Memberships 14 Chapter 2 | CSR and Sustainable Business Concept and Evolution 17 CSR at IDLC 17 Regulatory Bodies and Memberships 18 Key Focus Areas of CSR 18 Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance Board of Directors 21 Board of Directors 22 Management Committee 22 Ethics and Compliance 22 Code of Conduct and Ethics 23 Anti-corruption Policies and Practices 23 Complaint Management 23 Management Committee (ManCom) 24 Chapter 4 | Creating Opportunities for Underprivileged Communities Education for Underprivileged Children 28 Technical and Vocational Skills Development 28 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Supporting the Cricket Team of the Physically-Challenged 30 Services Offered to Low-Income Groups 30 Chapter 5 | Women Empowerment Employment Generation for Marginal Women 33 Healthcare Awareness for Marginal Women 35 Women Entrepreneur Loan 35 IDLC Ladies’ Forum 36 Chapter 6 | Environmental Sustainability Environmental Awareness Campaign for School Children 39 Green Banking 40 Environment and Social Management System 42 Tree Plantation 42 Chapter 7 | Human Resource Management Attracting Talent 45-46 Right People in the Right Place 46 Performance Management 46 Training and Development 46 Succession Planning 46 Employee Benefits 46 Grievance Management and Counselling 47 Health and Safety Issues 47 Employee Management 47 Chapter 8 | Extended Responsibilities Blanket Distribution 50 Blood Donation 50 Charities and Donations 50 Chapter 9 | Stakeholder Management for Reporting Engagement with Stakeholders for Reporting 53 Material Aspects Identified Through Stakeholder Engagement 54 Boundary Defined for Each Material Aspect 54 Chapter 10 | GRI – G4 Reporting Index General Standard Disclosures 57 Specific Standard Disclosures 58 Awards and Recognitions 60 Abbreviations ADB Asian Development Bank AML Anti Money Laundering BB Bangladesh Bank BGMEA Bangladesh Garments Manufacturers and Exporters Association BKMEA Bangladesh Knitwear Manufacturers & Exporters Association Bn Billion CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate CDM Clean Development Mechanism CEO Chief Executive Officer CRMS Customer Relationship Management System CSE Chittagong Stock Exchange CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CP Cerebral Palsy DFID Department of International Development DFIM Department of Financial Institutions and Markets DO Development Organisation DSE Dhaka Stock Exchange DTE Directorate of Technical Education EEEF European Energy Efficient Fund EEK Energy-Efficient Brick Kiln EnvRR Environmental Risk Rating ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESMS Environmental and Social Management System ETP Effluent Treatment Plant FCUBS Flexcube Universal Banking Solution FDI Foreign Direct Investment FGD Focus Group Discussion FI Financial Institutions GB & CSR Green Banking and Corporate Social Responsibility GCPF Global Climate Partnership Fund GDP Gross Domestic Product GHG Green House Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative GTSC Gazipur Technical School and College ICC Internal Control & Compliance ICF International Climate Fund IDCOL Infrastructure Development Company Limited IDLC FinANCE LIMITED IDLC IL IDLC Investments Limited IDLC LF IDLC Ladies' Forum IDLC SL IDLC Securities Limited IFC International Finance Corporation IFG International Factoring Group IIDFC Industrial and Infrastructure Development Company Limited ILO International Labour Organisation IPFF Investment Promotion and Financing Facility IT Information Technology JICA Japan International Cooperation Agency LEADS Livelihood Education and Development Services LDC Least Developed Country ManCom Management Committee MIS Management Information System Mn Million MoU Memorandum of Understanding NBFI Non-Banking Financial Institution NGO Non-Governmental Organisation NPS Net Promoter Score NRB Non-Resident Bangladeshis OJT On-the-Job Training PBT Profit Before Tax PPP Public-Private Partnership REHAB Real Estate and Housing Association of Bangladesh RMG Ready-Made Garments RMF Risk Management Forum SBBN Small Business Banking Network SHS Solar Home System SME Small and Medium Enterprise SOP Standard Operating Procedure TAHN Training & Assistance for Health & Nutrition TVET Technical and Vocational Education and Training UNDP United Nations Development Programme VTS Vehicle Tracking Service WEL Women Entrepreneur Loan WIN Women In Business 8 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Reporting Parameters Reporting period January 1 – December 31, 2014 Reporting cycle Annual Report edition 4th GRI-G4 level ‘In Accordance’ – Core Publication date of the most recent previous report April 2014 METHODOLOGY AND MATERIALITY BOUNDARY GRI-G4 Guidelines require stakeholder engagement to The report details how IDLC addresses the material issues identify the material CSR and sustainability aspects for stated above and how these significantly influence inclusion in the report. Accordingly, IDLC identified priority performance both within and outside the organisation. issues through one-on-one discussions with three key Besides detailing achievements and the challenges faced, stakeholder groups for CSR: the regulators, management the report also indicates the management’s approach in and employees (both business and support functions). addressing these issues and the future course of action. The stakeholders revealed the following major issues LIMITATION and concerns that significantly affect IDLC’s economic, environmental and social performance, and influence Sustainability reporting is still a very new and advanced stakeholder perception in the long run: concept in Bangladesh. IDLC is one of the very few organisations in the country to publish this report in■ Corporate governance, ethics and compliance house, following the GRI Guidelines. Hence it is not always ■ Social obligations through capacity development of possible to gain insights or receive guidance from similar the underprivileged and women empowerment publications locally. ■ Environmental obligations through in-house Moreover, the reporting methodology from G3.1 to G4 management, CSR and green banking initiatives has undergone a complete paradigm shift, the biggest ■ Superior customer experience through continuous challenge being engaging stakeholder groups to improvement understand their expectations from the organisation. For ■ Creating an enabling environment for all IDLC staff this report, IDLC has not applied advanced engagement techniques such as FGDs and surveys. Based on these issues, relevant material aspects were identified from the G4 guidelines and accordingly relevant information was provided against specific performance CONTACT INFORMATION indicators, detailing how IDLC manages these concerns We encourage and appreciate feedback from all our through its strategies and operations. internal and external stakeholders. Your suggestions are vital to help us improve the quality of our report and also The process and list of material aspects have been detailed encourages us to undertake more innovative initiatives in the chapter “Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting”. strengthening our CSR and sustainability commitment. SCOPE Please email your suggestions and opinions to hayesha@ idlc.com, or contact Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR, IDLC The core focus of this report is the CSR initiatives of IDLC. Finance Limited at 01714-073-015 for further information. In addition, issues affecting the long-term sustainability of IDLC’s overall operations have also been covered that are not limited to CSR only. sustainability report 2014 1 Statement of the Chairman of the Board ANWARUL HUQ Chairman of the Board At IDLC, we focus on responsible business practices through good corporate governance, ethical standards and statutory compliance. Our strategy over the long run does not only focus on making profit, but also on creating employment, contributing to economic development and maximising value for our stakeholders. We understand our responsibility towards the betterment of the environment and the community where we operate, and through our business and CSR initiatives we strive to make a difference in the lives of the people key to our success. Statement of the Chairman of the Executive Committee Rubel Aziz Chairman of the Executive Committee At IDLC, all our strategies and activities are undertaken under the umbrella of strong corporate governance, compliance and ethical standards. All our initiatives are aligned with recognised standards and practices that respond to the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders. This also ensures fairness, transparency and accountability in every aspect of our operations and management. 2 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Statement of the Chairman of the Audit Committee Farooq Sobhan Chairman of the Audit Committee IDLC has aligned its CSR and Sustainability initiatives with globally accepted standards and practices. IDLC has been members with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), and the CSR Center of Bangladesh since 2010. It is the first and only member of the UNEP FI from Bangladesh. IDLC accordingly conducts its operations in light of their guiding principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are also the pioneer in terms of sustainability disclosure in the banking and financial sector of Bangladesh, whereby we publish a standalone sustainability report following the GRI guidelines. Statement of the CEO and Managing Director Selim R.F. Hussain CEO and Managing Director At IDLC, we aim to leave a positive impact in the lives of the people we touch. Our tagline “Financing Happiness” does not only cover the business aspects of IDLC; it encapsulates our whole concept of sustainable business by doing what is right and in the process transforming lives and livelihood. sustainability report 2014 3 This item won the 1st prize in the poster category. Message conveyed: Raising awareness against excessive and unnecessary honking by vehicles, causes noise pollution and hearing impairment Prepared by: Dhanmondi Government Girls’ School IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among school children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures including the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. 4 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED CHAPTER 1 IDLC A STORY OF GROWTH AND SUCCESS sustainability report 2014 5 Idlc – A Story of Growth and Success IDLC Finance Limited has been trading in securities and offering capital market and investment management solutions to Corporate, SME and Consumer clients. The company was incorporated in 1985 as a pioneering leasing enterprise in Bangladesh, under the collaboration of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), German Investment and Development Company (DEG), Kookmin Bank, Korea Development Financing Corporation, The Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development, The City Bank Limited, IPDC of Bangladesh Limited and Sadharan Bima Corporation. At present, it is a 100% locally-owned company, having a presence across the country through 28 branches, 2 booths and a workforce of more than 1,200. Vision Shareholding Structure We will be the best financial brand in the country As of December 31, 2014, IDLC has 201,093,750 shares outstanding, as per the following shareholding structure: Mission We will focus on quality growth, superior customer experience and sustainable business practices Core Values Integrity | Customer focus | Trust and respect | Equal opportunity | Eco-friendly | Passion | Simplicity 6 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Continuous Improvement Embedded in Our Business Model During a challenging 2014, we embraced several forward-looking practices that included diversification across market segments, products, geographies and customers. This not only enabled us to open up newer revenue streams but also allowed us to diversify potential concentration risks. Moreover, we continuously made investments in people, processes and technology and engaged in capacity building as part of our broader social responsibility goals, thereby winning the trust of the communities around which we operate. We also navigated through these tough times by engaging more closely with our customers, by providing them timely support and advice, by allocating capital that had the potential to yield us the highest returns and by adhering to not just local regulatory stipulations but international best practices as well. Our business model: … Profitable We are focused on delivering sustainable growth. Our … Growing 10-year net profit CAGR has stood at 25.85%. We also Our long-term approach have in place necessary to growth enables us structure and investments to adjust according to to deliver steady and decent market conditions. growth in profitability in the coming years. … Risk mitigated Well-diversified loan book spread … Niche across SME (38.04% of portfolio), We are diversifying our loan Consumer (37.22% of portfolio) book by identifying newer and Corporate (20.38% of portfolio) areas and segments. Some segments and among different of these include our growing sectors. Besides, we also offer focus on green banking and the most diverse range of capital providing loans to women market solutions through our fully entrepreneurs. owned subsidiaries IDLC Securities Limited and IDLC Investments Limited. … Customer focused … Balanced Our robust risk and credit Prudent funding mix worthiness appraisal tools comprising customer paired with our focus on minimal deposits (80% of total physical documentation enable 2014 funding) and low us to shrink our turnaround time, cost borrowings from which stood at an average of 3-4 refinancing schemes of BB days in 2014, one of the quickest (10%), banks (4%), bonds in the industry. (2%) and soft loans from off-shore financiers and others (4%) sustainability report 2014 7 … Technologically-sound … Proactive Our IT infrastructure is best in Our dedicated collections class and ensures access to management cell the most latest data, thereby continually engages with reinforcing the efficiency and the customers and ensures speed of decision making. It regular and timely collection also provides analytical tools of outstandings. that strengthen customer mapping and management. … Well spread … Socially Our operations remain responsible close to our customers. We embrace a unique We added 3 new concept for environmental branches in 2014, taking and social initiatives the total tally to 31 focused on bringing forth branches and booths. measurable results at the grassroots for societies and communities. … Compliant … People oriented We are compliant with all rules, We offer ongoing training and regulations and guidelines conduct regular staff engagement prescribed by all regulatory programmes to enrich the skills, authorities. Moreover, we have provide career progression our own Code of Conduct which opportunities and retain our talent. clearly defines our operating Our cumulative employee base framework and emphasises stood at 742 as on 31 December on comprehensive and active 2014 with revenue per employee compliance with all statutory going up by 18.87% rules and regulations. to Taka 11.05 million. Our business model aims to deliver a superior customer experience at all times by ensuring: ■ Dedicated Business Relationship Managers providing one-source solutions ■ Diversified product and services basket, designed to meet unique and changing customer needs ■ Quick turnaround time, ensuring that the client receives the funds when needed ■ Flexible repayment options suiting clients’ cash-flow patterns ■ Continuous process improvement and automation ensuring better service-delivery ■ Wider branch network ensuring better access for all 8 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Business Overview SME Division through the establishment of new branch offices across important geographical locations in Bangladesh. Today, it The SME sector is a vibrant part of Bangladesh’s economy has emerged as a leading player in the home loan and car and has historically been the largest source of nonloan sectors and has successfully captured a growing share agricultural employment. Over the last decade, there has of the market. Among other lending products, it also offers been an entrepreneurial wave with the country witnessing personal loans to existing as well as selective customer tremendous enthusiasm and growth in some of the sectors segments. On the other end, it has successfully funded including RMG and its allied industries, pharmaceuticals, the entire Company over the years and has gradually healthcare services, furniture, tourism, IT and real-estate, transformed as the largest deposit portfolio holder among among others. Many new generation entrepreneurs have all NBFIs in the country by offering customised and flexible entered these industries and rapidly grown their businesses term deposit products to individual and institutional from small to medium to even large enterprises. customers. Traditionally, despite their huge potential, banks and Funding mix at IDLC financial institutions have stayed away from financing SMEs in Bangladesh. At IDLC, we identified this huge gap in supply and commenced our operations in 2006. The SME division provides specialist lending to small and mediumsized businesses across a broad range of industries including steel, cement, light engineering, plastics and textiles, geographically spread across Bangladesh. The division’s operations include term loans, working capital loans and lease financing, customised around customer requirements. It also supports and encourages women entrepreneurship by providing loans at attractive covenants. Our strategy, which is anchored on building strong customer relationships, has resulted in a resilient and loyal Taka 17,519 mn Taka 8,587 mn customer base. Resultantly, we have been able to carve out (2013: Taka 12,950 mn) (2013: Taka 6,258 mn) a profitable niche for ourselves and have been growing Portfolio Size Disbursements strongly ever since inception. Taka 975 mn 13,757 (2013: Taka 660 mn) (2013: 12,694) Taka 17,905 mn Taka 12,053 mn Income from Operations Client Base (2013: Taka 14,334 mn) (2013: Taka 10,392 mn) Portfolio Size Disbursements Taka 35,241 mn 6,355 (2013: Taka 29,164 mn) (2013: 6,681) Taka 1,224 mn 7,619 Total Deposit Base Total Deposit Customer Base (2013: Taka 844 mn) (2013: 6,638) Income from Operations Client Base Corporate Division The Corporate Division was principally established with Consumer Division a view to cater to the financial needs of large corporate The Consumer Division is one of the key business drivers, houses in the country. Driven by our dedicated relationship playing a vital role in upholding IDLC’s brand image management teams, the division introduced full-ﬂedged, among consumers and contributing to increasing growth innovative and customised solutions and services to its in the Company’s asset profile and profitability. Moreover, clients. From the very beginning, the division offered only the division obtains funds required for the entire company one product. Subsequently, it has widened its geographic through mobilisation and retention of term deposits. coverage, especially in projects located in remote areas of the country. A recent addition is the Green Banking unit, The division was established in 1997 as part of IDLC’s established in line with the Green Banking Policy Guidelines diversification initiatives for securing a cost-effective and issued by the Bangladesh Bank, to identify and capitalise sustainable source of funding. Towards this extent, the on green and environment-friendly business opportunities division launched term deposits and personal financial such as renewable energy projects, establishment of ETPs loan products to cater to the growing needs of consumers (Effluent Treatment Plants) and energy-efficient brick sustainability report 2014 9 manufacturing. Launched in February 2014, the unit has Though the Group’s capital market businesses suffered already disbursed Taka 37.5 mn and has a portfolio of Taka significantly during the meltdown of 2010 and the 36.03 mn. challenges that were brought forth by several global events, the operations have come out stronger since Taka 9,595 mn Taka 5,421mn then with the full absorption of the impairment losses on account of certain open exposures in the margin lending (2013: Taka 10,213 mn) (2013: Taka 6,504 mn) portfolio. Today, both the businesses have created robust Portfolio size Disbursements platforms in terms of technology, processes, practices and Taka 385 mn 244 human resources and are rightly positioned to capture (2013: Taka 354 mn) (2013: 248) the upturn as and when the political climate becomes Income from Operations Client Base harmonious and stable. A specialised business segment under the Corporate Taka 176 mn Taka 79 mn Division is the Structured Finance Unit that facilitates fee-based services such as fund arrangements under (2013: Taka 132 mn) (2013: Taka -92 mn) syndication, onshore and offshore structured finance, Income from Operations (IDLC SL) Income from Operations (IDLC IL) trusteeship services and pre-investment feasibility studies Taka 39 mn Taka 53 mn etc., focusing mainly on sectors such as power generation, (2013: Taka 60 mn) (2013: Taka -213 mn) infrastructure development, real estate and construction Profit After Tax (IDLC SL) Profit After Tax (IDLC IL) materials, tourism etc. SFD fee income Taka in million 65.98 IDLC is one of the largest 2014 participants of the refinancing 47.39 2013 programmes of Bangladesh 30.62 2012 Bank and other low-cost fund 2011 2.64 providers for different services 2010 3.19 including Women Entrepreneur Loan, Agricultural Loan, Capital Markets Environment-friendly IDLC’s capital market operations are covered by its two projects etc. wholly-owned subsidiaries, IDLC Securities Limited (IDLC SL) and IDLC Investments Limited (IDLC IL), providing trading services to customers and institutions through robust In 2014, refinancing receipts trading facilities and infrastructure and offering the best amounted to Taka 1,852 Million, execution experience to clients. It also offers underwriting, primary issuances and merchant banking services and has constituting 10 percent of our initiated Discretionary Portfolio Management services as total funding mix. well. 10 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Our services Small and Medium Enterprises  Structured Finance Solutions  Small Enterprise Finance • Syndicated Loan • Small Enterprise Loan/ Lease • Private Placement of Equity • Seasonal Loan • Preference Shares • Women Entrepreneur Loan • Projects/ Infrastructure Finance • SME Shachal Loan • Bonds • SME Surakkha • Foreign Currency Loans • SME Deposit • Refinancing of Special Funds • Commercial Space Loan • Merger and Acquisitions • Joint Venture Matchmaking  Medium Enterprise Finance • Medium Enterprise Loan/ Lease • Feasibility Study • Commercial Vehicle Finance • Securitization of Assets • Machinery Lease • Commercial Paper • Healthcare Finance Treasury • Revolving Short Term Loan • Overnight Borrowing/ Placement • SME Deposit • Term Deposits • Commercial Space Loan • Bonds  Supplier and Distributor Finance • Debentures • Factoring of Accounts Receivable • Commercial Papers • Bill/ Invoice Discounting • Preference Shares • Work Order Financing • Equity Investments • Distributor Financing • Treasury Bills/ Bonds Consumer Finance Capital Markets  Loan  IDLC Securities Limited • Home Loan • Cash Account • Car Loan • Margin Account through IDLC IL and other enlisted merchant • Personal Loan banks • Loan Against Deposit • Easy IPO  Deposit • Institutional and Foreign brokerage • Flexible Term Deposit Package • Trade execution through Dhaka and Chittagong Stock • Regular Earner Package Exchanges • Custodial and CDBL services Corporate • Bloomberg terminal for foreign clientele  Corporate Finance • Research and advisory services • Lease financing • Term Loan Financing for Capital Equipment  IDLC Investments Limited • Commercial Space Financing • Margin Loan • Project Financing • Discretional Portfolio Management • Short-term loan to meet working capital requirement • Corporate Advisory • Specialised Products for meeting seasonal demand • Issue Management • Green Financing (BB Refinance) • Underwriting • Supplier and Distributor Financing (Factoring) • Research sustainability report 2014 11 Sectoral Exposure Sectoral Exposure31 December 2014 5% 8% 3% Apparels & Accessories Iron & Steel 8% 7% Agro Based Industry Information Technology 0% Building Materials, Cement, Leather & Leather Products 0% Glass,Ceramics, Pipes 6% Packaging Chemicals Power & Energy 8% 1% Construction & Contractors 1% Pharmaceuticals 1% Education Paper & Paper Products 2% Enginering 4% Financial Services Food and Beverage Service 2% Furniture & Related Products 10% Professional Service 5% Household Products & Home Appliances Tele Communications Hospitality & Leisure Services Transport 3% 1% Housing & Real Estate Textiles Export 2% 0% 6% Healthcare Services Textiles Local 2% 5% 2% 1% 7% 12 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Key Financial Performance Taka 58,927 million Taka 47,069 million (2013: Taka 50,429 million) (2013: Taka 40,941 million) Balance Sheet Size Total Loans and Advances Taka 26,020 million Taka 36,595 million (2013: Taka 23,154 million) (2013: Taka 30,187 million) Total Disbursements Total Deposits Taka 2,889 million Taka 3,658 million (2013: Taka 2,077 million) (2013: Taka 2,761 million) Net Interest Income Total Operating Income Taka 1,246 million Taka 923 million (2013: Taka 669 million) (2013: Taka 1,044 million) Profit After Tax Provision for Loans and Advances/ Investments 2.28% 4.55% (2013: 1.52%) (2013: 3.47%) Return on Assets Interest Margin 6,355 20.95% (2013: 6,681) (2013: 13.31%) Total Customer Base Deposit Return on Equity 7,402 31 (2013: 6,013) (2013: 28) Total Customer Base Lending Number of Branches & Booths sustainability report 2014 13 Value Added Statement MEMBERSHIPS Associations Bangladesh Leasing and Finance Companies Association | Asian Financial Services Association | Bangladesh Merchant Bankers Association | Bangladesh Association of Publicly Listed Companies Institute The Institute of Bankers, Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry International Chamber of Commerce – Bangladesh | Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Dhaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Bangladesh German Chamber of Commerce and Industry | The Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Other Memberships United Nations Global Compact | United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative | CSR Center of Bangladesh | International Factors Group (IFG) an international association of factoring companies |Small Business Banking Network (SBBN) a global initiative to improve access to financialservices by small businesses 14 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among schools children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures, and the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. This item jointly won the 1st prize in the recycle category. Message conveyed: Center-table made of used bi-cycle tyres Prepared by: Viqarunnisa Noon School and College sustainability report 2014 15 CHAPTER 2 CSR AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 16 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Concept and Evolution The term Corporate Social Responsibility or CSR has evolved over the last few decades to broaden its scope from mere philanthropic contributions to strategic business decisions. The CSR definition used by businesses globally revolve around the notion of “Operating a business in a manner that meets or exceeds the ethical, legal, commercial and public expectations that society has of business.” CSR is a concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interactions with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis. Integrating CSR with business presents a more sustainable business case in that: ■ Social responsibility can become an integral part of the wealth creation process which, if managed properly, can enhance business competitiveness and maximise value creation ■ If conducted from a strictly philanthropic point of view, such expenses will always be the first to go during hard financial times, whereas there will be more incentives to practice CSR further and better during such crises However, in different countries and cultures, there will be different priorities and values to dictate how businesses should act and manage their impact on the environment and the society. CSR at IDLC At IDLC, we perceive CSR not as a standalone function, but as an integral part of the overall organisational strategy, operations and management to create the maximum value. Our concern towards our stakeholders, environment, community and good governance is reflected in each of our actions and decisions – thus strengthening our position as a responsible and sustainable business. IDLC’s model for sustainability is based on the 3P approach – People, Planet and Profit: ■ People, our stakeholders with whom we engage and the community where we live in ■ Planet, our surrounding environment and the planet ■ Profit, our profit-generating capacity vital for long-term sustenance Accordingly, our Sustainability Position Statement is: IDLC is committed to sustainable development by creating long-term value – value for our stakeholders, value for the environment and value for the community. sustainability report 2014 17 Regulatory Bodies and Memberships IDLC’s CSR activities are regulated by the Green Banking and CSR (GB & CSR) Department of the Bangladesh Bank. We are also members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the CSR Center (local network of UNGC in Bangladesh). IDLC is the first and only signatory to UNEP FI from Bangladesh till date. We have also adopted their guiding principles in upholding human rights, labour standards, responsible environmental management and anti-corruption policies and practices. The 10 principles of UNGC are: HUMAN RIGHTS ■ Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ■ Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOUR ■ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ■ Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour ■ Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour ■ Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT ■ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ■ Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility ■ Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION ■ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery KEY FOCUS AREAS OF CSR To drive meaningful changes, we aim to specialise in areas that are aligned with our organisational vision, mission, values and business objectives and by continually leveraging our experience and expertise. With this view in mind, IDLC, is facilitating socio-economic transformation of the underprivileged, inclusive women and youth groups, through better education, capacity enhancement, income-generating opportunities and other forms of assistance leading to empowerment. We are also engaged in increasing healthcare awareness among the rural and urban poor, financing environment-friendly projects, undertaking green banking initiatives through both in-house management and external activities and being a part of philanthropic contributions such as blanket distribution, blood donation, emergency disaster relief and one-on-one donations. 18 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED This item won the 2nd prize in the poster category. Message conveyed: Showcasing harmful effects of smoke from industries, vehicles and cigarettes, and the importance of planting trees to maintain the balance of oxygen and carbon-dioxide in nature – under the slogan “Save the Nature, Save the Future” Prepared by: Dhaka Residential Model College IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among schools children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures, including the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. sustainability report 2014 19 CHAPTER 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 20 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Board of Directors ANWARUL HUQ Rubel Aziz Chairman of the Board Director and Chairman, Executive Committee (Nominated by Reliance Insurance Limited) (Nominated by The City Bank Limited) Farooq Sobhan Aziz Al Kaiser Meherun Haque Independent Director and Chairman, Director Director Audit Committee (Nominated by The City Bank Limited) (Nominated by The City Bank Limited) Hossain Mehmood Faruq M. Ahmed Md. Kamrul Hassan, FCA Md. Rezaul Karim Director Director Director Director (Nominated by The City Bank Limited) (Nominated by The City Bank Limited) (Nominated by Transcom Group of Companies) (Nominated by Sadharan Bima Corporation (SBC)) Md. Shahidul Ahsan Syed Abu Naser Bukhtear Ahmed Monower Uddin Ahmed Selim R. F. Hussain Director Independent Director Independent Director Ex Officio (Nominated by Mercantile Bank Limited) sustainability report 2014 21 Corporate Governance IDLC is committed to continually review all corporate BOARD OF DIRECTORS governance policies and guidelines to ensure transparency in its practices and delivery of high standards and quality The Board of IDLC considers that its membership should information to its stakeholders. comprise Directors with an appropriate mix of skill, experience and personal attributes that allow the Directors Corporate governance is a strategy for companies to individually and the Board collectively to discharge their ensure a framework of control for its administrative and responsibilities and duties under the law efficiently and management practices. This is done through a collection effectively, understand the business of the Company and of procedures that are aligned with recognised standards assess the performance of the management. that respond to the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. It ensures fairness, transparency and The composition of the Board embraces diversity. The accountability in the corporate sector and safeguards Directors possess a wide range of local and international the interests of all stakeholders, especially minority experience, expertise and specialised skills to assist in shareholders. Empirical research also suggests that decision-making and leading the Company for the benefit corporations that adhere to good governance practices of its shareholders. tend to generate higher profitability. MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Management Committee is a group elected among the management staff to take responsibility of the governance and strategic direction of IDLC. The role of the Management Committee is to oversee IDLC in accordance with its Constitution under the Financial Institution Act, 1993. The Committee is responsible for all aspects of the ongoing operations of IDLC. It delegates day-to-day operations to the Executive Officer. An important feature of good governance is a clear segregation of the responsibilities and accountability of the committee from those of the Executive Officer. ManCom is always aware of IDLC’s operations, keeps an eye on the bigger picture, monitors the strategic plan and observes whether the goals are being met. It needs to be satisfied that current events are in accordance with IDLC policies and objectives within the overall budget. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE IDLC remains committed to upholding the highest standards of ethics and compliance by its employees. IDLC highlights six important areas that revolve around its This commitment is reflected in the Company’s Code of effective corporate governance strategy as demonstrated Conduct which covers, among other issues, the following in the diagram. IDLC’s corporate governance model is areas: strictly aligned with the Company’s well-defined vision, ■ Their relationship with and responsibilities to IDLC mission, goals and objectives. ■ Their relationship with and responsibilities to The Board of Directors is responsible for proper governance, customers which includes setting out the Company’s strategic aims, providing the necessary leadership to implement ■ Compliance with laws and regulations such aims, supervising the management of the business ■ Acting in a professional and ethical manner and reporting to the shareholders on their stewardship. ■ Protection of business assets The Board is collectively accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good governance to facilitate efficient ■ Disclosure of conflicts of interest and effective management in order to deliver shareholder ■ Prohibition of any conduct involving dishonesty, value over the long term, within appropriately established fraud, deceit or misrepresentation including insider risk parameters. trading 22 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS training sessions and process automations are actively carried out in this regard. The Code of Conduct is a general guideline of ethical standards and business conduct at IDLC – documenting These measures are institutionalised by the Internal Control situations individuals are likely to encounter in the and Compliance Department (ICC) that reports directly to professional world and accordingly conveying codes to the CEO & Managing Director and the Audit Committee of address such situations. the Board of IDLC. In line with regulatory requirements, the ICC is responsible for the following activities: Code I Upholding the organisation’s vision, mission and core values ■ Assess compliance with applicable laws and regulations, codes and guidelines, internal procedures Code II Adhering to the highest ethical standards and policies. Timely audits are conducted where Code III Complying with laws and regulations both compliance with laws/ regulations/ guidelines is critical in letter and spirit and appropriate recommendations for enhancement Code IV Relationship with and responsibilities in processes and controls are enunciated towards IDLC: a) Company interest above personal interest ■ Track transactions and report any suspicious b) Disclosure of conflicts of interest transactions to the local designated authority. Impart c) Disclosure of additional employment training on anti-money laundering in order to enable arrangement staff to mitigate compliance risks as recommended by d) Disclosure of additional compensation local regulators arrangement ■ Act as a contact point within IDLC and deliver timely e) Responsibilities of the supervisors advice in relation to compliance queries emanating f) Expression of opinion within the Company g) Use of social media Code V Relationship with and responsibilities ■ A complaint cell has been formed in line with the towards our customers DFIM Circular 13/2011 to ensure prompt settlement of Code VI Protecting business assets and information complaints. Additionally, a separate webpage (http:// www.idlc.com/feedback.php) has also been created Code VII Respecting others and a suggestion box has been placed in every branch Code VIII Misconduct and office of IDLC to receive complaints Code IX Insider trading: ■ At IDLC, proper credit administration includes efficient a) Insider information and effective operations related to monitoring, b) Trade restrictions on senior management documentation, contractual requirements, legal c) Restrictions on tipping covenants and collaterals, among others, accurate and d) Employee investment timely report to the management and compliance e) Business opportunities with management policies and procedures and Code X Control applicable rules and regulations ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND Complaint management PRACTICES IDLC has a formal complaint management process that is open to all stakeholders including both investors and The three components of IDLC’s anti-corruption strategy customers. A dedicated complaints cell is headed by include: 1) Risk management 2) Compliance 3) Audit. a senior member of the management for dealing with These areas are acted upon by a combination of zerocomplaints. Complaints may also be dropped at complaint tolerance policy, risk-based auditing, anti-money boxes kept at all IDLC branches or can be submitted online laundering and terrorist financing activities, whistleon the IDLC website: www.idlc.com. blowing mechanism, departmental control function checklist and implementation and compliance with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Regular staff sustainability report 2014 23 Management Committee (ManCom) Standing from left M. Ataur Rahman Chowdhury Irteza A. Khan Md. Saifuddin Zahid Ibne Hai Head of Operations Head of Consumer Division Managing Director, IDLC SL Head of SME Division Sitting from left M. Jamal Uddin Asif Saad Bin Shams Head of Corporate Division Head of Credit and Collection 24 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA Mir Tariquzzaman Selim R. F. Hussain Md. Moniruzzaman, CFA Deputy Managing Director and CFO Chief Technology Officer CEO and Managing Director Managing Director, IDLC IL Bilquis Jahan Mustaq Ahammed, FCA Head of Human Resources Head of ICC sustainability report 2014 25 IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among schools children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures including the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. This item won the 2nd prize in the recycle category. Message conveyed: Table lamp made of straws Prepared by: Udayan Uccha Madhomik Biddalay (Higher Secondary School) 26 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED CHAPTER 4 CREATING OPPORTUNITIES FOR UNDERPRIVILEGED COMMUNITIES sustainability report 2014 27 Creating Opportunities for Underprivileged Communities Bangladesh, being a highly populated nation, is in a challenging position to ensure quality education, healthcare, accommodation and other facilities for all its citizens. Adding to this are the 1.5 mn young people entering the job market every year, thus further increasing rates of youth unemployment and underemployment. Moreover, this rate is particularly high among women and the educated labour force, that is, youth groups with secondary, higher secondary and honours level education. To address this situation, the economy not only needs to generate more employment opportunities, but also needs to create more enterprising opportunities for these groups. At the same time, efforts should be given to popularise and mainstream technical and vocational training, thus developing skilled manpower and transforming them into ‘skilled human resources’. It is with this conviction that IDLC prioritises capacity development through better education, health care and technical and vocational training, creating incomegenerating opportunities for youth groups. EDUCATION FOR UNDERPRIVILEGED TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL SKILLS CHILDREN DEVELOPMENT Although Bangladesh has made commendable Between the age groups of 15 to 34 years (around 55 mn achievements in terms of enrollment in primary education, people) in Bangladesh, only 4% are engaged in technical the dropout rate is significantly high – especially among roles for alternative livelihood generation and just 1% underprivileged children in rural and urban areas. Largein vocational training. Paired with academic studies, scale poverty and contribution to family earnings are technical and vocational education and training can the two major factors for the prevalence of this scenario. play an important role in creating income-generating Besides government intervention, the private sector should opportunities for a large number of this youth group, thus also come forward by offering scholarships/ stipends to reducing the demand-supply gap of skilled manpower poor students to help them complete at least primary and/ both in the domestic and international markets. or secondary level education. Vocational training for 30 children with disabilities In 2014, IDLC supported: IDLC signed an MoU with the SEID Trust in January 2015 ■ SEID Trust in providing education and healthcare to develop technical skills of 30 children from the Trust, support to 15 children with intellectual and multiple afflicted with autism, Cerebral Palsy (CP), Down’s syndrome disabilities. SEID Trust is an NGO working for capacity and intellectual and multiple disabilities. development and social inclusion of over 400 children with physical and mental disabilities, including autism. The children, aged between 14 to 22 years, come from poor IDLC has been a partner of the SEID Trust since 2006; families of rickshaw pullers, day labourers, domestic helps or house maids living in the slums of Dhaka. Considering ■ Shishu Bikash Chhaya, an orphanage based in Old their physical or psychological conditions and the financial Dhaka, housing around 30 children; status of their families, these children are almost always considered as burdens to their families. ■ Ahsania Mohila Mission, an NGO providing residential and educational support to underprivileged The training aims to effect socio-economic transformation adolescent girls. IDLC is supporting one girl from the of these children by equipping them with incomeinstitution in pursuing higher studies after completion generating skills. The 12-month training focuses on two of her secondary education; 28 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED areas: tailoring (cutting and sewing) and embroidery offers a 3-month IT training course to the village youth, and block/batik/tie-dye. After completion of the training, costing Taka 1,500 each – thus generating income for the an exhibition will be arranged with products made by training facilitator as well as the youth clubs. Till date, 11 these children to create more awareness regarding their students have completed the course at the center. Few capacities. of the members, after completion of the basic course, are now receiving advanced IT training in Dhaka to join the Project rationale growing ICT outsourcing sector of Bangladesh. The rest are working as volunteers at the IT center to help new trainees. ■ Provide income-generating opportunities to these IDLC will provide more computers this year to set-up yet children, who are considered as burdens to their another IT center in the CHT (Chittagong Hill Tracts) region families of Bangladesh. ■ Social rehabilitation and acceptability of these children, who are mostly deprived of their fundamental rights Moreover, the youth club members also received training and are often subject to humiliation and negligence on basic accounting practices, conducted by IDLC staff. The objective was to help them better manage the youth ■ Create awareness among the mass regarding the club accounts in a transparent manner, as well as gain abilities of these children insights into book-keeping methods if they start their own business. With IDLC’s support, these youth groups receive regular training and mentoring from senior volunteer groups in the village. These initiatives have significantly boosted their confidence, as a result of which they are now working with international volunteer groups as well to drive community development. Moreover, one member has also been selected as a National Volunteer to work with the youth from different UK-based universities under the International Citizen Service Program. The project also includes regular health camps for the community people, homestead plantation across marginal households in the village, awareness and training on organic vegetable cultivation etc. Model Village Project for Youth and Community Empowerment IDLC, in partnership with VSO Bangladesh, undertook a Model Village Project in 2013 at Sadarpur village in Rangpur, North Bengal. The project constituted of a variety of initiatives targeting capacity development of youth groups, environmental management and healthcare awareness among the community people. With IDLC’s support, an IT center in Sadarpur Village of Rangpur, North Bengal, was set up in 2013 under its Model Village Project. The objective was to create access to basic computer education for members of two village youth clubs – responsible for managing the center. The center sustainability report 2014 29 Nursing training IDLC is supporting a female student from Ahsania Mohila Mission in receiving training on nursing occupation. SUPPORTING THE CRICKET TEAM OF THE PHYSICALLY-CHALLENGED IDLC sponsored the sporting gear of the Bangladesh Cricket Association for the physically-challenged to help them prepare for the T-20 Tournament held in India in SERVICES OFFERED TO LOW-INCOME June 2014. The 23 member team won the series and were commemorated at the Prime Minister’s Office upon their GROUPS return to Bangladesh. IDLC aims to create better facilities for low-income groups through its products and services, as well as through its CSR activities. One such product is the SME – Abashan Loan, a facility offered to small businesses that construct or already have permanent structures surrounding industrial areas and Export Processing Zones across the country – to be rented out to workers in different factories. The rental income from these accommodation facilities are used to repay the loan amount. This product not only creates good business sense for IDLC, but also provides affordable housing facilities for lowincome worker groups. 30 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED This item won the 3rd prize in the poster category. Message conveyed: Raising awareness against land pollution caused by cutting trees and throwing around garbage Prepared by: Viqarunnisa Noon School and College IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among schools children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures, and the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. sustainability report 2014 31 CHAPTER 5 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT 32 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Women Empowerment Development in its true sense cannot occur without equal Project partners contribution from both men and women. Hence equal IDLC followed a public-private partnership approach for participation of women both in the economy and in the this project, in partnership with: society is necessary to drive the overall progress of a nation. IDLC, as a practitioner of sustainable business, converges ■ Fareast Knitting and Dyeing Industries Limited from its business and CSR to create an enabling environment to the RMG sector as Industry Partner empower women by focusing on capacity development, ■ Gazipur Technical School and College (GTSC) under access-to-finance, better healthcare facilities, nonthe Directorate of Technical Education, Government discrimination and equal opportunities. of Bangladesh, as Training Partner EMPLOYMENT GENERATION FOR ■ TVET (Technical and Vocational Education and Training) Reform Project of ILO as Technical Consultant MARGINAL WOMEN ■ Care Bangladesh, with support from Shiree, as In a country burdened with overpopulation, it is nothing Community Partner in North Bengal short of an irony that lack of skilled manpower is one of Besides concept development and execution, IDLC is also the major challenges faced by businesses and industries responsible for day-to-day management and coordination today. To reduce this demand-supply gap and create a of the project while acting as the common contact point win-win solution for the industries and the community for all partners. alike, IDLC launched a project in June 2013 targeting skills development of marginal women and their subsequent Beneficiaries placement in the RMG (ready-made garments) sector as machine operators. The project targets marginalised women from North Bengal – one of the most underdeveloped and The project satisfies IDLC’s commitment to: impoverished regions of Bangladesh. These women are either housewives or are working in the fields with little or ■ Contribute to socio-economic empowerment of no earning capacity prior to joining the training. women for an equitable society Under this project, 26 trainees are enrolled in each batch to ■ Establish a replicable model to address the demandundergo a 3-month training, subject to which they are assessed, supply gap of skilled manpower in Bangladesh certified and recruited as machine operators at Fareast. Mode of Operation Trainee selection Primary skills assessment 01 from North Bengal 06 by Industry Partner 1-month on-the-job Initial orientation by Community Partner 02 training at factory of the Industry Partner 07 Relocation to Gazipur Final skills assessment 03 from North Bengal 08 by Industry and Training Partners Certification subject to Medical screening based on age 04 competency level 09 2-month institutional training Appointment as 05 by Training Partner, aided 10 machine operator by by technical consultant Industry Partner sustainability report 2014 33 All project costs, including monthly stipend and of these people to existing industrial belts. This will create accommodation for trainees, initial orientation in North more job opportunities locally and thus contribute to Bengal and transportation costs, remuneration for technical holistic economic development across the country. trainers and operational expenses and material costs of the training sessions are jointly sponsored by Fareast and Major challenges and mitigations IDLC. The training machineries were provided by ILO with ■ Trainees not qualifying as machine operators even funding from the European Union. after the 3 month training and extension remain Besides technical training, the project also focuses on issues dissatisfied and spread negativity in their villages: such as factory rules and regulations, labour rights, gender Care is organising special sessions to make trainees issues, worker-management relations and occupational and their families understand that 3 month training health and safety standards. does not guarantee their recruitment as machine operators; rather it is dependent on the efficiency Project outcome levels they achieve. The same is being communicated throughout the 3 month training session by other Since June 2013, 115 trainees were enrolled under 5 project partners batches. Of them, 94 have been certified and employed as machine operators. The first phase of the training ■ Trainees not being able to adjust in the neighbourhood programme (up to June 2016) will complete the training of the RMG workers: Regular motivational sessions of 12 batches. are held by project stakeholders, focusing mainly on opportunities after training completion The project has delivered some very visible benefits in the lives of these women: ■ Frequent leave-taking during the job and not coming back from holidays: Although motivational sessions ■ Monthly income ranging between Taka 7,000 – Taka are carried out to address this problem, such action 10,000 (before training, these women were earning is associated with the trainees’ basic attitude. Hence, less than Taka 2,000 a month or had no income more care has to be given during selection and generation at all) training phase and proper action will be taken against ■ Better education for their children trainees with higher absenteeism ■ Higher and regular salaries are allowing them to save for the future ■ More participation in the family’s decision-making process because of their financial contribution in running the family Moreover, sessions on non-technical issues combined with technical training are contributing to holistic development of these women and are also engaging the industries and communities at large to create greater empathy and thus minimise worker-management conflict. Broader benefits The project is an example of how organisations from different fields can come together to create a meaningful impact in the community. This model can be scaled up and replicated in other areas, utilising the available infrastructure of the technical training schools and polytechnic institutions under DTE in all districts of Bangladesh. Local NGOs can be mobilised in each area to source trainable individuals. Associations like the BGMEA and BKMEA can also be brought on board to influence industries to lend support in terms of training module development, training of trainers, regular monitoring and recruitment of trainees after successful completion. Such coordinated efforts from the government, NGOs and the private sector can not only boost availability of skilled manpower, but may also prompt industries to relocate to other zones in the country, instead of requiring relocation 34 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED HEALTHCARE AWARENESS FOR WOMEN ENTREPRENEUR LOAN MARGINAL WOMEN The path to women empowerment starts with financial Healthcare services in Bangladesh face significant independence and the authority to make decisions for challenges in maintaining its quality – owing mainly to a themselves. However, having said so, the socio-cultural lack of trained doctors and nurses, expensive healthcare environment of Bangladesh is not much conducive to facilities and significant lack of awareness among women-led businesses and a major obstacle in this regard people regarding basic health and hygiene issues. The is access-to-finance from formal banking channels. Due to people mostly affected are those in the lower ladders some misconceptions regarding overall management and of the community. Hence, support from the private growth potential of women-led businesses and their highly sector becomes crucial to complement initiatives of the specialised nature, many banks and FIs are not focused on government and the donor organisations. this particular segment. IDLC is increasing its investment in the healthcare sector IDLC is breaking this barrier by being one of the pioneers in of Bangladesh, focusing mainly on awareness creation in offering Women Entrepreneur Loans – a specialised term basic health and hygiene issues, ensuring safe drinking facility for women entrepreneurs. Starting in 2008, IDLC has water and sanitation for the poor and assisting patients reached over 700 customers till date, with a portfolio size with terminal diseases, among other initiatives. of Taka 1,578 mn at the close of 2014 (growing from Taka 61 mn in 2010). The clientele represents a variety of sectors Recently, a healthcare session has also been included for including food and beverages, beauty and wellness, the trainees, in partnership with the TAHN Foundation poultry, home appliances and household items, apparels (Training and Assistance on Health and Nutrition), focusing and accessories and transport. on female health and hygiene issues such as health and nutrition, personal hygiene, timing of marriage and first Through our specialised and dedicated ‘Women in pregnancy, safe delivery of the baby and the importance Business’ cell, we are emerging as a partner of choice of breastfeeding for both mothers and newborns. The among women entrepreneurs in our country and TAHN Foundation specialises on awareness and training connecting them with opportunities by not just disbursing of marginal female groups in Dhaka and Chittagong on loans but by holistically looking at their businesses’ growth female health and hygiene issues. potential and giving them the support and impetus to realise their full potential. Moreover, in addition to flexible Depending on the success of this programme, IDLC plans to collateral and repayment options, IDLC is one of the largest replicate this project in Chittagong as well, in participation recipients of the Bangladesh Bank’s refinancing facility, of female workers from different RMG factories located in thereby offering the loan at the rate of 10%. the area. An additional component would be to develop community counsellors who will spread awareness and educate workers on consideration of fixed salaries per month. sustainability report 2014 35 IDLC has also recently partnered with IFC of the World Bank Group to launch a programme to: ■ Develop capacity of IDLC staff to better understand and address needs of women entrepreneurs ■ Develop capacity of women entrepreneurs in terms of management, book-keeping, market linkage and product promotion to help grow their business ■ Design CSR projects aiming at the socio-economic transformation of marginal women ■ Create a more women-friendly environment within IDLC IDLC LADIES’ FORUM IDLC has a dedicated ‘Ladies Forum’ that provides a common platform to its 170 plus female staff to network with one another and share views, opinions and issues for improving their professional and personal lives. The Forum is presided over by the Head of Human Resources of the IDLC Group and the decision-making authority is entrusted to a 12 member Executive Committee. The Forum arranges sessions in participation of all its members twice every year. Besides addressing internal issues such as a better women-friendly working environment, better managing male customers and colleagues, grievances and/or discriminatory remarks and practices, the sessions also focus on issues such as work-life balance for working women, especially mothers, female health and hygiene issues, mother and childcare issues, physical fitness (including basic self-defense techniques) and confidence building. Special Session on Women Empowerment, in celebration of International Women’s Day 2015, by Ms. Wasfia Nazreen – “The National Geographic Adventurer of the Year 20142015” for her expedition to the Seven Summits and the second woman from Bangladesh to conquer Mount Everest. 36 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among schools children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures including the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. This item won the 3rd prize in the recycle category. Message conveyed: Table lamp made of used plastics and coconut shell Prepared by: Dhanmondi Government Girls’ School sustainability report 2014 37 CHAPTER 6 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 38 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Environmental Sustainability ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS source separation of waste materials are provided for use within the school premises CAMPAIGN FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN ■ Follow-up session with 100 children from each school Globally, environmental and climate change issues revolve – 50 participants from the initial session(s) and 50 new around the widespread pollution caused by increasing students (each participant in the initial session brings population, industrialisation, urbanisation and mindless one friend) are assigned tasks in the initial session and misuse and wastage of resources. Through our lifestyle, accounted for during the follow-up session; students we are causing irreversible damage to our planet in the share their experience of practicing these lessons and form of air pollution, water pollution, noise pollution and communicating with others land pollution. Moreover, with increased consumerism, we ■ Poster-recycle competition and exhibition by the use, consume and dispose-off many organic and inorganic students, reflecting innovative solutions/ measures items everyday – both consciously and unconsciously. As in addressing these issues. There is also a ‘Highest a result, waste generation has also increased manifold. Communicator’ award for the student who has Instead of relying on government interventions only, we as communicated better practices to the maximum individual citizens also cannot deny our responsibilities in number of people improving the overall situation. Outcome To fulfill that objective through responsible personal behaviour and practices, the first step is awareness and 34 sessions were conducted under the first phase of this the most effective way to create awareness is by engaging campaign, in participation of 1,568 children from the children who are more receptive to new ideas, thoughts following 15 schools: and practices. Viqarunnisa Noon School & College, Bangladesh With this conviction, IDLC joined hands with LEADS (a social International School and College, Dhaka Residential organisation of TRK Consultancy Services) and initiated Model College, Udayan Higher Secondary School, St. a campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” in Joseph School and College, Agrani Girls' School and January 2013 by engaging children from different schools College, University Laboratory School and College, in Dhaka. Shaheed Bir Uttam Lt. Anwar Girls’ College, RAJUK Uttara Model College, Adamjee Cantonment Public School and The programme targeted school children from standards College, Dhanmondi Government Girls’ School, Motijheel six and seven, focusing on three major issues: Government Girls’ School, Azampur Government Primary 1. Environmental pollution: How we are contributing to School, Rayer Bazar High School and Jhigatola Government air, water, land and noise pollution and the possible Primary School mitigation measures The 3-day poster-recycle competition, followed by a 2. Responsible resource consumption: What we can do cultural programme and closing ceremony, attracted huge to reduce exploitation and wastage of natural and crowds. The children displayed their creative and innovative national resources, like electricity, water and natural ideas through colourful posters and recycled items in gas line with the campaign theme. Moreover, the ‘Highest 3. 3R Principle: How we can adopt the principles of Communicator’ award was also given to the student who reduce, reuse and recycle in our daily lives to reduce communicated this knowledge to the maximum number wastage and make resource utilisation more efficient of people. Students also shared their experience with the Campaign activities audience regarding how this campaign has changed their behaviour and practices and has motivated them to help The campaign is conducted through four sessions/ others embrace change as well. activities: Second phase of the campaign ■ Introductory workshop with school teachers, explaining the campaign objectives and modus operandi. Afterwards, these teachers act as coordinators in their respective schools ■ Initial session with 50 children from each school, conducted through multimedia presentations, group activities and experience-sharing. After the session, each student is assigned the task to communicate this knowledge to their families, friends, classmates and neighbours. Moreover, stickers and posters with responsible messages and tri-color waste bins for sustainability report 2014 39 A MoU was signed with LEADS on February 25, 2015, to start the second phase of the campaign from March 2015. Besides the existing 15 schools, more schools will be approached in Dhaka to be included in the campaign. GREEN BANKING “Green banking” has become one of the most discussed concepts globally. Originating in the western countries, it is now practiced across the emerging and developing economies around the world as well. It endorses environment-friendly banking practices and financial products, services and processes with the ultimate objective of reducing the carbon footprint, fighting climate change and managing the environment in an intelligent and sustainable manner, while at the same time running the business profitably. So, it suffices to say that ‘green banking’ ensures the utilisation of organisational resources in favour of the environment and the community and in the process, plays a critical role in finding solutions to align interests of our stakeholders, especially our customers and shareholders, with the broader interests of the planet. The newly established GB & CSR Department of the Bangladesh Bank is now engaging and encouraging all banks and FIs to step-up their green banking initiatives and standards. The necessary policy guidelines and work plans for banks and FIs have been put into effect by the Bangladesh Bank that encompasses policy formulation and governance, incorporation of environmental risks into the CRM (Credit Risk Management), in-house environmental management, introducing sector-specific green finance, creation of a Climate Risk Fund, capacity building through training and awareness and periodic reporting on green banking practices. Moreover, the Bangladesh Bank also offers very low-cost refinancing facilities for clients engaged in various green banking activities. Furthermore, other development partners and multilateral financiers are also keen to invest in this sector, in addition to their other interventions in protecting the environment. Among others, the World Bank, Asian Development Bank (ADB), European Energy Efficiency Fund (EEEF), International Climate Fund (ICF) and Global Climate Partnership Fund (GCPF) are providing soft loans with flexible terms and tenors. Different government agencies are also playing their part in promoting this sector. These have opened a number of avenues for IDLC in its quest to become green. The policy requires much more than just pursuing ‘green’ projects, technologies and initiatives that manage our environmental impacts; it means a complete change in the organisation’s DNA by resorting to the following activities: Policy formulation and governance IDLC, as its first step towards becoming ‘green’, formed green banking policy and strategies in line with the Bangladesh Bank guidelines. Moreover, a separate Green 40 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Banking Desk was also established to manage and environment-friendly practices, compliance issues, coordinate these activities across the organisation. occupational health and safety and green business opportunities, IDLC undertook a number of projects Green finance that would substantially increase our share of the ‘green’ Green finance appeared as an alternate financing portfolio. opportunity to diversify business. In order to promote In 2014, IDLC financed renewable energy projects to generate 300KW of electricity from solar energy – providing electricity to around 20,000 people living in off-grid areas of rural Bangladesh while creating livelihood opportunities for 200 families In terms of pollution control and compliance issues, IDLC financed several industries to install Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP) and fire-fighting equipment. Industrial zones of Naryangonj and Narshingdi are being polluted by dyeing industries where a soft loan for ETP installation appeared as an additional comfort IDLC is also in the process of raising a fund of Taka 934.5 mn for three energy-efficient brick kiln projects equipped with environment-friendly tunnel kilns and HHK technology – thus reducing both energy consumption and emission while having higher rates of return. These three projects are expected to produce 3,00,000 bricks per day, with close to zero emission. From an ethical point ofview, IDLC never accepts agricultural land as mortgage for any project – including green projects Moreover, green project sponsors go through the same appraisal process that other applicants go through to ensure their creditworthiness and secure the finance acknowledgement for the green industry. IDLC is also the term of the facility. financing a spinning and RMG factory equipped with stateIn-house environmental management of-the-art green technologies. Although the initial capital investment for such an initiative is comparatively higher, it IDLC is one of the pioneers in the banking and financial allows more cost efficiency over the long run with obvious sector of Bangladesh to actively leverage its technology positive branding. platform for continuous efficiency improvement, while minimising its environmental footprint. IDLC is one of In-house capacity development the few organisations in Bangladesh to have adopted ICT IDLC is investing in in-house capacity development by (Information and Communication Technology) not only to sponsoring six of its employees in becoming ‘Certified achieve excellence in different operational areas, but also Energy Auditors’, a global recognition for conducting for in-house environmental management. energy audit. This is much needed for future green projects Technologies as sophisticated as video conferencing, and can reduce the need to depend on external resources connecting major branches with the head office and thus or expertise in this regard. reducing needs for physical travelling, has been in place Incorporation of environmental risk into the CRM since 2010. The latest addition is Microsoft Lync, a cuttingedge communications solution that has been in place since In order to integrate E and S (Environmental and Social) 2013. Its audio-video conferencing facility helps conduct issues in the overall credit risk management framework, over 200 online meetings everyday across branches, and IDLC incorporated the Environmental Risk Management allows the staff from different locations to work together (ERM) guidelines of the Bangladesh Bank. Under this on reports and presentations, thus reducing the need for approach, environmental and social viability of business paper printouts. proposals are now also assessed through sector-specific Environmental Due Diligence (EDD) checklists, and Initial This is in line with IDLC’s effort to move towards a Environmental Examination (IEE)/ Environmental and paperless environment, whereby except for regulatory, Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) is mandatory for project legal and audit requirements, all other operations are financing. being automated to save paper. Some other notable initiatives in this regard include the usage of revised and As of 2014, 260 projects were eligible for EDD and were more specific formats for reports and appraisals; reducing accordingly assessed following the ERM guidelines. the number of printers and installing both-side printing as Accordingly, an Environmental Risk Rating (EnvRR) was the default option; and limited printing of diaries, calendars conducted whereby 161 projects were rated as “Low Risk”, and greeting cards every year. Major automation projects 2 as “Moderate Risk” and the rest as “High Risk” projects. under implementation include HR Management System, Appropriate mitigation measures were devised while Staff Salary and Commission System, and Customer financing “High Risk” projects, to be complied with during sustainability report 2014 41 Relationship Management System. act more responsibly through the use of environmental or social covenants in facility agreements. A major technological achievement is the server virtualisation that was first implemented in 2010. Not The project is currently in its pilot phase, to be implemented only has this increased capacity and efficiency of the data fully after incorporating feedback from clients and centers, but has also significantly cut down on capital Relationship Managers from business units. expenditure on physical servers, as well as reducing ESMS is being implemented from the support of FMO (a electricity consumption and CO2 emissions. Every server Dutch Development Organisation), and FI Konsult, the virtualised has a capacity to save 7,000 kWh of electricity appointed consultant for this project having an extensive and 4 tons of CO2 emissions – thus annually saving over experience of implementing ESMS across organisations 266,000 kWh of electricity and 152 tons of emissions from from different countries, including Bangladesh. 55 virtual servers currently in place. TREE PLANTATION In 2015, IDLC will be circulating To minimise its carbon footprint and fight impacts of its “Green Office Guideline”, climate change, IDLC regularly conducts plantation activities across many regions of the country. In 2014, IDLC, consisting of the “Green Code with support from the CREL Project of Winrock International of Conduct” for all employees to (an USAID project), has sponsored a homestead tree plantation programme in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. A total understand and follow. of 3,750 saplings of fruit-bearing trees have been planted across 250 marginal households across ten villages, with Green marketing, training and awareness the objective of increasing their household income by IDLC participated in the ‘Green Energy Expo 2014’, selling proceeds from the grown trees. Dudpukuria Coarranged by IDCOL to showcase green marketing and management Organisation, a voluntary co-managed renewable energy, as well as other green products. The organisation endorsed by the forest department and under Expo provided IDLC a good exposure and new leads were the network of CREL Project, is acting as the implementing generated under the green financing scheme. Moreover, body for this plantation programme. IDLC also participated in a market expo organised by ADB This project not only contributes to better environmental and Tetratech, expressing its keen interest in financing management by reducing dependency on forest resources energy-efficient projects which increase access to energy. by these households, but also allows income generation In 2014 alone, a total of 12 training programmes were by selling proceeds from the grown trees. arranged by IDLC on green banking and financing, accommodating 177 business personnel. Moreover, a number of awareness sessions were organised on green banking policies, practices and products targeting professionals from different sectors, in order to reduce IDLC’s carbon footprint in financing projects from these sectors. ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IDLC also sponsored another plantation programme whereby 1,000 saplings were planted at Trishal, IDLC is also adopting an Environmental and Social Mymensingh, with the support of Jatio Kobi Kazi Nazrul Management System (ESMS) – upgrading its project Islam University, and Toru Pallab, a voluntary organisation appraisal and risk management process by integrating managed by renowned environmentalists in Bangladesh. environmental and social perspectives as well. The second phase of this programme will be carried out in The objective of ESMS is to help IDLC identify projects and May 2015 by planting another 1,000 saplings. customers with potentially high environmental and social Previously, IDLC had partnered with the Everest Academy, risks; enable them to evaluate the E and S performance IPAC Project of the USAID, and Mirpur DOHS Parishod for of such customers through its due diligence and credit similar plantation initiatives. appraisal process; and make these customers, especially those who are not complying with local E&S regulations, 42 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED This item won the consolation prize in the poster category. Message conveyed: Showcasing noise pollution caused by different elements such as loud music, microphones, vehicles etc. Prepared by: Viqarunnisa Noon School and College IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among schools children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures, including the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. sustainability report 2014 43 CHAPTER 7 HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 44 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Human Resource Management IDLC’s Human Resource Department is committed to work strategically with diverse business segments in identifying and responding to the evolving business needs. As a strategic business partner, it creates a work environment that thrives on diversity, high individual and organisational productivity and performance, continuous improvement, and exceptional customer service. We are dedicated to construct an outstanding serviceoriented culture as well as maintain a strong worklife balance. Moreover, by encouraging employee engagement, we foster the spirit of teamwork and collaboration with a strong focus on quality in our day-today operations. Core HR indicators An overview of the HR is given below: (Taka in million) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 No. of FTE (person) 593 525 481 409 353 Operating cost per 2.09 1.95 1.71 1.50 1.60 employee Training cost per 0.022 0.017 0.003 0.026 0.013 employee Operating profit per 3.52 2.96 2.36 2.58 2.55 employee Gross turnover per 13.25 12.76 10.48 8.99 7.62 employee sustainability report 2014 45 IDLC recognises the efforts of individuals who aspire to make a difference. Our employees receive a performance bonus annually in acknowledgement of their individual contribution, hard work and dedication. Moreover, we also give ‘spot awards’ to appreciate those who have the spirit to take on new challenges and contribute to areas outside their regular responsibilities. The performance appraisal process is carried out for all employees at IDLC and is strictly monitored and documented by the Human Resource Department. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT A workforce consisting of individuals eager to learn and grow is a sure sign of a company hiring well. Employees ATTRACTING TALENT engaged in their jobs and careers seek to know more about their company and the industry and to learn skills that IDLC is powered by talent. Being in the business for the will improve their performance. Employers who want to past 28 years, IDLC has provided challenging career harness the full value of their employees and foster loyalty prospects to young and enthusiastic professionals, and retention find that training is a winning prospect for offered opportunities for their professional and personal all involved as it strengthens knowledge and awareness of development and maintained a work environment that leadership, and enhances efficiency and profitability. is characterised by trust, respect, equal opportunities, cooperation and collaboration. At IDLC, we consider IDLC’s training policy applies to all employees and aims our human resources as our most important assets and at ensuring appropriate training to be imparted to enable continuously invest in attaining the goal of attracting, individuals reach satisfactory performance levels. retaining, growing and inspiring employees across the In 2014, IDLC imparted extensive training on topics organisations. including general training on basic banking operations, professional salesmanship, business etiquette and RIGHT PEOPLE IN THE RIGHT PLACE professional excellence, credit risk management etc. While IDLC aims to attract the best candidates from the industry, it is equally important to place the right people SUCCESSION PLANNING in the right positions at the right time. This requires a IDLC’s management possesses succession plans to continuous maintenance of efficient hiring and staffing provide leadership continuity and avoid extended processes, while understanding our workforce needs, and costly vacancies in key positions. Our succession levels and effectiveness of our recruitment strategies. plan is designed to identify and prepare candidates for The purpose of IDLC’s merit-based recruitment and high-level management positions that become vacant selection process is to ensure that vacancies are filled by due to retirement, resignation,death or new business the most competent incumbents. IDLC provides equal opportunities. It is IDLC’s policy to assess the leadership employment opportunities to all applicants without needs of the Company in a way that ensures the selection bias to race, religion, gender, age, disability or any other of qualified leaders matching its mission and goals. criteria permissible by the statutory laws of the country. Recruitment and selection is based solely on job-related EMPLOYEE BENEFITS criteria, and promotes fairness, diversity and transparency. All permanent staff at IDLC are entitled to benefit schemes The process complies with all state laws, regulations and such as performance bonus, life and medical insurance policies. coverage, welfare fund etc., and loan facilities such as housing loan, transport loan, personal loan etc. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Also company contributions include Transport IDLC is a performance-driven organisation. Our Maintenance Support Scheme, Furniture and Household performance appraisal is the single-most important tool Equipment Allowance, Education Support Scheme, Annual that enables the company to assess individual performance Recognition Scheme etc. and competency, and accordingly plan his/ her career progression. The sole objective of this performance To encourage more participation of female employees appraisal system is to maximise efficiency and help the across the organisation, we provide facilities including employees achieve their career aspirations. flexible working hours, maternity benefits, transportation facilities following late working hours etc. 46 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT AND COUNSELLING IDLC focuses on providing a prompt and impartial resolution to grievances brought forward by employees based on any kind of discrimination and deprivation. IDLC seeks to establish an environment of equal employment where advancement and appreciation are solely on the basis of merit, talent and competency. If an employee experiences a situation which is not in alignment with the core values of the Company, he/ she is at liberty to bring this to the notice of the management through the mandate of this policy. Employees are assured that their complaints will be addressed without delay and judiciously by the management. On the other hand, employees are motivated though proper counselling and encouraged to have a healthy conversation should any grievances arise. HEALTH AND SAFETY ISSUES Creating and maintaining a safe and healthy workplace is in the best interest of individuals and the institution as a whole. Employees enjoy favourable working hours so that they can ensure a balance between professional and personal interests. IDLC ensures that the health and safety at the workplace complies with internal health and safety policies and procedures. It also develops, coordinates and implements strategies to prevent workplace injuries and illnesses and sets standards for health and safety training. It regularly arranges training on fire fighting, vaccination programmes and monthly health check-ups by a prescribed physician. IDLC also covers hospitalisation insurance to ensure holistic medical security of its employees as also group life insurance schemes to cover the unforeseen risk of death as well. Moreover, special accidental issues related to the employee and his/ her family members are reviewed by the HR and Compensation Committee to compensate them in any way possible. Moreover, IDLC also arranges regular awareness sessions and vaccination programmes at its premises for its staff and their families to prevent diseases such as Hepatitis B, Cervical Cancer and Swine Flu. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT IDLC regularly arranges enjoyable events and activities to bring together its employees and their families, and create a sense of belonging and strengthen ties. Picnics and family days are arranged every year. Very recently, IDLC dedicated a day full of fun and games to the children of the IDLC staff. The premises were colourfully decorated and around 150 children, along with their parents, spent a day with comic characters, mascots and fun rides. It was a unique experience that strengthened the bond amongst the IDLC family. ‘Pitha Utshob’ was another event celebrated. sustainability report 2014 47 IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among schools children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures, and the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. This item jointly won the 1st prize in the recycle category. Message conveyed: Duster made of plastic bottle strips Prepared by: Viqarunnisa Noon School and College 48 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED CHAPTER 8 EXTENDED RESPONSIBILITIES sustainability report 2014 49 Extended Responsibilities BLANKET DISTRIBUTION IDLC has distributed over 3,500 blankets this winter across different areas of North Bengal, the Southwestern Region and Chittagong. The distribution was carried out by the officials at IDLC’s Bogra, Jessore, Khulna, Chittagong and Natore branches, together with IDLC’s clients and local NGOs. IDLC carries out such distributions every year to help the underprivileged section of the community in braving the bitter cold of winter. Around 40 locations were covered this year, including Bogra, Gabtoli, Sherpur, Shariakandi, Nandigram, Shantahar, Noagaon, Mohadevpur, Joypurhat, Jamalganj, Bibirpukur, Shahjahapur, Sirajganj, Nilphamari, Kishoreganj, Dinajpur, Birol, Setabjganj, Birgong, Fulbari, Syedpur, Rangpur Sadar, Natore, Ishwardi, Chanchkoir, Rajshahi and Chapanababganj in North Bengal; Jessore, Khulna, Kushtia, Chuadanga, Jheinaidaha, Kaligonj and Norail in the Southwestern Region; Chittagong Sadar; and Moksehdpur village in Gopalganj. BLOOD DONATION IDLC regularly arranges blood donation camps across its branches, in partnership with the Bangladesh Thalassaemia Hospital, whereby employees donate blood for the treatment of patients. In 2014, similar donation camps were organised at Dilkusha and Bogra branches in participation of its employees and clients. CHARITIES AND DONATIONS IDLC donated Taka 1.5 mn for the construction of the Bangladesh Muktijudhho Jadughar (Bangladesh Liberation War Museum). Besides, time-to-time contributions were made to individuals undergoing extensive treatment for various diseases. 50 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED This item won the consolation prize in the poster category. Message conveyed: Raising awareness against wastage of water by showcasing a person turning off the tap after usage. A Muslim Cleric has been used to depict this considering the positive influence of their teachings on the practices and lifestyle of common people. Prepared by: Azampur Government Primary School IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among schools children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures including the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. sustainability report 2014 51 CHAPTER 9 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT FOR REPORTING 52 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Stakeholder Engagamenet for Reporting ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS FOR REPORTING Considering the nature of our operations, IDLC’s most important stakeholder groups are regulators, customers and employees (including key decision makers of the organisation). For this report, customer groups have not been included for two reasons: ■ CSR is a comparatively new concept in Bangladesh and is often defined as philanthropic activities including charities and donations. Hence the first step is to create awareness of stakeholder groups on the sustainability and strategic aspects of CSR, which will accordingly shape their expectations in terms of the organisation’s CSR performance; and ■ IDLC is following the G4 reporting guidelines for the first time. Hence employee understanding and engagement is crucial in this initial phase of reporting, as the employees will play the focal role in engaging customers in future; In consideration of the above, IDLC has engaged with regulators, management and employees to identify their preferences, concerns and expectations from IDLC. Stakeholders Engagement Process Key Issues raised by Stakeholders Engaged Regulators  One-on-one Meetings  Corporate Governance, Ethics and Compliance  Circular issued by  Anti-corruption measures implemented by the Bangladesh Bank on Green organisation Banking & CSR  Responsibility of the organisation towards the environment and the community Management Group Discussions  Corporate Governance, Ethics and Compliance  Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organisation  Financial Performance  Creating an enabling environment for all IDLC staff  Non-discrimination, Diversity and Equal Opportunities  Social obligations through capacity development of the underprivileged and women empowerment  Environmental obligations through in-house management, CSR and green banking initiatives  Superior customer experience through continuous improvement Employees Group Discussions  Remuneration and Benefits  Career Growth and Development Opportunities  Fair Treatment  Safe and Healthy Work Environment  Work-life Balance  Employee Grievance Management sustainability report 2014 53 MATERIAL ASPECTS IDENTIFIED ■ Employment THROUGH STAKEHOLDER ■ Training and Education ENGAGEMENT ■ Diversity and Equal Opportunity ■ Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Based on the issues raised by stakeholder during the engagement process, the following Material Aspects have ■ Non-discrimination been identified and included in this report: ■ Local Communities ■ Economic Performance ■ Anti-corruption ■ Biodiversity ■ Marketing Communications ■ Compliance ■ Customer Privacy Boundary Defined for each Material Aspect Material Aspects Identified Material within the Organisation Material outside the Organisation Economic Performance Yes NA Biodiversity Yes Yes Any negative influence on protected This aspect is material for the environment, and/or high biodiversity areas caused and for communities living close to protected by IDLC’s operations may lead to fines and/or high biodiversity areas. / sanctions / loss of license to operate / negative publicity. Compliance Yes Yes This aspect is material for IDLC’s customers and the community. Employment Yes NA Training and Education Yes NA Diversity and Equal Opportunity Yes Yes This aspect is material for communities where IDLC creates job opportunities through its operations / branch networks. Equal Remuneration for Women Yes NA and Men Non-discrimination Yes Yes This aspect is material for communities where IDLC creates job opportunities through its operations /branch networks. Local Communities NA Yes This aspect is material for local communities where IDLC has operations or investments in projects. Anti-corruption Yes Yes This aspect is material for IDLC’s customers and other stakeholders. Marketing Communications Yes Yes This aspect is material for IDLC’s existing and potential customer groups. Customer Privacy Yes Yes Maintaining privacy of sensitive This aspect is material for IDLC’s customers. customer information is one of the major priorities of IDLC staff and a significant part of its employee Code of Conduct. 54 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED IDLC | Creating Livelihoods IDLC, in partnership with LEADS, has been conducting an environmental awareness campaign titled “Our Environment Our Resource” across different schools in Dhaka since 2013. The objective is to create awareness among schools children regarding responsible environmental management, pollution control and mitigation measures including the 3R concept of reduce, reuse and recycle, and help them adopt best practices in their everyday lives. To mark completion of the 1st phase of the campaign, a poster and recycle competition was organised in November 2014 for the school children. This item won the consolation prize in the recycle category. Message conveyed: Dress made of leftover pieces of fabric Prepared by: Motijheel Government Girls’ School sustainability report 2014 55 CHAPTER 10 GRI-G4 REPORTING INDEX 56 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED Gri-G4 Reporting Index The report is ‘In Accordance’ with “Core” standards of the G4 guidelines. Accordingly the General and Specific Standard Disclosures have been detailed below. General Standard Disclosures ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE CHAPTER | PAGE NO. Strategy and Analysis G4 – 1 Statement of the Board and Management (Pg 2-3) Organisational Profile G4 – 3 IDLC Finance Limited G4 – 4 Our Services Bouquet (Pg 11) G4 – 5 Head Office: Bay’s Galleria (1st Floor), 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan 1, Dhaka 1212 G4 – 6 Countries Served: Bangladesh G4 – 7 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form: Public Limited Company G4 – 8 IDLC – A story of Growth and Success (Pg 6-14) Our branches our located across districts including Dhaka (Dhaka, Savar, Keraniganj and Imamganj), Narayanganj (Narayanganj and Bhulta), Gazipur (Gazipur and Tongi), Narshingdi, Chittagong, Comilla, Bogra, Natore, Jessore, Khulna and Sylhet. G4 – 9 IDLC – A story of Growth and Success (Pg 6) G4 – 10 Human Resource Management (Pg 45) G4 – 11 100% employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4 – 12 The nature of our operations limits dependence on material or service procurement from external bodies. Our major suppliers include providers of office equipment’s, including furniture, computers, kitchen appliances etc.; agencies for event organisation; contractors for maintenance of our branches; third-party agencies providing office assistants, security guards, cleaners etc. G4 – 13 Two new branches were opened at Bhulta and Natore in 2014, expanding our SME and Consumer Business IDLC – A story of Growth and Success: Shareholding Structure (Pg 6) G4 – 14 Anti-corruption Policies and Practices (Pg 23) G4 – 15 Regulatory Bodies and Memberships (Pg 18) G4 – 16 Memberships (Pg 14) Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4 – 17 IDLC’s two subsidiaries, IDLC Investments Limited and IDLC Securities Limited are included in the consolidated financial statements and accordingly have been covered in the Annual Financial Report 2014 and Sustainability Report 2014. G4 – 18 Reporting Parameters (Pg 1) G4 – 19 Material Aspects identified through Stakeholder Engagement (Pg 54) G4 – 20 Boundary defined for each Material Aspect (Pg 54) G4 – 21 G4 – 22 No information has been restated from that of the last report G4 – 23 This report has been prepared following the GRI-G4 guidelines. Major change in the scope of the report from G3.1 guidelines has been in terms of engaging with stakeholder groups to identify the most material aspects that influences the organisation’s economic, social and environmental performances, as well as influences stakeholder perception. sustainability report 2014 57 ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE CHAPTER | PAGE NO. Stakeholder Engagement G4 – 24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation include Regulators, Management and Employees G4 – 25 Engagement with Stakeholders for Reporting (Pg 53) G4 – 26 G4 – 27 Report Profile G4 – 28 January 1, 2014 – December 31, 2014 G4 – 29 April 2014 G4 – 30 Annual G4 – 31 Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR, Mobile +880 1714073015, Email hayesha@idlc.com G4 – 32 GRI Content Index G4 – 33 No External Assurance has been sought for this report Governance G4 – 34 Corporate Governance (Pg 22) Ethics and Integrity G4 – 56 IDLC – A story of Growth and Success (Pg 6-14) General Standard Disclosures for Sectors Required, if available for the organisation’s sector Specific Standard Disclosures PARTICULARS CHAPTER | PAGE NO. Generic Disclosure on Disclosure on Management Approach (Pg 7-8) Management Approach Aspects and Indicators: Economic Performance G4 – EC 1 IDLC – A story of Growth and Success (Pg 13) G4 – EC 2 Green Banking (Pg 40) G4 – EC 4 IDLC – A story of Growth and Success (Pg 10) G4 – EC 7 G4 – EC 8 Employment Generation for Marginal Women (Pg 33) Model Village Project (Pg 29) Services offered for Low-income Groups (Pg 30) Biodiversity G4 – EN 11 IDLC does not own, lease or manage any operational site that are adjacent to protected areas and/or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4 – EN 12 IDLC does not engage in any business or operation that has any form of direct and/or indirect impact on biodiversity Compliance G4 – EN 29 IDLC has neither been party to any non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations of the country nor has it faced any fines in this regard Employment G4 – LA 1 Human Resource Management (Pg 45) G4 – LA 2 Human Resource Management (Pg 46) G4 – LA 3 3 staff underwent maternity leave in 2014, with a 100 percent retention rate 58 sustainability report 2014 IDLC FinANCE LIMITED PARTICULARS CHAPTER | PAGE NO. G4 – LA 4 The standard notice period is one month for such operational changes; however, this period may vary depending on the nature of operation and duties and responsibilities of the concerned officials. Training and Education G4 – LA 9 Human Resource Management – Training and Development (Pg 46) G4 – LA 10 Training on basic banking operations, professional salesmanship, business etiquette and professional excellence, credit risk management etc. G4 – LA 11 Human Resource Management – Performance Management (Pg 46) Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4 – LA 12 Board of Directors (Pg 21) Management Committee (Pg 24-25) Human Resource Management (Pg 45) Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4 – LA 13 IDLC offers similar basic salaries to all male and female staff for each employment category. Any difference in gross salary is determined by the individual’s performance, not his/her gender. Non-discrimination G4 – HR 3 No incident of discrimination has been notified to the Human Resource Department by employees through formal or informal channels. Local Communities G4 – SO 1 Vocational Training for 30 Children with Disabilities (Pg 28) Model Village Project for Youth and Community Empowerment (Pg 29) Services offered for Low-income Groups (Pg 30) Employment Generation for Marginal Women (Pg 33) Healthcare Awareness for Marginal Women (Pg 35) Tree Plantation (Pg 42) Anti-corruption G4 – SO 3 Anti-corruption Policies and Practices (Pg 23) G4 – SO 4 G4 – SO 5 IDLC’s policy mandates immediate dismissal of employees proven to be involved in any form of corruption within and/or outside the organisation, and IDLC strictly adheres to this policy. Formal channels are in place for stakeholder to file complaints against any malpractice by any IDLC staff and accordingly actions are taken by the respective departments. Compliance G4 – SO 8 IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with laws and regulations of the country and has not faced any fines/ non-monetary sanctions in this regard. Marketing Communications G4 – PR 7 IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorships. Customer Privacy G4 – PR 8 IDLC has not been party to any incident related to breaches of customer privacy and/or loss of customer data. sustainability report 2014 59 Awards and Recognitions DHL-Daily Star Best Financial Institution Award DHL-Daily Star Best Financial Institution Award for 2012 SAFA (South Asian Federation of Accountants) Award ■ SAFA Award 2011 as “Winner in Financial Services Sector” and as “Overall Winner” in all sectors of SAARC countries; ■ Winner of Best Annual Report 2010; ■ SAFA Best Presented Accounts Award 2007; ■ SAFA Best Presented Accounts Award 2006; ICAB (The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh) National Awards ■ 1st position under the category of Financial Service Sector and 2nd position under the category of “SAARC Anniversary Award for Corporate Governance” in the 13th ICAB National Awards for Best Presented Annual Reports 2012; ■ 2nd position in the 12th ICAB National Awards for Best Presented Annual Reports 2011; ■ 1st position in 11th ICAB National Awards 2010; ■ 2nd prize in 10th ICAB National Award 2009 for Best Published Accounts and Reports in the NBFI sector; ■ 2nd prize in 8th ICAB National Award 2007; ■ 2nd prize in 7th ICAB National Award 2006; ICMAB (The Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh) Award ■ 1st position as the Best Corporate in the Non-Banking Financial Institution Sector 2014; ■ Best Corporate in the Non-Banking Financial Institution Sector 2013; ■ Best Corporate in the Non-Banking Financial Institution Sector 2011; ■ ICMAB Best Corporate Performance Award 2008; ■ ICMAB National Best Corporate Award 2007; COMMWARD COMMWARD Excellence in Communication Award 2009 Superbrands Recognition as Superbrands in 2009 60 sustainability report 2014
