MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 ANNUAL CORPORATE SOCIAL 2014 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 PREFACE MediaMonks is one of the biggest and fastest growing That said, we realize the energy and data centers digital production companies in the world. In the past needed to digitize our economy place a great pressure few years we’ve taken our business to the far ends of on the environment. The emissions we expel as an the planet. We are proud to say we’ve opened offices in industry should never be underestimated. Therefore, we London, New York, Los Angeles, Singapore, and—with continuously strive to optimize our own organizational our recently announced office in the UAE—Dubai. As processes in order to make them more energy efficient. we continue to grow and strive to be the best digital As we cannot do this alone, we actively involve our production company, our responsibility to contribute stakeholders and employees and encourage them to do to the world grows with us. We want to set an example the same. by creating value and opportunities for business and society. That is why we’ve set ourselves the ambition of LOOKING FORWARD being a frontrunner in the digitization of the economy. This is the area where we can make the biggest impact. In the upcoming years we want to continue using our expertise and services for doing good in the world However, we can only outline the direction the digital by offering modern solutions to modern problems. economy is heading and make the first steps towards Examples of this are solutions for cybercrime, digital realizing it. Those who will shape it are the next divide, e-waste and other contemporary issues that have generation of young talents. We see them as our biggest emerged in our modern society. In 2014 we launched inspiration, as they make us realize that we are heading the charitable Feedie app in the Netherlands, produced in the right direction. In light of this, we—together with an interactive experience for the non-profit Autism eight other leading companies—have developed the Speaks MSSNG project, and developed DXM Labworks; Digital Design Master’s program to give young talents a a mobile game for the CHPA that lets teens engage with stage on which they can grow, providing them with the the dangers connected to DXM abuse. What’s more, the equipment needed to become a leading presence in the Sweetie campaign made a real difference in the fight of future. The master’s program will start February 2016, online child sexual abuse. with a fallback date of September 2016. As we move forward into 2015, MediaMonks hopes In the meantime, we will continue with our efforts to play an instrumental part in many more positive pushing digital innovations and using our expertise campaigns that shed light on these types of problems. in the digital field to produce positive campaigns. We The digitization of the economy is inevitable. As a leader strongly believe in the power of combining strengths. of the industry, it’s our job to make sure it happens in a By working together with charities, NGOs and other responsible manner. organizations that can profit from our digital expertise, we can make a positive impact on the role of digital In this report you will find the results of our 2014 in both business and society. With smartwatches, operational practices as well as an overview of the social interconnected devices and 3D printing gaining campaigns we have been involved with. momentum in the personal device market, we can picture the impact of up-and-coming digital innovations having a constructive influence on society. VICTOR KNAAP Main Monk MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 This report reviews MediaMonks’ Corporate Social Responsibility performance in 2014. Complying with United Nations Global Compact, the report follows the GRI guidelines. MediaMonks has been member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organization that promotes economic, environmental and social sustainability. GRI provides all companies and organizations with a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework that is widely used around the world. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility is a form of corporate self-regulation integrated into a business model. CSR is titled to aid an organization’s mission as well as a guide to what the company stands for and will uphold to its consumers. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 TABLE OF CONTENTS 01 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY 05 LETTING TALENTS FLOURISH I PEOPLE II ENERGY & INNOVATION 09 OFFERING OUR TALENTS WHERE NEEDED I CHARITY 11 A FAIR AND SUSTAINABLE WAY OF WORKING I ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 16 APPENDIX MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 1 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY MEDIAMONKS develop themselves both personally and professionally, allowing their talents to flourish. MediaMonks is the biggest creative digital production MediaMonks takes pride in the fact that, as a business, company on the planet. We specialize in working for we kick start careers and provide opportunities for those and with advertising agencies to craft amazing digital fresh out of education in an otherwise troubling job work for global brands. You can find us anywhere on the market. What’s more, we are a frontrunner in taking Web as well as in Amsterdam, London, New York, LA, Dutch Digital Design to the next level — internationally. Singapore and Dubai. MediaMonks boasts an in-house To this end, we and 8 other digital agencies are team of 200 Monks that are versed in an infinite range developing the Digital Design Master’s to educate of digital disciplines, collectively covering anything you new talent and to take Dutch Digital Design to the could possibly throw at a digital campaign. international stage. CREATING SHARED VALUE 2. Offering our talents where needed We utilize our talents and expertise to accelerate charity In 2014, we’ve put a strong effort into our role in society projects and social initiatives to help them achieve their by going beyond a regular Corporate Social Responsibility goals. By producing digital campaigns for charitable program. Where CSR is reactionary (a response to causes, we help provide exposure and awareness for a growing concern from employees, customers and initiatives in a digital era. Examples of this can be seen in investors about business conduct), we’ve made moves the Feedie, Sweetie and MSSNG campaigns. towards the process of bringing business and society together to achieve success cooperatively. 3. Our way of working Our way of working is fair, sustainable and effective. Part Creating shared value for business and society lies in of being the best is striving for operational excellence in the heart of our way of doing business, and forms the every part of your company. While we haven’t set up a foundation of the choices we make and for all business separate division for this, we make sure it is integrated execution. For MediaMonks, being responsible and within our HR, facility management, and general showing leadership is inextricably linked to being a procurement. positive influence through the things we produce. All in all, we want to add value to the areas in which we can PERFORMANCE 2014 make our biggest impact. This year we explored these areas and reformulated them into three pillars that we MediaMonks started measuring performance on CSR obtained in our corporate strategy: indicators over 2012. This assessment will be repeated every year and forms a basis for improvement policy. In 1. Letting talents flourish the following chapter you will read the elaboration of the It’s a well-known fact that the people make the scores from 2014. company, as it is their talents that define the business. In our case, our employees are the ones that help us achieve our goals, and it’s because of this that we want to be the best employer possible by taking care of them. As many employees enter the business at a young age, MediaMonks is their home base, the place where they grow up. We take this role very seriously and provide our employees with an environment in which they can MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 2 2014 IN NUMBERS 5 OFFICES (AMSTERDAM, LONDON, NEW YORK, LA, SINGAPORE) 195 EMPLOYEES 1228 PRODUCTIONS DELIVERED 21.3m TURNOVER IN EUROS 653 tonnes CO2 EMISSIONS 4 CHARITIES SUPPORTED MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 3 MOST IMPORTANT FIGURES PEOPLE Employee / Employer ratio 0.29 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 1.4 absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 132 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 28 number [#] Diversity 0.18 female / male [ratio] ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY CO2 emission [tonnes] CO2 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Car 71 471 Public Transport 96 522 Flights 404 1,794 Energy 135 738 Water 317 1.8 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 4 BUSINESS Innovation 11,529 hours / yearly worked hours [#] Suppliers CSR policy 26 number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publicly disclosing CSR policy 26 number of top 20 suppliers [%] COMMUNITY Donations Projects for Public good 4 projects per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 1,197 hours per year [#] MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 5 LETTING TALENTS FLOURISH MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 6 I PEOPLE PERFORMANCE 2014 Employee / Employer ratio 0.29 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 1.4 absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 132 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 28 number [#] Diversity 0.18 female / male [ratio] A CULTURE OF MEDIAMONKS MONKS IN TRAINING Our company is a temple run by Monks. Their work is the MediaMonks is proud of its ambitious and talented reason we’re proud to hand out our business cards to people. They are eager to learn and advance their clients across the world. Therefore, fair remuneration, careers. MediaMonks believes in talent development the development of their talents, the stimulation of by training on the job: Every junior employee is new challenges and opportunities, and the construction accompanied by a senior during their time with the of a cohesive culture are imperative to creating an company. excellent working environment. Our company structure avoids strict hierarchies as they create problematic We see our team leaders as coaches. They make sure our barriers that effect general workflow and the work employees are equipped and mentally prepared when relations between junior and senior employees. Our moving forward with their personal development. The team leaders manage and coordinate projects, ensuring coach leads their team to success, supporting them deadlines are met, however; beyond that, all team in becoming the best at what they do. In doing so, we members are treated as equals — each committed to foster a culture of development by supporting training making the best work possible in the time available. requests by our employees. Next to employee personal goals, our coaches encourage junior Monks to use their As employers we nurture relationships with our talents to contribute in achieving the collective goal of employees through regular meetings and by hosting MediaMonks. By doing this we are able to develop the events both in and out of working hours. MediaMonks organization as a whole. is known for its carefully cultivated culture: our MediaMonks Culture Club organizes a whole host of We also offer students from different educational team building events led by an event manager. These backgrounds the opportunity to follow a traineeship range from our annual winter sports trip and ‘Summer or work as an intern. MediaMonks is certified to offer Soirée’ to tech conferences and unique department internships for two relevant schools: outings. However, our focus isn’t solely on keeping things fun outside of the office. As our work is primarily 1. E  CABO, for future of Assistant Communication, digital, it’s no surprise our Monks spend a majority Marketing employee, management/CEO assistant their time in sat in front of screens. We therefore try 2. GOC for creative industry: graphic and interactive to stimulate a healthy, safe, and above all creative media design, game designer, web developer, work environment. What’s more, we try to provide game developer, animation and audiovisual design opportunities for staff to leave their desks by creating and authoring spaces for relaxing, gaming and even partying. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 7 In addition, we actively offer Business English for those involved with international relations, and Dutch courses for our expatriates. In 2014, 14 Monks participated in a 12-course training in Dutch for expats. TAKING CARE OF OUR MONKS The health & well being of our employees is a serious matter. Our Monks work hard. We want to make sure this happens in a safe and healthy environment. This means having safety procedures and standards in place, such as emergency response qualified staff (in Dutch: “BHV”) and all health and safety regulations (in Dutch: “ARBO”). It also means providing a wide variety of healthy catering options and encouragement in sport event involvement, such as our annual skiing trip, football team and various marathons. Aside from our health and safety measures during work, MediaMonks also provides high-quality support to our employees’ personal lives. If needed, we will provide loans, assistance with debt, as well as general advice and administrational support. With many of our staff coming from all over the country and even overseas, MediaMonks pays careful attention to The health & well being of our employees is a serious housing and accommodation. We offer assistance in finding homes alongside providing temporary matter. Our Monks work hard. We want to make sure this accommodation in our MediaMonks apartment. Rooms happens in a safe and healthy environment.t. are offered for free to interns and at a low cost for full-time employees. Such premises drastically improve the possibilities for international individuals to work for MediaMonks, making their move and relocation a far less stressful experience. In 2014 our combination of an excellent working environment and health and safety measures have led to 1,4% absenteeism and the successful prevention of any accidents. A DIVERSE FAMILY WITH EQUAL VALUES Like all global companies, we have a lot of cultural diversity amongst our employees. With numerous nationalities gracing our global office, around 20% of the MediaMonks workforce is non-Dutch. The management of MediaMonks encourages this diversity as increases the national perspective of our work. Our recruitment methods are set to attract and align the most-talented people; besides their talents, it’s essential they fit in with our culture of Monks. All Monks should hold the similar values and have the same work ethics. Therefore, we put a significant amount of effort into the preservation of our cultural values. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 8 II EDUCATION & INNOVATION PERFORMANCE 2014 Innovation 11,529 hours / yearly worked hours [#] Our goal is to become a frontrunner of digital design and to inspire young talent in the process. We want to provide talented people with a platform that allows them to be enthusiastic about working within this field. Furthermore, we continuously strive for innovation within our own sector and search for the latest technologies that will help improve it. DIGITAL DESIGN MASTER & development activities and search for innovations regarding new software and creative products. In 2014, MediaMonks and several other Dutch agencies You can find a selection of our innovative projects from started to develop the first Digital Design Master’s in the 2014 below: Netherlands. This master’s was created to educate new talent in the hopes of them achieving an internationally Starbucks App renowned diploma in digital design. MediaMonks and Following the app’s success as the most-used mobile its partners plan to take Dutch Digital Design to the loyalty and payment platform in the US, MediaMonks international stage to improve its reputation worldwide. worked with Starbucks to produce a tailored version The Digital Design Master is a two year-program. The for the EMEA region. Combining the personalization of course is scheduled to start in February 2016, with a the Starbucks Card with a rich blend of natively digital fallback date of September. In the years to come, we will features, users can locate nearby stores, see local intensify our efforts to contribute to the development promotions and pay using their mobile device. of young talents and making the Digital Design Master a comprehensive and progressive master-study. Utopia MediaMonks produced a 24/7-companion platform DIGITAL LEADERSHIP & INNOVATION for Utopia, one of the biggest entertainment concepts of 2014. The platform acts as a way for viewers to The success of MediaMonks is based on the innovative follow, support, recruit and enroll in the society that’s use of new digital technologies in its campaigns, for being built. By registering for a Utopia passport, a which it has received around 500 honors and awards to wide selection of interactive features and fun become date. MediaMonks pushes the creative boundaries of available, making for an innovative interactive what is possible with existing platforms and contributes experience. to raising awareness of digital innovation amongst the general public. Six Degrees of Tennis For this production we teamed up with DDB New York MediaMonks innovation and development work is to create a desktop, tablet and mobile site that enabled eligible for the fiscal stimulus of WBSO (Wet Bevordering users to explore their Facebook network to discover how Speuren Ontwikkelingswerk). In 2014, 11,529 hours of they’re connected with friends based on interests in WBSO grant have been assigned to MediaMonks, which tennis. The project’s innovation is tied to the fact that amounts to 3,15% of the total amount of hours worked. we placed users’ connections within a WebGL graph that This gave us the time and capacity to perform research connected different tennis fans from around the world. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 9 OFFERING OUR TALENTS WHERE NEEDED MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 10 I CHARITY PERFORMANCE 2014 Donations Projects for Public good 4 projects per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 1,197 hours per year [#] OFFERING OUR EXPERTISE WHERE NEEDED MediaMonks shares its digital expertise with charity Shared food photos are transformed into actual shared projects and social initiatives to help create exposure food with those who need it — children in South Africa. for great causes. Our knowledge of design and digital The application was launched in the US, where over 6 communications allows us to help social initiatives and million Americans regularly use foodie apps, and only charity projects in achieving their goals. We provide one of them has the power to feed the hungry: Feedie for voluntary hours to help build digital communication the Lunchbox Fund, by Tribal New York and MediaMonks. platforms, digital videos, applications and productions to help them convey their message to a large digital MSSNG audience. MSSNG is a groundbreaking collaboration between VOLUNTARY HOURS FOR PUBLIC GOOD Google and Autism Speaks to create the world’s largest genomic database on autism. The database is based on We have invested a substantial amount of time and 10,000 DNA samples, each of which was converted into resources into these great charitable projects. In 2014 one of 10,000 posters that were put on sale. All proceeds we have donated in kind a total of 1,197 hours to 4 went directly to the funding of Autism Speaks’ research. foundations and social initiatives for the public good MediaMonks created the interactive experience for in the Netherlands, in the UK and in the US. These the project that lets users explore the art of growing charity projects vary from supporting an initiative on microscopic DNA crystals. the understanding of autism to offering our help to the Museum of Childhood. 100 LIVES Next to offering our expertise, we also make donations 100 LIVES is an initiative led by Vartan Gregorian, Ruben to several foundations, like Stichting Hartekind and Vardanyan and Noubar Afeyan, along with individuals Stichting JongeHonden. Additionally, we have made of Armenian origin whose achievements were made some donations to governmental campaigns of the possible by acts of valor committed a century ago. municipality of Hilversum. MediaMonks produced a website platform to celebrate those who helped Armenians in need one hundred years FEEDIE ago. The platform tells their stories and allows others to thank them and continue their spirit by supporting In 2014, following the successful launch in the US, people and organizations that keep the legacy of MediaMonks held a launch party for the app in the gratitude alive. Netherlands. This marked the continuation of our charity efforts with the Feedie platform. Feedie is the first photo sharing application for foodies with a philanthropic appetite. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 11 A FAIR AND SUSTAINABLE WAY OF WORKING MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 12 I ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY PERFORMANCE 2014 Amount CO2 emission [tonnes] C02 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Commuting Car 273,694 km 56 307 Public Transport 2,175,733 km 93 522 Business Car 67,878 km 15 80 Flights 2,228,187 km 249 1,794 Energy Gas 6,559 m 3 12 65 Electricity 271,116 kWh 123 672 Water 1,064 m 3 217 1.73 TOTAL CO 2 TONNES PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 AVERAGE MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE AVERAGE MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 13 We believe the digital industry is a key player in the increasing the size of our carbon footprint. This is one efforts to form a low-carbon society, as digital practices of the reasons that we encourage our Monks to use are—for the most part—eco-friendly. Digital has paved public transport when commuting to work. We do this its way as an alternative to print, reducing the need for by offering every employee a yearly subscription for free paper publications and excessive newspaper delivery public transport to and from work. Additionally, our office services thanks to the revolutionary changes within the headquarters are located directly next to the train station news industry. — a consideration we made when opening up shop. In 2014, this resulted in a growing number of Monks However, due to the nature of their work digital commuting to work by train. production agencies consume large portions of electricity. This is due to an intensive use of computers, As for our increasing number of flights abroad, we have displays and servers. For a little perspective on the global impact of the total digital traffic worldwide, all opened offices in parts of the world that our business the data centers in the world together consume 2% of frequents; these locations include Singapore, New York, the global electricity supply. This is similar to the carbon London and LA — with Dubai as new location that is footprint of the airlines industry. opening shortly. Moreover, we promote the use of video and telephone conference calls between offices, striving To address this issue, over the past few years we’ve to compensate our flights in the upcoming year. implemented all necessary means to improve our business processes and reduce emissions, OUR WASTE HANDLING distinguishing three key areas: energy, waste and sustainable procurement. MediaMonks strives for As most of our output is digital we produce minimal operational excellence in these areas and tries to keep physical waste. We have little paper waste due to its environmental impact to a minimum. our digital administrative processes and the majority of waste produced at MediaMonks is organic, and ENERGY EFFICIENCY MEASURES therefore biodegradable. In addition to paper and glass recycling, MediaMonks also collects plastic waste. As The biggest impact we can make regarding our carbon our organization is growing we put our best efforts into footprint is the conservation of energy. We manage ensuring all employees are aligned with the practice of this by making changes to efficiency measures in our keeping our physical waste to a minimum. electricity usage — one of our largest emissions. This includes central power switches and energy saving lights, When it comes to old hardware, MediaMonks uses a as well as purchasing electricity generated with sustainable end-of-life policy that distinguishes three green-certification. scenarios: We are always on the lookout for ways of improving our 1. If hardware isn’t working, we will try to repair it energy efficiency. Together with our strategic partners, first. If this isn’t possible, the hardware will be we constantly strive for innovations in our data center. recycled through appropriate means. We’ve deliberately chosen a data center that makes 2. Workable parts of old hardware will be re-used. use of cold corridors, smart meters, and extensive 3. Hardware (or parts of old hardware) that we cannot virtualization of its servers. These measurements have use anymore will be sold. led to a decrease in electricity and gas use this year. As a growing international agency our mobility between offices and meetings has increased, and is therefore MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 14 II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PERFORMANCE 2014 Suppliers CSR policy 26 number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publicly disclosing CSR policy 26 number of top 20 suppliers [%] We put a lot of effort into making our supply chain more sustainable. One aspect of our efforts is a conscious choice of suppliers. For all business partners and suppliers we apply basic sustainable procurement principles: With new tenders, we take into account our sustainability principles and ask our suppliers what they do to reduce their environmental impact. Based on the size of the potential order and influence this has on our operations, we’re able to make the best choice for sustainability. Additionally, we encourage our suppliers and business partners to pay attention to CSR by explaining its importance. Energy, office supplies and other facility requirements thereby have our full priority. This helps us to maintain a fair and transparent relationship with all parties involved. SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT On a more regular basis, employees are informed by their team leader about developments regarding customer We are aware of the fact that our choice of supplier data, privacy and integrity on specific assignments. has a significant impact on our total carbon footprint. Sometimes, a customer even requires the individual To ensure our sourcing is transparent, we assess the MediaMonks project team members to sign a special sustainability of the behaviors and practices of our non-disclosure agreement specific to their project. current suppliers by analyzing the annual CSR policies and publications of the 20 largest suppliers. Our data and our office have been secured to the highest industry standards. All work is processed on in-house More than 25% of our suppliers are transparent about servers, managed by an ISO 27001 certified datacenter their CSR policies, presenting them openly on their manager and secured by a hardware firewall. We do website. Examples of our suppliers who are transparent not make use of cloud services, and only our IT staff are NS, Vodafone Libertel BV and Sligro NV. has access to these servers. What’s more, the in-house servers are protected by an alarm and secured electric CLIENTS gates. These measurements are used to optimally secure our and our clients data and information. As clients are our main point of business, we take special measures to ensure relations stay favourable and 2. Integrity productive for both the client and our company. These To maintain fair relationships with our customers, measures include the handling of client data security and MediaMonks employees are prohibited to purchase goods privacy, which we manage in two ways: or services from a client unless the purchase is made at the standard price and if it is subject to the same 1. Confidentiality conditions as for the public. It is also forbidden to accept Any customer data or information that relates to their money, gifts or goods or to oblige oneself in any way to production is treated confidentially at all costs. Every the client. MediaMonks employee has signed non-disclosure agreement, acknowledging that they cannot disclose data or information from MediaMonks nor our customers or other business partners. The same goes for all our suppliers that are dealing with our core business, or are in direct contact with our customers. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 15 2014 MEDIAMONKS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2014 The results below indicate MediaMonks’ performance relative to the ‘average’ office and best practices in the Netherlands. The scores are based on a benchmark set by the Dutch government. 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 AVERAGE 2014 MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE TONNES PER FTE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 16 APPENDIX TEN UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: PRINCIPLES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE Principle 1 Support ​and ​respect​ protection​ of ​internationally​ proclaimed​ human ​rights. 7, 10  MediaMonks takes a clear position against violations of basic human rights, such as the right to privacy and integrity. Principle 2 Make​sure ​business ​is​not​complicit​in​human r​ ights​abuses. 6, 7, 10 MediaMonks contribute to this by promoting fair labour conditions in all our offices, and have integrated this into our human resource policy and procurement policy. Principle 3 Uphold​freedom​of​association a​ nd ​right​to​collective​bargaining. 6, 7 MediaMonks respects the freedom of association and employees’ rights to organize or join employee organizations. Principle 4 Support e​ limination​of​all f​ orms​of ​forced​and​compulsory​labor. 6, 7, 10 Diversity is a prerequisite for success and all discrimination is prohibited. For example, in total 17 different nationalities are working at MediaMonks. Principle 5 Support e​ ffective ​abolition​of ​child ​labor 6, 7, 10 We do not tolerate bullying or other physical or verbal acts of an abusive nature. Decisions that concern employment, promotions, development and compensation are based on the employee’s job knowledge and competence. Principle 6​ Eliminate​discrimination i​n e​ mployment ​and​occupation 6, 10 Active responsible supply chain management helps us track possible human rights violations such as child, forced or compulsory labor. Principle 7 Support​a​precautionary a​ pproach​to e​ nvironmental​challenges 13, 14 MediaMonks works actively towards minimizing our environmental impact it is part of our daily practice. Focus areas within our environmental policy are energy, mobility and waste. Principle 8 Undertake​initiatives​to p ​ romote​greater​environmental​responsibility 13, 14 Active sustainable supply chain management helps us raise awareness on energy efficiency amongst our suppliers, and work with them on innovations. Principle 9 Encourage​the​development​and​diffusion​of​environmentally f​ riendly 8, 10, 14 technologies Knowledge is an important factor to our environment and energy management. We work together with our strategic partners on innovative energy measurements – for example, with our datacenter supplier. Principle 10 Work​against a​ ll f​ orms o ​ f ​corruption, ​including​extortion​and b ​ ribery 14 MediaMonks has zero tolerance with regards to all forms of bribes and corruption. We neither offer nor accept gifts and hospitality that are improper. This is integrated into our contracts with our employees, who have also signed a non-disclosure agreement to prevent data breaches.  Our undertaking is to conduct ourselves in an ethically correct manner in everything we do, in compliance with applicable legislation and our company values, industry standards and international guidelines. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 17 OUR CSR PROGRAM For questions, recommendations or ideas about the MediaMonks policy, please contact us: info@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS HQ MEDIAMONKS UK MEDIAMONKS NY MEDIAMONKS LA MEDIAMONKS SG Schapenkamp 2 23 Heddon Street 127 Elizabeth St 511 Brooks Ave 55B Amoy Street 1211 PA Hilversum London, W1B 4BQ 10013 NY New York 90291 CA Venice 069881 Singapore T +31 35 621 21 50 T +44 (0)20 7440 3580 T +1 347 767 6929 T +65 64 389 897 T +65 64 389 897 E info@mediamonks.com E london@mediamonks.com E ny@mediamonks.com E la@mediamonks.com E singapore@mediamonks.com www.mediamonks.com
