UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication of Progress 2015 Covering Period: 10/Oct/2014 – 15/Dec/2015 Grue + Hornstrup A/S  Nupark 51, 7500 Holstebro  Denmark  www.g-h.dk Phone: +45 9610 1330  email: gh@g-h.dk Contents Executive Letter ........................................................................................................................ 2 Company Profile ...................................................................................................................... 3 Human Rights............................................................................................................................ 4 Labour Rights ............................................................................................................................ 5 Environment .............................................................................................................................. 6 Anti-Corruption ......................................................................................................................... 7 Additional Corporate Responsible Activities ....................................................................... 8 Action Plan for 2015-16: ........................................................................................................ 10 1 Communication of Progress 2015  Grue + Hornstrup A/S Company Profile Founded in 1981, “AA” rated by crediting agency Bisnode, Grue + Hornstrup A/S (henceforth referred to as “G+H”) is a Denmark based engineering and environment consultancy company with 23 full time staff in addition to several contract part time staff. G+H operates out of its primary office in Holstebro, Denmark. G+H’s focus is on providing innovative solutions to private companies, financial and government institutions worldwide. The core business and areas of expertise of the firm can be broadly categorized into the following:  Systems Automation (incl. Buildings and Industry)  Building Engineering  Energy and Environmental (incl. Climate Change and Sustainability) The Building Automation group provides automation services and turn-key solutions primarily to the building industry, pharmaceutical, and industrial sectors in Denmark. In addition, traditional Building Engineering services are provided by our subsidary company, Grue + Kirkgaard A/S, also with primary focus on the Danish building sector. The Energy & Environment group provides engineering and consultancy services worldwide, primarily in the fields of renewable energy, environmental technologies, climate change, and sustainably. The Energy & Environment group has a strong track record of operating in over 30 countries over the past fifteen years. G+H has is “AA – High Creditworthiness” company1, operating within the laws and regulations of the Kingdom of Denmark.2 In addition, G+H is an active member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI), associated to the Confederation of Danish Industry (DI), and we adhere to the professional rules for consulting engineering set by the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). G+H is a signatory of the UNGC and its 10 principles since 2013. 1 AA rating from the credit rating agency Bisnode. 2 Offical Certifcation of delcaration from the Danish Business Authority (date 13/03/2014) 3 Communication of Progress 2015  Grue + Hornstrup A/S Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals In continuation of its policy stated in our COP from 2014, G+H operates within the prescribed laws governing Human Rights in Denmark, following the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to which Denmark is a signatory. In this context, G+H operates in a manner that does not knowingly constitute Human Rights violations on an organization and employee basis. In addition, G+H seeks to impart awareness of Human Rights with our partner organizations, clients and other stakeholders. Implementation G+H supports Human Rights in all its forms and recognizes its importance in an increasingly globalized work environment, and potential risks for the company and employees due to its non-compliance. We continue to encourage an open dialogue between management and employees regarding any Human Rights abuse which may be observed both within the organization, and externally over the course of their professional duties. Measurement of Outcomes  An annual workshop on the UNGC was completed and offered to all full time employees to re-emphasize the UNGC’s 2 principles on Human Rights. An additional workshop was conducted for new employees prior to this annual workshop with the aim of getting all new employees “up-to-speed” on understanding Human Rights specifically in the context of G+H.  Employees are encouraged to at any time highlight any specific cases or raise concerns of Human Rights abuse either directly to their line manager, the managing director or during bi-weekly team meetings.  Proposed Action for 2015-16: To hold a special workshop focusing exclusively on the issues of Human Rights, Labour Rights, and Anti-Corruption. This will be done specifically in the context of our expanding business and client base both within Denmark and internationally, and helping employees identify and recognize scenarios which may be deemed as potential risks to our company and clients. This is in line with the company’s objective of adhering to the UNGC and minimizing possibilities that may be harmful to our business and principles. 4 Communication of Progress 2015  Grue + Hornstrup A/S Labour Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals In continuation of its policy stated our COP from 2014, G+H operates within the prescribed laws governing Labour Rights in Denmark, following the core conventions of the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of which Denmark is a signatory. At G+H, we constantly strive to protect the rights of our employees, foster positive workplace environment, and maintain a proactive relationship between managers and employees. Implementation G+H does not discourage membership in trade unions or professoinal organzation, a nubmer of our employees are a member of the Danish Society of Engineers (IDA). Though, we note that the company does not have a collective agreement with any such union or organization. At G+H, we have a de-facto work-life balance policy with flexible working hours, paid over time, and tolerance for personal and family issues. G+H does not use any forms of forced or compulsory labour and does not employee child labour. Measurement of Outcomes  An annual workshop on the UNGC was completed and offered to all full time employees to re-emphasize about UNGC’s 4 principles on Labour Rights. An additional workshop was conducted for new employees prior to this annual workshop with the aim of getting all new employees “up-to-speed” on understanding Labour Rights specifically in the context of G+H.  Employees are encouraged to at any time highlight any specific cases or raise concerns of Labour Rights abuse either directly to their line manager, the managing director or during bi-weekly team meetings.  Proposed Action for 2015-16: To hold a special workshop focusing exclusively on the issues of Human Rights, Labour Rights, and Anti-Corruption. This will be done specifically in the context of our expanding business and client base both within Denmark and internationally, and helping employees identify and recognize scenarios which may be deemed as potential risks to our company and clients. This is in line with the company’s objective of adhering to the UNGC and minimizing possibilities that may be harmful to our business and principles. 5 Communication of Progress 2015  Grue + Hornstrup A/S Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals G+H through our daily operation is focused on bettering the environment within and outside our company. Our core business is oriented on making systems more energy efficient, or providing green and sustainable solutions to our clients. Implementation Employees have been made aware of the 3 principles of Environment under UNGC. G+H has chosen a premises which allows for the implementation of green practices, such as recycling of waste, waste separation, and use of renewable energy in heating and electricity. Some of our employees maintain a low carbon footprint by bicycling to work, and as a company we use energy efficient technologies in our work premises (e.g. double glazed windows, low energy lighting, building automation etc.). It is noted that the majority of our business activities focus on improving energy or environmental performance of our clients in and outside of Denmark. Measurement of Outcomes  An annual workshop on the UNGC was completed and offered to all full time employees to re-emphasize about UNGC’s 3 principles on Environment. An additional workshop was conducted for new employees prior to this annual workshop with the aim of getting all new employees “up-to-speed” on understanding Environment specifically in the context of G+H.  Employees are encouraged to at any time highlight any specific cases or raise concerns of Environmental damage either directly to their line manager, the managing director or during bi-weekly team meetings.  Proposed Action for 2015-16: In line with our core business activities and employee feedback received, environmental action will play a special role in our proposed actions for 2015-16. G+H will aim to further encourage a green profile in 2016, via: − Reduce printing (via. duplex, without colour, 2 pages per sheet) − Further encourage use of bicycles instead of cars particularly in summer − Increase share of organic products consumed in the office 6 Communication of Progress 2015  Grue + Hornstrup A/S Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals G+H has a zero-tolerance policy against corruption in all forms including bribery and extortion. Implementation As a consultancy service, it is in our best interests to operate a business that is ethical, un-biased and aimed at providing the best advisory and services to our clients. All employees have been made aware of the personal and cooperate legal risks faced due to non-compliance with the zero-tolerance policy. Especially for substantial international work, anti-corruption clauses are included in all contracts with clients and sub-contractors, following at a minimum the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business transactions. Internally, G+H encourages an open dialogue between management and any employee that sees or hears anything suspicious that can be linked with corruption; and encourages that such actions be immediately be reported to the top management as applicable. Measurement of Outcomes  An annual workshop on the UNGC was completed and offered to all full time employees to re-emphasize about UNGC’s Anti-Corruption principle. An additional workshop was conducted for new employees prior to this annual workshop with the aim of getting all new employees “up-to-speed” on understanding Anti-Corruption specifically in the context of G+H.  Employees are encouraged to at any time highlight any specific cases or raise concerns of Anti-Corruption abuse either directly to their line manager, the managing director or during bi-weekly team meetings.  Proposed Action for 2015-16: To hold a special workshop focusing exclusively on the issues of Human Rights, Labour Rights, and Anti-Corruption. This will be done specifically in the context of our expanding business and client base both within Denmark and internationally, and helping employees identify and recognize scenarios which may be deemed as potential risks to our company and clients. This is in line with the company’s objective of adhering to the UNGC and minimizing possibilities that may be harmful to our business and principles. 7 Communication of Progress 2015  Grue + Hornstrup A/S Additional Corporate Responsible Activities G+H makes an effort to perform our company’s activities in a responsible manner to our employees and stakeholders. Listed below are Corporate Responsible Activities which G+H has performed in the recent past, which are in addition to our normal business activities and UNGC efforts. Supporting Disaster Assistance As a silver corporate member to the Danish Red Cross, G+H contributes financially every year and has done so in 2015. Supporting Employee Work-Life Balance G+H holds two types of social get-togethers during the year. The first are employee only get-togethers, and the second is our annual gathering for employees and spouses. These get-togethers constitute showcasing company technology and projects, entertainment/activities, and dinner. Supporting Education G+H has trained several interns from local technical schools, some of whom have found permanent employment within G+H after graduation. In addition, G+H has taken a Masters student as an intern whose thesis is currently focused on sustainability and community development, a key area of our international business. 8 Communication of Progress 2015  Grue + Hornstrup A/S G+H cooperated with Nupark, the business premises within which the company headquarters is located, to invited local companies to participate in a UNGC Training workshop. Unfortunately, the event was cancelled due to insufficient interest from local companies. A copy of the invite is attached below: 9 Communication of Progress 2015  Grue + Hornstrup A/S Action Plan for 2015-16: Year 2015 saw the company and its employees get an improved understanding of the UNGC and the positive impact of the 10 principles on its business activities and the relationship of the company with its employees and partners. In the year gone by, the focus was on raising awareness of the UNGC and its 10 principles to every employee within the organization, with a special focus on new employees. Given the relatively high and positive scores achieved in its employee survey instituted in the first year of implementing UNGC, the management deemed it unnecessary to undertake a similar survey for this 2nd COP. With its 20+ employees it was deemed practical to continue with formal and informal activities aimed at improving the understanding of UNGC within all employees. On the UNGC, in the coming year, G+H will undertake the ‘Proposed Actions’ for each of the 4 pillars highlighted previously in this report and further strengthen its implementation within the organization. The company will strive for continuing to improve its current process in the coming year and any additional / new activities undertaken will be documented in the next COP. 10 Communication of Progress 2015  Grue + Hornstrup A/S
