RADIOMETER CSR REPORT 2014 From our President It is Radiometer’s business to help save lives and bring better In 2014, we focused on reducing our CO2 footprint. 230 metric healthcare throughout the world by improving treatment and tons of goods were transferred from airfreight to sea freight, living conditions for critically ill patients to the benefit of saving 700 tons of CO2 emissions. Our efforts to reduce emissions individuals and to society as a whole. harmful to the climate will be sustained in the years ahead. We are committed to social and environmental sustainability. As Our Corporate Sustainability program is both local and global. part of our efforts we have embraced the United Nations Global We reach out to underprivileged youth in the Danish community, Compact program and its universally accepted principles within offering them support and training. human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. And in 2014, we also lent our support to the Engineering World We believe that the best team wins and that highly motivated Health program where students travelled to Africa to repair mediemployees are key to our success. In 2014, our Danaher Engagecal equipment and help save lives. ment Survey went up in our Job Engagement Index, one percent up from 2013. Our corporate culture is based on Kaizen, a concept of continuous improvement. We are committed to continuous improvement, We have implemented a talent development program, which also within our Corporate Social Responsibility programs, and we offers opportunities to employees and to jobseekers alike. look to 2015 with renewed vision and dedication. We also offer a work ability assessment program for the long-term Peter Kürstein unemployed and jobseekers with impairments. President, Radiometer Medical ApS Radiometer CSR Report 2014 2 I 17 Our business At Radiometer we save lives for a living and our vision is to make Since 2004, Radiometer has been part of the US-based Danaher acute care diagnostics easy. Radiometer is a leading provider of Corporation’s life science and diagnostic platform. Radiometer has technologically advanced acute care solutions that simplify and more than 2,700 employees worldwide and is directly automate all phases of acute care testing, allowing healthcare represented in 30 countries. We have more than 100 distributors workers around the world to make good and qualified decisions globally and production takes place in Denmark, USA, Switzeron the treatment of critically ill patients. land, Finland and Poland. 5 samples are tested using a Radiometer analyzer every second somewhere in the world That’s 300 a minute, 18,000 an hour, 432,000 a day Production/R&D companies in Denmark, USA, Switzerland, Finland and Poland 157,680,000 samples are tested every year on a Radiometer analyzer somewhere in the world More than 100 distributors cover the rest of the world Direct representation in 30 countries 2,700 employees worldwide Radiometer CSR Report 2014 3 I 17 Our Vision and Mission Vision Mission Acute care Provide information diagnostics made easy about critically ill patients Radiometer CSR Report 2014 4 I 17 United Nations Global Compact Guiding principles Radiometer has since 2009 been part of The UN Global Compact encourages busiAt Radiometer we continuously participate the United Nations Global Compact program ness to align their operation and strategies in projects, supporting the human rights to help secure continuous improvement of with ten universally accepted principles all over the world and we would like to our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) covering four areas: human rights, labour highlight a project in Tanzania and some initiatives. rights, the environment and anti-corruption. initatives in Denmark. Radiometer CSR Report 2014 5 I 17 Our CSR activities and status are communicated from the following the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Principle 6 Human rights the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights; and Environment Principle 2 Principle 7 make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Labor standards Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 3 responsibility; and Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 4 friendly technologies. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Anti-corruption Principle 5 the effective abolition of Child Labor; and Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Radiometer CSR Report 2014 6 I 17 Initiatives in Tanzania In the summer of 2014, Radiometer in collaboration with EngineerFurthermore, the students received language and cultural awareing World Health (EWH) and the Technical University of Denmark ness training in order to enable them to develop trustful working (DTU) sent six engineering students to Africa where they joined relationships with the departments where they were stationed. students from around the world in repairing 4,200 pieces of hospital equipment of a total value of 1.5 million USD. During the second month, the students repaired and maintained From left: Ashley Reid from the Duke Pratt School of Engineering University, David Kovacs from the Technical University of Denmark, Katrina Jean Stime from the Harvard Medical School and Dr Habari za Asubuhi. For two months in 2014, students from DTU participated in the equipment at six of the poorest hospitals in the country, while EWH summer program along with 70 other students from universities passing on their knowledge about medical equipment to the local around the world. staff. During their first month, the students received training in innoOne student from the student chapter at DTU, David Kovacs, vative ways of repairing and maintaining vital medical equipment worked with his group at the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre under conditions where spare parts are often hard to come by. in northern Tanzania. Radiometer CSR Report 2014 7 I 17 Together, they repaired more than 60 pieces of equipment, inhad managed to put 63 of the 73 devices, which we had started cluding everything from stethoscopes and blood pressure cuffs to working on, back into service. Even more importantly however, we defibrillators and anaesthesia machines. all came home with ideas for innovations that have the potential to bring sustainable change to the world’s poorest healthcare Despite the hospital being one of Tanzania’s most important medsystems”. ical institutions, the students found a large amount of equipment out of order, as David explains: This was the first year that students from DTU participated in the EWH Summer Institute program and the initiative has been a ma“In so many places we found hospital rooms and warehouses jor success, as highlighted by CEO at EWH, Leslie Calman: filled with piles of medical devices. We even found completely new operating theatres that couldn’t be used because they were “DTU Summer Institute students have done it all: fixed hundreds packed with unused and fully or partially broken equipment. of pieces of equipment, taught staff how to use and maintain it, and in doing so, saved countless lives. To our surprise, very often these devices could be put back into service by fairly simple mechanical repairs. Based on the research EWH is proud to partner with the resourceful and engaged stuof Dr Robert Malkin, the founder of EWH, we would tell hospital dents of DTU students. And we are both grateful and impressed staff that we were likely to be able to put 2/3rds of all broken at your fundraising prowess! We hope to welcome you for many equipment back into service. I was worried that we had been years to come.” over-confident, yet at the end of that month we realised that we Radiometer CSR Report 2014 8 I 17 Initiatives in Denmark Radiometer has a long tradition of supporting the local community in Denmark and we are proud of the commitment and responsibility we have shown over recent years. The initiatives in Denmark mainly focus on contributing to a safe and active day for the youth but they also encourage them to pursue a better future through better education. Since 2008, Radiometer has committed itself to helping establish closer ties between the corporate world and the local Danish community in Brønshoj by sponsoring and donating equipment for many different activities and initiatives. Education and profession Radiometer supports the youth in the Danish community by offertheir parents to build a social network. Radiometer donates used ing them insight into an international workplace through internand new computers to this hugely successful program. ships and by offering training to several local mentors who can We also encourage our employees to volunteer for the “Homeassist and support young people in preparing for a job or starting work help program”. an education. During 2014, Radiometer hosted 22 internships, lasting from 1 week to 3 month. Most of our interns have since One of the local football clubs has started activities for children graduated from elementary school and have started an upper-secaged 6-9 and 12-15. Here they play football with professional ondary education. football players from Denmark’s 1st division. In another project, Radiometer supported young people who These professional football players act as role models to inspire the decide to embrace a better future by attending a boarding school children to adopt a healthier lifestyle. Radiometer offers sponfor one year to improve their social and academic skills. sorships in the form of paid membership fees and sport kits for Radiometer supports the project by donating computers so the additional 20 young talents who cannot afford to pay themselves. students can attend the classes. Additionally, Radiometer provides full sport kits to all the football A relatively new project in our local community in Bronshøj is the teams for the 6 to 7 year-olds and also sponsors helmets for the “Homework help program” where adult volunteers assist children local cycling club and kits for the local cricket club in Bronshøj. and the young with their homework and help the children and Radiometer CSR Report 2014 9 I 17 “Neighbourhood watch” Radiometer supports a group of volunteers with different backgrounds, within education, culture and religion, which formed a neighbourhood watch team that helps provide a safer and more peaceful environment for everyone during evening hours and nighttime. Labor standards (principle 3-6) At Radiometer, we believe that the best team wins and to achieve corporate success you need motivated employees who enjoy high job satisfaction. By listening to our staff and focusing on retaining and developing our talents we can set the best team. We believe in the benefits of providing equal training and career opportunities for all, without regard to ethnic or national origin, religion, sex, disability, sexual orientation or other characteristics protected by law. Radiometer CSR Report 2014 10 I 17 95% 2014 Global Associate engagement response rate Each year, all employees at Radiometer complete an engagement survey where they are invited to express their honest opinion. The survey is taken very seriously and we use the results actively to initiate actions and Compliance 94% 2013 make Radiometer a better place to work. 5%increase 87%2012 In 2014, 95% of Radiometer staff members took the 2014 Direct time to complete the 2014 engagement survey in order Supervisor to give the management feedback on how they can Effectivness continue to make Radiometer an even better place to work. 4%increase Engagement 2014 Index Innovation Not only has the response rate increased through the last couple of years, but the results from 2014 have shown improvement within all parameters and the 1% increase 4%increase 2014 overall engagement index went up by 1%. 2014 Communication 3% Based on the results of the 2014 survey, Radiometer has decided to focus on 3 areas that have been identiBehavior Change Index increase fied as key factors: 2014 • Communicate a VISION that motivates staff 4% increase globally 2014 • Increase TRUST in leadership • Communicate our major INNOVATION Trust Future Vision 4% increase 2014 3% increase 2014 Radiometer CSR Report 2014 11 I 17 The best team wins At Radiometer we ensure great job satisfaction through on-job They also use the DBS tools to identify and eliminate, or control, training and through the Danaher Business System (DBS). Talented workplace hazards, reduce operational safety risk and leverage and empowered employees are essential for the continuous and ergonomics principles. Radiometer also draws on the assistance of successful development of our company, and we have since 2009 a physiotherapist, who can contribute to a healthy and ergonomoffered our employees the opportunity to improve their social ically correct workplace. The ALE program is for all Radiometer and professional skills through programs such as Advanced Lean employees, irrespective of background, education, title or current Education, ALE and Master ALE, MALE. job function. Both ALE and MALE use the DBS roadmap to achieve best practice Part of the training is devoted to personal development with the safety and health performance. aim of setting out a personal plan for the following year. Radiometer CSR Report 2014 12 I 17 Talent development Radiometer is also committed to offering vocational training for • 5 industrial operators of which 4 are already Radiometer unskilled labourers, whether staff members or jobseekers. We are employees currently assessing 80 unskilled workers for a wider program. Our current programs are to create opportunities for: Beside this, we offer work ability assessment programs for people, who for different reasons such as impairments, unemployment, • 3 metal workers, 2 of which are already employed by etc., have been out of the workforce for some time. After a long Radiometer as unskilled workers time away from professional life it can be difficult to get started • 3 administrative clerks, one of whom is already an employee again, and a part-time job might be the only option to get at Radiometer started. We know how important it is to have a job that can bring • 1 laboratory technician who is already employed as an meaning to your life, so we are committed to giving these people unskilled worker at Radiometer a second chance. 180 Radiometer employees will have graduated the 23 People were ofALE program by the end of 2015 fered work ability 10 assessment in People were of2014 fered work ability 13 assessment in Radiometer em2013 ployees will have graduated the MALE program by the end of 2015 Radiometer CSR Report 2014 13 I 17 Environment (principle 7-9) Radiometer is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. We focus on the environmental im230 tons pact of each step of designing a new product, all the way through of goods were our supply chain. transferred from airfreight to sea freight saving Reduction of CO2 emission 700 tons Of CO2 emissions A major environmental initiative during 2014 has focused on moving non-urgent goods from airfreight to sea-freight to reduce CO2 emissions. We are aware that different modes of transport emit different levels of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and by reducing emissions we can help reduce the risk of climate change. 560g Waste reduction At Radiometer we seek to improvement our environmental footprint by minimising waste in our business operation. Here are a few examples: • We reduce printing needs to save paper • Our catering department is dedicated to 3g minimising food waste 47g 18g Radiometer CSR Report 2014 14 I 17 Anti-corruption (principle 10) At Radiometer we believe that the best team wins, but winning with integrity is one of our core corporate values. We have implemented powerful compliance tools such as Standards of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, Speak up!, Anti-Corruption program and Integrity and Compliance Training Programs, among others. Standards of Conduct in short Radiometer’s Standards of Conduct states among other things that: • Our accounts must be accurate and fair • We must comply with the health and safety requirements • The contracts and agreements we enter into must reflect facts that apply to our workplace • Our sales work must be performed in compliance with the • We will not accept a conflict of interest between private ethical standards of the medical industry and corporate interests • We must comply with competition laws • We will not accept that our business secrets are compromised • We must comply with the legal requirements for our products • We will not accept bullying and harassment Radiometer CSR Report 2014 15 I 17 Speak up! If a member of staff feels that something is wrong No one should be subjected to retaliatory measures our own corporate checks and balances may not be when speaking up in good faith whatever the outadequate to deal with the concern. come of the issue. In our Speak up! program we This is why we have adopted the “Speak up!” whisencourage our staff members to speak up if sometle-blower program, which offers employees a chance thing feels wrong. The program offers employees the to raise concerns on the integrity of decision-making chance to report on matters in full anonymity. without fear of personal retribution. Radiometer CSR Report 2014 16 I 17 Contact us Headquarters Radiometer is represented in more than Radiometer Medical ApS Tel: +45 38 27 38 27 100 countries. For local Radiometer Åkandevej 21, Fax: +45 38 27 27 27 representative nearest you please visit 2700 Brønshøj www.radiometer.com www.radiometer.com Denmark CVR No. 27509185 Radiometer CSR Report 2014 17 I 17
