INNOVATE ABOUT THE COVER Innovate The changing business environment and new technological trends pose challenges to businesses to keep afloat and thriving. To retain the market relevance and economic stature of a business, it is necessary to constantly evolve and innovate. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions continues to improve its business processes and create shared value with its INNOVATE stakeholders through its sustainability solutions that highlight Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) impacts. Contents THEME 2 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 4 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 5 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 8 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10 ENVIRONMENT 16 HUMAN CAPITAL 18 SOCIAL VALUE 20 COMPLIANCE 21 ECONOMIC VALUE 22 AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 23 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i contents 3 Chairman’s Message Dear Fellow Stakeholders: We are proud to present to you this sustainability report. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is a company with a vision to advance sustainable practices around the world and help organizations to grow responsibly and operate their businesses through our initiatives on building and developing Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) applications and solutions. Alongside this vision, the Company will continue to commit and align itself to the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We uphold the importance of embracing sustainability practices for both individual businesses and the global business community. We believe that sustainability reinforces profit and long-term financial viability. By aiding businesses in addressing their ESG concerns, we enable them to manage risk and be socially responsible. As a corporate organization that promotes sustainability, we have been constantly innovating and expanding our product offering, developing new solutions and customizing existing ones to meet the unique needs of our clients. We combine expert consulting with custom software solutions to deliver comprehensive and cost-effective sustainability solutions. We seamlessly deliver fully integrated, cost-effective consulting, data management and software solutions that help clients optimize resource use, reduce costs, save time and operate efficiently. Through our flagship product, the Sustainability WorkBench (SWB) – a robust software-as-a-service (SaaS), customers can easily monitor their sustainability performance, and relate it to their operational and financial performance. As we move forward in our journey of helping corporate organizations and institutions worldwide, be assured that our internal structures and mechanisms are strongly in place. We embrace the principles that we promote. With these, expect us to continue developing custom-tailored solutions that are based on data-driven insights and designed to generate healthy returns on ESG and economic investments. James M. Donovan Chairman F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 4 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i chairman’s message About F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Company Profile F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Corporation (the Company), incorporated in the Philippines, is engaged in Information Technologyenabled services in relation to ESG. Its services are mostly provided to foreign clients including carbon data management; data encoding; data processing; data conversion; transcription; software development; and other services involving Information Technology (IT) and business process needs. In delivering these services, the Company also taps the expertise of related parties. The registered office of the Company, which is also its principal place of business, is located at the 26th Floor, Philippine AXA Life Centre, Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue, Makati City, Philippines. The Company has global presence in six countries, Europe which includes the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, Kenya, Malaysia and the North America Philippines. Asia Africa Australia Vision and Mission Vision Mission We are a world leader in Environmental, To create value by redefining and delivering innovative Social and Governance solutions. Environmental, Social and Governance solutions worldwide. Core Values The Company, its directors, officers and employees uphold the following six core values in all their dealings: Customer Excellence Respect Teamwork Integrity Commitment Focus Being dynamic, Treating Proactively Advocating honesty Making things Continuously innovative and stakeholders, working together in our workplace by happen by understanding passionate for clients, employees, and being doing the right thing creatively the unique needs learning, fueling our suppliers and accountable to even when no one is maximizing our of our clients, relentless pursuit to community with each other to looking. resources to ensure enabling us to achieve the highest courtesy and achieve our goals. each other’s deliver unparalleled levels of standards compassion. success. customer solutions in everything we do. through our worldclass services. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i about F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 5 About F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Ownership Structure 20% The Company is 60% owned by REDECS Green Holdings Corporation (REDECS, or the parent ADEC Solutions, company). The remaining 40% interest is held Ltd. equally by JICA BPO Holdings Limited (JICA) and ADEC Solutions, Ltd. The parent company is incorporated in the Philippines and is presently JICA engaged in investing, purchasing, developing, leasing, selling, transferring or otherwise REDECS BPO Holdings 20% disposing of properties of every kind, nature and Ltd. description and wherever situated, including Green real estate. The Company is a business entity Holdings with injected capital coming from private Corporation organizations. It does not receive any financial or material favor from the government. 60% Ownership Structure (as of December 31, 2015) Associations and Affiliations The company is associated with the following associations and advocacy groups: Association/ Advocacy Group Relationship CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) The Company is one of CDP’s scoring partners and go-to solutions provider for any CDP member company looking to outsource environmental data collection from complex worldwide operations. British Chamber of Commerce Philippines (BCCP) Active member Philippines-New Zealand Business Council Active member Australian-New Zealand Chamber Active member of Commerce (ANZ Chamber ) American Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) Active member European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines Active member Philippine Green Building Council Active member Australia Philippines Business Council (APBC) Active member Healthcare Information Management Outsourcing Active member Association of the Philippines (HIMOAP) IT & Business Process Association Philippines (IBPAP) Active member 6 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i about F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Management Systems F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has access to industry certifications and accreditations acknowledging its commitment and adherence to recognized best practices. The Company has access to global certifications on Quality Management System (QMS), Information Security Management System (ISMS) and Environmental Management System (EMS) and it is Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) assessed. The Company is also preparing to be certified on Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE 16), Energy Management System (ISO 50001) and Business Continuity Management System (ISO 22301). Awards and Recognition 2014 2011 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ parent company, ADEC Innovations, won the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions won “Business Responsibility & Ethics” category and received a special recognition “Most Innovative Company of the in the “Energy Management” category during the 1st Sustainable Business Year” at the 5th ICT International Awards Philippines. Awards Philippines. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ affiliate technology company Envirosite Corporation won the Oracle Technology Company of the Year Award at the Asia CEO Awards. 2010 F-I-R-S-T Carbon won “Best EcoIndustrial Service” at the 1st F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions CEO James M. Donovan was awarded the SouthPhilippine International Eco-Show South and Triangular Cooperation Visionary Award by the United Nations Office Awards. for South-South Cooperation at the Global South-South Development Expo held in Washington DC. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i about F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 7 Our Products and Services Globally Accessible Information System and Technology Platform Sustainability Workbench (SWB): Measuring carbon footprints and environmental impacts has become a standard for businesses, organizations, governments and communities. SWB delivers a suite of ESG applications that help organizations manage data for better sustainability performance. It is a highly scalable, customizable, and robust SaaS technology platform that helps organizations and communities optimize resource use, reduce operational costs and improve sustainability performance. Integrated Software and Data Bureau Benefits for Business and Workers Initiative: Based on our Supply-LINK™ platform, the Company has worked with retail brands and suppliers to collect operational and personnel information from factories, import this into our web-based application and provide benchmarking data to factories, mills, and Non-governmental organizations (NGO’s). Our data bureaus collect information by liaising with factory managers. This data is then checked for consistency and verifiability before being imported into our system. SupplyLINK™ monitors key indicators for each factory such as fabric wastage, water usage and quality, energy, waste, and staff 8 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Large Scale Business and Knowledge Processing CDP: The Company has been in partnership with CDP since 2011. As part of this partnership, our team of trained personnel has read and reviewed over 11,000 disclosures and evaluated individual responses against the CDP scoring methodology – assigning a point value to each question reviewed. In addition, we built a database and standard dashboard report with 24x7 access to help companies interpret their CDP score. We are the exclusive CDP scoring partner for the global Supply Chain program, and for the S&P 500, FTSE 350, Canada and Benelux, India, Southeast Asia, and Nordic regions. Due to the success of the program, we expect to expand to other countries and regions in 2015 and beyond (e.g. South Africa). F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 9 Corporate Governance The Company’s Governance Structure Board of Directors Audit and Risk Nomination, Executive Remuneration Election & Committee Management Committee Governance Committee Committee Internal Audit F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ Chief Executive Board Structure Management The Board of Directors Board Responsibility The governance of the Company is the primary responsibility mission, the strategies to achieve this purpose, and the of the Board of Directors. It shall ensure the Company’s implementation of its values in order to ensure that the compliance with the principles of good corporate Corporation survives and thrives. The Board shall establish governance and provide an independent check on a process for the selection of qualified and competent Management. It shall be the Board’s duty and responsibility directors and corporate officers and adopt an effective to foster the long-term success of the Company and secure succession planning program for the Management. its sustained competitiveness in a manner consistent with its corporate objectives and fiduciary responsibility, which In 2014, the Board and the management conducted it shall exercise in the best interest of the Company and, in an annual review of the Company’s vision and mission proper cases, its shareholders and other stakeholders. and aligned its roadmap and strategies with them. The Board drew the strategies and set the targets for the The Board shall conduct itself with utmost honesty and management to execute. These activities coincided with integrity in the discharge of its duties, functions and the Company’s strategic planning, held in November, which responsibilities. To ensure good corporate governance, the was participated in by members of the Board and the Board shall institute adequate internal control mechanisms Management. and exert its best efforts to ensure best practices are carried out, keeping in mind its objective of steering the Corporation towards sustained profitability. Board Composition The Board is composed of seven directors, two of whom are independent, who are elected annually. It is led by Other Board responsibilities include the determination its Chairman, Mr. James M. Donovan, who is also the of the Company’s purpose and values, its vision and Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and President. 10 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The responsibility of the Chairman is to ensure that the Remuneration Committee Board executes its functions effectively and efficiently. The The Remuneration Committee, or RemCom, is composed Management, on the other hand, is accountable to the of three members, namely: (a) the Chairman of the Board board in terms of executing the strategies and managing and (b) two directors, one of whom shall be an independent the operations of the company. The Board ensures that director, or such other number as may be prescribed by there are proper control mechanisms that oversee the the Board. The RemCom shall have powers and functions separation of the functions of the Chairman of the Board over the remuneration of the corporate officers other than and the CEO and President. the Chairman. The RemCom is responsible for establishing the Company’s formal and transparent procedure for The members of the Board are selected through the developing a policy on the remuneration of directors and procedures set forth by the Nominations, Elections and officers to ensure that their compensation is consistent Governance Committee which considers diverse expertise with the corporation’s culture, strategy and the business and experience from various industries. This diversity is environment in which it operates. The Chairman of the highly appreciated by the Company as evidence by the Board shall be the designated Chairman of RemCom. The presence of two women executive directors, Ms. Carol S. Chairman of the Board’s remuneration shall be reviewed Esguerra and Ms. Corina P. Buñag. and set by a Committee composed of the Vice-Chairman and two directors, one of whom shall be an independent director. Board Committees Audit and Risk Management Committee The Board has four standing committees, namely the The Audit and Risk Management Committee, or Audit & Executive Committee; the Nomination, Election and RiskCom, is composed of at least three members of the Governance Committee; the Remuneration Committee; and Board and its Chair shall be an independent director. the Audit and Risk Management Committee. The members should preferably have an accounting, audit, finance or legal background. Each member of the Executive Committee Audit & RiskCom shall have adequate understanding of The Board of Directors may create and, from time to time, the Corporation’s financial management systems and prescribe the number and classification of memberships environment. The Audit & RiskCom assists the Board in in, as well as the formalities and procedures for holding the the performance of its oversight responsibility for the meetings of, an Executive Committee, or ExCom. The ExCom financial reporting process, the system of internal control, may act, by majority vote of all its members, on specific the audit process, and the monitoring of compliance with matters within the competence of the Board, as may be applicable laws, rules and regulations. The Audit & RiskCom delegated to it in the By-Laws or by a majority vote of the also performs oversight functions over the corporation’s Board, subject to the limitations provided by the Corporation internal and external auditors. It ensures that the internal Code of the Philippines. and external auditors act independently from each other and that both auditors are given unrestricted access to Nomination, Election and Governance Committee all records, properties and personnel to enable them to The Nomination, Election and Governance Committee, or perform their respective audit functions. Nom & GovCom, is composed of at least three members, one of whom is an independent director. The committee has The Audit & RiskCom also assists the Board in its the responsibility to review and evaluate the qualifications, oversight responsibility in the system of risk management including the independence, relationships and potential and in reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s conflict of interest, of all persons nominated to the Board risk management processes. It provides oversight over and other appointments that require Board approval, and Management’s activities in managing the Company’s to assess the effectiveness of the Board’s processes and credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal, environmental, procedures in the election or replacement of directors. The and other risks. This function includes regular receipt from committee is also responsible for setting up the performance Management of information on risk exposures and risk evaluation mechanism of the Board and providing the management activities. The committee is also responsible programs for the continuing education of its members. for the implementation of due diligence processes. The Company requires all Directors to attend a seminar on corporate governance conducted by a duly recognized private or government institute before assuming office. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 11 Corporate Governance Directors’ Profile Jose Renato T. Badelles Director Mr. Badelles is a Director of the company and is the President and Director of AMDATEX Las Piñas Services, Inc., and AMDATEX James M. Donovan Services Corp. He obtained his Bachelor of Arts degree in Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Psychology from the Ateneo de Manila University. He also Officer completed the Management Development Program of the Asian Mr. Donovan is the Chairman of the Board, the President and Chief Institute of Management. Executive Officer of the Company. He was elected as Chairman of the Board in 2013. He is concurrently the CEO of ADEC Maria Corina P. Buñag Innovations. He is likewise the President and Co-founder of First Corporate Secretary and Director Carbon Solutions in the USA, Australia, and the United Kingdom. Atty. Buñag has been a Director and the Corporate Secretary of the He also worked as Vice President of Lehman Brothers Investment company since August 10, 2011, and the Corporate Counsel since Bank Ltd. from 1989-1991 and Vice President of Daiwa Securities November 2010. She is also the Director and Corporate Secretary from 1993-1996. of PharmaKPO Corporation and ADEC Innovations, and a Director of Maria Victoria Realty Development Corporation and Blue Pearl Carolina S. Esguerra Management and Development Corporation. She obtained her Chief Financial Officer and Director Bachelor of Arts degree in Management Economics from the Ms. Esguerra is the Chief Financial Officer and Director of the Ateneo de Manila University and her Juris Doctor degree from the company. She is concurrently the CFO and Director of REDECS Ateneo Law School. Green Holdings Corporation, JICA BPO Holdings Limited and ADEC Innovations. She is also a co-founder of First Carbon Solutions in Sherwin John Y. Lim the USA, Australia and the United Kingdom. She has a Bachelor Independent Director of Arts in Social Sciences from the University of the Philippines Mr. Lim was elected as an Independent Director of the Company on Manila. March 10, 2012. He is concurrently the President of Asian Bonded Customs Warehouse Corporation. Previously, he was a Director Vicente P. Reventar III of Taiga Building Products. He obtained his Master of Business Director Administration degree from Laurentian University in Canada. Mr. Reventar has been a Director of the Company since August 10, 2011. He is concurrently the Chairman of the Department Donald R. Felbaum of Quantitative Management and Information Technology at John Independent Director Gokongwei School of Management, Ateneo de Manila University, Mr. Felbaum was elected as an Independent Director of the where he has been a faculty member for almost 40 years. He was Company on March 10, 2012. He is also an Independent Director the President of SVI Technologies from 1997 to 2003. He also of Merlin Philippines, Blue Cross Philippines, SPI Global and served as Senior Vice President for the Home Development Mutual Integra Business Processing Solutions Inc, and the Managing Fund from 1981 to 1996. He obtained his Bachelor of Science Director of OPTEL Ltd. He is also a Vice President of PAMURI and degree in Management Engineering from the Ateneo de Manila an Ex-Officio of AMCHAM. Mr. Felbaum obtained his Master’s University Degree in Strategic Business Economics from the University of Asia and the Pacific. 12 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Transparency Investor Relations The stockholders and the investors are the backbone of the Company’s existence. It recognizes the importance of engaging its stockholders through various communication channels and the Annual General Meeting (AGM). The Company conducts its AGM every 27th day of April of each year. During the AGM the stockholders approve and ratify the Board’s actions in the past year and the Company’s financial statements and remuneration policies. It is also a venue for giving stockholders the opportunity to raise their issues and concerns to the Board. Media Relations The media is one of the major channels of information that the Company utilizes. In a month, the Company sends out at least two media releases. It also conducts constant monitoring of the Company’s exposure in all media outlets. The Company maintains its relationship with these media entities through media rounds. Risk Management The Company annually conducts its risk assessment with the participation of all the offices, the Management and the Establish the Context Board. It utilizes the framework of the ISO31000:2009 – Risk Management COMMUNICATE COMMUNICATE AND AND CONSULT Standard, as can be seen in the diagram below. MONITOR AND REVIEW Identify CONSULT Risks RISK ASSESSMENT Analyze Framework of the Risks ISO31000:2009 – Risk Management Standard Evaluate Risks Treat Risks F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 13 Corporate Governance The following discussions tackle the identified risks and the December 31, 2014 and 2013. The Company considers exposures of the Company in 2014. that all financial assets at the end of each reporting period under review are of good credit quality. None of the i. Foreign Currency Risk financial assets are secured by collateral or other credit Most of the Company’s transactions are carried out in enhancements. Philippine pesos, its functional currency. Exposures to currency exchange rates arise from the Company’s overseas v. Business Continuity during Natural Disasters sale of services which are primarily denominated in United and Man-made Events States (U.S.), New Zealand (N.Z.) and Australian (A.U.) All the operations of the Company are conducted in the dollars. The Company also holds U.S.-dollar-denominated Philippines, which is along the typhoon belt in the Pacific cash in banks, and is visited by an average of 20 typhoons every year. The country is also situated in the “Pacific Ring of Fire”, which Foreign-currency-denominated financial assets translated makes it vulnerable to earthquakes and volcanic activity. into Philippine pesos at their respective closing rates Such natural calamities pose risks to the continuity of the amount to P37.0 million and P33.8 million as at December Company’s operations. 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As of the same period, the Company has no outstanding financial liabilities To avoid the operational disruptions when natural denominated in foreign currency. calamities occur, the Company has set up a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) which lays down the action plans to If the Philippine peso were to strengthen against the be executed during times of emergency or disaster. The indicated currencies with other variables held constant, purpose of the Business Continuity Management Policy is to the Company’s profit before tax would decrease by P10.3 formalize the business continuity programs of the Company million and P7.9 million, respectively. Conversely, if the and to provide guidelines for developing, maintaining Philippine peso were to weaken by the same percentages and exercising its BCP. The policy establishes the basic during the same period, profit before tax would increase by principles and strategic and operational framework the same amount. necessary to ensure emergency response and the resumption and recovery of the Company’s operations and ii. Interest Rate Risk business activities during a business interruption event. The Company has no financial instruments subject to floating interest rate except cash in banks, which historically vi. Technological Risks has shown small changes in interest rates. As such, the The Company’s success can be attributed to its ability to Company’s management believes that the interest rate risk continuously develop and deliver services and solutions is not material. that can adapt and compete amidst the continuing changes in technology, industry trends, and new products and iii. Liquidity Risk services of new entrants. Such technological trends include The Company manages its liquidity needs by carefully mobility, cloud-based computing and processing, and big monitoring cash outflows due in a day-to-day business. data analysis. These trends may conflict with the Company’s Liquidity needs are monitored in various time bands on a existing legacy solutions. The Company’s strategy is to day-to-day and week-to-week basis, as well as on the basis respond to these trends through the development of of a rolling 30-day projection. Long-term liquidity needs for innovative solutions, new services and more advanced a six-month and one-year period are identified monthly. business processes, lest its envisioned growth may be negatively affected. iv. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty may fail to vii. Information Security Risks discharge an obligation to the Company. The Company is The Company is highly dependent on IT networks and exposed to this risk with respect to financial instruments systems to securely process, transmit and store electronic arising from granting of advances to related parties, information and to communicate to its offices, partners, recognition receivables from customers as a result of vendors and clients present globally. As these systems and services rendered and placing of deposits with banks. infrastructures continue to grow, there is the potential risk of security breaches and cyberattacks. These breaches Generally, the maximum credit risk exposure of financial could lead to system disruptions or shutdowns, as well assets is the carrying amount of the financial assets as at as potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. 14 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company also manages client information. As a The Company also has an established internal audit result, the risk of unauthorized disclosure of confidential organization with a functioning system and methodologies client information may negatively impact the Company’s that can reasonably assure the Board, Management and reputation and cause the Company to lose clients. shareholders that the Company’s key organizational and Furthermore, the Company may also be subject to operational controls are faithfully complied with. The Board significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement appoints the Chief Internal Auditor to perform the audit actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. function and may require him to report to a level in the organization that allows the internal audit activity to fulfill In order to avoid any breaches, the Company consistently its mandate. The Internal Auditor shall be guided by the safeguards its information networks and systems and Internal Standards on Professional Practice of Internal updates its infrastructures as needed. Auditing. It also follows the framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission (COSO) – an organization providing thought leadership and guidance on internal control, enterprise risk management Board’s Internal Control Mechanism and fraud deterrence –for its internal audit activities. The Company’s control environment consists of (a) the Board, which ensures that the Company is properly and effectively managed and supervised; (b) the Management, gic ns g nc e which actively manages and operates the corporation in te tio tin ia a sound and prudent manner; (c) the organizational and ra or pl St ra Op Re m procedural controls supported by effective management e p Co information and risk management reporting systems; and (d) an independent audit mechanism to monitor the Internal Environment Subsidia ry adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s governance, operations and information systems, including the reliability Objective Setting Business Unit and integrity of financial and operational information, the Event Identification effectiveness and efficiency of operations, the safeguarding of assets, and compliance with laws, rules, regulations and Risk Assessment Division contracts. Risk Response Entity-Le vel Control Activities The minimum internal control mechanisms for the performance of the Board’s oversight responsibility Information & Communication COSO Enterprise includes: Risk Management Monitoring Framework (a) The definition of the duties and responsibilities of the CEO, who is ultimately accountable for the Company’s Company’s Open Communication Channel organizational and operational controls; The Company has an open communication channel called the Improvement Management System or IMS. It covers (b) The selection of the person who possesses the liability, all the directors, officers and employees of the Company. integrity and expertise essential for the position of CEO; The issues raised by known or anonymous individuals may be escalated, depending on the gravity of the subject (c) The evaluation of proposed senior management and the level of the individuals or offices. The types of appointments; concerns that the IMS handles include operational process enhancements; fraud; financial nonfeasance, misfeasance (d) The selection and appointment of qualified and and malfeasance; information and infrastructural security; competent senior management officers; and and other auditable concerns. These concerns may be sent through various media such as online application, (e) The review of the Company’s human resource policies, telephony, and email or post. The concerns received by the conflict of interest situations, compensation program channel are monitored and resolved by an independent for employees and management succession plan. body. In 2014, there were no issues or concerns filed at the IMS that required escalation to the Board. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 15 Environment Supply Chain The Company’s Supply Chain can be segmented PROCUREMENT DEVELOPMENT DELIVERY in three major processes: (a) procurement; (b) development; and (c) delivery. Under the Supplier A Supplier A procurement process, the suppliers provide the software platform, subject matter expert services, and the administrative and operating supplies and equipment. These materials, equipment, and Supplier B Supplier B services are utilized in the development stage, where software solutions are developed as per customer requirements. Once completed and tested, these solutions are delivered to the customers for Supplier C Supplier C acceptance. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ Supply Chain Sustainability Programs F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions established various sustainability-related programs such as energy, water and waste management. These programs involve infrastructural and policy review and/or improvements, monitoring and maintenance. Under the energy management program, For the water management program, The Company’s waste management the Company’s main objective is the the Company measures water effluence program involves the segregation of efficient use of electricity. This requires the and impact against internationally biodegradable and non-biodegradable replacement of existing equipment with accepted standards. This program materials. Awareness campaigns and more energy-efficient ones. It also entails also involves the reduction of water reminders support such program. company-wide awareness campaigns on consumption and reusing treated water the proper use of office equipment and for sanitary facilities. The Company has fixtures that utilizes electricity. its own sewerage treatment plant, and it has also installed grease traps in its kitchen areas. 16 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i ENVIRONMENT Non-Government Institutions, Advocacy and Industry Group Partnerships The Company shares the same vision on sustainability with some non-government institutions, as well as advocacy and industry groups. These organizations are crucial in spreading awareness on various environment, social and governance issues and initiatives. The Company engages and advances its advocacy with these groups on various sustainability-related programs that benefit them and their members. The Company constantly meets with these groups through conferences and special scheduled meetings to discuss the programs. 2014 Sustainability Report The Company’s Sustainability Report for the year 2014, its first, covers the fiscal year starting January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. This report, which shall be updated annually, encompasses the activities conducted by the Company, independent of its owners and related parties. In 2014, there were no significant changes in the organization’s size, structure, ownership and supply chain. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i ENVIRONMENT 17 Human Capital Employees a minimum of five years of credit service. The normal retirement benefit is an amount equivalent to 100% of the final monthly covered compensation (average monthly basic salary during the last 12 months of credited service) for Human Resources Policies every year of credited service. The Company Headquarters operates in the Philippines, The present value of the defined benefit obligation and it complies with existing national laws and employment is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the regulations and practices. It is the Company’s policy to mortality of the plan participants both during and after hire the most suitable individuals and compensate them their employment and to their future salary. Consequently, without any discrimination, and it treats its employees fairly increases in the life expectancy and salary plan of by providing fair wage and working hours and by embracing participants will result in an increase in plan obligation. diversity by giving respect to gender, race, religion, beliefs and culture. Employee Profile Human resource policies are placed in the organization to The employees are the most important asset of the set rules and guidance for employees. Such internal policies Company, and it takes care of their welfare and ensures include the Code of Discipline, or the Employee Handbook, their wellbeing. The Company’s workforce totals 92 which integrates the rules concerning the observable personnel, composed of three regular hires and 89 conduct of directors, officers and employees, as well as the insourced. Among these personnel, 51% are male and appropriate measures and corresponding corrective actions 49% are female. They are deployed in two locations within for implementation. the Philippine capital. From the 92 employees, 74 have permanent contract status, eight are probationary, and ten The remuneration policy of the Company is based on have project-based employment contracts. the philosophy of internal equity in its salary structure. This is based on various factors such as the relationship between jobs and wage rates-which considers the Employee Engagement Programs qualifications required for the job, including the years of related experience, competency and skill set, and The Company values its employees. It ensures their educational attainment – and the criticality of the job professional development and wellness. It provides them measured against the supply and demand for the said avenues for participation in various activities that will position. The Company also benchmarks with the industry showcase their creativity and their unity of purpose with the players on the market rate per job type and rank. The Company. Such activities also open opportunities for them to employee remuneration package complies with statutory interact with the community and contribute to advocacies and requirements on the minimum wage and benefits, which community-building initiatives that the Company supports. The also considers the cost of living in the area. Prior to hiring, ultimate objective of these employee engagement programs is F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions provides ample consideration of to encourage more employee involvement and to retain those the Company’s strategic objectives, operating and financial with exceptional skills and abilities. conditions, and the corresponding return on investment. For existing employees, the remuneration progression occurs based on the annual performance evaluation, promotions and periodic job evaluation. Currently, the Company does not have a formal postemployment benefit plan. However, it follows the provisions of the Philippine Republic Act No. 7641 (R.A. 7641), Retirement Pay Law, which is effectively an unfunded, non-contributory post-employment benefit plan covering all regular full-time employees, in recognizing its postemployment benefit obligation. Under R.A. 7641, the normal retirement age is 60 with 18 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i HUMAN CAPITAL a. Learning and Development In order to retain employees with exceptional skill set, the Company conducts extensive technical and personal development trainings and workshops. The major learning and development activities that the Company provides its employees, aside from regular technical trainings, include leadership and personal effectiveness workshops. Townhall meetings are also conducted as a venue for the two-way communication between the Company and the employees. During these events, the employees are encouraged to raise their concerns to the Company. In 2014, the employees of the Company spent 444 training man-hours, or an average of 4.83 training man-hours per employee. Among these programs, 53% were inhouse technical trainings, 32% were for personal development, and 15% were external technical or personal development trainings. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions also encourages employees to join interest groups within the organization. They have the freedom to engage in any employee association as long as it is not in conflict with the provision of the Company’s Employee Handbook which prohibits “unauthorized engagement in any activity that is illegal under local or international law within Company premises and/or utilizing Company-owned resources.” The employees are also given an opportunity to voice out their issues and concerns through the IMS. b. Health and Safety c. Advocacies and Communityd. Employee Recognition The Company ensures the wellness of Building Initiatives F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions recognizes the its employees through its healthcare The core business of the Company contributions of its employees in the daily programs, which also extends to the relates to sustainability and the ESG operations and business of the Company. employees’ families. It also promotes a concept. Thus, the Company, with its It gives recognition to employees who safe working environment for everyone employees, supports various advocacy have been with the Company for at least in the organization. Employees are groups and activities that contribute five years through service awards and encouraged to participate in the training to sustainability and communityincentives. The Company also conducts programs for health and safety, such building. Employees are encouraged to various events for the employees to give as emergency drills and proper use of participate in these kinds of activities them a venue to showcase their talents safety equipment that are frequently to foster a culture of social awareness and skills in sports and the arts. These conducted by the Human Resources and environmental responsibility. friendly competitions aim to develop Department. In 2014, the Company camaraderie among employees. recorded zero lost time incident. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i HUMAN CAPITAL 19 Social Value Our Customers The Company’s customers are its reason for being. It adheres to its core commitment of providing the best products and services while exceeding the expectations of the customers. The Company administers a periodic client feedback mechanism where clients can provide insights on service delivery and the Company’s customer experience. The Company’s customers may be categorized by industry, focus area and services: F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ customer services organization supports the Company’s customers through a Industry Focus Area Services combination of on-line self-help, e-mail Commercial Real Estate Industrial Sustainability Consulting Consumer Products Insurance communications, telephone and video Energy Software Developers Manufacturing Environmental Reprographics conferencing and face-to-face meetings. Education Municipalities Due Diligence and Data Processing Its internet-based on-line self-help tools Finance Packaging Entitlements Services Food Products Restaurants Due Diligence enable customers to resolve simple issues Government Retail on their own, eliminating the need to Healthcare Telecommunications Hospitality directly communicate with the Company’s customer service representatives. The Company’s customer services segment provides 24/7 customer support. Existing customers have dedicated support personnel, available as needed, for immediate resolutions of queries, issues and other concerns. Our Community F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is constantly engaged in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts for to the local, national and global community. In 2014, the Company reached out through medical programs, monetary and in-kind donations for Typhoon Haiyan survivors, and outreach projects. The Company also participated in various environmental initiatives, including tree-planting events and the Earth Hour project. 20 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i SOCIAL VALUE Compliance Supplier/ Vendor Accreditation The suppliers/vendors of the Company are its ultimate partner in delivering its promise to the customers. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ vendor accreditation process ensures that the Company accredits and transacts with vendors whose business philosophies are aligned with the Company’s. These vendors are required to comply with various environmental, institutional, regulatory and governmental requirements and standards. The Company ensures that compliance with these standards is established as pre-qualification and accreditation requirements and that continuous compliance is made a contractual obligation. The Company also conducts periodic Company Compliance vendor performance evaluation based on agreed indicators and metrics. to Legal and Regulatory Requirements F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulation that covers companies conducting business over the internet and, in some cases, using services of third-party telecommunications, internet and hosting services. These include, among others, laws and regulations addressing privacy, data storage, retention and security, freedom of expression, content, taxation, advertising and intellectual property. The government and regulators are two of the most important stakeholder groups for the Company. In doing its business, the Company diligently complies with all of its requirements. The Company also engages in governmentfunded projects aligned with good governance. The Company complies with the statutory and regulatory requirements of the Philippine Corporation Code and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), respectively. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ Compliance Officer, Mr. Anthony Catajan, and General Counsel, Ms. Corina Buñag, have the responsibility of assuring the Company’s compliance to these legal and regulatory requirements. Also, part of the Compliance Officer’s responsibility is the formal review and approval of the organization’s sustainability reporting and ensuring that all the material aspects are considered. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i COMPLIANCE 21 Economic Value 2014 Financial Highlights The Company believes that the primary competitive factors that determine success is our unparalleled experience in the data processing; its financial strength and stability; its pricing methodology; aservice reliability and security; service scalability; and its premium and customizable solutions. In 2014, the Company’s total revenue amounted to PHP 28 million ($0.636 million) while it posted a Total Comprehensive Income of Php5.6 million ($0.127 million). Audited Financial Report 24 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 25 26 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 27 28 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 29 30 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 31 32 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 33 34 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 35 36 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 37 38 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 39 40 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 41 42 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 43 44 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 45 46 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 47 48 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 49 50 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 51 52 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 53 54 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 55 56 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 57 58 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 59 60 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 61 62 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 63 64 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 65 66 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 67 68 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 69 70 F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2014 Sustainability Report i AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORT 71 www.firstcarbonsolutions.com.ph Contact Information F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Corporation 26/F Philippine AXA Life Centre, Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue 1200 Makati City, Philippines Tel.: +63 2 775 0632 Contact Person Anthony A. Catajan Chief Compliance Officer Telephone: +63 2 798 8408 Local 8076 anthony.catajan@firstcarbonsolutions.com
