6/Global Compact Communication On Progress Steelcase 201 201 C03103 5&S645 */ #*-*5: REPORT 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 1 Contents 03 A Letter from our CEO CUSTOMER S EMP LOYEES 04 Our Sustainability Promise 08 Real Estate Optimization 19 Employee Wellbeing 06 Targets + Performance 09 End of Use Strategies 20 Training + Development 10 Sustainable Procurement Strategies 21 Workplace Health + Safety 11 Wellbeing + Productivity 22 Diversity + Inclusion PARTNER S ENVIR ONMENT 13 Suppliers 24 Innovative Products + Applications 14 Dealers 26 Renewable Energy 27 Energy Use + Efficiency COMMUNITIES 28 Water Conservation 16 Social Investment 29 Waste Reduction 17 Employee Impacts 30 Transportation + Packaging OUR SELVES 32 Governance csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 2 A Letter from our CEO From the research we conduct to the solutions we create, everything we do at Steelcase centers on helping people at work. For more than a century, it’s been our promise to bring human insight to business by studying how people work and delivering innovative, optimized and responsible solutions. As we see it, sustainability is about creating and supporting economic, social and environmental conditions that help people, organizations and communities thrive. As you will discover in this report, our initiatives are generating real results. For instance, we’ve expanded our renewable energy investments to represent 100% of our global electricity consumption. At the same time, we continue to reduce our direct reliance on fossil fuels for our operations and our products, decreasing our global energy use by 60% since 2001. We know that the potential of sustainability extends well beyond energy use and our own operations. We continue to drive toward a broad spectrum of positive impact. Here are a few highlights: “This report is • We’re partnering with our customers programs designed to strengthen to help them meet their sustainability collaboration and build cultural goals. This past year, we’ve awareness. evidence of helped divert 50 million pounds of unused furniture from the landfill • We’ve had an 8% increase in employee retention and a two to our progress in the U.S. alone and provided over 250 custom metrics reports three-fold improvement in selfreported scores from our and reflects so our customers can measure the employee wellbeing pilot programs. impact of their decisions. These results are linked to our our ongoing • Within our supply chain, we’re commitment to providing great work continuously driving more innovation environments and implementing and transparency. This enables us programs promoting the wellbeing commitment to offer more sustainable products to strengthen our leadership position • of our people. The Steelcase Innovation Center to put people • and our business. We continue to invest in our many at our global headquarters in Michigan received LEED Platinum® at the center global communities with a record certification. To date, it is the amount of donations and thousands highest rated LEED-Commercial of all we do.” of employee volunteer hours. Interiors project certified in the • Globally, as our workforce state of Michigan – and worldwide continues to become more diverse, only 29 projects scored higher. we’re investing in our people with This report is evidence of our progress and reflects our ongoing commitment to put people at the center of all we do. Thank you for investing time in exploring the stories included in this year’s progress report. Thank you, James P. Keane President and CEO csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 3 Our Sustainability Promise For more than a century, Steelcase has believed in the power of people. Every day, in locations around the globe, we work to unlock human promise and create meaningful, lasting change. We know that people are at the very heart of Our Sustainability Beliefs sustainability. We also know that true progress We believe that: will take continuous and coordinated efforts to • Businesses, communities and people are create the economic, environmental and social inextricably linked and more powerful when conditions that allow people and communities they act from a core of shared interests. to reach their full potential. • We have an opportunity to use our assets We have strong beliefs that guide us, and and influence to create significant, positive we’re putting our beliefs into action. Those change in the world. By fully leveraging actions drive us toward our dream of a our assets to this end, we will become an better world. ever stronger partner and an increasingly fit company. We’re not on the path alone. We’re in the “Our values inform our actions good company of other global organizations, communities and individuals who share common beliefs and work together to propel each other forward. Our Corporate Values and frame our beliefs.” This is where our work begins — with what • When you tell the truth, you see the truth, we value. Our values inform our actions and and become part of the solution. So we frame our beliefs: work hard to be transparent and authentic • Act with integrity with others and, perhaps more important, • Tell the truth with ourselves. • Keep commitments • Sustainability is a lens for innovation and • Treat people with dignity and respect economic fitness, contributing to the • Promote positive relationships overall financial wellbeing of our company. • Protect the environment • People are at the center of sustainability, • Excel and that’s why we begin and end our product, service and application efforts with a commitment to human-centered design and sustainability. • There is no greater design challenge than sustainability. It demands systemslevel design thinking in all aspects of our business. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 4 Our Sustainability Promise Acting on Sustainability Engaging with Stakeholders 2013 HIGHLIGHTS We’re tackling the global challenges of We’re setting our sights high as we think sustainability to achieve our vision of about what it means to create holistic value strong economic, social and environmental as a globally integrated company operating systems that allow us all to thrive. Here’s in a globally connected world. We’ve been what we’re doing: on a quest for insights and understanding into sustainability and what it means to our • Strengthening sustainable development stakeholders, now and in the future. in our worldwide operations and those We have: of supplier partners, including a focus on In three years, we’ve moved from a 19% environmental and human health, social • Embarked on a company-wide corporate investment to 100% investment globally in wind and hydroelectric renewable energy credits. responsibility and economic prosperity social and environmental responsibility • Ensuring that our operations protect the diagnostic $ 6,500,000 environment and health of our employees, • Surveyed our customers and studied neighbors and customers through actions their inquiries to understand their corporate that conserve resources, reduce waste and priorities relating to sustainability Was donated by Steelcase and the Steelcase promote a closed loop system • Hosted workshops to listen to architect Foundation, a 20% increase in donations • Investing in education and training to and design partners, customers and since 2012 increase stakeholder and employee other thought leaders present their visions engagement for the future of sustainability • Engaging with suppliers, dealers, • Completed an internal culture survey to customers, researchers and environmental help us further understand the expectations agencies to share and distribute best of our employees practices and discover new ideas • Set about identifying the aspects of nonfinancial information that are material to our business and how to extend our 31% current reporting to better measure and convey our progress The purpose of this research is to help Of our senior leaders are women us advance our social and environmental performance to match the expectations of our many stakeholders, shareholders and partners. See our Values and Beliefs in Action This report is the culmination of our values, our beliefs, and our actions on our sustainability path. We invite you to read, see and learn 6,900 more about how we’re transforming our beliefs into positive, lasting change … one person, one deed, one accomplishment at a time. Volunteer hours reported by Steelcase employees in 2013 csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 5 Targets and Performance This is a snapshot of the information we’re using to measure ourselves against social, environmental and economic domains. We are continuously striving to expand our reporting, refine existing metrics for global accuracy and improve our focus on sustainability and comprehensive reporting. SOCIAL FY 2013 FY 2014 MORE INFO Volunteer hours reported 6,538 6,900 Employee Impacts Employee retention 80.4% 88.8% Employee Wellbeing Monetary and in-kind $1.54 million $1.2 million Social Investment donations (Steelcase Inc.) (Steelcase Inc.) $3.86 million $5.3 million (The Steelcase (The Steelcase Foundation) Foundation) Number of women in Americas: 32% Americas: 30% Diversity + Inclusion management globally Europe, Middle East Europe, Middle East and Africa: 25% and Africa: 29% PROGRESS GOAL BY THE TOWARD 2020 GOAL ENVIRONMENT END OF CY 2020 (CYS 2010-2013) MORE INFO Greenhouse gas emissions 25% reduction 1% increase Energy Use + Efficiency VOC emissions 25% reduction 30% reduction Water use 25% reduction 14% increase Water Conservation Waste 25% reduction 22% decrease Waste Reduction GOAL FY 2014 Renewable energy Continue investments 100% investment in wind and hydroelectric Renewable Energy in renewable energy renewable energy credits (RECs) ECONOMIC FY 2013 FY 2014 MORE INFO Revenue $2.9 billion $3.0 billion Investor Relations Gross Profit 30.2% 31.6% Investor Relations Net Income $38.8 million $87.7 million Investor Relations csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 6 O U R P R O M I SE T O C U ST OM ERS Helping our customers to succeed in their businesses and meet their sustainability goals is a driving force at Steelcase. We deliver on that commitment with research-backed strategies, innovative end of use solutions, a robust supply chain, and products that help unlock the promise of our customers’ employees. That’s our promise to customers. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 7 C U S TOM E R S Real Estate Optimization Promise Results Utilize our research and insights to help businesses Higher utilization rates, increased collaboration, maximize real estate to drive improved employee and flexible workspaces for varied work modes experiences and performance. Offer innovative products — all in smaller footprints. and services that meet the changing space needs of today’s businesses and use fewer natural resources. Today, workplaces are held to higher standards. They must SUCCESS STOR IES simultaneously maximize space, foster collaboration, BASF Redesigns Regional provide privacy, reinforce brand and culture, and contribute Headquarters Office in Hong Kong to talent retention. And it all needs to occur in optimized With the support of our workplace real estate footprints. solutions and furniture products, BASF, the world’s leading chemical company, unveiled a redesigned office for its regional headquarters in Hong Kong. The new space, with an open-office environment featuring desktop sharing, supports a new way of working that encourages collaboration and enhances productivity. Lenovo Service Excellence Award Lenovo, the world’s largest PC manufacturer, recognized our efforts with their 2014 Service Excellence Award after helping them complete a project encompassing 36 locations in the North America, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific regions. The projects represented a significant real WorkCafé in Grand Rapids, Michigan, was transformed from a seldom-used cafeteria into all-day activity hub. estate consolidation after an important corporate acquisition. We’re working with companies around the and carbon emissions and helping to world to make their work spaces more efficient, improve people’s quality of life by limiting providing a complete palette of places that the need for extensive business travel. supports group work as well as the privacy Our research and insights have revealed that people need to recharge and focus. that people have four distinct work styles: Part of the changing landscape has been the collaboration, focus, learning and socializing, rise of the mobile worker, a trend that’s each with its own tool set and design needs. transformed the modern notion of an office. From private work pods to team spaces, Teams are located across the globe, across from assigned places to shared environments, time zones and continents. We’re helping we conduct primary research and design companies create more collaborative spaces spaces to help unlock the potential of people through virtual presence technologies like high and the companies where they work. definition videoconferencing, saving energy csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 8 C U S TOM E R S End of Use Strategies Promise Results Help customers find new uses for their used Robust programs promoting charitable reuse, furnishings, reducing waste by keeping it out recycling and resale. of landfills. What happens to existing furniture when organizations want or need to migrate to different workspaces? 50 million Pounds diverted from landfill through Our comprehensive services provide turnkey budget planning tool that evaluates the value our North America end of use program solutions, alleviating common pain points faced of current assets and aligns decommissioning 26,440 by organizations, while delivering environmentally strategies with sustainability goals to create the and socially responsible alternatives to landfills. optimal solution for each customer. In addition, We offer a menu of services throughout our a new upgrade pilot encourages customers global operations, including ReMarket, Phase 2 to trade in their existing used chairs for credit Workstations handled by Eco’Services in last six years and Eco’Services programs. toward our Gesture® chair. 51 ReMarket™ Eco’Services Assists customers in North America who In France and French-speaking countries such want to resell their existing furniture, providing as Switzerland, Belgium and Luxembourg, The number of countries whose organizations financial returns while extending products’ Steelcase offers complete end of use services. received furnishings as a result of our end of useful life. In 2013, ReMarket began offering Items are resold, donated or transported use programs design services to local nonprofits to review to licensed recycling organizations that manage their space, compare their needs with Steelcase the material recovery. The aim of this program inventory, and suggest recommendations. is to simplify the process while optimizing positive social, economic and financial Phase 2 Program outcomes. Certificates of traceability are Helps North American customers assess issued to ensure transparency and to comply their furnishing assets and designs with regulations. decommissioning plans — including charitable reuse. Last year, Phase 2 introduced a new “Our comprehensive services provide turnkey solutions, alleviating common pain points faced by organizations, while delivering environmentally and socially responsible alternatives to landfills.” csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 9 C U S TOM E R S Sustainable Procurement Strategies Promise Results Help customers achieve their sustainability goals. Products that are third-party certified and may contribute LEED credits; metric-based decision-making tools. Design for the Environment For additional information, please visit the ENVIR ONMENTAL ME TR ICS R E P ORTS We approach design with a closed loop Product Environmental Profiles page on mentality, from examining the chemical our website www.steelcase.com/pep in profiles of the materials and components we the Americas. This information is also available use to offering comprehensive end of use by request in the Europe, Middle East, Africa solutions. We’re measuring impacts at every and Asia Pacific regions. phase — from design, manufacture, delivery, Environmental Metrics We’ve increased the number of metrics use and reuse, recycling and end of use — reports for our customers from 180 in 2012 Better decisions are made by knowing more. to ensure we’re always improving the to 250 in 2013. By collecting and analyzing the details, we performance of our products. This ensures help customers measure the human and we are meeting our objectives as well as SUCCESS STORY environmental impacts of their office furniture helping customers meet their goals with purchases. We not only measure their past confidence. You can learn more in the purchases, but also look forward to future Innovative Products and Applications and needs, using sustainability certifications, End of Use Strategies sections of this report. recycled content, material makeup and LEED® Contributions product weight. This year, we completed We continue to provide expert guidance 250 metrics reports for our customers. and training programs to customers on Third-party Certified Products how our products contribute to LEED From indoor air quality to materials chemistry, criteria. We regularly counsel customers closed loop textiles to sustainably harvested on key contribution areas: wood, we work with respected third-party • Materials and resources certifiers to help reflect the environmental • Indoor environmental quality and social sustainability performance of our and innovation products. That said, we don’t define our design • Ergonomics practices by these standards; rather, we’re Think • Sustainability inspired by a higher paradigm of enduring When Steelcase launched the Think® chair • Innovation in design sustainable design and leadership performance. in 2004, it was embraced as a breakthrough • Low-emitting materials We set clear product performance criteria innovation in performance and sustainability. • Systems furniture that reflects our values and mirrors what we As the first product certified under the believe customers deserve and expect. Cradle to Cradle Certified™ Products Program, it created a higher sustainability product standard across industries. Because we know that innovation must be ongoing and even successes should be revisited over time, the Think chair has been completely redesigned with new materials, technologies and performance capabilities. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 10 C U S TOM E R S Wellbeing + Productivity Promise Results Leverage our insights and expertise to create Products and applications that provide ergonomic workspaces that foster wellbeing, inspire support, encourage movement and contribute to engagement and enhance productivity. physical, emotional and cognitive wellbeing. SUCCESS STORY Wellbeing Makeover To Facilitate Movement Arizona State University’s Colleges of Health Solutions and Nursing and Health Innovation undertook a 16,456-squarefeet total space redesign to encourage physical activity in the workplace by providing employees with the choice of standing, moving and walking more often on the job. The new space features Steelcase low-panel workstations, height-adjustable sit/stand desks, and Walkstations, an integrated deskand-treadmill solution. Employees are participating in a year-long study to track their wellbeing improvements resulting Our ongoing commitment to our customers work destinations that enable the total from their new work environment. and their employees all over the world is wellbeing of people working within their demonstrated in our actions: organization. Our research clearly shows • • Avoid and eliminate materials of concern Encourage physical movement that enhanced wellbeing — physical, emotional and cognitive — contributes directly to improved employee engagement. Our customers are 2,000 • Provide a range of settings to The number of people who participated in seeing the difference this makes. Steelcase-led wellbeing workshops in 2013. support personal preferences and “Now, work environments must diverse workstyles • Harness the power of nature within indoor spaces As wellbeing evolves as a business imperative, help organizations be more productive and profitable, we continue to focus on evidence-based design, defining and validating the positive impact of work eco-systems on the total employee experience and their wellbeing. Ensuring proper posture is no longer amplify efficiencies and create enough. Now, work environments must help organizations be more productive and work destinations that enable profitable, amplify efficiencies and create the total wellbeing of people…” csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 11 O U R P R O M I SE T O PA RTNERS Creating lasting change takes a committed team, and we’re fortunate to work with some of the finest partners in the industry. From universities to suppliers, dealers to community organizations, we’re forging a more innovative, sustainable future through collaboration. That’s our promise to our partners. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 12 PARTN E R S Suppliers Promise Results Source materials from suppliers based on strict Deeper levels of collaboration and transparency; standards for quality, technical competence, global code of conduct introduced; increased innovation, price, sustainability, performance and diversity in supply chain; suppliers joining on-time deliveries. Co-create better solutions. voluntary renewable energy program. Share knowledge and expertise. Last year, the Steelcase Supplier Code of Conduct was released to our North American suppliers. This year, we’re pleased to share 440+ that we’ve not only introduced the new code in North America, Suppliers attended our Supplier Summits worldwide we also have commitments from many of our European and Asia Pacific suppliers. AT&T awarded Steelcase its Supplier Diversity Award in 2013 Additionally, our materials chemistry team continues to work closely with multiple levels of our supply chain to understand the composition of our materials, avoid chemicals of concern and develop new and preferred alternatives. In 2013, we implemented a new Reportable Substance List program that reflects our company’s precautionary approach to materials and our commitment to insight-led performance. It also reflects customer priorities, chemistry knowledge from suppliers, regulatory requirements and certification criteria. The more we know, the better decisions we can make, and the more we can deliver on our commitment to human and environmental health. In North America, a renewed emphasis on supplier diversity propelled the launch participating, including one that has moved from of a new set of aggressive recruiting strategies. zero renewable energy purchases to purchase Our supplier vision is to grow, develop and retain credits equivalent to 100% of their electricity our diverse business partners by creating a consumption. robust supplier program that leads the industry. Our suppliers are achieving and continually We believe in growing our positive impact pursuing sustainability activities, e.g., by sharing best practices with suppliers. sending zero to landfill, recycling 100% of One example — we’ve extended our corporate scrap, utilizing clean coatings and water-based discount on renewable energy credits to adhesives, reducing waste water to zero our supplier partners, in what is believed to and creating plans for reducing chemicals be the first program of its kind. Several are of concern. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 13 PARTN E R S Dealers Promise Results To support and grow a diverse network of A thriving global network of established and environmentally and socially responsible dealers. new dealer partners representing the diverse marketplaces they serve. The fourth year of our Platinum Partners program celebrated SUCCESS STOR IES more than 20 North American dealers who achieved outstanding Our dealers regularly provide performance on multiple metrics including sales, diversity and expertise and logistical help to their customers. They also support community organizational success. organizations by donating and This year, we’re expanding this competitive transporting used office furnishings. rewards program to the Europe, Middle East A growing number of dealers embrace and Africa region, where we have 285 dealers. environmental responsibility — providing As part of our global reach and commitment, LEED accredited staff, recycling tons we’re expanding with 9 new dealers in our Asia of scrap metal and non-metal materials, Pacific region and 11 dealers in Central and and providing landfill avoidance reports South America. This global scale will create new to customers. business opportunities for dealers and deliver Intentional hiring practices are helping our more local expertise for customers. dealers diversify their leadership teams, adding more women and minorities at S TEEL C A SE D E A L E R L OCAT IONS all levels. 25 Average number of years of dealer affiliation with Steelcase 24 Dealers qualified as Platinum Partners 800 Steelcase dealer locations around the world csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 14 O U R P R O M I SE T O C O MM UNIT IES We value our global relationships, sharing our resources, talents, materials and leadership to tackle entrenched issues such as education and environment. Change happens on the local level, and we’re working hard to make a difference for individuals and communities throughout the world. That’s our promise to communities. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 15 C O MMUN I T I E S Social Investment Promise Results Share our time, skills and resources to create Greater local involvement at global locations; thriving communities across our global footprint. increased emphasis on urban education. Steelcase Inc. and our philanthropic arm, the Steelcase SUCCESS STOR IES Foundation, extend a long legacy with another year of charitable involvement and community investment. The Steelcase Foundation reaffirmed its innovation consultants and leading universities commitment to accessible high-quality public to help guide Detroit city leaders on applying education in 2013, concluding a two-year design thinking to pressing community issues. planning process and ambitious spending Across the world, Steelcase employees goals for the future. The Foundation focuses are participating in local social impact on the needs of West Michigan and is committees, assessing needs and providing supporting public schools, after-school crucial support for pressing social issues programs and innovative approaches to through donations and volunteer hours. This systemic social and economic issues. past year, Steelcase unveiled a new global Steelcase directed charitable resources to tool to capture employees’ extensive charitable multiple worthy causes last year, including activities and community involvement. This Athens, Alabama Disaster Relief from Steelcase Inc. disaster response with the United Way in tool will make it easier to track and quantify To provide necessities for our employees Athens, Alabama, home to a Steelcase the true social investment of employees and and their families, a truck from Grand manufacturing facility. In addition, we shared celebrate individual contributions. Rapids carrying tarps, bottled water, and our unique relationship with world-class other supplies arrived in Athens to meet critical needs while insurance claims were being filed. $ 485,668 In matching employee gifts from the Steelcase Foundation — setting a new standard for giving Detroit School Receives Steelcase Furniture, Transforms Their Library into a Collaborative Learning Space $ 5.3 million In total funding from the Steelcase Foundation The principal at Clintondale High School was intent on transforming the school’s learning model to better 1.2 million engage students and improve academic $ In total funding from Steelcase Inc. outcomes. Steelcase helped equip their environment to meet the new needs of students and teachers. Students now receive lectures at home and do homework in class. Failure rates have dropped from 52% to 19% in English and 44% to 13% in math. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 16 C O MMUN I T I E S Employee Impacts Promise Results Provide support and opportunities to employees Grassroots efforts improving local conditions in their efforts to create lasting change in the and creating hope. communities where we live, work and serve. Our 10,000 plus employees around the world are passionate about working within their own communities to provide vital assistance, collaboration, and promise. 6,900 Volunteer hours reported by Steelcase employees in 2013 SUCCESS STOR IES Christmas with Shalom Home Orphanage Steelcase Kuala Lumpur employees visited the Shalom Home Orphanage to hold a special Christmas party for the children. The children were given gifts of clothing as well as festive candies, cookies and chocolates. In many of our locations, employees have One thing we can measure is our employees formed social responsibility committees reported time investments. We celebrate their Global Volunteer Tracking Program and chosen local projects based on community contributions toward a brighter future and We launched a new global volunteering needs, employee skills and interests. Those how their individual efforts combine to create program aimed at incentivizing grassroots contributions are important to global impact. Here is a sampling of initiatives employees to not only go out and us but in the past haven’t been formally that involve Steelcase employees in their volunteer, but also report their hours recorded. Through the development of our communities: of service. Employees who log their global tracking tool and new global champions, • Literacy programs community service hours are entered we’re extending our support for employees • Orphanages into a quarterly drawing for the chance and their local markets. We’re committed • Mentoring to win a $250 donation to the nonprofit to work on ways to further recognize those • Environmental Clean-Up Days of their choice. individuals, quantify their contributions and • Community sports teams better understand how we can enable more • Go Green Days opportunities to make a difference globally. • Non-profit boards and foundations csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 17 O U R P R O M I SE T O E M PLOYEES We honor the unique talents, skills and perspectives of our employees, knowing full well that their contributions are what propel us. We value the whole person and seek to help all employees reach their highest potential through policies, practices and honest engagement. That’s our promise to employees. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 18 EMP LOY E E S Employee Wellbeing Promise Results Provide ongoing opportunities for employees to Positive outcomes from program prototypes improve their physical, mental, emotional and targeting nutrition, exercise, smoking cessation, financial wellbeing in all Steelcase locations. life coaching, relationship counseling, stress management and financial planning. As a company, we’re focused on the total wellbeing of our SUCCESS STOR IES people. Our strategy is to incorporate all aspects of wellbeing Virtual walk from Reynosa, Mexico by asking all locations around the world to set goals within to Grand Rapids, Michigan 100 people divided into 20 teams their cultural context, ensuring employees are engaged, equipped with pedometers started healthy, productive and happy. walking with a goal of reaching 1,590 As a core priority, we’re increasing investment We’re assessing needs at each location, miles — the distance from Reynosa in new resources and programs and bestas cultural norms dictate habits and behaviors. to Grand Rapids. The teams completed in-class solutions to ensure we continue to For instance, in many of our plants in the full mileage within two months. promote healthy work-life balance. emerging economies, tobacco use is on the rise, so we’re developing responses to help Acting on our commitment, 2013 was a our employees stop smoking. year of piloting and refining several program prototypes in North American locations. Goals for 2014 include utilizing Wellpool, Well-equipped exercise areas, personal our employee crowdsourcing platform, for training sessions, on-site walking trails a second round of new ideas plus completing and life coaching programs yielded inspiring new workout and coaching spaces in several results. Plans are being made to expand North American manufacturing plants. these offerings to sites worldwide. 10 years Bike to Work for Reimbursement Consecutive downward trending in workers compensation costs and incidents U.S. employees who ride their bicycles to work at least one day per week are eligible for a new benefit that reimburses 2-3 fold Improvement in program participants’ self-reported physical, mental and emotional wellbeing scores them for certain expenses. Steelcase seen in pilot programs this year will reimburse riders up to $20 a month for bicycle maintenance, improvements, $ 100 Amount of individual wellness reimbursement purchase or storage. that allows U.S. employees to tailor the offering to their needs csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 19 EMP LOY E E S Training + Development Promise Results To unlock the human promise of all our employees. Expanding training and development opportunities throughout the organization and all its locations. Last year marked great progress on the training and development front as new programs were piloted, refined and expanded globally. A consistent menu of training courses was The model is composed of four modules: offered in Europe, Asia Pacific and North Think, Point-of-View (POV), Plan to Implement America — a huge step forward as we continue and Implement. Over the last several years, to provide greater alignment of development our employees learned and practiced Think opportunities for employees around the globe. and POV, focusing on deep research and insights to meet current and future challenges. Our Global Leadership Development Experience Today, we’re completing training on the second (GLDE) prototype launched with an ambitious half of the model — with Plan to Implement SUCCESS STOR IES 12-month curriculum. Participants from all training well underway and Implement training Steelcase regions were charged with creating Young Professionals Mentoring under development. more sustainable leadership practices, Program beliefs and behaviors including culture, talent In Europe, courses on global awareness Forty-seven young employees are development, business acumen, change attracted 145 employees for two days of deep connecting with knowledgeable, seasoned management and global awareness. A second immersion, while language classes shifted to an professionals to tap into each other’s pilot is planned in 2015, and refinements online, global provider for added convenience experiences and enhance personal and are being made to the model for future and reach. In 2014, we plan to expand these professional skill sets, expand individual iterations. These emerging leaders work on course offerings globally. networks and gain career perspectives. both regional and global levels by exhibiting Momentum from a successful 2013 has Motivating Romanian Students leader behaviors of humility and empathy carried over into 2014, and we’re pushing new to Continue on to College to create conditions for building trust, which opportunities to the forefront with sales skill Four graduating high school student is fundamental for creating environments of development training, marketing and product interns worked in the Steelcase office collaboration, innovation and diversity in thinking. training integration and a continued emphasis and received training on economics, Across our footprint, training on Steelcase’s in operational leadership on the production line. IT, foreign languages, communications Critical Thinking model is now 75% complete, and LEAN during this two-week session. providing a shared global concept development Steelcase Hosts Middle East and innovation framework. Education Event Steelcase presented research on Culture 74 73,000 at CoreNet’s Middle East Chapter event. The topic — Intersection of Strategy, Global Integration, and Culture — Global participants in the first GLDE program Hours of employee training on Steelcase’s Global Business Standards addressed cultural challenges and global workplace strategy in the Middle East. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 20 EMP LOY E E S Workplace Health + Safety Promise Results Create and maintain safe, healthy and Global standards that meet or exceed all enriching workplaces. local regulations. Across the Steelcase footprint, we’re aggressively reducing safety incidents with a wide range of improvements in tools and process, even as we continue to add new plants. “…we’ve significantly reduced our On our three Gesture chair production lines (Kuala Lumpur, Reynosa and Sarrebourg), we completed a multi-year ergonomic improvement process that’s resulted in fewer safety incidents, transformed heavy-task overall number and frequency of workstations to lighter task, and decreased the number of lost work days. In addition, injuries, providing safer working we’ve significantly reduced our overall number and frequency of injuries, providing safer environments for our employees.” working environments for our employees. With the number and intensity of natural In Grand Rapids, we are continuing a five-year disasters increasing, Steelcase is also actively project to develop a global protocol around designing a global disaster preparedness process chemical purchases and OSHA plan. This plan includes a process for mass reports. In 2013, the team improved its process dissemination of critical information via texting by integrating multiple databases to better employees and supply chain partners. capture and align purchasing, approvals, and health and safety objectives. SUCCESS STORY Steelcase Plants Meet or Exceed Their Safety Goals Steelcase plants in these locations met or exceeded their safety goals for the year: Grand Rapids, Mich; Durlangen and Rosenheim, Germany; Sarrebourg and Wisches, France; Dongguan, China; Pune, India; and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Our global operations teams are developing new safety protocols and processes to ensure continued success around the globe. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 21 EMP LOY E E S Diversity + Inclusion Promise Results Advance a culture that embraces diversity to Continue to build and celebrate our diverse culture remain an innovative and fit global company. that emphasizes inclusivity. We’re continuing our long legacy of leadership in diversity and SUCCESS STOR IES inclusion through internal and external activities that promote Steelcase Awarded Two Diversity and Inclusion Awards social justice. In our locations across the globe, we’re setting The American Civil Liberties Union of goals and addressing regional concerns, whether it’s food Michigan honored Steelcase for leading restrictions, room for prayer or women in the workplace. the statewide effort to update Michigan’s Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Law to include In the U.S., we’re active in supporting focus more on inclusion, building bridges of protections against job and housing affirmative action, rights for lesbian, gay, understanding, cohesion and humility. We’re discrimination based on sexual orientation bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people excited about this pivot, while remaining and gender identity. and education reform on both the state and committed to fulfilling our diversity promise national levels. And in our Grand Rapids, Mich., in all our global locations. Steelcase was also recognized with the headquarters, we sponsor numerous events Lifetime Achievement Award in Health Our commitment to diversity also extends with local organizations including Grand Rapids and Equity from the Grand Rapids African to our future employees as well with our Community College Diversity Lecture Series American Health Institute. long-standing support of urban education and the community-wide annual Urban initiatives in Western Michigan. We understand League Martin Luther King, Jr. breakfast. the need to have well-trained and educated Our efforts for diversity are realized in many future employees, and we’re investing heavily of our locations, largely achieved with a in creating those opportunities for traditionally representative workforce. Today, we have underserved groups. the opportunity to build on that success and Celebrating Diversity in Malaysia 20% 31% The Steelcase Global Business Center in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, promotes diversity by encouraging employees to celebrate all holidays and traditions within each and everyone’s cultures. Of all corporate contributions are given to Of our senior leaders are women organizations and initiatives that support Steelcase Germany Wins Award diversity in our communities The Steelcase Germany office received the “Goldene Rampe 2013” award for 9-fold Increase in minority female employees in U.S. supporting and integrating employees with disabilities. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 22 O U R P R O M I SE T O T H E ENVIRONM ENT We’re working to leave a legacy of positive change that benefits all. Simply complying with standards isn’t enough. We’re working to conserve more, use less, find better ways, source more responsible materials, and leave a legacy of positive change that benefits all. That’s our promise to the environment. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 23 EN V I RON M E N T Innovative Products + Applications Promise Results Leverage materials chemistry, life cycle thinking and Continuing to be a leader in material assessments, closed loop design to drive innovation and minimize life cycle assessments and third-party certifications. impact on human and environmental health. For over a decade, we have approached the design, manufacture, use and end of use of our products and applications with a 1,600 sustainable design lens and a focus on innovation. Materials have been assessed to the 100-parts-per-million level As part of our Design for the Environment chemical database that maintains material 54 strategy, we have three key platforms composition data and provides reporting driving optimization throughout the product capabilities, allowing us to more clearly track lifecycle: Materials Chemistry, Life Cycle progress. This centralized repository allows Products certified under the Cradle to Cradle Assessment, and End of Use and Recycling. us to better partner with suppliers, be even Certified™ Products Program, more than any These enduring platforms helped eliminate more responsive to customer requests, and other company in any category and reduce countless materials of concern. become increasingly more proactive in our On many products we have replaced adhesives, product design. It also helps inform our product incorporated clean recycled foam and designed certification processes around the world, as products with fewer parts — all without we seek multiple, third-party international and compromising performance. We’re involved eco-label standards. in leading-edge social and environmental One of our areas of focus has been an effort research around the globe and through to identify and eliminate flame retardants, many global-scale, multi-industry collaborations. considered chemicals of concern. Despite Materials Chemistry conflicting flammability laws and regulations, Together with our suppliers and our customers, we’ve made significant progress in the we’re accelerating and scaling our efforts to identification of flame retardants in our global identify, assess and eliminate materials of portfolio. We’re developing holistic elimination concern. We’re precautionary and proactive. strategies with aggressive target dates for We are collecting data and populating a global identified flame retardant ingredients. S U C C ES S ST O R I E S New Seamless Edge Reduces Adhesive Use Our Products Win Four Good Design Awards Our new seamless edge manufacturing process Each year the Chicago Athenaeum Museum of provides a smooth transition between the Architecture and Design, in cooperation with the surface top and edge, creating the illusion of European Centre for Architecture, Art, Design a single flowing solid surface. Utilizing stateand Urban Studies, chooses new consumer of-the-art technology, seamless edge creates products manufactured in Europe, Asia, Africa, a beautiful monolithic surface with an elegant and North and South America for its prestigious profile. The aesthetic, created by bonding a Good Design award. Last year Steelcase won polypropylene edge to particle board with four of those coveted awards for Gesture, Think, laser beam technology instead of an adhesive, media:scape® team studio and V.I.A.™ provides a durable and sustainable solution. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 24 EN V I RON M E N T Innovative Products + Applications SUCCESS STOR IES Water Footprint Research For the past three years, Steelcase has partnered with a number of leading organizations, such as Quantis, to examine how important water use is to the production of our products. These collaborative efforts have led to the creation of a water footprint database and case studies available to LCA practitioners worldwide in partnership with one of the two leading global LCA software providers. B-Free: Integrating Innovative Elements The new B-Free™ Cube, launched in “In the design phase, key insights our EMEA region, uses velcro to significantly reduce the amount of glue inform our choices, helping us and staples needed and introduced clean recycled foam instead of virgin create more sustainable products.” foam as key sustainability components. It features quick and simple disassembly, allowing for easy recycling of materials Life Cycle Assessments End of Use and Recycling at the end of its use. Our scientifically rigorous, globally recognized As a result of our focus on Design for the approach to life cycle assessments (LCAs) helps Environment, these efforts lead to better Social Life Cycle Assessment us measure and understand the impact our material selection, higher recycling performances Steelcase is working with leading products have throughout their lifespan. In the and design for disassembly choices. We make LCA experts, international universities design phase, key insights inform our choices, products built to last, and sometimes, they and global corporations to create a helping us create more sustainable products. even outlast our customers’ needs. Though framework around the social LCA. These insights drive innovative solutions whose we design our products to be adaptable, most The outcome — a Handbook for Product ripple effects are felt in and outside our industry. customers eventually reach a time when they Social Impact Assessment — assists are ready for something new. That’s where we other companies in understanding and Participating in cutting-edge, global research can help them make responsible choices. See exploring this new territory. around this topic allows us to not only contribute our End of Use Strategies section of this report insights based on our extensive experience 30+ for more information on how we’re working with with LCAs; it also allows us to offer guidance our customers to help manage their furniture and perspective to others considering this inventory and keep products out of landfills by approach. Two research projects we’re focusing Published Environmental Product Declarations selling, refurbishing, donating, or recycling their on are: water footprint and a new type of life excess assets. cycle assessment, the social LCA. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 25 EN V I RON M E N T Renewable Energy Promise Results Create a global renewable energy strategy Investing in renewable energy credits equivalent while maintaining a sense of urgency in to 100% of global electricity use; working with reducing fossil fuel reliance. our renewable energy provider to offer discounted pricing to suppliers to encourage new investments and scale our impact. As a global corporate citizen, we understand the importance of OUR COMMITMENT T O R ENEWABLE ENER G Y limiting the environmental impacts of our global operations. 15th We’re now the 15th largest 100% Green Power User in the U.S., according to the EPA’s Green Power Partnership.1 15,410 Our renewable energy credits cover approximately 167 million kilowatt hours in 2014, enough to power 15,410 homes for one year.2 We take a systematic approach to managing our energy usage: from reducing consumption to investing in renewable energy. Our expanded renewable energy portfolio is a testament to 1st our deep commitment. In three years, we’ve moved from a 19% 100% We’re extending our volume discounts to our suppliers, a first-of-its-kind program. investment to 100% investment globally in Our portfolio includes geographically distributed wind and hydroelectric renewable energy credits projects throughout North America and Europe, (RECs), from a regional energy strategy to a helping expand energy independence in more regions. global one, and from Steelcase-only contract We’re the first major commercial furniture manufacturer to purchase non-emitting RECs to a pioneering effort encouraging our suppliers equivalent to 100% of our global electricity use. 1 As of November 2014 to purchase renewables. At the same time, 2 Based on average annual U.S. household we continue to aggressively pursue energy electricity consumption of 10,837 kWh/ year (http://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.cfm?id=97&t=3) savings improvements resulting in a decrease to benefit the environment, our partners and our of our global energy use by 60% since 2001. customers and to grow the emerging renewable We’re reducing our reliance on fossil fuels and energy industry so we can all enjoy a more investing in non-emitting renewable energy secure energy future. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 26 EN V I RON M E N T Energy Use + Efficiency Promise Results Further reduce our energy use another 25% As our production increases and our facilities expand, by the year 2020. there has been a 1% increase in energy use since 2010; strategies in place to pursue future reductions. 4.5M Although we exceeded our energy use goals in 2012, 4M we continue to challenge ourselves to keep improving. 1% We’re taking a comprehensive approach We have identified the steps to achieve to optimizing energy use through reduced continued reduction of our energy use. 3.5M consumption and conservation and investments Those steps include evaluating new initiatives in renewable energy. This past year, we based on energy goals, creating a worldwide continued high production levels and opened measurement and reporting system on 3M new manufacturing facilities, which contributed greenhouse gas emissions, and meeting Increase in energy use since 2010 to a small spike in energy use since we reset international environmental management our environmental footprint reduction goals. standards. SUCCESS STOR IES 2.5M That’s thanks to the steps we’ve already taken We continue to work with our supplier to ensure our manufacturing processes use a Designtex Operates As Carbon Neutral partners to create shared objectives around minimal amount of energy, equating to a 60% for Fourth Year energy conservation and use, enabling them reduction in energy use since 2001. For the fourth year, Designtex, a Steelcaseto calculate their environmental impacts and owned surface materials company, has reduce their footprints. operated as a carbon-neutral company. The company continues to partner with S TEEL C A SE G R E E N H O USE G A S EM ISSIONS 2 0 0 4 2 0 1 3 Tribal Energy to offset the greenhouse gas emissions from its entire footprint. This year, 4.5M 200k 4.5M Designtex is funding two energy projects — one wind turbine project with an Indiana high school and a methane capture initiative 4M 4M with the Southern Ute Indian tribe. 150k Steelcase Aviation Saves A Home’s Worth of Energy In One Year 3.5M 3.5M We’re looking for ways large and small, across our business operations 100k and functions, to improve our energy 3M 3M performance. Our aviation division completed a series of energy efficiency improvements including the installation of new ceiling fans and improved lighting. 2.5M 50k 2.5M This resulted in saving 9,923 kilowatt 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 hours of electricity, 220,000 cubic feet DIRECT EMISSIONS (TONS CO2 EQUIVALENT) GROSS SALES (THOUSANDS OF US $) of natural gas for heating and more than INDIRECT EMISSIONS (TONS CO2 EQUIVALENT) $3,000 in utility bill savings csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 27 EN V I RON M E N T Water Conservation Promise Results Further reduce our water consumption another 25% As our production increases and our facilities expand, by the year 2020. there has been a 14% increase in water use since 2010; strategies in place to pursue future reductions. Compared with many other industries, we use far less water in our direct processes. But that doesn’t mean we take water conservation in our products or our operations lightly. As far back as the 1970s, we’ve had formal water tracking and reduction initiatives. And In addition to water conservation opportunities, we’re actively monitoring our wastewater 14% since we employed a new system in 2001 to discharges and using stormwater collection measure our water use, our track record has and retention systems to manage water flow consistently showed progress — we’ve reduced from our sites and to irrigate our campuses. Increase in water use since 2010 our overall water usage by 70% since 2001. We’re also contributing to the growing body Last year, we reported an uptick in water use, of research around the water footprint of SUCCESS STORY due to ramped-up production and opening products. See the Innovative Products and new facilities. Although this means we have Applications section of this report for more significant work to do to meet our 2020 information about our work on product life cycle goals, we’re seeing small successes in water assessments. reduction on an annual basis, even as production volume remains high. S TEEL C A SE WAT E R U SAG E 2 0 0 4 2 0 1 3 300m 4.5M Perfect Water Score for LEED Platinum® Project The Steelcase Innovation Center, located at our Global Headquarters in Grand 250m 4M Rapids, Mich., recently received LEED Platinum certification. The project scored a total of 88 points, including a perfect 200m 3.5M 11 in water conservation. This special accreditation signals highlevel sustainability commitment and 150m 3M concrete progress toward our corporate environmental goals. With this new award, our building is the 100m 2.5M highest rated LEED-CI project certified 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in the state of Michigan. Worldwide, only WATER (GALLONS) GROSS SALES (THOUSANDS OF US $) 29 projects score better. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 28 EN V I RON M E N T Waste Reduction Promise Results Further reduce our waste another 25% As our production increases and our facilities expand, by the year 2020. there has been a 22% decrease in waste since 2010; on track to achieve future reductions. ISO 14001 Our philosophy, first and foremost, is to avoid waste. 300m 4.5M For more than 20 years, we’ve avoided sending thousands of tons of material to landfills. All fully-operational Steelcase plants are now registered, including our new Pune, India plant We’re 250m making significant strides. In our U.S. centers to start steel, cardboard and pallet 4M facilities, we no longer send any waste powder recycling programs. All along the reduce, reuse, paint to landfills. What’s more, we’re working on recycle spectrum, we’re hard at work tracking extending this claim to all of our North American operations with yield-based metrics. 3.5M 200m facilities, and we’re sharing our strategies with 22% These data points inform us about how much suppliers, so they too can reduce their waste waste is reduced, reused, or recycled, as streams through material recycling, reuse and 150m well as how efficiently we’re using purchased 3M resource management. materials like powder paint, steel, laminate To ensure our facilities are operating at and veneer. peak performance, we’re constantly employing 100m We’re continually improving and adding more 2.5M strategies to avoid waste: from recycling 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 metrics 2009 to ensure 2010 2011creating we’re a lasting 2012 impact 2013 Reduction in waste since 2010 to composting to incineration with energy by leaving a lighter footprint. That’s improvement recovery. WATER This year, we engaged (GALLONS) SALESall GROSS with regional OF US $) (THOUSANDS you can quantify — in the factories, in the 25,163 distribution centers and inbound service environment and in the bottom line. S TEEL C A SE WA ST E A N D RECYCLING 2 0 0 4 2 0 1 3 Tons of materials recycled globally, including: 128 tons of office paper 13,995 tons of steel 45k 4.5M 200k 3,654.86 tons of wood 40k 4M 150k 176.4 Tons of food waste composted in 2013 3.5M 35k 100k 3M 30k 2.5M 50k 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 TOTAL WASTE + RECYCLING (TONS) GROSS SALES (THOUSANDS OF US $) DIRECT EMISSIONS (TONS CO2 EQUIVALENT) GROSS S INDIRECT EMISSIONS (TONS CO2 EQUIVALENT) csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 29 EN V I RON M E N T Transportation + Packaging Promise Results Deliver our products and our people safely to their Innovative packaging and shipping practices and destinations with intentional focus on reducing our materials, streamlined operations, and increased environmental footprint. use of telepresence. Reducing our transportation and packaging impact requires a coordinated approach. For our products, that begins in the design we opt for polyethelene and polypropylene phase. Several of our chairs are designed to be shipped “knocked down” for more efficient instead of styrene-based packaging for easier recycling. 13% shipping and decreased emissions. Other When it comes to our vehicle fleet, we’re products are shipped using reusable blankets optimizing travel routes to shorten distances and containers, minimizing waste while and improve fuel use. In Europe, we’ve still ensuring safe delivery. added hybrid cars to our fleet, and in North Increased fuel efficiency from fleet vehicles While we’ve made great strides to reduce America, our tour buses run on biodiesel. 11% packaging, sometimes it’s required. When Thanks to these initiatives, we’re on the road packaging is unavoidable, we use lightweight to meeting our energy efficiency goals. corrugated paper, saving nearly 1,000 tons However, it’s not just our trucks taking fewer Decrease in global gasoline and diesel use of paper waste each year. trips — it’s also our people. Through our Recycled and recyclable materials now high-definition videoconferencing technology dominate our packaging choices, allowing and alternative work strategies, we’re minimizing us to use fewer virgin resources. We’re employee travel and reducing our environmental replacing traditional synthetic materials footprint. In addition to reducing travel costs wherever possible. We’ve eliminated almost and emissions, employees see their families more all polyurethane packaging, replacing it — an important part of supporting our people. with paper. When synthetics are required, S U C C ESS ST O R I E S Pallets Increase Loading Efficiency Ensuring Products Arrive Safely In Surprising Ways To ensure quality delivery, we’re evolving our As a major shipper, we use a lot of pallets, packaging, a joint effort by our quality and but we also recycle as many as possible. packaging experts. This led to a thorough In 2013, we earned nearly $20,000 from pallet analysis of packaging materials and methods recycling and channeled that income toward of packaging, storing and transport. Additional another environmental improvement — we laboratory tests provided a complete overview purchased additional aluminum shoring beams of the performance of the currently used for our trucks making trips to Reynosa and packaging. Further steps of this quality initiative Tijuana. This allows us to use more of the will focus on transportation, handling and trailer’s effective space to gain more cube securing of loading to further optimize our use utilization, resulting in fewer trucks needed of packaging and decrease the number of to transport freight between facilities. damaged products delivered to our customers. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 30 P RO MISE T O O U R SE LV ES We’re taking a hard look at ourselves and putting sustainability in the center of the decision wheel. We’re implementing organizational change to be the most economically, socially and environmentally responsible company we can be. That’s our promise to ourselves. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 31 O U RS E LV E S Governance Promise Results Foster a dynamic, ambitious and independent An energetic, capable and experienced leadership team leadership team committed to helping everyone in our paving the way for Steelcase’s sustainable success. organization unlock human promise, create long-term shareholder value and a more sustainable world. Our corporate leadership structure begins with our dedicated Board of Directors. Comprised of third-generation members of our founding families and proven business leaders, the Board develops and articulates our guiding vision. Of our thirteen directors, ten are independent, ensuring diverse opinions, accountability and objectivity. Our executive leadership team keeps us moving forward and inspires us to dream bigger, keeping us accountable for achieving our ambitious goals. Our Global Sustainability Steering Committee, in its second year, is charged with leveraging business insights and inspiring collective action and accountability in advancing the company’s global sustainability strategies. Staffed by global leaders representing human resources, procurement, operations, IT, marketing, communications, community • Ensuring key stakeholders are effectively relations, legal, corporate relations, corporate represented in sustainability strategic sustainability and corporate strategy, the objectives scope of this team includes: Each and every Steelcase employee is • Furthering integration of sustainability accountable for abiding by our social and into the company’s and employees' daily environmental sustainability policies in his and strategic choices or her particular role. These policies clearly • Nurturing a sense of personal accountability express our expectations for our employees, in positively impacting sustainability no matter what their title or responsibilities, performance to be responsible stewards and to contribute • Aligning key points of view and clarifying the toward the overall safety and wellbeing of role of leaders in advancing sustainability fellow workers, their communities and the objectives natural world. • Building cross-functional partnerships, Our sustainability aspirations are ambitious. dialog and collaboration to ensure effective Everyone must be actively engaged in implementation and long-term integration of strengthening our performance and reaching sustainability strategies or surpassing our goals. csr.steelcase.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report | Steelcase 32 Thank you Our path to sustainability is a shared endeavor, touching all levels of our organization in all corners of the globe. Our successes come from individual employees, from departments, from regions, from offices, from manufacturing lines, from customers, from our dealers, from our suppliers, and from our partners. Thank you, each of you, for helping us propel sustainability forward as we continue to unlock human promise and create the economic, social and environmental conditions that allow us all to thrive. The end of this report is not the end. We’d love to keep the conversation alive. Please reach out to us at sustainability@steelcase.com and share your sustainability dreams. ©2014 Steelcase Inc. All rights reserved. Please recycle. Trademarks used herein are the property of Steelcase Inc. or their respective owners. Cradle to Cradle Certified™ is a certification mark licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. The U.S. Green Building Council's LEED® green building program is the preeminent program for the design, construction, maintenance and operations of high-performance green buildings. 2014 S T E E L C A SE C O R PORAT E SUSTA INA BILIT Y REPORT Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index is a sustainability Not Reported Partially Reported Fully Reported reporting framework that allows companies the opportunity to self-report on a variety of material subject areas. The GRI Index provides increased transparency and accountability when it comes to economic, environmental, social and governance information. Strategy and Analysis Welcome address Letter from CEO: 2014 CSR p. 3 1.1 Description of key impacts, risks, Annual Report pp. 6-9 1.2 and opportunities Our Sustainability Promise: CSR pp. 4-5 Organizational Profile Name of the reporting Steelcase Inc. 2.1 organization Primary brands, products, and/or Annual Report pp. 1–3 2.2 services Operational structure of the Annual Report pp. 1–3 2.3 organization Location of organization’s Steelcase is headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A. 2.4 headquarters Number of countries where the Steelcase Locations 2.5 organization operates csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 1 Nature of ownership, legal form Steelcase Inc. (SCS) is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock 2.6 Exchange. Markets served Annual Report pp. 1–4 2.7 Scale of reporting organization Annual Report Intro 2.8 Significant changes during the In July 2013, James P. Hackett, Chief Executive officer of Steelcase for nearly 2.9 reporting period two decades, announced his plans for retirement. Hackett remained CEO until February 28, 2014, the end of the company’s fiscal year and reporting period. At this time, Hackett took a new position as vice chair for an additional year. In October 2013, Steelcase announced the appointment of James P. Keane, President and Chief Operating Officer, to Chief Executive Officer. Keane officially succeeded Hackett in March 2014. We continue to identify opportunities to improve the fitness of our business and strengthen our long-term competitiveness. In 2013, we opened a new manufacturing facility in Pune, India. Also in 2013, we substantially completed a two-year project to close three North American manufacturing facilities and move production within those facilities to other Steelcase locations in North America. In 2014, we initiated procedures related to the closure of a manufacturing facility in Germany and the establishment of a new manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic. Awards received Awards 2.10 Report Parameters Reporting period This report covers the calendar year 2013 (CY2013), spanning January 1, 3.1 2013, to December 31, 2013 and the company’s fiscal year 2014 (FY2014), spanning February 25, 2013, to February 22, 2014. Key environmental impact metrics (energy, GHG emissions, VOCs, water and waste) are tracked on a calendar year basis for 2013 (CY2013). Date of most recent previous report The most recent Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report was published in 3.2 November 2013 and covered calendar year 2012 (CY2012) and Steelcase’s fiscal year 2013 (FY2013 – February 23, 2013 to February 28, 2014). Reporting cycle Steelcase publishes a corporate sustainability report annually. 3.3 Contact point for questions sustainability@steelcase.com 3.4 regarding the report or its contents csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 2 Process for defining report content In preparing the content of this report, Steelcase reviewed its operations 3.5 through the lens of the ISO 26000 corporate social responsibility standard and the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The report was prepared with insight from significant stakeholder research and as well as other measurement systems to identify sustainability aspects of the business. Through that process, Steelcase identified significant impacts and developed objectives and targets that guide efforts to improve performance. This is an ongoing process that requires continued learning, evaluating, and adapting systems to ensure that Steelcase is living its core values and meeting sustainability commitments. Boundary of the report This report covers Steelcase’s global operations (Americas, Europe, Middle 3.6 East, and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific (AP) to the extent to which data was available. As a part of this report, we have outlined our commitment to further developing our global social and environmental practices and reporting capabilities. See Our Sustainability Promise: CSR pp. 4-5. Specific limitations on the scope See 3.6 3.7 and boundary of the report Basis for reporting on situations See 3.6 3.8 that can significantly affect comparability Data measurement techniques and The data in this report was collected with the help of the Steelcase Corporate 3.9 the bases of calculations Sustainability Steering Committee and global subject matter experts within each key function. Steelcase collects data from each of its global locations through the web-based systems, company databases and other nonautomated methods. Environmental data related to energy, greenhouse gas emissions, waste, water and VOCs was collected through a web-based management system. Data inputs include utility bills, pull tickets from recycling and waste hauling service providers, and the company’s environmental management system. Steelcase’s scope of inclusion follows the guidelines established by the World Resources Institute as adopted by the EPA Climate Leaders Initiative. Human resources-related data is provided by the Global Talent Management team. Re-statements of information See 3.11 3.10 provided in earlier reports Significant changes from previous No significant changes. 3.11 reporting periods Table identifying the location of the See 3.1 3.12 standard disclosures in the report Assurance statement At this time, Steelcase does not utilize an external organization to assess this 3.13 report. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 3 Governance, Commitments and Engagements Governance structure of the Corporate Governance 4.1 organization Indicate whether the Chair of the The Steelcase Board of Directors is chaired by Robert C. Pew III. 4.2 highest governance body is also an He is not an Executive Officer. executive officer Independent and/or non executive The Steelcase Inc. Board of Directors has 13 members, 10 of whom are 4.3 Board Membership independent. Mechanisms to provide Board of Directors Contact Form 4.4 recommendations to the Board Link between executive 2014 proxy statement, pp. 26-37 4.5 compensation and sustainable performance Process to avoid conflicts of interest Business Conduct Policy 4.6 Board qualifications and expertise 2014 proxy statement, pp. 4-7 4.7 Missions, values, codes of conduct Global Business Standards 4.8 and principles Process for overseeing economic, Corporate Governance Principles; 4.9 environmental and social Governance: CSR p. 32 performance Process for evaluating board Corporate Governance 4.10 performance Explanation of whether and how the Steelcase takes a precautionary approach toward environmental management. 4.11 precautionary approach or principle History tells us that if we wait for absolute proof, or wait for governments to is addressed by the organization act, it is often too late. We follow insights gained from decades of research, leverage partnerships with leading companies and organizations, and our experiences and feedback from customers, giving us valuable guidance and perspective. It is for these and many other reasons we have taken a leading role in finding creative and responsible ways to operate and design products and applications. See the Customers: CSR pp. 7-11 and Environment: CSR pp. 23-30 sections for details. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 4 Externally developed economic, Steelcase participates in the following initiatives: 4.12 environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to • AFNOR NF Environment certification program which the organization subscribes • BIFMA level® certification program or endorses • Blue Angel certification program • Carbon Disclosure Project • Cradle to Cradle® certification program • Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) • Forestry Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification • Global Reporting Initiative (self-declared) • ISO 14001 • ISO 26000 • LEED® certification program • OEKO-TEX® certification program • OHSAS 18001 • Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification • SCS Indoor Advantage™ certification program • U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership • UN Global Compact (Europe) Memberships in associations There are a number of organizations around the world that we are members 4.13 (such as industry associations) and active partners in. Here are a few: and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the • BIFMA organization: • Business Leaders for Michigan • Has positions in governance • Business Roundtable bodies • Design Industry for Fighting Aids (DIFA) • Participates in projects or committees • Gilda’s Club, Leadership and Incubation • Provides substantive funding • Grand Rapids Community College Diversity Speaker Series Sponsor beyond routine membership • K&L Gates LLP dues • Michigan Manufacturing Association • Views membership as strategic • Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council • National Association of Manufacturers • National Association of World Affairs, Executive Leadership Council, Diversity Executive • National Civil Rights Museum • National Minority Supplier Development Council • Student Advancement Foundation • Talent 2025 • United Way • University Prep Academy • West Michigan Center for Arts & Technology, WMCAT • West Michigan Environmental Action Council List of stakeholder groups engaged The stakeholder groups we engage with are customers, the architectural and 4.14 by the organization design community, employees, academic and research institutions, dealer partners, supplier partners, governmental agencies, industry organizations, NGOs, community partners, nonprofits, investors and media. See Supplier Partners: CSR p. 13. Basis for identification and selection Our Sustainability Promise: CSR pp. 4-5 4.15 of stakeholders with whom to engage csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 5 Approaches to stakeholders Steelcase regularly conducts research to understand our stakeholder 4.16 engagement, including frequency expectations around sustainability. We use the results of these research of engagement by type and by projects to drive our business strategies and engage with stakeholders stakeholder group addressing the topics that are most relevant to their priorities. We will continue to engage with stakeholders, moving forward through informal discussions, surveys, focus groups and social media. For more information, see Our Sustainability Promise: CSR pp. 4-5. Key topics and concerns that have Our Sustainability Promise: CSR pp. 4-5 4.17 been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Economic Direct economic value generated Please see the following resources for this information: EC1 and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee • Operating Costs: Annual Report, p.16 compensation, donations and other • Employee & Executive Compensation: Annual Report, pp. 64-65, 87 community investments, retained • Donations/Community Investments: Social Investment: CSR p. 16; earnings, and payments to capital Employee Impacts: CSR p. 17 providers and governments • Retained Earnings: Annual Report, p. 42 • Payments to Capital Providers and Governance: Annual Report, p. 42 Financial implications and other Climate change poses many potential risks to the environment, business, EC2 risks and opportunities for the people and the communities in which we work, live and serve. At this time, organization’s activities due to these risks are difficult to predict and quantify. However, we work to minimize climate change our impact on the climate through a global initiative to reduce our emissions and measure our performance through a metric-based system. Steelcase monitors its global greenhouse gas emissions and has several goals in place for continuously improving our reduction rates. In addition, we invest in renewable energy technology purchasing Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) equivalent to 100% of our global electricity consumption. See our Energy Use and Efficiency: CSR p. 27 and Renewable Energy: CSR p. 26 sections for more information. Coverage of the organization’s Annual Report pp. 28, 64-72 EC3 benefit plan obligations Significant financial assistance We have not received significant financial assistance from the government. EC4 received from government Range of ratios of standard entry Steelcase pays all entry level employees wages that are equal to or exceed the EC5 level wage by gender compared to local legal minimum wage at the significant locations of operation. local minimum wage at significant locations of operation csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 6 Policy, practices, and proportion of There are a number of factors involved in the evaluation and selection of our EC6 spending on locally-based suppliers supplier partners. Quality, performance, safety, price, location and social and at significant locations environmental impact are all weighed. Our value-based supplier assessment process aims to consider all factors in order to make the best possible decision for Steelcase, our customers and the environment. Local suppliers are often selected. See Supplier Partners: CSR p. 13 and visit our Supplier Overview page for more information. Procedures for local hiring and As a global enterprise, Steelcase supports a diverse workplace. Our goal is EC7 proportion of senior management to attract and retain the best talent around the world. To accomplish this goal, hired from the local community at we engage with local recruitment sources to provide top candidates. Every locations of significant operation Steelcase global location has identified and works directly with these sources to attract the best local talent. Currently, we do not track the proportion of locally hired senior management. We are implementing a new sourcing tool and are exploring the reporting capabilities. This tool will give us the opportunity to identify the location of hire when this information is disclosed. Development and impact of Social Investment: CSR p. 16 EC8 infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Understanding and describing Steelcase and The Steelcase Foundation make donations to support various EC9 significant indirect economic art, education and environmental organizations in the geographies where impacts, including the extent of Steelcase operates. See Social Investment: CSR p. 16 for details. impacts Environmental Materials used by weight or volume Due to the complexity of manufacturing Steelcase products, material weight EN1 and volume vary significantly by product type and options selected. Steelcase calculates materials used by products on an individual basis. Some of the key materials we use in our products are: • Aluminum • Fabric • Fiberglass • Foam • Glass • Laminates • Paint • Plastic parts • Steel and steel parts • Woodcore In the Americas, see Product Environmental Profiles (PEPs) for more information. In the Europe, Middle East and Africa, PEPs and Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) can be provided by request. In the Asia Pacific region, PEPs can be provided by request. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 7 Percentage of materials used that Steelcase uses a broad range of materials in its products – many of which EN2 are recycled input materials contain recycled materials. Percentages of recycled content in products are reported in Product Environmental Profiles. The primary materials used that contain recycled content are steel, aluminum, composite wood and select textiles. For information on products in the Americas, see Product Environmental Profiles. Product Environmental Profiles available by request in Europe, Middle East and Africa and Asia Pacific regions. Where available, Environmental Product Declarations can be provided by special request. See Innovative Products and Applications: CSR pp. 24-25 for more information. Direct energy consumption by See Energy Use and Efficiency: CSR p. 27 and Renewable Energy: CSR p. 26 EN3 primary energy source for more information. SCOPE 1 TERAJOULES Natural Gas 581.49 Propane 2.91 Coal 258.84 Diesel Fuel 61.72 Gasoline 2.47 Jet Fuel 84.80 Indirect energy consumption by See Energy Use and Efficiency: CSR p. 27 and Renewable Energy: CSR p. 26 EN4 primary source for more information. INDIRECT CY2013 GIGAJOULES TONNES CO2 EQV Electricity 622,290 119,539 Energy saved due to conservation At the beginning of 2012, the company set a goal to reduce its environmental EN5 and efficiency improvements footprint by 25% by the end of 2020 using 2010 as a baseline. Through 2013 energy use has increased 1%. Since the company began tracking progress in 2001, Steelcase has reduced its energy use by 59%. See Energy Use and Efficiency: CSR p. 27 and Renewable Energy: CSR p. 26 for more information. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Most Steelcase products do not consume energy, but the company is EN6 or renewable energy based products optimizing products that impact energy in the use phase, such as lighting. and services, and reductions in Steelcase conducts life cycle assessments on key products to understand the energy requirements as a result of impacts of their whole life cycles. This effort offers insights in the development these initiatives of new products and helps the company develop action steps to reduce the embodied energy in all phases of the products life including the use phase. See Energy Use and Efficiency: CSR p. 27 and Innovative Products and Applications: CSR pp. 24-25 for more information. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Energy Use and Efficiency: CSR p. 27 EN7 consumption and reductions Renewable Energy: CSR p. 26 achieved csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 8 Total water withdrawal by source Globally, Steelcase used approximately 130 million gallons (492,104 cubic EN8 meters) of water in 2013. The primary sources of water are the municipal water systems where Steelcase facilities are located. At the beginning of 2012, the company set a goal to reduce its environmental footprint by 25% by the end of 2020. Through 2013 water use has increased 14%. Since the company began tracking progress in 2001, Steelcase has reduced its water use by 70%. See Water Conservation: CSR p. 28 for more information. Water sources significantly affected The primary sources of water are the municipal water systems where Steelcase EN9 by withdrawal of water facilities are located. Globally, Steelcase used approximately 130 million gallons of water in 2013. As a part of our efforts to reduce our global environmental footprint, Steelcase is committed to reducing our water usage by 25% by the end of 2020. See Water Conservation: CSR p. 28 for more information. Percentage and total volume of At the beginning of 2012, the company set a goal to reduce its environmental EN10 water recycled and reused footprint by 25% by the end of 2020 using 2010 as a baseline. Through the end of 2013, water use has increased 14%. Since the company began tracking progress in 2001, Steelcase has reduced its water use by 70%. See Water Conservation: CSR p. 28 for more information Location and size of land owned, Steelcase is committed to investing in and enhancing habitat protection. Refer EN11 leased, managed in, or adjacent to, to Habitats Protected or Restored (EN13) and Strategies, Current Actions, and protected areas and areas of high Future Plans (EN14) for examples of those initiatives. biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts Steelcase’s goal is to minimize potential environmental impacts of our products, EN12 of activities, products, and services services and operations. At this time, biodiversity is not a material issue to on biodiversity in protected areas our business and operations. For more information about how we consider and areas of high biodiversity value environmental impacts in the creation of our products, see Innovative Products outside protected areas and Applications: CSR pp. 24-25. Habitats protected or restored Steelcase is committed to investing in and enhancing habitat protection. EN13 Examples of these programs include: • Native species plantings and low-impact landscaping at the wood furniture manufacturing plant (LEED silver certified) • Creating a bioswale utilizing native plants at the WorkLab (LEED Platinum certified) and Innovation Center (seeking LEED certification) in Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA • Low-impact native landscaping at the company WorkLab in Schiltigheim, France Strategies, current actions, and By conducting life cycle assessments, Steelcase works to understand the EN14 future plans for managing impacts impacts of its key products throughout all stages of their complete life cycle. on biodiversity These insights inspire innovation and new approaches in the development of our products. See EN26 and Innovative Products and Applications: CSR pp. 24-25 for more information. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 9 Number of IUCN Red List species Steelcase’s approach to embedding sustainability into its business systems EN15 and national conservation list is holistic, research-based and measurable. Every step of the way – from species with habitats in areas design, manufacture, delivery and product life cycle – Steelcase considers the affected by operations, by level of impact of its products and processes on human and environmental health. extinction risk The company’s product development process is based on three foundational platforms for sustainable design: materials chemistry, life cycle assessment and end of use. See Innovative Products and Applications: CSR pp. 24-25 for more information. Total direct and indirect greenhouse See Energy Use and Efficiency: CSR p. 27 and Renewable Energy: CSR p. 26 EN16 gas emissions by weight for more information. Other relevant indirect greenhouse Steelcase follows protocols and reported its GHG emissions through the EN17 gas emissions by weight Carbon Disclosure Project. The CDP approach uses World Resources Institute protocols. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Energy Use and Efficiency: CSR p. 27 EN18 emissions and reductions achieved Renewable Energy: CSR p. 26 Emissions of ozone-depleting Nearly 20 years ago, Steelcase phased out all ozone depleting substances in EN19 substances by weight the manufacture of its products. NOx, SOx, and other significant air These emissions are included in the measurements we track for GHG EN20 emissions by type and weight emissions. Steelcase reports all measurements in CO2 equivalents. See Energy Use and Efficiency: CSR p. 27 for more information. Total water discharge by quality and See Water Conservation: CSR p. 28 for more information. EN21 destination Total weight of waste by type and Steelcase tracks and reports according to the following categories: landfill, EN22 disposal method incineration, compost and recycle. For waste reduction initiatives, see Waste Reduction: CSR p. 29 in the Environment section. For how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, see End of Use Strategies: CSR p. 9 in the Customers section. TYPE DISPOSAL METHOD 2013 TONS Composting Composted 176 Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Disposal Facility 218 Incineration/Cogeneration Incinerated 9,870 Coal Ash Landfilled 74 Enamel Cake Waste Landfilled 208 Landfill Waste Landfilled 4,559 Non-Steel Materials Recycled 11,168 Scrap Steel Recycled 13,995 Waste Powder Recycled 1,918,838 csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 10 Total number and volume of There were no significant spills during the reporting period. EN23 significant spills Weight of transported, imported, Lean manufacturing processes, powder coat finishing operations and improved EN24 exported, or treated waste deemed steel utilization and recycling have contributed to the significant reduction of hazardous under the terms of the hazardous waste and the reduction of the amount of waste sent to landfills. Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and The majority of hazardous waste is sent to local treatment facilities, exceptions VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally being where legal standards require export. For waste reduction initiatives, see Waste Reduction: CSR p. 29 in the Environment section. For how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, see End of Use Strategies: CSR p. 9 in the Customers section. TYPE DISPOSAL METHOD 2013 TONS Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Disposal Facility 218 Identity, size, protected status, and None. EN25 biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Initiatives to mitigate environmental Steelcase’s approach to embedding sustainability into its business systems EN26 impacts of products and services, is holistic, research-based and measurable. Every step of the way – from and extent of impact mitigation design, manufacture, delivery and product life cycle – Steelcase considers the impact of its products and processes on human and environmental health. The company’s product development process is based on three foundational platforms for sustainable design: materials chemistry, life cycle assessment and end of use. For our operational initiatives and progress, see Innovative Products and Applications: CSR pp. 24-25. Percentage of products sold and Designing products for disassembly and recyclability is an embedded approach EN27 their packaging materials that are in Steelcase’s product development process. It ensures that Steelcase reclaimed by category products, packaging and components can be recycled or repurposed at the end of useful life. To explore our sustainability product design platforms, see Innovative Products and Applications: CSR pp. 24-25. Steelcase offers a convenient way for businesses to responsibly dispose of furniture and equipment. With options ranging from refurbishing and resale, to donation or recycling, Steelcase has helped extend the useful life of thousands of furniture products and millions of tons of raw materials, dramatically reducing the amount of product waste dumped into landfills. For details on how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, see Waste Reduction: CSR p. 29. Steelcase has a comprehensive packaging strategy that focuses on a number of different tactics to reduce, reuse and recycle packaging. We begin by seeking to eliminate or minimize packaging wherever possible. We utilize tools such as blanket wrap and palletizing to minimize the amount required. Next, we look at the types of packaging that are used, seeking materials that contain recycled content and are recyclable. Where packaging is used, we partner with our independent local dealers to assist our customers in getting packaging materials recycled. Some materials such as blanket wraps are returned to us. Other materials are recycled in local markets. For packaging initiatives, see Transportation and Packaging: CSR p. 30. At present, Steelcase does not have a global system that can track the total percentage of products or packaging that have been reclaimed. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 11 Monetary value of significant fines It is a Steelcase Inc. policy to work in full cooperation with the agencies that EN28 and total number of non-monetary regulate our business to ensure that it is compliant with applicable laws and sanctions for non-compliance with regulations. As part of this full cooperation, Steelcase is routinely inspected environmental laws and regulations by various regulatory agencies, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and agencies in other countries where we have operations. To support compliance efforts, Steelcase has dedicated internal compliance personnel who regularly conduct internal environmental reviews of operations as they relate to specific codes and regulations. Should internal reviews identify an item that is a compliance concern, it is Steelcase policy to voluntarily report that concern to the appropriate agency and then work cooperatively with that agency to resolve the matter. Occasionally, this voluntary proactive approach may actually trigger a notice of violation due to the way in which government regulations are structured. Public filings identify any situations that meet reporting thresholds required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Recent filings with the SEC are available on the Investor Relations section of the Steelcase web site. Significant environmental impacts Transportation and Packaging: CSR p. 30; Innovative Products and EN29 of transporting products and Applications: CSR pp. 24-25 Scope 1 and 2 GHG resulting from transportation other goods and materials used of products and materials are included in our Carbon Disclosure Project filing. for the organization’s operations, We are continuing to work on expanding to include Scope 3 contract carrier and transporting members of the workforce product transportation impacts. Total environmental protection Steelcase’s business strategy is to systematically embed sustainable decision EN30 expenditures and investments by making and investments into all business systems. These investments are type integrated into the operations of the company and therefore cannot be reported by line item. Human Rights Percentage and total number of Our core values are reflected in our Global Business Standards, which embody HR1 significant investment agreements the fundamental principles that govern our ethical and legal obligations as and contracts that include clauses we do business around the world. All Steelcase agreements and contracts incorporating human rights require strict adherence to the laws within each country. In keeping with our concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening core values, Steelcase supports fundamental principles of human rights set forth in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related international covenants in every aspect of our business, each region of the world in which we operate, relationships with our employees, clients and suppliers, and communities where our employees live and work. In 2013 Steelcase globally launched the Steelcase Supplier Code of Conduct. In FY2014 we signed 198 contracts with suppliers that contain legal compliance to the Steelcase Supplier Code of Conduct. See our Supplier Partner: CSR p. 13 section and our Supplier Overview page for details on human rights policies and practices in our supply chain. Percentage of significant suppliers, In 2013, we began employing a new process with updated assessment criteria HR2 contractors and other business involving these and other code of conduct topics. We received over 400 partners that have undergone supplier Questionnaires from suppliers where the supplier commits they have human rights screening, and actions read and will comply with the Steelcase Supplier Code of Conduct, and have taken begun on-site assessments to validate the implementation of the principles that appear in the Steelcase Supplier Code of Conduct. Refer back to HR1. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 12 Total hours of employee training on Globally, employees are required to take policy and compliance training HR3 policies and procedures concerning regarding our Global Business Standards. As of 2013, eighty (80) percent of aspects of human rights that are all employees globally have received this training, for a total of approximately relevant to operations, including the 73,000 employee hours. New employees receive this training as a part of the percentage of employees trained onboarding process. Total number of incidents of Per the Steelcase Global Business Standards, any reports of discrimination HR4 discrimination and corrective are investigated and resolved within 48 hours of the complaint. The Steelcase actions undertaken Integrity Line enables employees to make anonymous reports. As such, Steelcase does not disclose this information. Operations and significant suppliers See HR1. At Steelcase, acting with integrity is a key principle that has guided HR5 identified in which the right to our individual and corporate business thinking, decisions and behavior for over exercise freedom of association 100 years. It is a legacy handed down from the founders of our company and and collective bargaining may be remains the cornerstone of our business philosophy today. As outlined in our violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these Global Business Standards and supplier relations document, Steelcase does rights not tolerate the use of child labor, forced labor or discriminatory practices within its operations or within the operations of affiliated partners. We comply with applicable laws and industry standards on working hours. We respect the right of individuals to form and join trade unions and to bargain collectively. See Supplier Partners: CSR p. 13 and Diversity and Inclusion: CSR p. 22 for more information. Operations and significant suppliers See HR5 HR6 identified as having significant risks for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the effective elimination of child labor Operations and significant suppliers See HR5 HR7 identified as having significant risks for incidents of forced labor and measures taken to contribute to the effective elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel One hundred (100) percent of our global security personnel are trained in HR8 trained in the organization’s policies Steelcase’s human rights policies and procedures. or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Total number of incidents of There are no known incidents involving the rights of indigenous people. HR9 violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Percentage and total number of To date, we have not been subject to any human rights reviews or conducted HR10 operations that have been subject any impact assessments. See HR1 to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 13 Number of grievances related to Steelcase provides a variety of mechanisms designed to aid employees in HR11 human rights filed, addressed and voicing concerns or receiving assistance with sensitive issues in the workplace. resolved through formal grievance They can consult/connect with: mechanisms • Leader, if appropriate • Designated HR business partner • Global Business Standards (GBS) Integrity Line (see below) – confidential service that allows employees to ask questions, raise concerns or clarify issues Anonymity is crucial to the success of this process; therefore, we do not report on these issues. Labor Practices & Decent Work Total workforce by employment Global total (approximate) of employees: 10,200 LA1 type, employment contract, and Of those employees, 31% are females and 69% are males, region, broken down by gender and 1.4% are part-time employees. Total number and rate of new Total number of new hires worldwide: 1,978. Estimated attrition rate: 16.5%. LA2 employee hires and employee By region: turnover by age group, gender, and region • Americas: 16.2% attrition rate • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 24.1% attrition rate • Asia Pacific: 13.4% attrition rate By generation: (est.) • Silents: 30.8% • Boomers: 6.6% • Gen X: 11.5% • Gen Y: 36.7% By gender: • Female: 29.4% • Male: 70.6% Benefits provided to full time Full-time employees working in Steelcase locations in the United States, LA3 employees that are not provided to Mexico and Latin America, Germany, France, Belgium and China have full temporary or part time employees, benefit access to medical, prescription drugs, dental, vision, shortand longby significant locations of term disability, employee basic and supplemental life insurance, spouse and operations child life insurance, employee accidental death & dismemberment, spouse and child AD&D, flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent day care, education assistance, adoption assistance, employee assistance program, employee discounts and a 401(k) retirement plan. These benefits are also available to part-time employees in these locations, with the exception of China. Temporary employees in Germany and France also have access to these benefits, while the remaining locations have benefits based on the individual temp agency overseeing those employees. Percentage of employees covered Americas: LA4 by collective bargaining agreements • Steelcase Manufacturing: 0.5% • PolyVision: 60% • Designtex: 32% France, Germany, and Spain: 100% Mexico: 80% union csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 14 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Minimum notice periods are as follows: In the United States, France and LA5 operational changes, including Germany – 60 days. In Belgium, the minimum notice period for white-collar whether it is specified in collective workers is 90 days for every starting period of five years of service. For blueagreements collar workers, notice is based on the amount of time with the company, starting with 42 days for those serving under five years and up to 196 days for those with the company 25 years or longer. In China and Malaysia, the minimum notice period is 60 days. Percentage of total workforce Nearly 15% of our total workforce worldwide is represented in formal LA6 represented in formal joint joint management-worker health, safety and wellness committees. These management-worker H&S committees help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety committees that help monitor programs. and advise on occupational H&S programs Rates of injury, occupational Rates of occupational diseases and injuries by region are as follows: LA7 diseases, lost days, and • Americas: 2.5 absenteeism, and number of work • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 1.9 related fatalities by region and by • Asia Pacific: .30 gender Lost time rates by region are as follows: • Americas: 0.50 • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.75 • Asia Pacific: 0 There were no work-related fatalities reported during the recording period. Steelcase does not track this information separately by gender. Education, training counseling, Each Steelcase employee in the United States has the ability and is LA8 prevention, and risk-control encouraged to visit a dedicated site for information on disease prevention, programs in place to assist counseling, education and training. In all other countries where Steelcase workforce members, their families is located, employees have access to this information through government or community members regarding serious diseases programs. H&S topics covered in formal Not Reported. LA9 Agreements with trade unions Average hours of training per year Not Reported. LA10 per employee by gender, and by employee category Programs for skills management Steelcase University offers a variety of courses and programs on campus and LA11 and lifelong learning that support online, enabling employees around the world to take them and track progress the continued employability of for their personal and professional development. We also provide a Career employees and assist them in Development tutorial to guide employees through the process of identifying managing career ending their career ambitions, strengths, and networks and develop action plans to achieve their goals. Additionally, the university offers a retirement program to help employees think through their transition, financial planning and tools. U.S.-based employees have access to a phased retirement program. For those who exited the company due to position elimination and plant closings, we offer services from a professional outplacement company, including career counseling, tools and techniques for job searching and courses to update skill sets. Furthermore, we support the French requirement to provide learning for employability outside Steelcase. See Training and Development: CSR pp. 20 for more information. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 15 Percentage of employees receiving Steelcase believes that successful implementation of our corporate strategies LA12 regular performance and career requires alignment between our corporate goals and the performance development reviews, by gender goals of individual departments and employees. This shared and focused direction enables each of our individual and team efforts to truly impact our organizational success. Steelcase uses a process tool called MAPP – Measurable Annual Performance Plan. The MAPP is a one-year performance plan linked to our annual corporate goals. It addresses three key areas of performance management: • Goal alignment • Performance measurement • Ongoing feedback and coaching • Employees at Steelcase are encouraged to establish a general career direction and a plan for their next Steelcase job or role. The company’s career development process is one about self-discovery, direction setting and decision making. Annual performance and career development reviews were given to 98.6% of all salaried employees. By gender, 43% were female and 57% were male. Hourly employees are evaluated using supervisor notes and the Steelcase Employee Performance System (SEPS) as the feedback tools for performance. Composition of governance bodies Total average age of all employees: LA13 and breakdown of employees per • Worldwide: 42 employee category according to • Asia Pacific: 34 gender, age group, minority group • Europe, Middle East and Africa: 43 membership and other indicators of diversity • Americas: 43 Gender breakdown: • Females: 31% • Males: 69% Estimated U.S. minority breakdown: • Salaried: 9.1% • Hourly: 28% • All US Employees: 18.8% Ratio of basic salary and Steelcase routinely assesses discrepancies in compensation with the intent of LA14 remuneration of women to men by meeting both legal requirements and corporate values regarding equal pay. employee category, by significant location of operation Return to work and retention rates We strive to help our employees achieve a work/life balance. See Wellbeing: LA15 after parental leave, by gender CSR p. 19 for more information. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 16 Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health Steelcase conducts material assessments and life cycle assessments on PR1 and safety impacts of products key products to understand the impact of our products over their entire life and services are assessed for cycles – material extraction and selection, production, transport, use and end improvement, and percentage of of use or next life. We use that information to inform the development of new significant products and services categories subject to such products. Information is published in Product Environmental Profiles – available procedures on www.steelcase.com/pep for North America, and by request in the Europe, Middle East and Africa and Asia Pacific regions. Environmental Product Declarations are available by request for products that have gone through a life cycle assessment and third-party review process. For more information, see Innovative Products and Applications: CSR pp. 24-25. Total number of incidents of No significant incidents. PR4 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer In the Americas and Europe, Middle East and Africa regions, we survey our PR5 satisfaction, including results customers regarding their satisfaction in a variety of areas from our products of surveys measuring customer and our representatives capabilities to our performance as a company. satisfaction In the Americas, our dealers assisted in our new Customer Experience Measurement (CEM) system, which allows our customers to provide feedback on how we’re doing. This system enables clients to provide feedback on various aspects of products and services provided by Steelcase and our dealer network through an online survey. Results are shared with management and key employees both at Steelcase and within the dealer organizations. For 2013, customers provided an average overall satisfaction score of 8.6 out of 10 for Steelcase and dealers combined. When considering Steelcase and dealers individually, both received a score of 8.8. In our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region, various customers throughout the region are surveyed for their satisfaction in a number of areas, such as our portfolio offerings, our representatives and the company’s ability to offer workplace solutions. Solution Fulfillment Team reach out the EMEA dealer network on a yearly basis with a Voice Satisfaction Survey. In 2014, the results for those markets are as follows (3.0 = Meets Expectations, and 4.0 = Above Expectations): • United Kingdom: 3.3 • France: 4.2 • Rest of International: 3.8 • DACH (Germany, Austria and German speaking Switzerland): 3.9 In 2013, we rolled out a formal customer satisfaction process for our Asia Pacific region, which is a direct sales market. This survey was available for our markets in China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, India and Australia. Overall, satisfaction in AP scored at 7.5 out of a possible 10. Learning from these surveys not only helps us improve our performance but also allows us to better understand the needs of our customers as we want to ensure our dealers and customers are not just “served” but are truly satisfied. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 17 Programs for adherence to Steelcase communications are prepared in consultation with environmental PR6 laws, standards, and voluntary technical and regulatory specialists knowledgeable of the Federal Trade codes related to marketing Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, and other global regulatory communications, including standards, accepted practices and requirements for such communications. advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Communications are submitted to the Steelcase legal department where they undergo an additional review to ensure technical accuracy and conformance with regulatory standards and guidelines. Total number of incidents of None. PR7 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated None. PR8 complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Monetary value of significant fines No significant incidents. PR9 for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Society Percentage of operations with Both Steelcase and the independent Steelcase Foundation utilize a process SO1 implemented local community to assess the priority and value of gifts provided. The Steelcase Foundation engagement, impact assessments, offers human services, health, education, community development and and development programs arts and education. The foundation provides assistance to a broad array of organizations. See Social Investment: CSR p. 16 for more information. Percentage and total number of All business units are regularly analyzed by the Internal Audit Department. SO2 business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Percentage of employees trained Globally, all salaried and hourly employees are required to take policy and SO3 in organization’s anti-corruption compliance training regarding our Global Business Standards. We have policies and procedures updated the GBS course materials and plan to roll out training by the 4th quarter of FY 15. In addition, Foreign Corrupt Practices training is required for sales and other employees where applicable. csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 18 Actions taken in response to There were no significant incidents of corruption during the reporting period. SO4 incidents of corruption See Code of Business Conduct for practices and policies on the issues of: • Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations (Including Insider Trading Laws) • Conflicts of Interest • Financial Reporting and Controls, Records Management and Communication • Protection and Proper Use of Company Assets • Confidential Information • Competition and Fair Dealing • Payments to Government Personnel • Corporate Opportunities • Reporting Illegal or Unethical Behavior • Waivers of the Code of Business Conduct • Compliance Procedures Public policy positions and Steelcase actively lobbies for public policy issues that impact Steelcase at SO5 participation in public policy local, state and federal levels in the United States. development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind None. Steelcase Inc. does not make financial or in-kind contributions to SO6 contributions to political parties, support political parties. politicians, and related institutions by country Total number of legal actions for Annual report p. 10 SO7 anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines Annual Report p. 10 SO8 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Operations with significant potential We deeply value the communities in which we work, live and serve, and SO9 or actual negative impacts on local continue to identify opportunities to improve the fitness of our business communities and strengthen our long-term competitiveness. In 2013, we substantially completed a two-year project to close three North American manufacturing facilities and move production within those facilities to other Steelcase locations in North America. In 2014, we initiated procedures related to the closure of a manufacturing facility in Germany and the establishment of a new manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic. Actions like these are required for company fitness, but they’re never easy because they impact people in those communities. See Social Investment: CSR p.16 for ways we are working to positively impact our communities. Prevention and mitigation measures See SO9. See Social Investment: CSR p. 16. S10 implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 19 Other KPIs Percentage of women in • Americas: 30% O1 management • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 29% Percentage of ethnic minorities in U.S.: 18% ethnic minorities O2 the US staff Total Recordable Injury Frequency Total Recordable Frequencies: O3 Rate • Americas: 2.50 • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 1.9 • Asia Pacific: 0.63 Lost-time injury frequency rate Lost time rates by region are as follows: O4 (LTIFR) • Americas: 0.50 • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.75 • Asia Pacific: 0 Number of fatal accidents There have been no fatalities in the time frame being reported. O5 Employee satisfaction rating Steelcase conducted an employee survey with its global workforce in March O6 2012. Over 7,000 employees participated, representing approximately 72% of our global employees. Based on the insights from this survey, Steelcase created a core Global Culture Team (GCT) to focus on evolving our culture. An extended global team of employees representing various departments participated in workshops designed to tap into what was working in our existing culture, and where we had opportunities to improve. Prototypes were created to enable employees to experiment with new behaviors. The GCT is now engaged in similar activities with leaders across the organization who are interested in transforming their teams. In addition to these grassroots efforts, the GCT is partnering with executive leaders and Global Talent Management teams to identify opportunities and make necessary changes at the organizational level. Total giving $1.2 Million (Steelcase Inc.) O7 $5.3 Million (The Steelcase Foundation) Global amount of donated hours of 6,900 hours O8 volunteer service csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 20 List of countries taking part in • Belgium O9 volunteer service • Brazil • Canada • France • Germany (Durlangen, Rosenheim) • Hong Kong • Latin America & Caribbean • Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur) • Mexico (Monterrey. Tijuana, Reynosa and Mexico City) • Romania (Cluj) • Singapore • Spain • United Kingdom (London) • United States 3 year energy consumption trend From 2010 to 2013, tonnes of Greenhouse Gas Emission equivalents – per O10 (normalized to turnover) $1,000 of gross sales – declined by 14%. Percentage of women in the • Asia Pacific: 43% O11 company • Europe, Middle East, and Africa: 28% • Americas: 30% • Overall: 31.2% Employee turnover rate Overall estimate of global, salaried turnover: 11.2% O12 % of contracted suppliers having In fiscal year 2014, we implemented our Steelcase Supplier Code of Conduct. O13 signed a supplier code of conduct This included supplier communication and training at our three regional supplier conferences, as well as by communication on the Supplier pages in Steelcase. com. Raw material consumption See EN1 O14 csr.steelcase.com 2014 GRI Index | Steelcase 21
