BIG ON COMMUNITY EASY ON ENVIRONMENT rt po Re ty ili ib ns spo Re al ci So 14 20 C TE M SA TA Le B Co tt LE A m er Pe bo pa fro O So op ut ny m F Et ci le thi Pr th C En hic ety M s R ofi e P G vi s RI ro & at e le re te po si O n Co m u S r r t de N nt nt en pp TE en t ly tI Ch N nd ai n 3 TS ex 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 2 LE T TE R 2014 was a record year for Samtec, Inc. We exceeded our resources, but goal related to sales, service leadership, and operation also increase metrics. All of these are exciting and important for our the efficiency with FR business, but we had to make similar strides in reducing which one of our O our environmental impact, increasing the quality of life millions of packages M of our associates, and our presence in the communities makes its way to a we do business in. I’m happy to report we did just that. customer. Smaller packages, TH E with less plastic, and made out This is our third year as a member of the United of recycled cardboard become E Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We submit our Samtec Sustainability Report for 2014 with over 8,700 lighter and therefore require less fuel to ship. We believe improvements like PR companies and other stakeholders from more than these take our company further – we want SID 130 countries in supporting the UNGC’s ten universally our sustainable efforts to do the same. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Our report’s In the future we hope to only continue our mission EN T theme for the 2014 fiscal year, “Big on Community, to do more for the greater good of the world. Even as Easy on the Environment”, reaffirms our focus on our business and the climate of the electronics industry improving technology while simultaneously improving changes, we will stay committed to our UNGC efforts. the communities in which we do business. We must develop products and people. It is imperative that We’re glad that what we do here doesn’t go unnoticed. our own global workforce knows the implications of Thank you for your interest in our company and our efforts to everything we do here, and our ability to leave the make our business socially and environmentally sustainable world a better place. for years to come. Our sustainability efforts are a continuation of our first two years with the UNGC. We have made significant efforts to formalize our global outreach and giving by setting goals for each location related to volunteerism and corporate giving. We have improved our male/ female ratio and increased the number of hours we spend training our employees. We have reduced our use of packaging materials which not only saves John Shine, President 3 C Company Profile Headquartered in New Albany, Indiana, USA, Samtec is a global O company with locations in 18 countries. Samtec is the service M leader in the elec­tronic interconnect industry. Founded in 1976, we are a privately held, $613,000,000 global manufacturer of a PA broad line of electronic inter­connect solution blocks, including ICN to-Board/Ultra Micro, High Speed Board-to-Board, High Speed Y Cables, Future-Proof/Active Optics, Flexible Stacking, and Micro/ Rugged components and cables. Samtec is “Sudden Service®” provid­ing an unparalleled customer service experience. At our PR core, our underlying philosophies (we call it our DNA because O 00 FI T they determine how we act and think) are Speed, Innovation, ,0 Flexibility, and Win/Win. Much more than just another connector LE UN company, Samtec puts people first with a commitment to S 0 exceptional service, quality products, and convenient tools. We 0 LE ,0 CO believe that people matter, whether they are our external or S n internal customers. This belief is deeply ingrained throughout EStrillio 3 T SA 1 our organization and means we’re all willing to go the extra step D UC RI 8+ to build remarkable products and services that take the industry $6 EA 0 further faster. H 00 D E 10ions 4, O + Sults rinopt p Samtec is ISO/TS 16949, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and ITAR PR 0 res be registered with a 5-A1 Dun and Bradstreet rating, the highest available for a corporation this size. We employ 4,000 people at 6W0haicrht num eight primary manufacturing locations: New Albany, IN, Colorado Springs, CO, Wilsonville, OR, Costa Rica, China, Johor, Malaysia, Penang, Malaysia, and Singapore with sales and support offices spread throughout 18 countries. Global manufacturing and sales locations allow redundant manufacturing, component sourcing, molding, stamping, and assembly in both hemispheres. This manufacturing location strategy optimizes cost and delivery. 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT This, our third annual Social Responsibility Report, covers activities that have occurred since our last UNGC submission in December of 2013. Our reports are published on an annual basis. This 2014 Social Responsibility Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines for reporting at the core level. The guidelines define specific reporting topics and a process for determining the significant economic, environmental and social metrics on which an organization should report. The GRI G3 aspects relevant to the organization were prioritized by information gleaned from customer audits and various surveys throughout the year. The final selections of material aspects for this report were then validated by a cross-functional team, including representatives from Communications, Human Resources, Quality, and Environmental Health and Safety. The boundary of the material aspects identified through the materiality assessment process is limited within the organization, with the exception of supply chain impacts, which apply outside the organization. The following is a list of material aspects by category (as defined by the GRI): Environment: Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste & Recycling. Social: Employment, Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Supplier Human Rights Assessment, Anti-Corruption and Corporate Local Impact and Involvement. This report has been prepared according to the principles for defining report quality with a focus on presenting material in a clear and accurate manner that is conducive to regular annual comparisons. While the material aspects sere as the foundation for the information provided in this report, we also present specific examples to highlight the many ways our facilities and people have demonstrated a commitment to impact over the course of the past year. The data presented in this report has been generated by our internal management systems and have not been assured by an external agency. Please direct and comments or questions about this report to social.responsibility@samtec.com 5 GRANTS FOR ASSOCIATE IN HOME COMPUTERS PEOPLE MATTER 2014 $27,150 GLOBAL TRAINING & DEVELOPEMENT 2014 $390,000 At Samtec, “Service” isn’t just for our customers. We seek to service our global associates in every capacity: career growth opportunities, on-the-job training, educational REGION TURNOVER NUMBER OF NEW HIRES expenses, and countless opportunities to improve their physical and financial well being. North America 0.57% 81 Central America 1.78% 285 In 2014, we streamlined our online learning platform around the globe. We have improved our in-house Asia 2.57% 488 capabilities to produce training courses using modern Europe 0% 4 tools. This allows us to keep up with every-changing technologies and certifications. Not only does our improved training programs and abilities mean associates Training Hours in 2014 Educational Expenses stay happier, safer, and better informed, but it has 77,845 $843,519 allowed us to onramp a new employee in record time, something we call TQR or Time to Quality Rate. We like to provide healthy challenges to our associate around the globe to become better people in all aspects of their career. We have a strict “Open Door” policy that takes every voice seriously. We are implementing a new Town Hall meeting to allow associates to provide feedback and input in an informal, but structured setting. By keeping an open and flat organizational structure, Samtec sees an unmatched global sharing of ideas related to operations processes, work environment improvements, associate recognition methods, and global communication tools. We treat our own like family, and believe deeply that a “rising tide rises all ships.” In other words, by helping each other we help our company, our customers, and the communities in which we operate. 6 4,000 TOTAL WORKFORCE D EM O G RA IC PH 51.4% 48.6% S (1829.8) 7 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Around the Globe Samtec supports global projects and initiatives that enable economic development and stimulate economic growth around the world like water purification systems in third world countries, alternative energy solutions, advanced agricultural technology, low cost housing refurbishment, life skills development training, support of entrepreneurial start-ups, and so much more. Associates in Action Costa Rica “Libros para Todos” (Books for Everybody) is an initiative from Samtec’s CR Corporate Social Responsibility Committee along with Grupo Nacion (biggest Costa Rican newspaper), and it stands for the education of the children by providing them the text books for their scholar year. This 2014, we participated for the first time and help the community elementary school and kindergarten covering all 573 students (2382 books). Samtec CR Associates went to the school and delivered the books personally to the students. There was a storyteller provided by La Nacion, and Samtec donated snacks to the children and their teachers. Samtec CR used money from two sources to fund this program: money earned from their recycling program and Samtec Associate donations through a specific fundraising campaign. Community Outreach Contribution Samtec Associates globally care about each other, the communities that we live in, and our environment. We resolve to “do the right thing”. Community Involvement Samtec encourages involvement at each of its locations around the world and routinely hosts donation drives and invites nonprofits into our various facilities to encourage participation. Donations are made to fundraisers created by our Social Solutions Association (SSA) as needed. The money raised in these fundraisers help fund donations to various charities and individuals in need with the communities that we live. Being a good corporate citizen of a community carries with it responsibility. Since the majority of Samtec Associates come from surrounding towns and cities, Samtec plays a big impact. Throughout the year, Samtec strives to make our communities better places to live, work, play and go to school by finding ways to lend a hand – both in time and money. 8 ETHICS AND SUPPLY CHAIN Samtec is constantly evaluating factors such as location of operation, types of products and ser­ vices provided, child Percentage of Suppliers labor avoidance practices, working hour management, pay and compen­sation practices, as well as ethics management by Location policies and engagement. We continue to expand awareness and understanding across all our global facilities as well as our supply chain. Since Samtec’s culture reflects, for the most part, a “learning organization”, we have tried to remove many of the barriers of organizational learning. In 2014, we reviewed, revised, improved and issued a New Hire Training program to better communicate our values to new Associates. Because of the United Nations Global Compact and our desire to continually improve our accountability of our business practices, we review and update our policies as needed. Because of our commitment to our Associates and the people within our communities, Samtec has a policy not to hire any Associates under the age of 18 (despite the fact some countries still do not have laws prohibiting child labor). Percentage of Pieces Each year, Samtec Associates are asked to review our Sexual Harassment, Workplace Violence, C-TPAP, Diversity and shipped by Location Company Policy e-learning modules for yearly compliance. Associates are also given the opportunity to choose their own training courses for the year. We are also beginning the process of reviewing our Associate Handbook to complement our updated training program. Our high standards extend beyond Samtec to include the suppliers we depend on and engage with every day. We rely on a global supply chain to support the manufacturing of our products in each of our locations. We survey all our vendors yearly in regards to quality, environmental consciousness, and social responsibility. Over 95% of our vendors are in compliance of Samtec’s standards. 9 Environmental Management Samtec continually strives to reduce our environmental impact by integrat­ing environmentally-conscious practices into our prod­uct design and manufacturing processes as well as the actions of our VI R associates. Our Environmental Management System (EMS) is an im­portant EN aspect of manufacturing at Samtec — from the selection of the materials in our products, to the effi­cient use of natural resources O and the careful control of facility wastes. N M Reverse Osmosis Water System (RO) As the need for more electronic components has increased, the need for water and the chemicals used to produce these EN T components normally would increase. In November 2014, Samtec purchased a Reverse Osmosis Water System (RO). This purification system replaces our existing Deionized Water System (DI) and will be used to supply water to our entire electro-plating facility. The primary benefits of moving to a RO system are that it uses almost no chemicals in the process and reduces our overall water consumption. Single Stream Recycling 2013 2014 Previously, Samtec had two DI water systems in place that maxed Office Paper 62,245 125,841 out at 20 gallons each for a total of 40 GPM. Under normal Cardboard 232,809 200,742 circumstances, they ran at about 34-36 GPM. With the new RO water system, we have the ability to run 100 GPM if needed, and Miscellaneous Plastic 4,080 7,690 we are currently running comfortably at 70 GPM. Polystyrene 33,418 24,322 The RO water system uses chemical at a bare minimum as Plastic Bottle & Aluminum Cans 30,881 34,545 the machine operates on high pressure through membranes for quality of water. The chemicals are merely safeties in case hardness or chlorine passes through the softener which could damage the membranes. Currently the RO water system is only rejecting 3.9 GPM which makes it a very efficient unit. Wastewater Discharge Also in 2014, Samtec discovered a new source for recycling the spent (used) Nickel plating baths in our New Albany, IN facility. These baths were previously going to a disposal facility. However now almost 2,000 gallons of spent Nickel bath is being recycle to recover over 2,200 pounds of Nickel. 10 General Standard Disclosures GRI G3.1 Indicator Description Location Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement 3 CO Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 4 N 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 4 N 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 4 TE 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 T 2.7 Markets served by the organization 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 4 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Nov 2013 announced closing of Panama Facility IN Bishop & Associates Customer Service Award as #1 Overall in Connector D 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Industry (14th time); The Greenways Foundation of Indiana for Outstanding EX Corporation (February 2013); Arrow’s Gold Level Supplier for on-time delivery Report Parameters and quality (December 2012); Celestica TCOO Supplier Award (2012& 2013) 3.1 Reporting Period 4 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 4 3.3 Reporting cycle 4 3.4 Contact point for questions 4 3.5 Process for defining report content 4 3.6 Boundary of the report none 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report none 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, none outsourced operations and other entities 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information none provided in earlier reports, and the reason for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods none Specific Standard Disclosures G3.1 Indicator Description EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and used EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations EC6 Policy, practices and proportion spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operations HR2 Percentage of suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screenings HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and % of significant products and services subject to such information requirements LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 11 www.samtec.com 1-800-SAMTEC-9 or 812-944-6733 12
