FOR A BETTER WORLD... 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS 02 About Our Report 04 Message to Stakeholders 06 Corporate Profile 10 Facts and Figures of 2014 12 Group Companies and Business Areas 12 Customer Profile 13 Significant Developments During the Reporting Period 14 Strategy and Management 15 Corporate Governance 16 Sustainability Management 19 Stakeholder Engagement 22 Strategic Sustainability Aspects 24 Boundaries of Strategic Aspects 24 Strategic Sustainability Targets 28 Economic Performance 30 Sustainable Development and Contributions to Economy 34 Energy Investments 36 Local Procurement Practices 38 Social Performance 40 Occupational Health and Safety 44 Employee Engagement 47 Local Community Engagement 49 Social Investments 62 Environmental Performance 64 Environmental Management 65 Waste Management 67 Water Management 71 Emission Management 73 Energy Management 75 Conservation of Biodiversity 83 Performance Indicators 83 Economic Performance Indicators 83 Social Performance Indicators 87 Environmental Performance Indicators 91 Appendix 91 Corporate Memberships 91 Publications 92 Awards 92 IFC Sustainability Standards Conformity Index 93 UN Global Compact Principles 94 GRI G4 Content Index 01 ABOUT OUR REPORT Scope and Limitations In determining our material sustainability issues with our managers, we took into consideration steel production and energy generation, the major business segments of İÇDAŞ. Unless otherwise stated, the information in this report belongs to the period between January 1, 2014 and December 31, 2014 and includes the operations of all the premises of İÇDAŞ. (G4-17) Principles With this third sustainability report of We prepared our report based on globally accepted GRI Global Reporting Initiative sustainability reporting İÇDAŞ, we share with our stakeholders, guidelines and in accordance with GRI G4 Guidelines – Core option. the developments and the results of Besides GRI’s materiality, stakeholder engagement, our implementations, which shape our sustainability context and completeness principles, we took economic, social and environmental into consideration the sustainability performance standards of World Steel Association and International Finance performance in 2014. Hence, we give our Corporation, IFC, in determining our strategic sustainability issues. stakeholders the opportunity to evaluate www.globalreporting.org our efforts in managing, measuring, By signing UN Global Compact in 2012, we added a monitoring and improving our impacts global dimension to our commitments on corporate responsibilities and we introduced our best practices in resulting from our operations. complying these principles throughout this report. www.globalcompact.org Our Next Report We plan to publish our next report covering our 2015 sustainability performance, in the first half of 2016. 02 03 We launched Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Star) – 2, 5000 DWT 3.3 million TRY is used for emission management general cargo ship this year and started building and 118 thousand TRY is used for biodiversity general cargo ship. In addition to cement and clinker management. We took an important step in facilities construction, we began the EIA process of conserving the biodiversity of our hinterlands with High Temperature Furnace Facility with 2.25-million the Artificial Reef and Supporting Biodiversity Project. tons / year capacity. In 2014, we reduced direct CO2 emissions of steel facilities by 14% and power plant by 9% by means of Our total direct investment amount in Çanakkale efficiency practices we applied. region is 5.3 billion US dollars so far including 394 million in 2014. We employ 83% of our employees in Our primary goal in waste management is to recycle MESSAGE TO Değirmencik Integrated Facilities and 75% in Bekirli waste. We comply with the regulations and collect STAKEHOLDERS Power Plant from the locals. all waste separately, including the ones from ships that call at our port, and we either send them to We Value Our Employees and Society accredited recycling facilities or dispose of them. In Primary social impacts of our operations consist 2014, we disposed 77% of our waste by recycling, of health and security, and engagement with reusing and recovering methods. Our goal is to Dear Stakeholders, employees and local people. Our mission is creating reduce regularly stored waste amount to zero by teamwork, righteous attitude, open communication, With this third sustainability report of İÇDAŞ, that designated for business world with the intention to 2020. personal safety and development opportunities by present our economic, social and environmental protect human rights, improve working conditions, providing a safe and effective work environment. At İÇDAŞ Değirmencik Integrated Facility, we have performance in 2014, we continue to share the protect environment and fight anti-corruption. We We conduct all our operations with zero accident been managing water aspect under the scope of practices and targets of how we manage and signed UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2012. goal. Since our establishment we, as İÇDAŞ, have ‘Sustainable Water Management Project’. We supply improve our sustainability impacts. This sustainability report provides a resource from been working on raising quality of life, improving all our water requirement completely from the sea. In We operate in steel and energy industries, which which you can gather pertinent data related to social life by providing education opportunities and 2014, we reused 375.8 millions m3 water. are critical to Turkey’s sustainable development and our practices in managing sustainability impacts meet societal needs. As İÇDAŞ, our perpetual goal is to increase the economic structure. İÇDAŞ, with its environment and evaluate its results. When determining our value we create for our stakeholders while ensuring We continue our education (UMEM Specialized friendly and innovative technologies, is a major sustainability aspects, we considered vital topics sustainable growth. Sharing your ideas, suggestions Vocational Training Centres Project, schools, grants) steel, energy and ship producer as an employer, such as biodiversity, diminishing natural resources and questions about this report with us will help us and sports (İÇDAŞ Sports Club) investments that contractor and investor. Our country was the and security of energy supply. We reviewed our create more value for you all. embrace regional youth and investments pertinent world’s 7th largest steel exporter in 2014 with 18.45 sustainability aspects again this year in meetings to preservation of cultural heritage that addresses million tons. We procured 18% of Turkey’s steel we held with the participation of our managers and everyone (Troya, Kemer Parion and Apollon Regards, production in our Değirmencik Integrated Plant staff. Smintheion Excavations Sponsorhips) with a holistic at Biga, Çanakkale. İÇDAŞ energy generation has We Contribute to Economy Bülend Engin approach. reached nearly 8% of Turkey’ private sector energy CEO Our expansion investments along with our local generation with 8,97 billion kwh in 2014. We Respect the Environment and national economic contributions were the We are actively involved in industries that have high We are aware of the economic impacts of our outstanding topics anew when we analysed impacts on environment. Emission management for industries on our country and the community our economic impacts this year. Any business climate protection, waste management to prevent as well as our social and environmental investments we encounter have indirect impacts environmental pollution and water management impacts resulting from our operations. Since on national economy and community. Our strong that we initiated for the preservation of natural our establishment, we have been managing all financial structure backs our environmental and resources constitute a significant part in our economic investments along with our social and social investments. business. environmental responsibilities in a holistic manner and to sustain this understanding we have built We completed the 2nd unit of 618 megawatts Bekirli In 2014, our total investment in environment the necessary systems and infrastructure. While Supercritical Energy Plant in 2014. We continue to protection projects is more than 114 million TRY. building this infrastructure, we considered the 10 support The Turkish Star project of renovating 100 97% of this amount consists of operational cost basic principles of UN Global Compact that were coasters in Turkish Maritime Coaster Fleet, which of environmental investments. The remaining started in 2012. 04 05 Our group companies operate in Energy, Shipyards, Logistics (Sea, Road) Transportation (Airway), Harbour Operations, Construction, Insurance, Mining, and Agriculture and Livestock sectors. The Değirmencik Integrated Plant in Biga, Çanakkale houses three steel mills with five and a half million tons/year production CORPORATE PROFILE capacity, three rolling plants with three million tons/year capacity, three units 405 megawatts thermal plant, shipyard, two docks, a As İÇDAŞ, which is the leading private sector steel wharf and Turkey’s largest private harbour with 30 thousand tons producer in terms of capacity and one of the largest of loading and 60 thousand tons of unloading capacity and their exporters in Turkey, we have been producing steel auxiliary facilities. since 1970. We activated the first unit of 1,236 megawatts Çanakkale-Bekirli thermal plants in 2011 and the second one in 2014. 06 07 Billet is the starting point of such rolling products as reinforcing steel, plain bar, commercial bar and profile and wire rod. It is semi-finished product that is long and continuous casting and has square cross-section with 100 mm-200 mm diameter / length. Reinforcing steel is a steel bar with ribs, commonly used in reinforcing concrete buildings. It was produced as an alternative to plain bar and substituted it in time. OUR Wire rod is a semi-finished metal bar PRODUCTS wrapped in bobbins, hot rolled from billet and which usually has a round cross-section and is cold drawn into wire. It is used to produce welding electrode, steel mesh, wire, bolt, spring etc. The billet, reinforcing steel and wire rod that we produce in our steel plants and the electricity Electricity generated at our Thermal Power Plants is we generate in our power plants conform the distributed to end users via Turkish Electricity Distribution international standards. Steel products are used Company (TEDAŞ) transmission network. End users include; hotels, industrial companies, shopping malls, in construction, automotive, rubber, machine business centres, restaurants, schools, associations, residential and government facilities and clients from manufacturing, etc. Electricity generated at industries such as fuel oil, IT, steel, finance and investment, the thermal plants is conveyed to entities by construction, cement, food, electronics, logistics, mining, automotive, health, agriculture, textile, transportation. means of government transmission network. We usually incorporate the ships produced in our In our shipyard, we manufactured 12 shipyard to our own İÇDAŞ fleet. ships including chemical tankers and dry cargo ships and one tugboat. We completed Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Star)-2 cargo ship in May 2014 and began building Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Star)-3 cargo ship in August 2014. 08 09 FACTS and SOCIAL FIGURES of 2014 Corporate Profile Sustainability Profile ECONOMICAL 4,802 82% Local Employment Number of Group Rate Employees Corporate Profile Sustainability Profile Our Community 8.10 Billion TRY Steel 53.80% Investment Consolidated Net Sales Energy 41.74% 42% 54% 10.3 Million TRY Social and 7% Other 4.46% Social Investments Environmental Infra-structure Distribution of Net Sales 38% 49% 4% Sports Education Cultural 6% 839 Million USD 47 ENVIRONMENTAL 15th Highest Export Volume Number of in Turkey Export Countries Corporate Profile Sustainability Profile 14.04% (Steel Plants) 114.8 Million TRY 9.28% (Energy Plant) 1,641 MW Environmental Investments Total Installed Capacity Thermal Direct CO2 Emission Reduction Rate Power Plants 8.97 Billion kWh and Operational Expenses Electricity Generation Değirmencik (405 MW) (7.8% of Turkey’s total electricity Bekirli (1,236 MW) generated by private sector in Bekirli Değirmencik 2014) 3.42 Million Tons 15,000 Tons 75.3% 24.7% Crude Steel Production (11% of Turkey’s crude steel Daily Recycling Capacity of Scrap Steel production) (The ratios about Turkey are based on TEİAŞ and TÇÜD data) 10 11 GROUP COMPANIES AND BUSINESS AREAS İÇDAŞ Çelik Enerji Tersane ve Ulaşım San. A.Ş. Steel and Electricity Production ENERGY CUSTOMERS İÇDAŞ Elektrik Enerjisi Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş Electricity Generation İÇDAŞ Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satış İthalat ve İhracat A.Ş. Electricity Sales DEMİR SANAYİ Demir Çelik Ticaret ve Sanayi A.Ş. Rolling ERAS Taşımacılık Taahhüt İnşaat ve Ticaret A.Ş. Road Transportation Distribution of 2,750 Electricity Subscribers BİGAİR Havacılık ve Taşımacılık Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Airway İÇDAŞ Dış Ticaret A.Ş. Agriculture and Livestock İÇDAŞ Sigorta Aracılık Hizmetleri A.Ş. Insurance 5% 10.5 İÇYAPI İnşaat Taahhüt ve Ticaret A.Ş. Construction Banking and Finance 54.15% 1.13% 10 1.24% .22 Hotels 4.00% 4.11% % CUSTOMER PROFILE Industry 10.55% .24% Food 4.11% 1 Health 1.24% 4% STEEL Shopping Malls 1.24% Textile 8.40% 4.98% CUSTOMERS Fuel 1.13% Logistics 4.98% 8.40 Other 10.22% % Traders 26% 54.15 End-Users End Users: Construction companies, % steel mesh, wire and nail, bolts and electrodes producers Traders: Distributors, Intermediary companies 74% STEEL SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD EXPORT MARKETS 20% Completed the 2nd unit of Bekirli 618 MW Supercritical Energy Plant. Completed Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Star) – 2, the 5000 DWT general cargo ship. N. America Asia Started cement and clinker plant construction. S. America 35% 20% Began the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process of High Temperature Furnace Africa Facility with 2.25-million tons / year capacity. Europe Started the construction of Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Star) 3, the 5000 DWT general cargo ship. 15% Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University prepared a report within the scope of our Artificial 10% Reef and Supporting Biodiversity Project on our request. 12 13 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT We run our business with the vision of providing products and services with universal quality and standards while leading with social and environmental responsibility. Our goal is to stay and rise in rank among the first 10 companies in Istanbul Chamber CORPOR AT E of Industry ranking list and continue to preserve and improve our responsible industrial success. GOVERNANCE ‘İÇDAŞ manages all its business processes in line with corporate governance principles, being transparent, equitable, accountable and responsible.’ 63% of our employees who participated in sustainability survey... İÇDAŞ is a family owned business where Board of Our companies use SAP system for internal audit Directors are equally responsible for company’s and risk management including sustainability risks. economical, environmental, social practices. All The Board of Directors has already identified the members including the founders are experienced current and potential risks and determined the industrial leaders of Turkish business community. policies regarding these risks. The policy determined Their self-evaluation performance criterion is the to manage sustainability risks can be found in İÇDAŞ extent of growth and accomplishment of sustainaManagement Policy Book. bility targets of İÇDAŞ. Our Discipline Procedure includes employee health, All members of the board have different executive occupational safety, information security and norms roles in different group companies. There are no that apply when there is a failure to obey the commembers other than family members in the board pany rules. Either the Discipline Committee handles of directors of all group companies. No committees related complaint in case it falls in Committee are present under the board of directors. jurisdiction, or is handled by directors and department managers. Because of their executive roles, board members are always in touch with each other and can manage The most significant communication channel from sustainability risks and opportunities daily. The Bowhich the Board of Directors receives the ideas and ard of Directors constantly monitors company rank suggestions of employees is İÇÖS Suggestion in Turkey’s first 500 industrial companies list and System. 813 suggestions have been made by the TÇÜD industrial data and reports and thus, makes end of 2014, most of which were related to decisions immediately. increasing time and labour efficiency. 14 15 SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES In order to protect environment and prevent pollution, developing and executing projects through determining and using the most suitable technologies in accordance with the conditions of our country. In determining waste management policy, increasing our environment performance and taking necessary precautions to dispose of polluters created by our activities without causing damage to the environment. Reducing CO2 emissions caused by activities, products and services, SUSTAINABILITY Creating sustainable performance indicators and continuous growth and MANAGEMENT development with targets and management system, In light of environment standards and ecologic criterion, conducting any kind of measurement, analysis and controls, fulfilling all the requirements under national acts, regulations and international treaties. As İÇDAŞ management, our objective is to increase our operations is the basis of our sustainability sustainable steel and energy production by scope. The principles we determined to explain Collectively evaluating our economic and ecologic decisions to achieve applying up to date, scientific, efficient and effective our sustainability understanding clearly to our sustainable and well-balanced improvement in our position in the sector. business schemes of our innovative management stakeholders represent our commitments in culture as well as favouring material topics such as managing our sustainability impacts throughout In light of the principle of sustainable development and in the process environmental management, occupational safety our operations. of our production, using natural resources by taking into account the and quality. Our sustainability strategy is based on balance between their existence and usage limits. providing clean and healthy environment for all of our employees and the local community in all of On the issue of environment, developing management policies our fields of activity and locations. considering the demands of non-governmental organizations, entities as well as that of public, By signing UN Global Compact in 2012, we elevated the values and principles we embraced Preventing environmental accidents and work accidents, since our establishment to a global level of corporate responsibility. We hereby declare to be Offering education programs to our employees with the aim of raising a good “corporate citizen” abiding the principles environment awareness and ensuring environment applications to run highlighted in this compact such as human effectively. rights, providing healthy workplace, respect to environment, working for anticorruption, quality We commit and declare to the public that we will work in line with our production and social responsibility. sustainability policy we described above for sustainable development Creating value for our stakeholders in all of and for a habitable world. 16 17 INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS STAKEHOLDER The positive impacts of İÇDAŞ on Turkish Our premises are run by integrated management systems, which support our sustainability performance. ENGAGEMENT economy are known and appreciated by Management System Facilities Covered Date Standard Certifications all of its stakeholders.’ Environment Control Laboratory, 79% of employees who participated in sustainability survey… ISO 17025 Laboratory Quality Fatigue Test Laboratory 2012 Steel Facilities, Energy Plants, Shipyard, 2012 ISO 14064-1:2009 GHG Emissions Our stakeholders are those individuals and executive level and the following strategy Lime Facility, Harbour companies who has impact on our business workshop. (G4-18, G4-25) Steel Facilities, Energy Plants, Shipyard, through their decisions and actions as well as who ISO 50001:2011 Energy 2011 Lime Facility, Harbour Key Stakeholders are and will be affected by our operations now and Steel Facilities, Energy Plants, Shipyard, 2005 in the future. Stakeholder groups’ views about our We have platforms present for communicating ISO 14001:2004 Environment Lime Facility, Harbour company may vary due to their different points with every stakeholder at least once a year. The ISO 18001:2007 Occupational Health Steel Facilities, Energy Plants, Shipyard, of interest. As İÇDAŞ, we try to communicate with sustainability survey results show that 56% of and Safety 2005 Lime Facility, Harbour our stakeholders to inform all of them about our our employees believe İÇDAŞ has sufficient operations and get their opinions using various communication platforms where İÇDAŞ can hear ISO 9001:2008 Quality Steel Facilities, Energy Plants, Shipyard, 1994 Lime Facility, Harbour communication platforms. suggestions and expectations of employees. This result is 53% when we ask employees about The sustainability survey that we conducted in CARES BS 8902:2009 Sustainability Steel Facilities 2011 the sufficiency of other external stakeholder the reporting period by the participation of 1,310 communication platforms. employees (27%) from all our premises was an CARES BS EN 9001:2008 Quality Steel Facilities 1998 essential tool for our employees to evaluate our We plan to create new internal and external sustainability performance. dialogue channels, improve existing ones and listen ISO 14001:2004 Environment Electricity Generation and Sales 2013 to our stakeholders regularly about the sustainability We reviewed our strategic priorities and our key stakeholders with which our company has practices İÇDAŞ carries on in the next reporting ISO 18001:2007 Occupational Health Electricity Generation and Sales 2013 intense economical, social and environmental period. We believe the feedback we will receive and Safety communication, by the sustainability identification will help us determine goals in our sustainability ISO 9001 2008 Quality Electricity Generation and Sales 2013 survey conducted with the participation of scheme. İÇDAŞ Çelik Enerji Tersane ve Ulaşım Sanayi ISO 27001 Information Security 2014 EMPLOYEES A.Ş. (except production units) FAMILIES OF AND LABOUR PUBLIC AND EMPLOYEES UNİONS REGULATORY BODIES Shipyard Facility Security Certificate Shipyard 2014 NGOS CUSTOMERS CE Certification Facilities Covered Date Fly Ash Production – TS EN 450-1:2006 İÇDAŞ Elektrik Enerjisi Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. 2012 OCCUPATIONAL LOCAL AND INDUSTRIAL PEOPLE AND CHAMBERS MANAGEMENT Aggregates Production – EN 12620:2003 İÇDAŞ Havdan Aggregate Facility 2012 and EN 13242:2002 STUDENTS, POTENTIAL MEDIA Production of Steel Slag Aggregates – EN Steel Slag (Artificial Aggregate) Facilities EMPLOYEES, REPRESENTATIVES 13242:2004 2012 TRAINEES Quality Assurance Declaration of Conformity Ready Mix Concrete Production Bekirli Ready Mix Concrete Facility 2013 TS EN 206-1:2002/A2:2006 UNIVERSITIES SHAREHOLDERS SUPPLIERS AND RESEARCH G Certificate of Conformity Ready Mix INSTITUTIONS Concrete Production TS EN 206-1:2002/ Bekirli Ready Mix Concrete Facility 2013 A2:2006 18 19 COMMUNICATION PLATFORMS Communication Stakeholders Communication Platforms Frequency Employees and Labour Unions İÇÖS Suggestion System Continuous Intranet OHS Meeting Monthly News Walls Continuous Shareholders Board Meeting Weekly Call Centre and Customer Portal Continuous Seminars-Congresses-Exhibitions A few times a year Customers Visits Continuous Product Flyers A few times a year Factory Tour and Information Meeting Once a year Media Representatives Face to Face Meetings Weekly Phone, E-mail, Social media A few times a week Suppliers Ethical Supply Chain Policy Once a year around Public and Regulatory Bodies Face to Face Meetings All year around Local People and Management Face to Face Meetings A few times a week Occupational and Industrial Memberships Monthly Chambers Presentations on OHS and Environment A few times a year NGOs Memberships Monthly Cultural Trips A few times a year Families of Employees Picnics and Social Activities A few times a year Factory Tour and Presentations A few times a year Universities and Research Institutions Occupational Tutoring Continuous Students / Potential Employees / Factory Tour and Presentations A few times a week COLLABORATIONS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND ACTIVITIES IN Presentations on OHS and Environment A few times a week Trainees DEVELOPING PUBLIC POLICY (G4-24, G4-26) We share information and expertise about İÇDAŞ takes part in activities for compliance with STRATEGIC ASPECTS FROM STAKEHOLDER VIEWPOINT environmental issues of the industry at environment EU regulations, which are organized by Ministry of meetings organized by Turkish Steel Producers Environment and Urbanization. Employees Local Public and Association (TÇÜD). Through these meetings, we Aspects and Labour Shareholders Customers Suppliers Media People and Regulatory İÇDAŞ is a member of TÜBİTAK MAM (Marmara Unions Management Bodies take actions collectively on common issues. We Research Centre) Industrial Services Partnership cooperate with public institutions and prepare Economic Performance Program (EHİP) for the last eight years. We follow the regulations together via TÇÜD in which our Employment developments in such fields as IT, environment and Chairman of the Board of Directors is a member at OHS industry via EHİP. its Advisory Board. This way, we contributed to the Education and Training preparation of many regulations. İÇDAŞ is one of the 5 equal co-partners of Marzinc Local Communities Marmara Geri Kazanım San. ve Tic. A.Ş. that owns Emissions the recovery plant where zinc rich dust is processed. Biodiversity Our co-partners are members of steel industry in Energy Marmara Region. Water Effluents and Waste (G4-18, G-27) 20 21 İÇDAŞ MATERIALITY MATRIX Consolidated results of the executive level strategy survey, STRATEGIC the materiality workshop with our managers and the empSUSTAINABILITY loyee sustainability survey helped us to better understand HIGH ASPECTS and evaluate the perception of our employees about our company’s sustainability impacts. As a result of intensive evaluations with our managers Health and during the materiality workshop, we analysed our material safety issues under economic, social and environmental aspects, prioritized them and prepared İÇDAŞ Materiality Matrix. Local Emissions (G4-18) communities management Effluents INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDERS’ and waste Economic performance Employment Training and (Assessments and Decisions on İÇDAŞ) education Water management Conservation of biodiversity Energy management LOW SIGNIFICANCE OF IMPACTS FOR İÇDAŞ (Reputation, Regulatory, Financial, Operational) On the right hand top part of the matrix, we is to clearly identify the strategic issues with regards placed the issues with high importance for to their importance and priority for our company both our company and our key stakeholders, as well as our stakeholders, make our plans and set and which directly and significantly affect our targets concerning these issues accordingly. In the company’s reputational, regulatory, financial and / near future, we aim to engage and exchange ideas or operational performance. These issues constitute with wider groups of stakeholders, review our focus the main topics of this report where we shared our issues and develop new targets. (G4-18, G4-19) company’s performance with relevant data and in detail. The main objective of forming such a matrix 22 23 BOUNDARIES OF STRATEGIC ASPECTS Aspect Boundary Limitations Deadline Completion Aspects Targets Completed Targets / Progress Target Status MATERIAL ASPECTS Internal External Internal External Social Performance Economic performance İÇDAŞ N/A None N/A Employment İÇDAŞ N/A None N/A Increase employee satisfaction Continuous Continuous Monitor by satisfaction survey. We continue investments to improve Only legal responsibilities Employment physical conditions. Health and safety İÇDAŞ Subcontractor None are fulfilled Increase the efficiency of İÇÖS 813 suggestions are collected, by Suggestion System Continuous Continuous the end of 2014 and 287 of these are realized. Only legal responsibilities Continuous target. Training Training and education İÇDAŞ Subcontractor None are fulfilled Accomplish zero accident target Continuous Continuous continues constantly. İÇDAŞ N/A None Provide 100% of employees with All staff recruited in 2014 got OHS Local communities N/A Health and Safety OHS training Continuous Continuous training Emission controls of Provide 100% of subcontractors All subcontractors started in 2014 Emissions İÇDAŞ Supplier None subcontractor vehicles with OHS training Continuous Continuous got OHS training entering facilities are done Neighbour Training and Provide 91,750 man-hours training 2014 Completed Provided 98,466 man-hours Biodiversity İÇDAŞ terrains to None N/A Education to employees training. İÇDAŞ borders Continue our community Continue cultural investments and Energy İÇDAŞ N/A None N/A investments on education, sports Continuous Continuous activities at İÇDAŞ Sports Club. and culture Water İÇDAŞ N/A None N/A Increase our local employment rate Continuous 228 students are recruited in the Subcontractors are bound Continuous scope of UMEM project so far. 18 through UMEM Project by our waste water and of them were hired in 2014. Effluents and waste İÇDAŞ Subcontractor None waste management norms for their activities within Increase the number of our facility In progress 931 people visited our facilities in visitors to 15,000 since 2001 2020 2014. 92% were students, 8% were İÇDAŞ premises NGO representatives. (G4-20, G4-21) N/A: Not Available Local Community Continue lectures at Biga In 2014, 8 engineers from Steel Vocational School Continuous Continuous mill tutored 21 hours/week while Engagement 3 engineers from Environment, STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Introduce 200 young people with Deadline Completion swimming, 300 with sailing and OHS and Quality Departments Aspects Targets Completed Targets / Progress 300 with windsurfing each year Continuous Continuous tutored 6 hours/week. Target Status Open new disciplines at the Exceeded the targets in 2014 Economic Performance sports club and ensure 200 2014 Completed Basketball, archery and chess participants for each discipline disciplines are opened. Exceeded targets. Analyse the economical 2019 In progress Work on utilization of local ores convenience of local ores and use continues Continue main sponsorship of them in steel production 2018 In progress Excavations continue Parion Excavations Launched Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Continue with the Türk Yıldızı Star)-2 in May and started building Continue sponsorship of Apollon (Turkish Star) Project to produce Continuous Continuous 2021 In progress Excavations continue Contributions coasters Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Star)-3 in Smintheion Excavations August 2014 to National and In 2014, shipyard staff number Initiate Troy Excavation In progress Increase employment by our local 2020 Signed a sponsorship agreement Local Economy Continuous Continuous increased by 50 due to ship sponsorship for 5 years. The excavation could investments constructions. not start in 2014 due to sick leave Railway Transportation – To No carriages added to 176 of the excavation lead. 2020 In progress continue carriage investments carriages present. Launched Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Marine Transportation To invest 2015 In progress Star)-2 in May and started building in train ferry production Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Star)-3 in August 2014 Cement and clinker facilities 2016 In progress Began construction in November 2014. 24 25 Deadline Completion Aspects Targets Completed Targets / Progress Target Status Environmental Performance Decrease the use of road transport Continuous Continuous In 2014, logistics activities were and prefer rail and marine done mostly by railway and marine transportation instead way. In 2014, we planted 13,776 saplings. Plant a total of one million trees 2023 In progress 9,000 of them were nut pine, 3,500 were creeping plants and the rest 1,276 were fruit and other trees. Increase the share of renewable energy in energy generation to 2016 In progress Started construction of 60 MW WPP 3.6% Project. Emissions Monitor and broadcast the air Ministry monitors data online. At quality around our facilities Continuous Continuous 05.02.2014, ozone measurement Management device is added. Build the infrastructure of the real Applied to ministry for informing time emission monitoring system readiness to transmit data. Made for the stack emissions of steel and official application to Environment energy facilities in line with SEÖS 2014 Completed and Urbanization Ministry for Statement in order to make the Değirmencik and Bekirli facilities data accessible to legal authority on 31.12.2014 to connect the data collection system. Started construction in 2014. We To complete Biga Wind Power plan to launch first turbines in 2015 Plant (WPP) Project 2016 In progress and complete them in the first half of 2016. Work continues. Semi-annual Continue TÜBİTAK MAM 2016 In progress interim reports are prepared. We Conservation Environmental Monitoring Project plan to issue the following report in of Biodiversity January 2015. Ensure annual reports on biodiversity around the Biga Continuous Continuous Issued 2014 report. region are prepared Terminated the project due to very Produce electricity from waste 2015 Terminated high investment cost and risk of heat at the steel facilities failure since there are only a few examples in the world. Save electricity by 30% through We purchased the inverter at the Dedusting Booster Fan Inverter 2016 In progress end of 2014. We plan to operate it implementation at Steel Mill 3 in 2016. Energy Save natural gas by 15–30% Quality issues reduced by process through Rolling Mill 3-4 hot 2015 improvements, thus, hot charging Management In progress increased and we saved 772,478-m3 charging improvement natural gas Save natural gas by 20% through Operational conditions are Ladle Heating Boiler Revision in 2015 In progress improved in 2014 to save 6,833-m3 steel process natural gas monthly. Continue seawater treatment to Water preserve scarce freshwater sources Continuous In 2014, we continued to supply Continuous all water need of Değirmencik and Management Reduce the regularly stored waste amount to zero Bekirli facilities from the sea. Began R&D studies to use thermal Waste plant coal ash in gas cement Reduce the regularly stored 2020 In progress production. The studies are held Management waste amount to zero with the cooperation of 18 Mart University. 26 27 60 MW 176 Carriages Karabiga Wind Power Plant (WPP) Isparta, Ankara, Konya, Gölcük, Sakarya, Bursa (Construction began in 2014. Our Steel Centres On The Turkish We plan it to be fully operational Railway Track in 2016.) (The 2nd Largest Private Fleet Owner in Turkey.) ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Today, economic competition is based on various faAt İÇDAŞ, our corporate culture is based on fulfilling ctors such as continuity of production, utilization of our environmental commitments while expanding in clean, eco friendly technologies and low input costs. economic terms. We believe the three pivots; financial Parallel to developments around the world, İÇDAŞ aims to expand by investing to sustain its market performance, social responsibility and environmental position with high quality products, compete and management, are the most crucial factors that lead to protect ecological balance in order to integrate with sustainable development. the modern world. 28 29 Steel Production We are the largest private sector steel investor in terms of capacity. Turkey is the 8th steel producer in the world. 11% of Turkey’s steel production takes place in İÇDAŞ facilities. In 2014, we became the 15th exporter in Turkey with 836.8 million US dollars export volume. According to Turkish Exporters Assembly (TİM) data, we took the second place in steel industry with 6.3% share. Power Generation In 2014, İÇDAŞ generated 7.8% of energy produced SU STAIN ABL E by private sector in Turkey. 5.88 billion kwh of it D E V E LO PM E N T was generated in Bekirli, and 3.10 billion kwh in Değirmencik. AN D CO N TRIBU TIO NS TO E CO N O M Y Railway Transportation İÇDAŞ is a private sector company whose railway ‘İÇDAŞ creates considerable amount of economic value for its fleet is the second largest one in Turkey, with its 176 stakeholders (employees, suppliers, local people, government railway carriages Our transportation capacity on current railway infrastructure is 350 thousand tons institutions).’ a year. We switched our product and raw material 79% of employees who participated in sustainability survey… transport activities to railway transportation in order to reduce our costs and to protect environment by means of relatively less emission than road carriage. To accommodate this target and utilize Our financial sustainability is crucial Today, İÇDAŞ is a leading steel, energy and ship railway efficiently, we established steel centres at 5 from all aspects for our stakeholders that producing company of over 8 billion TRY turnover, locations in Turkey. include our shareholders, employees, which uses diversified green technologies as an suppliers and our local neighbours. employer, contractor, investor and innovative Shipyard Activities and Marine The foundation of our environmental technological solutions provider. While İÇDAŞ brings Transportation and social investments is based on our in Turkey considerable amount of foreign exchange We create a considerable amount of economic strong financial structure. We target through exports each year, it employs 5 thousand value with our activities in our harbour that has a those projects that provide employment people directly and another 5 thousand indirectly to high docking and load-unload capacity. Train ferry opportunities, contribute to production form a family of 10 thousand people economically. construction is another part of our investment plan. and create value to nature, our culture and Our ultimate objective with this investment is to human life. reach Bandırma Shipyard directly, shipping from factory to railway and therefore to prevent handling manipulation. Furthermore, direct export from Tekirdağ to Europe will be possible this way. 30 31 İÇDAŞ, THE FIRST SUPPORTER OF TÜRK YILDIZI (TURKISH STAR) INVESTMENTS COMPLETED AND STARTED IN 2014 PROJECT, CONTINUES ITS INVESTMENTS… Completion Status/ Project Location Budget Target The Project is launched in 2012 with the USD in cost is completed at Çanakkale In December 2011, the first 1,236 MW Supercritical Bekirli Çanakkale 1 billion USD objective of renovating 100 coasters of Biga premises. Total budget of the project unit and in July 2014, the Power Plant the Turkish Maritime Trade Coaster Fleet, is 37.5 million USD. Coasters are designed second unit are completed which is used for freight transport around for river transportation as well as marine. Wind Power Plant (WPP) Biga Çanakkale 100 million USD Construction and installation and nearby Mediterranean and Black It is favourable due to its environmentalist work in progress Sea coasts. İÇDAŞ decided to contribute specifications such as fuel efficiency. İÇDAŞ’s Cement and Clinker Biga-Bekirli ve BigaBegan construction in 250 million USD Facilities Karahamzalar November 2014 to the project with 5 coasters believing coasters, which are designed by Turkish that this Project would improve Turkey’s engineers, will carry dry cargo, private cargo Railway Transportation – Yurt içi 11 million Euro In progress global competitiveness. The production and containers. Carriage Investment of the first two coasters with 15 million Integrated Steel Değirmencik Biga 1 billion USD 2018 – In progress Production Facility Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Star)-2, 5000 DWT General Cargo Değirmencik Biga 2014 May 7.5 million USD Ship Türk Yıldızı (Turkish Star)-3, Değirmencik Biga 7.5 million USD 2015 August 5000 DWT General Cargo Ship (construction began) Değirmencik-2 Regular 2016 – Construction in Ash Storage Field Değirmencik Biga 6.5 million USD progress Bekirli-2 Regular Ash 2016 – Construction in Storage Field Bekirli Biga 6.5 million USD progress İÇDAŞ Congress Hall Completed in the first ÇOMÜ-Çanakkale 35 million TRY quarter of 2014 Target of Producing Steel from Local Economic Contributions Local Ores Total direct investment amount of İÇDAŞ in Çanakkale We have been working on more efficient region is 5.3 billion US dollars so far. 394 million of production processes that will be alternatives to it was done in 2014. The indirect impacts of these scrap because of the shrinkage and pollution in investments on the local community and economy the world and Turkish steel sector. We analyse are higher and for longer terms. Giving priority to local the economical convenience of local ores to recruitment reinforces this impact. make production with national resources in Details of our social and environmental investments, order to increase the quality of goods and education, sports and cultural support projects and reduce the production cost. As an environmental indirect economic impacts are explained in ‘Social investment, we continue our operations on Performance’ section of this report. generating electricity from waste heat that comes from high energy consuming processes of electric arc furnace and rolling mill reheating furnace. 32 33 İÇDAŞ Biga WPP (Wind Power Plant) Project On May 12, 2012 we gained the right to build a 60 as well as diversify our energy production portfolio MW wind power plant (WPP) at Biga, Çanakkale and start carbon trade. by winning the tender of Turkish Electricity We plan to develop and register İÇDAŞ Biga Transmission Company (TEİAŞ). We started WPP project as a Verified Emission Reduction construction in 2014 after Çanakkale Nature and Project in accordance with Gold Standard VER Forest Directorate decided that Environment Impact (GS VER) norms and standards. The main factor Assessment report (EIA) was not necessary for this that differentiates Gold Standard from other VER Project. We are building it according to all national standards is developing the project in accordance environmental and other regulations. with sustainable development and environmental We plan to operate the first turbines in 2015. We principles. Consulting and engaging stakeholders used 7 million of 52 million Euro budget in 2014. on sustainable development and environmental We intended to contribute to local economy impacts of the project will provide this conformity. by providing new job opportunities during the We intend the Biga WPP to be certified Gold construction and operation processes of the project. Standard and take part in the Voluntary Carbon İÇDAŞ Biga WPP project is licensed to generate Market, hence facilitating our country to move into 210 million kWh annually. 120 thousand tons of Low Carbon Economy. carbon emission reduction will be achieved with this production amount. Through İÇDAŞ Biga WPP project, we aim to preserve the ecological balance E N E RG Y IN V E ST M E N TS What is Voluntary Carbon Market? Voluntary Carbon Markets are non-compliance markets independent from governmental regulations where members of business world, ‘İÇDAŞ should invest in renewable energy sources for electricity local administrations, NGOs and even individuals generation.’ can offset carbon emissions. Increasing 87% of employees who participated in sustainability survey… public awareness on climate change and its impacts, and related carbon offset as a reliable prevention strategy played important roles in Energy sector is a high potential and attractive All these developments and uninterrupted, high rapid development of these markets recently. investment sector in our country since Turkey’s quality energy need to continue our seamless The emission credit traded in this market is dependence on foreign resources is approximately operations increases our sensitivity for secure called Voluntary Emission Reduction Units (VER). 70%. Energy import volume is the largest amount energy supply and to reduce Turkey’s dependence Institutions who want to offset the amount of in Turkey’s foreign trade deficit that cost 84.5 billion on foreign supply. We continue to invest in coalgreenhouse gas created by their operations, USD in 2014. Securing energy demand is critical based, environment friendly thermal power plants calculate their emission amounts (i.e. measure for Turkey’s sustainability, as it is for the rest of the to reduce the dependency on natural gas. carbon footprint). Then they buy carbon world. Population rise, expansion in industrialization credits that they produced by means of social and acceleration in urbanization increase energy responsibility projects to reduce or offset their demand every day. Base load power stations are emissions. needed for uninterrupted power supply since their secure electricity generation is higher compared to other types of power stations. 34 35 LOCAL SUPPLY PRACTICES We supply our company needs, especially raw materials from all over the world and Turkey. When it comes to procurement, for İÇDAŞ, ‘local’ means İÇDAŞ Supply Chain Structure Local Import ‘within Turkey’. We defined our local supply policy and equipment are usually procured domestically. and selection criteria in our supplier list designation Domestic suppliers make up 96% of all our suppliers 113 Total number of suppliers 2,591 and procurement procedure. in numbers where 49% of our expenditure is allocated to imports because of the higher cost We first check if we can supply the procurement Approximate number of suppliers of goods purchased. On the other hand, we have 170 demand from Biga, Çanakkale or elsewhere in in the supply chain 12,000 improved our local procurement rate from 16% Turkey. We procure domestically if the quality-price to 51% since 2012 by means of developing our Marmara: 2,108 ratio is acceptable in our terms. Scrap and coal are procurement practices. Aegean: 140 Russia, Ukraine, EU, USA, usually imported where fuel, machinery Internal Anatolia: 274 China, Colombia, RSA, India, Locations of suppliers by region Eastern Anatolia: 5 Israel, Japan, Lebanon, or country Black Sea Region: 24 Mexico Southeast Anatolia: 14 Mediterranean: 26 96% 4% 49% Main producers, licence Scrap, coal, HBI, pig, iron 51% Types of suppliers owners, auditors, consultants, billet, replacement part intermediaries, wholesalers, suppliers and supervisory subcontractors, carriers companies Suppliers Purchasing Rates Import Import 1,374,508,992.62 USD Estimated value of payment 3,397,600,000,000 TRY Local Local (3,204,117,913 TRY) done to suppliers 36 37 71,194 Hours 44.41% Total Training Hours Ratio of Workers Represented by a Labour Union SOCIAL PERFORMANCE At İÇDAŞ, we identified that the most important social impacts of our operational processes emerge from İÇDAŞ employees and the local public, both with their families, are the primary the health and safety of our employees and from social stakeholders of İÇDAŞ. We manage employee relations through our our responsibilities towards the local people living HR Policy. We take into consideration the priorities of local residents, our around our facilities. Our steel and energy production ‘neighbours’, when planning our social and environmental investments. operations are run with zero accident targets. 38 39 OHS Trainings (Manxhours) 8.000 7.000 7,130 6.000 5.000 5,539 4.000 4,104 3.000 3,902 2.000 1.000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 OCCUPATIONAL In 2014, we gave training to 7,130 people. 4,722 people got OHS and 2,408 got orientation training. Total number of people is greater than the staff number because some employees HEALTH AND attended more than one training in 2014. SAFETY OHS TRAININGS 2013 2014 ‘İÇDAŞ takes necessary measures sufficient to Number of Man x hours Number of Man x hours Training Topic Employees Employees oversee and secure health and safety of its employees.’ Basic OHS Norms and Preventions 426 3,062 69% of employees who participated in sustainability survey... Basic Working at Heights Training 140 918.5 Behaviour Development and Communication 2,134 17,072 Steel industry is a part of primary metal industry Occupational Safety Theatre Performance 1,019 2,038 risk of accidents and increase overall performance. and is considered a “heavy” industry. Constantly Basic Fire Training 219 876 In 2014, we provided our employee with 57 Advanced Fire Training 131 2,096 moving very heavy and enormous materials and thousand 429 hours of OHS training. 19 thousand Operatorship machines from one place to another; being around 48 3,456 190 13,680 264 hours of it was done during the orientation and dealing with molten metal at 1,800 degrees Management Techniques and trainings. In order for our employees to embrace Occupational Safety Communication 366 2,928 centigrade, toxic and corrosive materials, scent, our work on health and safety, we run all related Tool Box talks (20 Different Topics) 1,010 388 1,275 425 smoke and noise are the most essential risks against activities under Zero Accident Project with the Working Under High Voltage (EKAT) health and safety. 144 17,280 motto; “Let’s go home healthy”. Protecting from Radiation 85 680 Employee health and safety are our top strategic The details of our OHS Policy can be found in İÇDAŞ 27001 Information Safety Awareness 926 1,852 priorities. As İÇDAŞ, we care about the health and Management Policy Book. The data about our OHS Human Rights 58 116 safety of our employees in accordance with our performance can be found on page 83, in ‘Social Emergency 2,256 18.048 internal Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Policy Performance Indicators’ table. First Aid 120 960 and OHS Management System implementations. Creating OHS Culture 609 4,872 We apply OHSAS 18001 – OHS Management System Management and Leadership 127 1,016 as part of our risk management strategies in order to Eco Driving of Scania Vehicles 121 484 comply with OHS regulation changed during the EU TOTAL 5,493 32,835 5,911 59,413 adaptation process. This system enables İÇDAŞ to make sound and consistent risk evaluation, reduce 40 41 ZERO ACCIDENT PROJECT Accident Frequency Rates We planned our OHS operations around systematic “WE” and to achieve zero accident targets. A team and scientific methods in order to comply with of independent work safety experts, delegates the clause in İÇDAŞ OHS Policy: ‘We will create from the Turkish Metal Union and a MEV consultant 34.36 35 and implement projects that will increase our OHS prepared a procedure to be applied during the 30 performance.’ We named the Project ‘Zero Accident Project implementation that explains the method 24.24 Project’ in order to implement and expand it in the and responsibilities. Project development continued 25 20.08 field, and to make it become a part of our culture. with an information meeting, logo design, target 17.38 20 15.81 15.82 16.17 15.43 setting and trainings. ‘Zero accident’ seems like a very challenging 15 target for a company working 24/7 in a heavy and In order to clearly inform all stakeholders about 10 dangerous working environment. Nonetheless, we the developments in the Project, we designated 5 started the Project believing that we could achieve staff canteen OHS dashboards, OHS Bulletin and it. In order to reinforce the Project to be more active, OHS Intranet as communication channels. Project 0 effective and sustainable, we received assistance continued with identification of personal protective Bloomery Steel Mill Auxiliary Oxygen Facility from MEV – MESS Training Foundation (MESS: Turkish supplies, correct-incorrect practices, meetings, Facilities Employers’ Association Of Metal Industries). We workshops and work safety parades. As part of Zero Before the Project 2014 allocated 550 thousand TRY budget to the project Accident Project, a rewarding system is created that lasted for 3 years from 2011 through 2013. and implemented for those departments with no accidents over a 30-day period. Our aim is to engage all employees in the Project to take part actively and prevent any danger and RADIATION SAFETY MANAGEMENT unsafe actions that cause accidents by acting as İÇDAŞ is a leading company in its industry due entrance. After the check at the entrance the scrap to the investments and measurement systems it steel is taken into the scrap store where the experts undertakes in radiation safety. Our plants receive recheck it. Success Factors scrap steel from all over the world on a regular basis. In order to prevent problems that occur by human The dangers spotted by the employees on the 5S studies along with the Project enabled the We have a particular systematic control system to or equipment errors, scrap steel is checked once job as well as the solutions and the alternative creation of a better work environment, reduction recycle scrap steel without incurring risks against again against radiation after the melting process. applications they produced against the risks play of accidents, total efficiency increase, reduction the environment and work safety. Dedusting systems include radiation measurement the leading role in the success of this Project. of time loss in material search, the change We eliminate the reception of scrap from countries device to detect radiation at this stage. These Thanks to the employees who embraced the the way employees think and increase in the with high contamination risk of explosive materials, devices that are present at 3 of the dedusting Project, it expanded from the steel plants over communication among the employees. chemicals or radioactive waste. We also check systems constantly monitor melting process. The the other subsidiaries of the company. In contrast Considering all these criteria, we accomplished high and control each stage of the operation from the probability of failure to detect radiation up to this to the usual practices in the steel production, we reduction in rates of frequency and the size of the procurement to the reception and processing. point is very low after all these control stages. used different application methods to go out of accident since 2007. Nonetheless, all steel products are checked once the box. This allowed us to develop methods and We procure imported steel only from the licensed again before leaving the plant. All products are techniques, which contain less risks, demand less steel processing plants. İÇDAŞ Scrap Experts visit scanned by highly accurate Permanent Radiation effort in shorter time. and approve the suppliers on a regular basis to Measurement Devices before leaving the plant. control whether the plant is technically qualified for processing scrap. The scrap is embarked after radiation and chemical controls done and supervised by international supervisory bodies. We have 8 Permanent Radiation Measurement Devices: 4 at the harbour entrance and 4 at the land 42 43 LOCAL EMPLOYMENT We prefer to recruit local people for our Değirmencik Integrated Plant. This approach facilitates the orientation process among employees and increases the quality of life EMPLOYEE around the neighbourhood. Today, direct ENGAGEMENT employment from the locals is three thousand people at İÇDAŞ facilities. This number expands to six thousand when we consider all the services purchased in the region. ‘The amount of training and programs (technical By the end of 2014, ratio of executive managers and soft skill trainings, career development programs, rotation, to all managers from locals was 36%. We employ etc.) İÇDAŞ provides to employees are sufficient.’ 83% of our staff in Değirmencik Integrated 63% of employees who participated in sustainability survey... Facility and 75% in Bekirli Power Plant from locals. İÇDAŞ Board of Directors defines its employees as its player concerning the production, capacity and most valuable asset. Our employees are our primary technology it owns today. We aim to improve our stakeholders in terms of sustainability as they are operations together with our happy and engaged for all other İÇDAŞ aspects. We defined part of our employees by providing them with personal mission about the employees as; ‘creating team development opportunities and health and security work, righteous attitude, open communication, at workplace. personal safety and development opportunities by TRAINING AND EDUCATION Distribution of Trainings Number of The percentage of union labour is high due to the providing a safe and effective work environment’. In the reporting period, we provided İÇDAŞ staff According to Topics Trainings facts of the industry being large scale and labour We are determined to maintain this culture. with 71 thousand 194 hours training on 115 intensive. Another method to include employees in Environmental Trainings 6 different topics including health, security and The know-how, competence, experience and the decision-making processes is the meetings held Integrated Management Systems Training 3 personal development. In 2014, the number of diligence of employees are the leading factors that with labour and union representatives. staff who got training increased by 56% whereas Quality Trainings 23 enable İÇDAŞ to become a major international those who got OHS training increased by 74%. Occupational Safety Trainings 43 Average training hours by employee type and Personal Development Trainings 2 İÇDAŞ SUGGESTION SYSTEM (İÇÖS) other training information is presented in ‘Social Career Development Trainings 38 suggestions applicable for implementation are Performance Indicators’ section of our report. In 2008, İÇDAŞ Board of Directors initiated İÇÖS to make use of employee suggestions and ideas submitted to İÇÖS executive committee. The and to develop the employee – management committee approves suitable suggestions and communication. We announced the purpose, starts the preparations for deployment. scope, activities of the system and the benefits A 20 people committee of a work unit and an it will introduce both to the employees and the executive council executes İÇÖS. 813 suggestions company. are received since the beginning of the system until the end of 2014 and 287 of these are Employees write down efficiency, OHS, realized. environment, quality, etc. improvement suggestions on İÇÖS forms. They then put them in We decided to apply Auxiliary Dish EBT Slide Arm the İÇÖS suggestion boxes at the staff canteens. revision upon a suggestion from Steel mill 2. The These suggestions are collected regularly and revision enabled EBT maintenance to finish in discussed at the İÇÖS work unit meetings. Those shorter time and we saved time and labour. 44 45 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS We try to create equal opportunities for everyone, Management Policy Book describes our principles male or female, starting from the first day. We on human rights and working conditions for both exercise equal job –equal pay principle as stated in İÇDAŞ and our suppliers. In 2014, our 58 employees our İÇDAŞ HR Policy. Salaries are increased each year took 116 hours of human rights training. The rate according to employee performance. of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement is 44.4%. This rate has increased in the Female workforce consists 3% of our total group workforce. Due to the nature of the steel and energy last two years by 2.5%. LOCAL industries female workforce ratio is very low likewise COMMUNITY the rest of the world and Turkey. ENGAGEMENT We don’t exercise operations such as employing child labour or forced labour. Our HR Policy in İÇDAŞ ‘By the local community, İÇDAŞ is perceived as a company that respects the rights of local community, WORK ENVIRONMENT AND cares about local health and safety and produces positive FRINGE BENEFITS outcomes by its activities.’ Fringe benefits to full time employees are; fuel, Services and fringe benefits applied to all 76% of employees who participated in sustainability survey… marriage, maternity, death, child, military service, employees are; paid sick leave and private medical education, lunch, transportation, shoes, natural support clear of charges, zero interest loan once a As İÇDAŞ, we always intend to protect the rights, and corporate responsibility work, we try to reach disaster, food and cleaning supplies aids, bonus, year, right to receive advance credit, shuttle service benefits and values of local community since the locals first and respect the culture, tradition and holiday and annual paid leave. for workers, medical centre, company dwelling and the first day of our investments. We support this history of our neighbourhood. insurance against accidents. All children can attend intention by recruiting most of our executives sailing club activities free of charge. among the local residents. In all our investments FACILITY VISITS We began organizing facility visits in 2010 With this in mind, we hosted 4,501 guests so during the months from March to October far. Among these guests were students from when we noticed that public did not have primary schools to universities in Çanakkale enough information about our production and region, members of craftsmen chambers, NGO environmental activities and that there were many and association members, local and central requests from the public to make site visits and government representatives, and senators and explore our plants. Visits are organized with the help media representatives. 92% of 931 guests we hosted of İÇDAŞ Media and Public Relations Management in 2014 were students and 8% were NGOs. since the beginning. We provide information about site visits to media Our aim is to inform all external stakeholders about in order to expand this practice to the society. Our İÇDAŞ environment and water management aim is to reach 15 thousand visitors in 10 years and system, social responsibility activities, work create a recognized corporate perception through environment and innovative production technology direct observation in the 10% of local community. via direct observation method. We also intend to We plan to continue this activity with four-six visitor create a positive perception among the various groups monthly for every eight months for the social stratums of local public and to maintain and coming seven years. increase the solidarity between İÇDAŞ and the local community. 46 47 Malaysia Marine and Water Affairs Minister’s Visit Director General of Fisheries Development is crucial for Malaysia. I’m leaving İÇDAŞ Facilities Authority of Malaysia, Mohad Khazin Bin Hamzah with an industry vision that will set an example and Aziz Bin Sabdin who is the deputy minister for Malaysia.” responsible from Penank region visited İÇDAŞ Bekirli Power Plant and Değirmencik Steel Facilities together with a 28 people delegation of Malaysian aqua cultural producers. They made observations and were informed on İÇDAŞ Bass and Bream Fish Farm and turbot breeding which is the first in Turkey. Aziz Bin Sabdin said; “Malaysia is a country of islands and sea. In order for us to develop in aquaculture and industry it was important for us to see İÇDAŞ facilities. I am impressed by the eco friendly technologies SOCIAL and fish farm of the facilities. Plus, I saw seawater INVESTMENTS treatment process in person. What I’ve seen here ‘İÇDAŞ’s social development investments towards the local people around its premises are sufficient.’ 77% of employees who participated in sustainability survey... FACILITY VISITS Results and Gains Since the day it was established, İÇDAŞ have been heritage investments with a holistic approach that working on raising the quality of living by providing embraces the local and regional youth. educational opportunities, improving social life Economical: The activity ensured We have completed 42 million TRY of investments Environmental: The most and meeting societal needs. We make our social potential local employees to make wise from 2004 to 2013. Our social investment accounted important gain of this activity is its contribution investments in education, sports and culture with occupational decisions, which also meet our for 10.3 million TRY in 2014. Our social and to the public perception of our plants’ the motto, ‘Healthy-Educated-Social Youth = Strong need for skilled labour. In the long term, this environmental infrastructure supports consist of sensitivities towards the environmental values. Society’ considering that youth is the most essential activity will help us recruit sufficient number of monetary and material donations for building road, Every visitor who has witnessed this sensitivity part of the society. skilled labour in the region. mosque, park, transmission lines, etc. has been an ambassador of our corporation. Aiming a society that is educated, healthy, energetic, highly sociable, prosperous and confident due to its thousands of years of cultural heritage, İÇDAŞ continues its sports and conservation of cultural Corporate: Having received Social: The activity helped to an intensive appreciation from the external Our Social Support in Local stakeholders, the activity has had a positive form strong relations between the external Community and Economy (2014) stakeholders and the plant managers. It also impact on our employees’ engagement and work esteem. İÇDAŞ, thanks to its sharing approach, Social and Environmental enabled our internal stakeholders to take Infra-structure 3,950,540 TRY established a great sense of security in its part in activities organized by the external stakeholders while , its corporate performance Sports 661,931 TRY stakeholders. We even began to receive and the value of awards it has won in many fields requests from stakeholders outside our region. Education 5,045,185 TRY have become much better understandable and appreciable by public. Cultural 685,879 TRY 48 49 İÇDAŞ CONGRESS HALL UMEM SPECIALIZED VOCATIONAL The Congress Hall construction at Çanakkale use of the congress hall in local, national and TRAINING CENTRES PROJECT Onsekiz Mart University started in 2013 and international activities and develop the city in congress tourism. The Union of Chambers and Commodity The UMEM programs opened in İÇDAŞ Biga completed in 2014 with 35 million TRY financial Exchanges of Turkey –TOBB started the Project Vocational and Technical High School were support of İÇDAŞ. Our other investments that started in 2014 are UMEM in 2010, after revealing the fact that the performed under the names; ‘Steel Mill Worker, given in the following table. İÇDAŞ Congress Hall which is located on Turkey’s most essential issue of private sector was finding Welding, Rigging, Turnery and Steel Producer’. 4 largest theology faculty campus and is Çanakkale’s skilled labour. The UMEM Project is a mutual public new programs in 2014 opened on top of 10 that first and the only congress hall has 1,500 seating project conducted by TOBB and Ministry of Labour were opened in 2012-2013. So far 238 people are capacity, 200 square meters stage area, four and Social Security. certified. 74 people are certified in 2014. İÇDAŞ seminar rooms, 345 square meters exhibition hall, will continue its support in the project as long as it The purpose of the program is to support unskilled two cultural and artistic performance rooms, a VIP lives. labour to have a career and a job as well as room and a chorus practice room. resolving the issue of skilled labour shortage in the We expect 40 thousand university students, private sector. The target of Ministry and İŞKUR is to Çanakkale people and the university to make get 90% of 1 million unemployed to have a job in 5 years time. Name Start and Target Date İÇDAŞ Contribution Lapseki Industrial Vocational High School 2014 January & 2014 December 2,200,000 TRY 2014 November & 2015 August 4,600,000 TRY Biga Industrial Vocational High School Results and Gains SUPPORTING EDUCATION Economic: 228 certified students The idea behind our educational investments is the education courses and quasi projects. We provided started their career in Steel Mill, Rolling Mill, deficiency of regional qualified workforce. 49% of 438 students with 866 thousand TRY grants in 2014. Power Plant, Harbour and Auxiliary Facilities at our investments fall under educational category, Hence, we have provided 2.4 million TRY grants in İÇDAŞ. which includes school and dormitory construction total to 1,420 students in four years. and infrastructural support, student grants, adult Number of Students and Amounts of Grants Social: This is a Project to resolve the Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 most essential social issue: unemployment. Vocational High Schools 25 20 23 26 Those who are recruited not only got jobs but also gained professional careers. University 238 258 281 344 Other 14 48 75 68 Total number of students 277 326 379 438 Total Amount of Grants 426,895 TRY 464,775 TRY 655,570 TRY 865,980 TRY Corporate: Our support in the program evoked respect in the society. SUPPORTING SPORTS SUPPORTING CULTURAL İÇDAŞ added another dimension to social DEVELOPMENT responsibility approach by making unskilled We intend to encourage the regional youth, which labour in the region to gain professional careers includes our employees and their children as well, to In order to reveal Turkey’s universal values and to as well as getting jobs. develop as healthy, confident, sportive, competitive introduce our historic and cultural wealth to the individuals with team spirit. With this notion, we world, we support Parion, Troy and Smintheion support all kinds of sports and sporting clubs in our excavations, which help develop the History of region, as well as establishing İÇDAŞ Sports Club. Anatolian Culture. 50 51 THE PROJECT OF TUTORING AT ÇANAKKALE ONSEKİZ MART UNIVERSITY İÇDAŞ Trainer Employees ÇOMÜ AND BİGA VOCATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL BY İÇDAŞ EMPLOYEES NAME TITLE DEPARTMENT We had problems recruiting the regional vocational As İÇDAŞ, being the only large-scale heavy industry high school graduates since these schools were enterprise in and around Çanakkale, we prepare 1 Serdar Erdemiş Steel Mill 2 Chief Metallurgy Engineering established overlooking the emerging industries lesson contents according to iron & steel and power 2 M.Cem Toksöz Steel Mill 1 Chief of Operation Metallurgy Engineering and investments at the region. Private sector also industry processes. We also provide comprehensive 3 Murat Yılmaz Steel Mill 3 Continuous Rolling Chief Metallurgy Engineering had problems recruiting people with the right skills. education in working under heavy industry 4 Burçin Wallington Occupational Safety Expert Metallurgy Engineering conditions, quality control, occupational safety and 5 Serdar Sanık Environmental Engineer Environmental Engineering At the end of 2011-2012 term, İÇDAŞ Head Office environment. 6 Burçak Yılmaz Steel Mill 1 Assistant Chief of Operations Equipment Engineering and Çanakkale 18 Mart University Management agreed to open ‘Electricity Generation, Transmission In 2014, our engineers continued teaching quality, 7 Hafize Akar Quality System Security Contact Metallurgy Engineering and Distribution’ and ‘Metallurgy’ classes within occupational safety and environment lessons as 8 Tamer Özan Steel Mill 3 Refractor Chief Metallurgy Engineering Biga Vocational School. Immediately after, Biga well as occupational lessons. 14 of our staff tutored 9 Çağrı Ünzal Continuous Rolling Chief Metallurgy Engineering Vocational school presented ‘Program Opening 459 students on 21 different lessons in 2013-2014 10 Steel Mill 2 Mechanical Maintenance Mechanical Engineering Mücahit Duran Rationale’ to university board and then to Higher and 215 students in 2014-2015 terms Chief Education Council (YÖK). 11 Olçun Öksüz Raw material, supply and Process Industrial Engineering development assistant manager Programs approved by YÖK started classes with 12 Hilal Kocaeren Occupational Safety Expert Physics 30 people quota in 2012-2013 term. 25 students 13 İbrahim Tanışman Steel Mill 2 Chief of Electricity Electronics Engineering enrolled in Metallurgy and 27 in Electricity 14 Arzu Ballı Environmental Engineer Environmental Engineering Generation, Transmission and Distribution programs. In 2013 – 2014 term, both programs filled their quotas. Results and Gains So the relations between Biga Vocational School and İÇDAŞ developed even closer. A council formed by İÇDAŞ and Biga Vocational School staff to make Economical: As the practice is Environmental: We think that initiated recently, it is not possible to analyse its plants run by skilled expert employees current lessons more practical conforming real economical results at this point. Nonetheless, will be more effective in protecting the world practices. These lessons began in 2013-2014 because the program is designed to include environmental values. term. The occupational lessons in the second many implementations and practical year are taught by a special group of successful information, we believe the students will adapt engineers who work at İÇDAŞ. Sometimes lessons their jobs promptly and have higher work take place in İÇDAŞ facilities. efficiency levels. The engineers Serdar Erdemiş, Burçak Yılmaz, Tamer Özan, Murat Yılmaz, Cem Toksöz, R. Çağrı Ünzal, Murat Çürüksulu, Serdar Sanık, Hafize Akar and Burçin Wallington led by Program Consultant and Corporate: We believe that this Social: We expect that the practice Lecturer İsmail Hacıkuru, prepared the programs practice will contribute to create a more will help students to have an education in a way to ensure that the students get higher competitive and effective corporate structure experience where they can confidently look returns in their careers. The team aimed to design throughout the organization by recruiting ahead. the careers of students by the lecture notes and expert skilled personnel. practical content they prepared. 52 53 İÇDAŞ SPORTS CLUB Although Çanakkale has the second longest Sports Club in 2011. coastline in Turkey with 671 km, it did not have an In 2013, we added the windsurfing activity to our infrastructure that enabled water and sea sports. educational activities that composed of sail and Swimming, sailing and other water sports require swimming. Chess and basketball activities are expensive merchandise to comply with universal added to water sports in 2014. standards. Therefore for masses to do water sports free of charge, we established The Sailing School According to TÜİK 2014 yearend data, 55 thousand target of the project as supporting the youth of the Sailing Provincial Representative Office, Çanakkale at Karabiga in 2004 for a start. In 2008, we initiated of Çanakkale population is between 5 and 14 years, region to help them raise as healthy, competitive, Swimming Provincial Representative Office, sponsorship support in swimming and opened eligible to get sports training and who can raise sportive people with high self esteem and team Çanakkale Governor’s Office, Biga District Çanakkale Sailing School in 2010. We consolidated quality of life with sports. We set the priority spirit. By this means, we intend to reinforce our Manager’s Office, Çanakkale Municipality and all sportive activities under the umbrella of İÇDAŞ corporate image, increase our brand awareness Karabiga Municipality on designating areas for and contribute to the development of tourism and sports activities, regional and international race economy of the region. organizations and logistics matters. Also, each year, we search all primary schools to earn swimming İÇDAŞ Sports Club that has a world-class discipline talented high potential children in the infrastructure has 221 licenced athletes. There city with the help of Youth and Sports Provincial are 126 swimming, 34 sailing, 22 chess and 32 Directorate and the National Education Directorate. basketball athletes. We train more than 400 students at our Club. We received help from Turkish Sailing Association, Turkish Swimming Association, Çanakkale Youth and Sports Provincial Directorate, Çanakkale 2014 Activities We organized the first TYF-İÇDAŞ Turkey Open During June 01-06, 2014, we organized TYFWater Swimming Competition in Çanakkale on İÇDAŞ Ministry of Youth and Sports Cup Sailing the May 25, 2014. The aim of the event that we Contest with the Turkish Sailing Federation (TYF) sponsored was to select National Team Prospects in Çanakkale. 120 athletes from around Turkey together with the Swimming Federation. competed in the cup. 54 55 İÇDAŞ SPORTS CLUB Results and Gains Economical: As Çanakkale’s name Corporate: İÇDAŞ Sports Club is rose to prominence in sailing, swimming the first institution that comes to mind about and windsurfing, it started becoming a city sailing and swimming in our region. We are of choice in sports tourism. Today, talented proud of all our sports people because of their young swimmers settle in Çanakkale in order to sportive lives, team spirit and successful results continue their studies within İÇDAŞ Sports Club. in competitions. The success achieved under such disciplines and the rapid developments in the sports infrastructure of the city, resulted in many national and international tournaments to be Sportive: Our Club athletes won more organized at the region. than 200 regional and national medals. Only in the last two years, our students received 11 national championships, 10 national first Social: Thousands of young people runner up, 29 national second runner up degrees are introduced to sailing and swimming and 56 regional championships, 47 regional first at İÇDAŞ Sports Club. We trained 2,180 students runner up and 52 regional second runner up in total. 7 of our students were selected for the degrees in the large-scale tournaments. national team and represented our country We finished the 2013-2014 Çanakkale Regional in the international events. 2 other students Chess as the champion with 5 wins and one tie were selected as National Team prospects. in 6 plays. While all the coastal cities in our region host Our young swimmers representing Çanakkale sailing tournaments, competitions and shows, İÇDAŞ Sports Club received three championships our sports people started to participate in and one first runner up degree in the domestic and international competitions competitions organized by Turkey Swimming and come home with significant successes. Federation for identifying National Team Accomplishments increased the self-esteem of prospects in January 4, 2014. the children and gave way to bigger successes. 4. Biga Flag Officer Osman Bey Traditional Archery Festival As İÇDAŞ, we support sports disciplines and events in We also provided archery courses at 18 Mart University our region other than those included in our club. We Biga Vocational School in springtime. 30 people of sponsored the traditional Shooting and Archery Festival different age groups attended the courses of Traditional that took place on August 15-17, 2014 in Biga Çınarköprü and Modern Archery disciplines. Some of these athletes Village in the name of Biga Flag Officer Osman Bey. The received awards in competitions. festival took place in the fields where Battle of Granicus (334 BC) was done. The event included horseman shows, archery shows, enactment of the Battle and various offerings. More than 500 native and foreign athletes participated in the organization while thousands of Biga and region people enjoyed the event. During the festival, historical Nusret Torpedo Ship and Biga’s famous products and handicrafts are also exhibited. 56 57 THE MAIN SPONSORSHIP OF KEMER PARION ANTIQUE CITY EXCAVATIONS KEMER VILLAGE / BİGA / ÇANAKKALE Following the decision to invest in the region, accommodation, seminar and conference we started renovating Kemer Village Primary attendance, publications and events that add up School responding to the request from Village to 400 thousand TRY on yearly average. We plan to Administration. When we started laying the allocate 5 million TRY in 10 years to Parion to make foundation, we came up with Parion South it a preferred ruins site by tourists and also display Necropolis archaeological finds. We decided to the archaeological finds in Parion-İÇDAŞ Museum continue school construction in another location that will be built by İÇDAŞ in Kemer Village. and started supporting Çanakkale Museum in excavations. We intend to continue the Parion excavations that started in 2008 as the main sponsor for 10 years. A crew of 75 people led by Professor PhD Cevat Başaran from Erzurum Atatürk University Archaeology Department conducts the excavations. The operations are supported and TROY EXCAVATIONS MAIN SPONSORSHIP controlled by Ministry of Culture and Tourism. TEVFİKİYE VILLAGE / ÇANAKKALE Sponsorship contribution includes technical Troy is the world-renowned asset of Çanakkale We also want to contribute to Çanakkale tourism material, service procurement, logistics, region. Apollon Smintheion is a sacred part in Troy economy by increasing the number of visitors to and the archaeological finds play a significant role Troy, and to earn new finds to Turkey’s cultural in supporting Troy’s historic presence. heritage. Troy, the subject of Homer’s Iliada legend, is our We plan to start the excavations with a 40 people region’s most famous tourism brand in the world. team. Total number of stakeholders who will The excavations have been going on for the last positively be impacted by this project is nearly 300 35 years with difficulties. As İÇDAŞ, we decided to thousand people including Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart sponsor the excavations for 5 years with 1 million University Archaeology Department, Ministry of TRY budget in 2014 to end the on-going problems. Culture and Tourism, visitors and Çanakkale tourism Our aim is to finish Troy Museum and present this industry representatives. unique cultural heritage to the world in a way it deserves. APOLLON SMINTHEION EXCAVATIONS MAIN SPONSORSHIP GÜLPINAR AREA / AYVACIK / ÇANAKKALE The Apollon Smintheion excavation started in We intend to continue Apollon Smintheion 1980. A crew of 30 people led by Professor PhD. Excavations for 10 years; exhibit the archaeological Coşkun Özgünel conducts it and the operations finds on display in a museum with better facilities; are supported and controlled by Ministry of Culture setup the ruins so that they will be regarded as a and Tourism. We have been the main sponsors to ‘must see’ tourism destination; and restore Apollon the excavations since 2011 and the total amount Temple and give it to the world culture. We plan of sponsorship adds up to 885 thousand 879 TRY in to realize these targets with a 4 million TRY overall the last four years. We allocated 13 thousand TRY in sponsorship budget in 10 years period. 2014. 58 59 Results and Targeted Gains JUNIOR ARCHAEOLOGISTS PROJECT As İÇDAŞ, we do not only support archaeological Ayvacık; which is the most prominent local deity excavations but also raise awareness amongst and sacred site of Northeast Anatolia of Hellenistic Economic: Public is highly Social: In Parion excavations, young generations about our cultural heritage. Period (330-30 BC). They received information from interested in the archaeological finds archaeology department students With this notion in mind, we initiated the excavation head Professor Coşkun Özgünel and from the excavations. Kemer Village attracts from all universities in Turkey work voluntarily. ‘junior archaeologists’ project for children in engaged in excavations. around a thousand and Smintheion attracts They add colour to the social life of the region Çanakkale. Children of ages from 7 to 17 joined Children noticed how hard it was to excavate around 30 thousand visitors each year and thus, by organizing events both at Kemer Village, the excavations in Parion and Apollon Smintheon historical objects and how patient one must be economically contributes to the region. Gülpınar Area and at the excavation houses. historical sites and made practices. While acquiring while they tried to excavate like experts with information about the historical sites, junior We plan the excavation site to service an Each year, all archaeological findings from small spuds, trowels and brushes. They collected archaeologists searched for historical findings in the increasing number of visitors by doing the Parion excavations are introduced at the ceramic pieces and copper objects they excavated ‘simulation excavation site’ prepared for them. maintenance work continuously and earning in chests for fragile carrying. Then, after washing, Archaeology Meetings organized by Çanakkale historical finds in Troy excavations to world 100 children joined the first project implementation they observed writings, symbols and marks on the Çabisak. Neighbourhood schools, NGOs cultural heritage. In the short term, we plan in 2014. The event took two days. We prepared an objects. They had lots of pictures taken in front of and public officials visit Parion and Apollon excavation site for the children at Parion Antique historic panels prepared for excavation site. to increase the number of visitors by 200 Smintheion excavation sites, where they are City theatre, which is Turkey’s largest, and one thousand people a year following the opening given information about the work directly by of the few excavation sites in the world. Junior of Troy Museum. Hence, we will contribute to the Excavation Office. Hence, we help develop Archaeologists tried to find objects that were site revenues and tourism and accommodation the social consciousness about our cultural placed under the ground by our team. revenues of Çanakkale tourism sector. values by these activities. On the second day of the event, children visited While Parion Antique City and Apollon Apollon Smintheon Temple in Gülpınar Village, Smintheion excavations add on to our knowledge about the antique era life by their Environmental: We intend to scientific input, they will support the regional exhibit a model as an industrial and national economy as a domestic and enterprise that cares for environmental values international tourist destination. The number of and our cultural heritage. Such practices internal and external stakeholders will increase will help Turkish industrial brands to gain every year to reach 500 thousand with the reputation in international platforms. positive impacts of promotional activities. Troy excavations will take place with the participation of many archaeology students and lecturers from various universities around the world. Hence, our archaeologists Corporate: Support İÇDAŞ gives will contribute to Turkey’s reputation in to archaeological excavations solidifies its archaeological world and development corporate image by earning public the cultural of archaeology science in Turkey by both assets, scientifically illuminating the regional historical finds and whitepapers they write. We history, supporting and showing respect to plan to share developments of the excavation environmental values. process to promote our city through various seminars, conferences, and exhibitions. We will continue our support in the Parion, Troy and Apollon Smintheion excavations in line with the sponsorship contract in the future excavation seasons. 60 61 77% 375.8 Million m3 Recycled Waste Rate Reused Water Amount/Year Since the beginning of our establishment, we have been making our investments to protect human and environmental health in all our production processes, from selecting raw materials to the shipment of our products to the clients, both in our steel facilities and power plants. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE İÇDAŞ Biodiversity We manage all our operations and investments within the framework of our environmental policy Project and principles, and with the objective of sustainable growth through energy efficiency, preventing environmental pollution, reducing waste, controlling emissions and responsible consumption of natural resources. ISO 14th Environment and Energy Awards Large Scale Enterprise Environment Friendly Practice Social Responsibility Jury Award 62 63 These carriages are used by İÇDAŞ to carry steel ENVIRONMENTAL scraps collected from many locations in Anatolia through railways. MANAGEMENT Our manufacturing technology and all our investments are in compliance with European Union’s publication of Best Available Techniques Reference Documents. We use the cleanest and the most environment friendly manufacturing Değirmencik is the largest steel facility with arc techniques in the world and constantly improve furnace in our country. We have been recycling them. We comply with ISO 50001 Energy thousands of tons of scrap steel by melting it using Management System principles in practices we the most up-to-date technologies and turning it undertake for energy saving and efficient use of into steel products every day. We control scraps natural sources. We manage our impacts in steel in detail in each stage, from selecting raw and facilities, power plants, lime facility, shipyard and auxiliary materials to receiving it in the facility and harbour by means of ISO 14001 Environment processing it. (Information about Radiation Safety Management System. Management is in the chapter of ‘Occupational Health and Safety’ in our report.) In 2014, our total investment in environment protection projects is more than 114 million TRY. We transport our raw materials by marine transport and railway with the purpose of keeping carbon 97% of this amount consists of operational cost WASTE of environmental investments. The remaining emissions lower per unit produced. Turkish MANAGEMENT 3,280,000 TRY is used for emission management Locomotive Industries (TÜLOMSAŞ), an affiliate and 118 thousand TRY is used for biodiversity of Turkish State Railways (TCDD), produced 176 management. carriages for İÇDAŞ as the first initiative in Turkey. ‘İÇDAŞ’s waste management implementations and environmental pollution prevention practices are sufficient’ 69% of employees who participated in sustainability survey... ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS (TRY) OPERATIONAL COST OF ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENT We regularly analyse waste in our facilities; monitor from ships that call at our port, and we either send INVESTMENTS PROTECTION PROJECTS metal ratios on slag and stack dust and keep them to accredited recycling facilities or dispose of 2013 2014 2013 2014 records. Every year, we make improvements after them. In 2014, we disposed 58,4% of our waste by comparing our per-unit waste produced with recycling, 6,4% by reusing and 12,2% by recovering the norms of the EU Best Available Techniques methods. Reference Document. İÇDAŞ arc furnace slag is processed into artificial The most important topic in waste management aggregates that comply with the EU Certificate of 100,592,997 111,427,820 8,825,315 3,397,596 is the process waste. The process wastes in our Conformity (CE Certificate) after being processed in plant are; steel mill slag, dust, rolling mill scales and our artificial aggregate facility. İÇDAŞ is the first and thermal plant ashes. Waste cooking oil, scrap tires, only steel plant that produces artificial aggregates packaging waste and organic waste are other types from arc slag complying with EU standards in of waste from our facility. Turkey. Our primary goal in waste management is to Our Değirmencik Plant is the largest recycling TOTAL TOTAL recycle waste. We comply with the regulations facility in Turkey in terms of capacity since we 212,020,817 12,222,911 and collect all waste separately, including the ones recycle over 15 thousand tons of scrap steel a day. 64 65 Total Waste (Tons) 1,500,000 1,000,000 1,077,210 702,627 750,040 788,720 500,000 0 WATER 2011 2012 2013 2014 MANAGEMENT CAPACITY EXPANSION OF PORT WASTE RECEPTION FACILITY AND IMPROVEMENT OF SHIP WASTE RECEPTION EQUIPMENT ‘İÇDAŞ’s practices on sustainability of water resources We decided to expand the capacity of port waste management are present and sufficient.’ reception facility and improve ship waste reception 72% of our employees who participated in sustainability survey… equipment at Değirmencik Integrated Plant due to the increased number of ships docking at our port We have been managing water aspect on our Development and Green Economy’. We enjoyed and the need to modernize equipment for security İÇDAŞ Değirmencik Integrated Plant under the pride of representing our country at Rio+20 reasons. ‘Sustainable Water Management Project’ with a Conference in Brazil. We initiated the Project in May 2014, with a 75 holistic approach since 2007. No fresh water source is affected by our thousand TRY budget that continued until the In 2012, Ministry of Development, United Nations consumption, since we withdraw the water we end of the year. We set our target to continue Development Program (UNDP) and Turkish Business need for all our processes and for utility purposes uninterrupted service at waste reception facility, Council of Sustainable Development (TBCSD) have from the sea. We meet 99% of our fresh water to shorten the time needed for waste transfer and chosen our ‘Sustainable Water Management Project’ requirement from seawater in steel facilities and use safe equipment to eliminate environmental is one of ‘Turkey’s 24 Best Practices in Sustainable 98% in power plants. accidents resulting from equipment usage. Water Consumption (1,000 m3 / year) Results and Gains Economic: Staff labour force per unit Environmental: Nekton organisms increased due to 50% acceleration of waste are preserved since no environmental transfer. accidents occurred. Monitoring continues but 3,000 its impact on risk evaluation is diminished. 2,640 2,449 2,628 2,813 2,000 1,000 Social: No equipment based Corporate: More quality service 2011 2012 2013 2014 environmental accidents occurred due to is provided in less time; thus, our price/ modernized equipment. performance ratio improved. 66 67 Fish Farming in Cooling Water Discharge The second part of the project is fish farming sustainable. What makes fish farming in cooling facility. Our goal is to raise 100 thousand bream water advantageous is that the temperature of and sea bass a year via fish farming in cooling the cooling water can be regulated manually for water discharge. Besides pioneering fish farming in raising different seasonal fish with no additional cooling water discharge in Turkey, we also obtain investment required for providing water. the entire water requirement of the facility from Initial investment cost of the facility is 150 thousand cooling water, which is 180 m3/hour. Another USD. Since 2008, we have raised 235,730 sea bass important purpose of the project is to show how and 142,971 bream at the facility. the impact of cooling water to the ecosystem is SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT One of the most important natural resources used from the aspects of both conservation of water in our plant is ‘water’. While water is used for cooling resources and energy management. Therefore, steel and maintaining the required quality standards we have initiated the İÇDAŞ ‘Sustainable Water in steel manufacturing, it is an indispensible Management Project’ in 2007. We monitored many element for cooling machinery and equipment technical and financial parameters at the stages of in the facility. In energy generation, water is again effective realization and results evaluation. one of the most fundamental sources. Energy Within the scope of this project, we aimed to emerged from combustion turns boiler water into stop using groundwater, which is a limited fresh superheated steam and the electrical power is water source and start using seawater, which is an generated after the steam moves the turbine and unlimited water source to meet all needs at the then the generator through the turbine. plant. Additionally, we aimed to generate electricity Daily fresh water need of the Değirmencik from the cooling water discharged into the sea and Integrated Plant is 8,000 m3 at full capacity. This establish a fish farm in the discharged water. volume of water usage in our production processes increases the environmental significance of water Sea Water Treatment Facility Power Generation from Cooling First of the three parts in this project is to treat go ahead with this investment although the unit seawater to obtain fresh water via reverse osmosis cost of treated water is more than that of wells. Water Discharge method. With this facility, we aim to treat enough We generate 12,000-m3 fresh-water per day at the Third part of the project is, Sea Water Hydroelectric water to meet the daily need of 7,000-m3 fresh facility. Power Plant project. (The details of this project are water of the increased production amount (from in the ‘Energy Management’ section of this report at Besides providing conservation of ground waters a daily need of 3,500-m3 in 2006) and to stop page 74. with this facility, we ensured the more effective groundwater usage, by shutting down 32 wells. usage of the same sources on agricultural fields. Total investment cost of the facility is 3 million And as an indirect positive impact, the risk of 650 thousand USD approximately. We decided to saltwater intrusion of fresh water is reduced. 68 69 WASTE WATER MANAGEMENT AND WATER QUALITY MONITORING The water used in steel manufacturing is recovered discharge temperature has to be continuously and reused after treatment. And the steam used monitored. Dissolved oxygen, pH, conductivity and in energy generation is recovered by condensing. flow rates are also monitored besides temperature, Cooling water is the only wastewater that is and results are sent to Ministry of Environment and produced through our processes. A chemical Urbanization every five minutes. pollution is not expected since the cooling water from the sea cools the process water without We have a wastewater laboratory in our premises EMISSION contacting it and then it is discharged back into the that is certified by The Ministry of Environment MANAGEMENT sea. and Urbanization and accredited by Türkak. İÇDAŞ Environmental Control Laboratory has the worldWe have 14 domestic wastewater discharge units class technology and equipment to make analysis in different locations and 1 car wash wastewater on all parameters it is licensed to. discharge unit in Değirmencik Facilities and 4 domestic, 2 physical and one chemical treatment ‘The energy efficiency investments that İÇDAŞ has made with facilities in Bekirli Plant. We have Environmental environmental consciousness, its emission reduction projects Permit and License on Waste Water Discharge for and the relevant protective measurements are satisfying.’ all discharge units. Domestic wastewater dirt is removed by municipality sewage truck. Wastewater 65% of our employees who participated in sustainability survey... originated from car wash is discharged into a unit after a process in a physical treatment facility. One of the most important environmental regularly measure and report dust emissions in parameters in our energy and steel manufacturing eight stations established along the borders of the ‘Real-time Remote Monitoring System’ is installed premises is the emission. The Emission premises on a regular basis since 2006, exceeding at both of the 2 discharge points Değirmencik Management is a part of the environmental the ‘minimum two points in every two years’ and one in Bekirli Facilities since cooling water management at İÇDAŞ. It complies with the local requirement by regulations. regulations and the EU criteria. All emission points The dust and smoke filtering system and bag filters in our premises comply with the national limits and İÇDAŞ Continuous Waste Water Monitoring System Revision used in the steel manufacturing and lime facility the Best Available Techniques internationally. Environment and Urbanization Ministry issued Monitoring Systems in our Değirmencik and Bekirli have 99.99% efficiency for the dust particles over a new Water Pollution Control Regulation. We Facilities to comply with the limits described in the Besides the stack emission measurements, we one micrometre. allocated 110 thousand TRY budget in 2014 for regulation. the revision of the three Continuous Waste Water CARBON EMISSIONS MONITORING In 2010, our steel plant has been the first of its to ISO14064-1 framework since 2012 via our Results and Gains kind to calculate its carbon footprint from steel infrastructure of carbon management. manufacturing. We have been awarded with the Regulations for Monitoring Greenhouse Gases, which Economic: We don’t impose any Environmental: Continuous Sustainable Steel Certificate from the British CARES is the basis for forming climate protection policies Waste Water Monitoring Station Project is institution in 2011 for our practices in sustainability impacts on local fishermen and the ecosystem and tackling with the implementation problems of one of our environmental investments. Cooling and calculation of carbon footprint. because biodiversity at the sea is not affected the climate change became effective in April 2012 water obtained form the sea is discharged With the objective of issuing our own greenhouse gas in Turkey. This regulation legislates the rules and since cooling water is discharged in accordance in compliance with standards. Therefore no inventory, our 13 employees have received training methods about reporting, monitoring greenhouse with the standards. negative impact on the ecosystem incurs. Using from Bureau Veritas in May 2012 on ISO14064-1 on emissions derived from activities such as generating sustainable seawater is a more eco friendly act Specification With Guidance at the Organizational power and steam, manufacturing cement, steel, than using fresh water that is a scarce resource. Corporate: We established one of Level for Quantification and Reporting of Greenhouse aluminium, ceramics which constitute an important the first Continuous Waste Water Monitoring Gas Emissions and Removals topic. Bureau Veritas part of the national greenhouse gas emissions, Stations in Turkey. Our corporate consciousness inspected 2011 Greenhouse Gas amount in October their verification and reporting to the Ministry of Social: Environment and ecosystem 2012, and its approval was certified in December Environment and Urbanization. The basis we have is our environmental sensitivity. That is why are topics that affect everyone. we allocate vast budgets for environmental 2012. We have been calculating, reporting and established and the measurements carried out so far This system eliminates any possible negative impacts and investments and take necessary managing greenhouse gas emission according makes it easier for us to fulfil our legal responsibilities. impacts. actions accordingly. 70 71 Direct Emissions (CO2 e Tons) 2014 204,540 AUXILIARY 2013 223,611 FACILITIES 2012 225,757 2011 121,053 2014 2,869,405 ENERGY 2013 3,162,852 PLANT 2012 3,085,942 2011 3,395,524 2014 679,811 ENERGY STEEL 2013 790,831 MANAGEMENT FACILITIES 2012 703,831 2011 822,105 ‘The energy efficiency investments and studies 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,500,000 4,000,000 İÇDAŞ undertakes to produce with environmental sensitivity and consciousness are satisfying.’ As a result of our efficiency practices, we reduced direct CO2 emissions by 14% in steel facilities and 9% in energy plant in 2014. 73 % of our employees who participated in sustainability survey... Our direct CO2 emission at auxiliary facilities is reduced by 8.5%. Steel sector, which has an intensive energy demand, measures to yield maximum performance as consumes 6% of the total energy consumption of well as reducing the electricity and natural gas Turkey and its share among all industrial energy consumption within the facility, while monitoring MONITORING AIR QUALITY BY CONTINUOUS EMISSION consumption is around 15%. These percentages our overall performance. MEASUREMENT SYSTEM reveal the environmental essence of energy We have been working with internationally known generation and consumption efficiency is very high. We completed the system we established in broadcasted real time through the corporate web specialist companies on projects about the recovery Energy efficiency is in compliance with the security Değirmencik and Bekirli Facilities in accordance site (www. icdas.com.tr) including a camera view of of waste heat in steel mills and rolling mills. We measures of energy generation and consumption. with Continuous Emission Management Systems the funnel. We submit the emission measurement prefer energy efficient products for our plant’s Also, a decrease in the emissions as a result of Announcement in January 2014 with 121 thousand results to the Environment and Urbanization illumination. energy efficiency will have a direct positive impact 445 TRY budget. The system infrastructure was Provincial Directorate as daily average values, at on climate protection. Our works on energy efficiency gained us the built back in 2007 so that funnel emissions could the end of each month. We continue managing philosophy of producing the same quality product/ be monitored by the Ministry of Environment and the system that we initiated voluntarily, as a legal Electric power use in steel production takes up service with a less energy consumption and CO2 Urbanization. Emission is measured continuously liability. 65% of total power consumption of İÇDAŞ as well emission creation, and as a result of these, at a using emission measurement devices on the as all the other facilities with arc furnaces. Turkey lesser cost. We also help reduce our country’s funnels at the steel and thermal plants and significantly relies on fossil fuels in electricity dependency on the imported energy by the generation. saving we make. We have the opportunity to We, at İÇDAŞ, have been applying our action be more competitive by pursuing technological plans towards the preservation of energy and developments, continuously searching for the best natural resources within the ISO 50001 Energy practice opportunities and reducing our costs. Management System framework, and improvement 72 73 Electricity Consumption (GW) 2,500 2,177 2,317 2,157 2,143 2,000 1,000 500 315 314 315 321 210 185 208 206 CONSERVATION 0 1.2 2 2 2 OF BIODIVERSITY 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 STEEL FACILITIES ENERGY PLANT SHIP YARD AUXILIARY FACILITIES ‘İÇDAŞ’s activities on conservation of natural life and biodiversity around its premises are substantial and sufficient.’ GENERATION OF ELECTRICITY FROM COOLING WATER DISCHARGE 69% of employees who participated in sustainability survey… We started to work on building hydroelectricty Thanks to HEPP, we save economically, socially and turbines over the discharge line of the steel plant 2 environmentally as a result of recovering 25% of this and the thermal plant’s cooling waters in 2008. We energy. The total energy generated from the four We consider sustainable development and since 2013. This work continues with regular weekly launched the facility in 2009 to generate electricity HEPPs built on the way of Discharged Cooling Water conservation of biodiversity as two inseparable field visits, since our plants are located in an area from seawater. In 2011, we invested 15 million US is 27.5 million kWh in 2014. And the economic topics. Biodiversity for us is an important indicator that neighbours both marine-coast and forest Dollars in four hydro energy power plants (HEPP) savings of this production to İÇDAŞ is more than 5.5 through which we can monitor the results of ecosystems. with six thousand KW-installed capacities. million TRY. our environmental production techniques we In the works carried out in marine ecosystems, employ in our industrial operations, and the We use non-contact seawater cooling systems Considering that the average power consumption we received assistance from Çanakkale Onsekiz measures we take in environmental protection. for the cooling water used in our products and per person is 2,490 kWh/year in Turkey, we generate Mart University’s Faculty of Marine Sciences and Since the conservation of biodiversity means machinery at our steel plant and for cooling more energy than what 11 thousand people would Technology. When the species were observed on the protection of the ecosystem balance, it also thermal plant steam. We discharge seawater used consume. And instead of drawing this amount phylum basis in 19 research dives, we identified 69 provides a protection for the needs of the future in cooling process back in the sea. We spent a from the national power system, we produce it different types of species, which comprised of 35 generations, and carries a benefit for the society. total of 110 million kWh of electricity in 2014 for ourselves accommodating conditions of efficiency species of fish, 5 species of arthropods, 2 species The monitoring and the conservation of biodiversity pumping the water up to the Thermal Power Plant and without creating emissions while use it in our of annelids, 5 species of echinoderms, 4 species of have importance contribution to environmental at 30 meters from sea level, and the Steel Plant at 50 processes. cnidarians, 13 species of molluscs, and 5 species of and social benefit, two of the three main staples of meters from sea level. macro algae. sustainable growth. In the works carried out in land, we benefited HOT CHARGING PRACTICE Our systematic field operations on monitoring from the Ecosystem Monitoring Reports we had biodiversity started with our biologist tracking In order to increase energy efficiency and reduce We made 4,612,337 TRY profit by the project that commissioned under our RES project. The spring and photographing the flora and fauna in and carbon emissions while decreasing energy costs, we initiated with the aim of increasing hot billet months’ Ecosystem Evaluation Report was prepared around our facilities. First, we started documenting we started hot charging project in Steel Mill 3 charging rate from 54% to 81%. We were also able by the Department of Biology in Hacettepe the species in the forest area around our plant and Rolling Mill 5 in 2013 November, which we to reduce the amount of natural gas consumed University, while the autumn months’ Ornithological and in the fresh water ecosystems. We have been completed in March 2014. and minimizing accident risk because of less Report was prepared by the Department of Biology continuing tracking studies in the terrestrial, aquatic transportation by scheuerle and forklift movement. in Akdeniz University. and marine ecosystems surrounding our plants 74 75 The other data in the report were collected through Of the work carried out in terrestrial ecosystem, The the systematic field monitoring we had carried out Ornitological and Wild Life Monitoring Studies are The Aim of the Project is; on location. run in association with Akdeniz University, which documents the native and migrant species. In this Supporting the regional fishing industry, including professional, hobbyist, small scale and We have designated a natural park for farm animals process where the migration routes are defined, we industrial fishing, within the garden of our integrated plant in prepare quarterly reports. While many numbers of Değirmencik. The animals are farmed according to Contributing to the protection and improvement of marine biodiversity, species including birds of prey, Great White Pelican, ecological conditions, and are able to roam freely in White Stork, Red Rumped and Barn Swallow, an area of 33 thousand me, comprising 10 thousand Supporting the increase of their population by providing suitable environments for the there are no endemic species observed. They are me of forest and 20 thousand m2 of open land and marine species in the region, generally migrant species. Species such as Seagull, 3 thousand m2 of watercourse. We have the species Sparrow and Great Cormorant are among the native Establishing feeding and protection zones for certain species, of chicken, rabbit, turkey, goose, sheep, peafowl, species of the region. quail, swan, pigeon and dove within this area. Preventing illegal fishing activities. It is known that Loggerhead Sea Turtles, also According to the evaluation made based on the known as Caretta Caretta, live in our region. We European Red List prepared by IUCN (International have spotted one in our port in Februry 2014, Union for Conservation of Nature), one species Under this protocol, the Faculty of Marine Sciences One location by the village of Değirmencik, and and reported it to the Sea Turtles Application belonging to a mammal genus spotted in the wild and Technology carried out dives in and around our two locations by the village of Bekirli were found to and Research Centre in Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart is classified as “NT” (Near Threatened). According harbour and prepared a preliminary documentation be suitable for aritificial reef installation. Following University, and it was taken under protection by to IUCN, one species spotted (Egyptian Vulture of the existing biodiversity. Following this, as part the feasibility report released in March 2014, we deProf Dr Şükran Yalçın Özdilek. Also the fishermen Neophron percnopterus) is classified as EN from the Karabiga area reported the sight of of another project called “Fishing in Çanakkale Will cided to go ahead with the Artificial Reef Project. Af(Endangered), and another species spotted (Greater Mediterranean seals and the existence of their caves Breathe by Expanding Biodiversity” as prepared by ter finalizing the legal permit processes, we planned Spotted Eagle Aquila Clanga) is classified as VU in their area. the villages in the area, dives were carried out in for the descent of 2 thousand reef clusters into the (Vulnerable). 17 different areas in Çanakkale waters, and suitable sea, and pressed the button in October 2014. We plan to issue reports of our works on an annual The total number of zoological species that are spots for artificial reef zones were determined. basis. We will study the reports comparatively and either native or use it as a migration route is 271. release outcome reports. We hope these results will The number of botanical species listed is 136. The lead to new projects that are crucially important vertebrates appear to be of 213 different species, for our future. Through field studies, we will identify while the non-vertebrates are spotted to be 61 and document any endemic or endangered species species. Out of seed plants, 130 are gymnosperms that may exist in our region, and we will develop and 6 are angiosperms. protection projects for these species if any. ARTIFICIAL REEF AND SUPPORTING BIODIVERSITY PROJECT With its 671 km long coastline, the Çanakkale Taking off with the idea that the artificial reef units Province commands 8% of Turkey’s entire coastline. that could be formed in these regions would be It has two islands with 137 km coastline combined highly beneficial to the professional and hobbyist that are very rich in terms of fishing zones; the 62 fishermen, we signed a protocol with Onsekiz Mart km long Strait of Dardanelles, which is a major University in June 2013 and kickstarted the project, fish migration route, and a section of Gulf of for which we allocated 750 thousand TRY , and set Saros which has an extreme importance in terms the deadline as July 2015. of fishing resources. Having one of the major gateways to the international waters to the Aegean Sea makes Çanakkale Province one of the most important fishing centres in Turkey. There are over a thousand strings fishing boats and around ten seine fishing boats actively operating in the region. Also, around a hundred trawling boats along with seine fishing and string fishing boats in similar numbers each come to Çanakkale waters from Marmara and Black Sea in summer months for deep net fishing. 76 77 TÜBİTAK MAM BİGA PENINSULA ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROJECT Upon a suggestion from our Project Environment Having had TÜBİTAK MAM’s numerous specialists on Managerial Unit, we have targeted to monitor the board, we have extended the scope of the project ecosystem in the area a year in advance before beyond the initial emissions’ monitoring, and we the facility was operational, in order to monitor also started to monitor quality of air, land, surface the effectiveness of our precautions to preserve fresh water, sea water, underground and rain water, the environment around our Thermal Plant, the plants, emission and water discharges and noise for construction of which commenced in 2009, and to enabling a comprehensive ecosystem monitoring. present it as a scientific data to our stakeholders. There are monitoring stations in the area from The project, which had a kick start on July 1, 2010, Marmara Sea coast of Biga peninsula to the slopes is one of the biggest environmental monitoring of the Kaz Mountain. All samples are collected projects in our country in terms of its scope regularly within 3 or 4 days every month by TÜBİTAK and contents. The scope of the project, which MAM staff by visiting stations. Results of the is to continue five more years after the plant is analysis are reported by TÜBİTAK MAM in 6-month operational, covers all our facilities within 40,000periods and presented to us. We present a copy of km2 areas and extends its borders from Marmara these reports to the Ministry of Environment and Sea to the Edremit Bay. We chose to have TÜBİTAK Urbanization as well. (The Scientific and Technological Research Centre Tübitak MAM prepared interim reports 8 and 9 in of Turkey) MAM (Marmara Research Centre) run the 2014. Duration of the project is 78 months with project for we concluded that the extents of the 892 thousand 715 TRY budget. A total of 9 interim project was vast, and a government backed body reports presented in the last 4 years and 630 would be objective and reliable in managing it. thousand 437 TRY invested in the project so far. We finance the project that has 750 thousand TRY investment cost. Results and Gains AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK FARMING ACTIVITIES When talking about Biga where our Değirmencik Although they fall out of our main business Economical: Although the project Environmental: We will ensure plant is located, agriculture, livestock farming and area, we continue our agricultural and livestock does not contribute directly to our the protection of the ecosystem with industry come to minds. Because of the industrial practices for their positive economical, social and company financially, we believe we will enjoy this project. By the completion of 19,885 investment flow into the area increased very environmental impacts with increasing investment important environmental and corporate analyses on air, land and water quality at Biga fast, the local farmers who dealt with agriculture amounts each year. Livestock farmers, farmers, advantages resulting from the project in the Peninsula, very important data will be collected. and livestock had a sceptical view towards the agricultural hardware and chemical fertilizer long term. This is going to be an extensive study on how industry. Major motivator behind İÇDAŞ’s step vendors, seed vendors and agriculture laboratories environmental parameters in the area’s ecology into agriculture and livestock farming practices are our principal stakeholders who benefit from our will be emitted with their reasons. The study was to show the local people that an industrial activities. concerns other parts of the ecosystem in the development that was implemented correctly area such as plants, animals and biotic system The most difficult part of developing our activities would not affect the agriculture and livestock besides the local people. in these fields was to recruit qualified staff. We Social: The project has the farming negatively. overcame this issue with internal trainings. We characteristics to be implemented We manage our activities by our Supervisor of managed to gain the trust of local people with our on other industrial facilities by adapting it to Agriculture and Livestock and his team of engineers, open-house policy and welcoming them in our the local conditions of the facility. The project technicians, veterinarians and beekeeper expert facility. helped both TÜBİTAK MAM staff and our Corporate: Monitoring ecosystem by staff under various titles as Stock farming (2007) Fish technical staff to gain new experiences and an independent public institution creates trust Farming (2008), Apiary (2010), Sheep/Goat Breeding know-how. among stakeholders while displaying our self(2011) and Agricultural Practices (2007). We usually esteem. consume 80% of our products within the plant. 78 79 STOCK FARMING, BEEKEEPING AND SHEEP / GOAT BREEDING AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES Location: Değirmencik – Bekirli Villages / District of Biga ULocation: Değirmencik Biga Bred animals: Fish, bee, cow, sheep, chicken, goose, turkey, duck Procured products: Pepper, tomato, apple, plum, bean, cauliflower, melon, watermelon, cabbage, lettuce, parsley, eggplant, molasses, cucumber, grapes, jam, tomato paste Procured products: Fish, comp honey, spring honey, extracted honey, pollen, frame meat, eggs External partners whom we either get support from or give support to in order to benefit from External partners whom we either get support from or give support to in order to benefit from the national subsidies and to share technical information: the national subsidies and to share technical information: Food, Agriculture and Livestock Directorate of Biga District Food, Agriculture and Livestock Directory of Biga District Biga Red Meat Association Local and national fertilizer companies Çanakkale Beekeepers’ Association Agricultural Investments (1,000 TRY ) Practice Field 2011 2012 2013 2014 Agriculture 150 250 300 100 Animal Husbandry Investments (1,000 TRY ) Field 2011 2012 2013 2014 Stock Farming 450 750 776 1,850 Results and Gains Beekeeping 35 40 55 60 Sheep/Goat Breeding 20 40 85 20 Economical: We increased the Environmental: We have enriched financial funds into the area by supplying raw the biodiversity in the area. material from the local breeders. We introduced We increased the stock farming capacity from 240 exemplary gardens in the area. to 480 stocks by investing 177 thousand 612 TRY in order to meet the demand. In beekeeping, we increased the number of beehives from 300 to 450. Additionally, we purchased 150 thousand TRY clove Social: We created employment for Corporate: We have strengthened and hay and 250 thousand TRY animal feed. local people and earned an exemplary our company’s reputation in public and facility in the region. government eyes. 80 81 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Value Created İÇDAŞ Çelik Enerji İÇDAŞ Elektrik Üretim and Distributed Unit GRI Economic Value Created 1,000 TRY 6,735,151,157 1,275,435,773 EC1 (Revenues) Economic Value Distributed to Shareholders Operational Cost 1,000 TRY 5,627,887,662 833,733,103 Benefits to Employees 1,000 TRY 213,074,578 51,889,171 Benefits to Government 1,000 TRY 799,494,925 248,196,224 Benefits to Capital Providers 1,000 TRY 0 0 EC1 Benefits to Community 1,000 TRY 4,913,535 26,029,920 Non-distributed economic 1,000 TRY 89,780,457 115,587,355 value (Profit) SOCİAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Region: Turkey Female Male Accidents Unit 2013 2014 2013 2014 GRI Accident Frequency Rate 23.90 7.79 17.08 16.96 Occupational Disease Rate 0 0 0 0 LA6 Fatality Number/year 0 0 0 1 Lost Days Unit 2013 2014 2013 2014 GRI Due to work accidents Rate 4.77 1.56 3.39 3.14 LA6 Due to illness (absence) Rate 2.12 2.05 75.29 74.73 Only accident numbers are monitored about the subcontractors. Other data is not available. **Accident Frequency: Number of accidents in one million hours worked AF=Total number of accidents / (Total number of employees x 300 days x 7.5 hrs.) (Total number of days of absence x 7.5 hrs.) x 1,000,000 1 Fatal accident=7,500 lost days Muscle overextension Overheat contact Prick Cut by an object Burr splash Chemical splash in the eye Accident Types Collide with a moving object Be compressed between two objects Fall from a height Hit by a falling object Hit a non-moving object or person. Traffic accidents Be exposed to hazardous and poisonous substances 82 83 WORKFORCE WORKFORCE By Employment Type and Gender Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Other Groups Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI White collar Female Number 84 88 97 91 Female 12 30 30 8 White collar Male Number 393 452 513 526 Ratio 0.29% 0.65% 0.62% 0.17% Blue collar Female Number 35 63 75 35 G4-10 Foreign Employees Male 90 219 206 84 Blue collar Male Number 3,615 4,043 4,159 4,150 Ratio 2.18% 4.41% 4.25% 1.75% LA12 TOTAL Number 4,127 4,646 4,844 4,802 Female 4 8 7 4 Disabled Employees Ratio 0.1% 0.17% 0.14% 0.08% By Contract Type and Gender Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Male 104 117 119 125 Ratio 2.52% 2.52% 2.46% 2.60% TFull-time Female Number 119 151 172 126 Full-time Male Number 4,007 4,494 4,671 4,675 Employees by Category Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI G4-10 Part-time Female Number 0 0 0 0 Female 0 0 0 0 Part-time Male Number 1 1 1 1 Senior Management Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Male 11 9 9 8 By Location and Gender Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Ratio 0.27% 0.19% 0.19% 0.17% Istanbul Office Female Number 71 75 79 69 Female 7 7 7 5 Istanbul Office Male Number 314 320 338 332 Middle Management Ratio 0.17% 0.15% 0.14% 0.10% Değirmecik Female Number 19 28 44 30 Male 51 48 51 51 2,863 3,167 3,380 3,525 Ratio 1.24% 1.03% 1.05% 1.06% Değirmecik Male Number 29 48 49 27 Female 7 8 9 10 Bekirli Plant Female Number G4-10 Ratio 0.17% 0.17% 0.19% 0.21% Bekirli Plant Male Number 751 919 840 698 Chiefs Male 133 123 138 138 LA12 Rest of Turkey Female Number 0 0 0 0 Ratio 3.22% 2.65% 2.85% 2.87% Rest of Turkey Male Number 80 89 114 121 Female 15 17 25 21 Employees by Gender Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Ratio 0.36% 0.37% 0.52% 0.44% Managers/Engineer Male 219 249 264 263 Number 4,008 4,495 4,672 4,676 Ratio 5.31% 5.36% 5.46% 5.48% Male Ratio % 97.12 % 96.70 % 96.45 % 97.38 Female 90 119 131 90 LA12 Number 119 151 172 126 Ratio 2.18% 2.56% 2.71% 1.87% Female Other Personnel Ratio % 2.88 % 3.30 % 3.55 % 2.62 Male 3,588 4,059 4,204 4,216 Ratio 86.94% 87.37% 86.90% 87.80% Yaşa Göre Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Female 51 56 558 46 Ratio 1.24% % 1.21 1.20% 0.96% Board Structure Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Employees Under 30 Male 1,580 1,602 1,414 1,384 Female Members 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Ratio Ratio 0.38% % 34,48 29.19% 28.82% Under 30 Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Female 59 88 104 69 Ages 30 50 Ratio 33.33% 33.33% 33.33% 0.00% Ratio 1.43% 1.89% 2.15% 1.44% LA12 Employees From 30 to 50 LA12 Over 50 Ratio 66.67% 66.67% 66.67% 100.00% Male 2,311 2,760 3,101 3,134 Ratio 56% 59.4% 64.02% 65.26% Foreign Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 9 7 10 11 Disabled Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Female Ratio 1% 1% 0.21% 0.23% Employees Over 50 Male 117 133 157 158 Ratio 2.83% 2.86% 3.24% 3.29% 84 85 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TRAINING INVESTMENTS All Trainings By Employment Category Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Top Managers Hrs./person 8.40 6.70 4.60 1.00 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Middle Managers Hrs./person 12.80 29.80 10.20 6.86 Intermediate Energy Purchased and Chiefs Hrs./person 38.90 36.70 9.70 5.88 Consumed from NonRenewable Energy Year Electricity (kWh) Electricity (GJ) GRI Managers / Engineers Hrs./person 46.60 34.30 19.00 11.88 LA9 Sources Other Personnel Hrs./person 20.90 11.40 8.40 15.46 2011 2,143,439,394.7 7,716,381.8 2012 2,176,757,065.2 7,836,325.4 By Gender Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 Steel Facilities 2013 2,316,760,582.6 8,340,271.4 2014 2,156,661,165.6 7,763,918.1 Men Hrs./person 23.4 13.9 9.7 15.1 LA9 2011 315,244,466.0 1,134,880.1 Women Hrs./person 36.5 15.0 11.0 4.6 Energy Plant 2012 313,784,489.0 1,129,624.2 2013 314,889,499.0 1,133,593.1 By Type Unit 2013 2014 GRI 2014 320,517,321.0 115,853.1 EN3 Career Development 2011 1,243,204.2 4,475.5 Hours 5,985.0 25,217.0 Shipyard 2012 2,075,630.0 7,472.3 Personal Development Hours 24,792.0 1,944.0 OHS Hours 32,834.5 38,164.8 LA9 2013 1,864,743.7 6,713.0 Hours 11,767.0 5,868.2 2014 1,635,093.1 5,886.3 Other Training Hours 75,378.5 71,194.0 2011 185,123,411.1 666,444.3 Total Training Hours 2012 207,669,715.0 747,611.0 Auxiliary Facilities 2013 206,265,103.7 742,548.4 TRAINING INVESTMENTS OHS Trainings Other Trainings 2014 209,881,621.3 755,567.8 By Employment Category Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Energy Produced From Renewable Energy Hydro Energy (kWh) Hydro Energy (GJ) Year GRI Hrs./person 0.7 N/A 1.0 N/A 7.7 6.7 3.6 1.0 Sources and Consumed within the Facility Top Managers Middle Managers Hrs./person 2.0 7.3 1.9 4.6 10.8 22.5 8.3 2.3 2011 4,766,000.0 17,157,6 Chiefs Hrs./person 10.2 17.3 1.8 5.2 28.7 19.4 7.9 0.7 LA9 2012 6,125,000.0 22,050.0 Hrs./person 23.7 16.4 9.5 8.5 22.9 17.9 9.5 3.4 Steel Facilities (HEPP4) Managers/ Engineers 2013 7,945,000.0 28,601.8 Other Personnel Hrs./person 12.2 7.4 2.3 11.1 8.7 4 6.1 4.36 2014 7,934,000.0 28,562.4 EN3 2011 15,300,800.0 55,082.9 By Gender Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Energy Plant (HEPP1-2-3) 2012 19,366,000.0 69,717.6 Men Hrs./person 13.3 8.6 2.7 14.4 10.1 5.3 7 0.72 2013 21,201,000.0 76,323.0 LA9 2014 19,648,000.0 70,732.8 Women Hrs./person 18.2 6.5 3.1 3.3 18.3 8.5 7.9 1.3 N/A: Not Available 86 87 Direct Non-Renewable Energy Sources Year Coal (GJ) Natural Gas (GJ) GRI WATER and WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT 2011 3,303,058.0 3,403,887.0 Total Volume and Percentage of Recycled Year Recycled and Reused (m3/year) GRI 2012 2,213,921.0 3,422,325.0 and Reused Water Steel Facilities 2013 2,993,739.0 3,401,405.0 2014 2,290,834.0 3,314,688.0 Steel Facilities 2014 355,251,280.0 EN3 EN10 34,112,750.0 17,169.0 Auxiliary Facilities (Oxygen Facilities) 2014 20,592,000.0 2011 Energy Plant 2012 30,667,457.0 10,708.0 Reused water is the closed system water in facilities that is used after recycling. 2013 30,915,214.0 7,599.0 2014 28,121,666.0 13,398.0 Total Water Withdrawal by Source Year Water (Source: Sea) Cooling Water GRI 2011 696,268.0 110,278.0 Shipyard and Auxiliary 2012 631,904.0 110,560.0 Facilities 2013 598,256.0 100,763.0 2011 1,994,780.0 163,399,500.0 2014 604,964.0 103,784.0 2012 1,821,476.0 233,802,000.0 Steel Facilities 2013 1,692,197.0 220,625,000.0 ‘Coal’ data given under ‘Shipyard and Auxiliary Facilities’ covers ‘Lime Facility’; ‘Natural Gas’ data covers all facilities. 2014 2,036,897.0 221,790,720.0 2011 363,945.0 188,862,424.0 Climate Gases and Other Non-Renewable GHG Year Diesel (GJ) Gasoline (GJ) Welding Emissions 2012 411,461.0 210,893,657.0 GRI Energy Plant Emission Sources Consumed EN8 (KG) 2013 586,288.0 222,110,730.4 2011 382,575.0 469.0 4,348.4 2014 376,687.0 218,600,476.3 2012 454,031.0 535.0 6,574.4 EN3 2011 281,735.0 none All Facilities 2013 427,368.0 463.0 28,558.0 Shipyard and Auxiliary 2012 215,727.0 none 2014 456,163.0 471.0 21,279.7 Facilities 2013 349,778.0 none 2014 399,187.0 none Water (source: sea) is used to supplement evaporation loss at the closed system water. Direct CO2 Indirect CO2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CO2 e Tons) Year Emissions Emissions GRI Waste Water Cooling Water Total Waste Water Discharge (m3/year) Year GRI Discharge Discharge 2011 822,105.0 1,028,851.0 2012 703,831.0 1,044,173.2 2011 191,625.0 163,399,500.00 Steel Facilities 2012 191,625.0 233,802,000.0 2013 790,831.0 1,110,650.9 Steel Facilities 2014 679,811.2 1,035,197.0 2013 191,625.0 220,625,000.0 3,395,524.0 0.0 2014 191,625.0 221,790,720.0 2011 2012 3,085,942.0 0.0 2011 54,750.0 188,862,424.0 Energy Plant 2013 3,162,852.0 0.0 Energy Plant 2012 54,750.0 210,893,657.0 2014 2,869,405.1 0.0 EN15 2013 54,750.0 222,110,730.4 0.0 597.0 2014 54,750.0 218,600,476.3 EN22 2011 Shipyard 2012 0.0 978.6 2011 18,250.0 none 2013 0.0 895.1 EN16 Shipyard 2012 18,250.0 none 2014 0.0 769.2 2013 18,250.0 none 2011 121,053.0 88,859.0 2014 18,250.0 none Auxiliary Facilities 2012 225,757.0 100,369.4 2011 142,350.0 none Auxiliary Facilities 2012 142,350.0 none 2013 223,611.0 100,401.4 2014 204,539.8 98,016.1 2013 142,350.0 none 2014 142,350.0 none Wastewater is discharged from four separate locations through a canal to the sea after physical treatment. The amount of water discharge is calculated according to the capacities of the treatment facilities. Since the number of treatment facilities is the same, the differences of wastewater amounts between years are insignificant. 88 89 APPENDIX WASTE MANAGEMENT All Facilities By Type Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS Hazardous Waste Tons 11,509.6 5,466.4 32,320.5 54,302.0 Associations, Chambers and Unions İÇDAŞ Representative Duty Non-hazardous Waste Tons 1,065,700.1 697,160.9 717,719.3 734,418.2 EN23 Total Waste Tons 1,077,209.7 702,627.2 750,039.8 788,720.2 BİSİAD Biga Industrial Businessmen Suat Karataş Member Association By Disposal Method Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI BİSİAD Biga Industrial Businessmen Association Şerif Mutlu Member Reuse (10% of Slag) Tons 75,009.4 45,777.0 45,989.4 50,529.0 BSTP Biga Civil Society Platform Şerif Mutlu Member Recycling (Slag, Oxide Layer, BSTP Biga Civil Society Platform Packaging Waste) Tons 731,411.8 467,460.5 413,904.6 460,531.0 H. Agah Ayhan Member ÇİB Turkish Steel Exporters’ Association Adnan Aslan Board Member Recovery (Dust, Waste Cooking Oil, EN23 Ash, Scrap Tires) Tons 16,377.8 13,012.5 126,063.3 96,382.4 ÇTSO Çanakkale Chamber of Industry and Commerce Bülend Engin President Regular Storage (Coal Bottom Ash Tons 254,410.7 176,377.5 164,082.5 181,277.8 and Boiler Slag, Domestic Waste) ÇTSO Çanakkale Chamber of Industry and Suat Karataş Member Commerce Total Waste Disposed Tons 1,077,209.7 702,627.5 750,039.8 788,720.2 EÜD Electricity Producers Association Bülend Engin Board Member Waste Received From Ships Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI EUROFER The European Steel Association Corporate Member GİSBİR Turkish Shipbuilders’ Association Corporate Member Hazardous waste (Bilge Water, m3/year 449.2 522.6 201.5 348.9 Sludge, Waste Oil) İMMİB Istanbul Minerals and Metals Member EN23 Exporters’ Association Corporate Non-hazardous waste (Domestic m3/year 205.0 259.1 746.6 681.2 and Liquid waste) İSO Istanbul Chamber of Industry Ayhan Aslan Committee Member İTO Istanbul Chamber of Commerce Corporate Member Unless otherwise stated, in all tables the auxiliary facilities include workshops, harbour, slag, coal, reverse osmosis and oxygen facilities. MESS Turkish Employers’ Association of Metal Industries Corporate Member TÇÜD Turkish Steel Producers Association Bayram Yusuf Aslan President TMD Turkish Miners Association Naci Aslan Representative ÇANAKKALESPOR Football Club Association Suat Karataş, Tuncay Tavus, Board Member Ömer Özçelik MUSİAD Independent Industrialists’ and Şerif Mutlu, Ömer Faruk Özdemir, İsmail Yaman, Mustafa Balcı, Board and Audit Council Businessmen’s Association Murat Öztürk, Eyüp Tan Member TURMEPA Turkish Marine Environment Özge Özensoy Corporate Membership Protection Association CARES Sustainability Committee Mustafa Balcı Member PUBLICATIONS Name Place By Date Air Quality Management in EFRS 5th Iron and Steel İÇDAŞ Department of Arc Furnace Steel Plants Symposium Environment 22nd-23rd May 2014 İÇDAŞ A.Ş. Water 11th Technology Awards İÇDAŞ Department of 21st May 2014 Management System and Congress Environment İÇDAŞ Occupational Safety İÇDAŞ Facilities İÇDAŞ OHS Department 18th March 2014 Booklets 90 91 AWARDS UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Name of Award Given By İÇDAŞ is a member of Global Compact. UN Global Compact is an innovative social responsibility approach that suggests universal principles to competitive business world for establishing a mutual sustainability 2014 ICCI Energy Oscar Award (Thermal Plant Coal Category), ICCI culture. Its vision is ‘Sustainable and Comprehensive Global Economy’. Participating in Global Compact is Değirmencik Energy Plant completely voluntary. 2014 Şahabettin Bilgisu Environment Award, Large Scale Enterprise KSO Kocaeli Chamber of Industry Those enterprises that participate in the compact increase their profits in the midterm while in the short 2014 Large Scale Enterprise Environment Friendly Practices Social İSO İstanbul Chamber of term; they enjoy the prestige and pride of having fulfilled their social responsibilities consciously. Responsibility Jury Award Industry Human Rights Labour Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the IFC SUSTAINABILITY STANDARDS CONFORMITY INDEX respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the effective proclaimed human rights. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. IFC Environmental and Social Sustainability Performance Standards Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the Performance standards prepared by International Finance Corporation (IFC) to guide enterprises they are not complicit in human rights abuses. elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. in managing all environmental-social impacts using Environment and Social Management System Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the throughout the life of the project from planning to operation. effective abolition of child labour. Environment Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the IFC Standards Conformity Index of our strategic aspects that we explained in our report in detail is Principle 7: Businesses should support a elimination of discrimination in respect of depicted in the following table. precautionary approach to environmental employment and occupation. challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives IFC Performance Standards Place In Our Report Page to promote greater environmental responsibility. Anti-Corruption Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the Principle 10: Businesses should work against Environmental Performance development and diffusion of environmentally corruption in all its forms, including extortion friendly technologies. and bribery. PS 1 Assessment and Management of Emission Management 71-72 Environmental and Social Risks and Impacts Energy Management 73-74 PS 3 Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention Waste Management 65-66 PS 6 Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Water Management 67-70 Management of Living Natural Resources Biodiversity Management 75-81 Social Performance Occupational Health and 83-85 PS 2 Labour and Working Conditions Safety PS 4 Community Health, Safety, and Security Emission Management 71-72 PS 5 Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement PS 7 Indigenous Peoples Local Community 47-61 Engagement PS 8 Cultural Heritage 92 93 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI G4 G4-24 Page 20 CONTENT INDEX G4-25 Page 19 G4-26 Page 20 G4-27 Page 20 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Page 3 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-29 2013 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-30 Annual G4-1 Pages 4 5 G4-31 Back cover ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-32 Page 3 G4-33 Not externally assured. G4-3 Page 12 GOVERNANCE G4-4 Pages 8 9, 85 G4-5 Back cover G4-34 Page 15 G4-6 İÇDAŞ only operates in Turkey. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-7 Incorporation G4-56 Page 15 G4-8 Pages 8 9, 12 G4-9 Pages 10,11 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-10 Page 72 Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Exclusion G4-11 Page 44 G4-12 Pages 35, 36 Economic performance Pages 32 34, 83 None G4-13 Page 13 Employment Pages 43 44, 84 85 None G4-14 Pages 67,68 Occupational Health and Safety Pages 40 43, 83 None G4-15 Page 81 Training and Education Pages 45, 86 None G4-16 Page 79 Local community Pages 49, 57 None IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Emissions Pages 7172, 88 None G4-17 Pages 3 and back cover Biodiversity Pages 75 78 None G4-18 Pages 19 20, 22 23 Energy Pages 73 -74, 87 88 None G4-19 Pages 23 Water Pages 67 69, 89 None G4-20 Page 24 Effluents and Waste Pages 65 67, 89 90 None G4-21 Page 24 Our sustainability strategy, basis of G4-22 identifying material aspects and key stakeholders have been restated. G4-23 Scope and boundaries have not changed since the previous report. 94 95 Sustainability and Reporting Consultant SERCOM Consulting Tel: +90 533 648 07 40 Graphic Design FikriFerah Tel: +90 532 363 96 63 94 95 Contact Information (G4-17) İÇDAŞ Çelik Enerji Tersane ve Ulaşım Sanayi A.Ş. Mahmutbey Mahallesi Dilmenler Caddesi No:20 34212 Bağcılar/İstanbul Phone: +90 (212) 604 04 04 İÇDAŞ Environment Management Department +90 (286) 395 10 10 | icdas@icdas.com.tr
