January 20, 2015 UN Global compact COP Statement by the CEO Nordic Waterproofing is one of Europe's leading suppliers of membranes for roofing and environmental buildings and we develop solutions for public and commercial buildings and constructions. I am pleased to confirm that Nordic Waterproofing supports of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. Our sustainability program is based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues and follow our performance on these issues on a yearly basis. Our Communication on Progress describes our actions to continually anchor and integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We are committed to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders mainly through our individual company brands. Holger Hansen Nordic Waterproofing Group, CEO Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment: Nordic Waterproofing actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including The Global Compact Principles 1-2, the protection of human rights, health and safety. It provides the ethical and behavioral framework on which we base our decisions every day. The Code is anchored in values and beliefs and underpins all that we do. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct, including Global Compact´s Principles 1-2 among our employees and suppliers. We follow incidents related to product safety and work injuries as well as absence from work at Group level. We do not see a current need to make country risk assessments or have dialogue with HRorganizations given the countries we operate in and the risk assessment we have done on our suppliers. Performance: In the past year Nordic Waterproofing has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No incidents on violations on our Code of Conduct have been reported to the Company Management or through our Whistleblowing service. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: We respect the right of workers and operate our business with safe and attractive working conditions. We respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining and have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or discrimination. Nordic Waterproofing sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 3-5. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 3-6. All Nordic Waterproofing employees undergo annual performance reviews to set individual plans and targets for advancement. We follow incidents of discrimination on the work places. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct, including Global Compact´s Principles 3-6 among our employees and suppliers. We have carried out a performance review with all staff. Nordic Waterproofing holds an ISO 9001 certificate in Sweden and in Finland. Performance: No incidents on violations on our Code of Conduct have been reported to the Company Management or through our Whistleblowing service. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment: We recognize that our production and transports have a negative impact in the environment. We constantly work to minimize these effects. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 7-9. We also have an environmental policy at Group level. Activities: Anchoring our Code of Conduct, including the environmental policy, is a prioritized and ongoing process among our employees and suppliers. We follow our climate impact, our usage of chemicals and waste in order to lower our overall environmental impact according to our triple bottom line approach. We offer products with high environmental performance, for example Green roofing. All our brands communicate their environmental efforts on their external web services. Nordic Waterproofing holds an ISO 14001 certificate in Sweden and in Finland. Performance: We follow our consumption of energy and chemicals and our waste in order to lower our environmental impact. No incidents on violations on our Code of Conduct have been reported to the Company Management or through our Whistleblowing service. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: Nordic Waterproofing does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principle 10. We have a whistleblowing service, where our employees anonymously can report to our chairman or CFO. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct, including Global Compact´s Principles 10, among our employees and suppliers. We follow the amount of incidents violating the ethical rules set up in our Code of Conduct. Performance: No incidents on violations on our Code of Conduct have been reported to the Company Management or through our Whistleblowing service.
