2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT “Our corporate responsibility practices revolve around our guiding principles: responsible operations, mutual benefit, transparency and collaboration.” HAL KVISLE, President and CEO Kinabalu, Malaysia CONTENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY – How We Do Business 2 ABOUT TALISMAN 4 LETTER FROM HAL KVISLE – President and CEO 6 SAFETY 8 ENVIRONMENT 12 PEOPLE 16 COMMUNITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 20 GOVERNANCE 24 KEY NUMBERS 29 INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT 30 ADVISORIES 31 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 32 CORPORATE INFORMATION IBC Talisman’s 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report was published May 30, 2014. Talisman is listed on the Toronto and New York stock exchanges under the symbol TLM. For more information, visit www.talisman-energy.com This report, produced annually, provides performance data on all aspects of our company on a consolidated basis, for the year ending December 31, 2013. Unless otherwise indicated, figures are reported in metric units, and all financial information is reported in US dollars. Unless the context indicates otherwise, reference in this report to “Talisman” or the “company” is intended to include, for reporting purposes only, the direct or indirect subsidiaries of Talisman Energy Inc. and, in certain circumstances, partnership interests held by Talisman Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries. Such use of “Talisman” or the “company” to refer to these other legal entities and partnership interests does not constitute a waiver by Talisman Energy Inc. or such entities or partnership interests of their separate legal status, for any purpose. Performance information relating to joint ventures, where Talisman is not the operator, is excluded except where otherwise noted. Talisman defines its stakeholders as its employees, shareholders, suppliers, service providers, communities, indigenous groups, investors, debt holders, governments, regulators and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) affected by, or that can affect, the company’s operations. Talisman has numerous processes and programs for engaging with its stakeholders, including investor open houses, community consultation meetings, and employee surveys. In addition, Talisman collaborates with many stakeholders through community programs and industry initiatives with the goal of addressing key social and environmental issues. Many of these initiatives are described in this report and additional information is available on our website. Field operations; Eagle Ford, Texas 1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY How We Do Business The success of our company is inextricably linked to the responsible way we conduct all aspects of our business. Our commitment to responsible operations has helped ensure we are welcomed by governments, communities and partners wherever we operate. Safe and responsible operations lie at communities in which we operate. They magazine/Sustainalytics list of the the heart of our corporate responsibility care about our safety and environmental “Top 50 Socially Responsible Corporations efforts – as does being transparent performance, about our interactions in Canada” and were recognized as one and collaborative, and ensuring the and relationships with our communities, of the “Best 50 Corporate Citizens communities in which we operate benefit about their co-workers and their career in Canada” by Corporate Knights. In from our presence. development, and about the high standards addition, our engagement with indigenous to which we hold ourselves accountable. communities in Colombia was recognized These principles are the foundation of by the United Nations as exceeding our activities and guide the five priority Our people are the lifeblood of Talisman, international best practice. areas you can read about in this report: and their commitment forms the safety, environment, people, community foundation of our organizational culture. We hope you enjoy reading our 14th and stakeholder engagement, and The pride this creates is one of the Corporate Responsibility Report and governance. Our commitment begins with reasons we attract some of the brightest invite your comments at our Board of Directors and is formalized in minds in our industry – and why they CR@talisman-energy.com. standards, policies and processes, which choose to build their careers at Talisman. are operationalized and refined by our employees each and every day. While we always strive to do better, we are proud of our achievements and of our Our employees do this not only because inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability it’s the right thing to do – but because they Index and the Janzi Social Index. In care. They live and work in many of the 2013, we were included in the Maclean’s OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FRAMEWORK: DEFINING HOW WE DO BUSINESS GOVERNANCE SAFETY Highly ethical practices and It is paramount we protect oversight of our business conduct the well-being of our workers and processes help us deliver our and communities commitments and manage risks RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS MUTUAL BENEFIT TRANSPARENCY COMMUNITY AND COLLABORATION ENVIRONMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Minimizing the impacts of energy Engaging and sharing benefits development and production is one with stakeholders builds support of industry’s key challenges for our business PEOPLE Attracting the best people and developing their full capabilities make us a stronger organization 2 Field operations; Eagle Ford, Texas 3 ABOUT TALISMAN Talisman is a global upstream oil and gas company, headquartered in Calgary, Canada. Our main business activities are the exploration, development, production, transportation and marketing of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Talisman holds various interests in operated, non-operated and joint venture assets. Our activities are focused on two core regions, the Americas and Asia-Pacific, which represent approximately 90% of production and 90% of 2P reserves at year-end 2013. Our objective is to create long-term Our Americas core region consists of investment in long-dated exploration, sustainable value for our shareholders. assets in Canada, the United States and exited – or are in the process of exiting – To achieve this, we are building upon Colombia. Our North American portfolio several countries, reduced capital our competitive advantage in our core provides a platform for production and and G&A expenditures and completed regions, growing high-margin production cash flow growth, and our business various dispositions. and improving our cash margins on every in Colombia provides opportunities for barrel. Central to this are four key priorities: near-term oil production growth. In 2014, we are targeting liquids growth of 14-19 per cent from our core areas and 1. Living within our means by reducing the Our Asia-Pacific core region includes we expect overall company production to gap between capital expenditures and Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, Papua New be between 350-365 mboe/d. We cash flow; Guinea, Australia/Timor-Leste and Algeria. will further focus our portfolio while Our business here is characterized by maintaining a strong balance sheet 2. Focusing our capital program on long-life assets and high netbacks as through the divestment of approximately near-term, high-margin production; much of the region’s production is linked $2 billion of additional assets during the to oil prices. next 12-18 months. 3. Improving our operational performance by conducting all parts of our business In addition to our two core regions, safer, better, faster and at lower cost; and Talisman has interests in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and the North Sea. 4. Unlocking net asset value, primarily through the disposition or dilution During 2013, in parallel with our focus on of capital-intensive, long-dated and growing high-margin production within non-core assets. our two core regions, we reduced our 2013 FACTS AND FIGURES 345,000 30% boe/d of production growth in $2B in non-core asset sales 20% reduction in capital from ongoing operations* North America liquids expenditure and underlying G&A on a run-rate basis *Production from ongoing operations consists of total production less production from assets sold or held for sale. 4 AMERICAS ASIA-PACIFIC OUR FOCUS AREAS Talisman is focused on two core regions: the Americas and Asia-Pacific. These regions underpin our company and, in 2013, they contributed over 90% of total production and contained over 90% of 2P reserves. They represent a portfolio with a track record of production and cash flow growth. In each region, our combination of skilled employees, high quality assets, expertise, access to infrastructure and established relationships gives us a competitive advantage with significant upside. TWO CORE REGIONS: THE AMERICAS AND ASIA-PACIFIC1 ~90% >90% >90% ~75% ~80% of production of 2P reserves of COGEH of contingent of unrisked 2P value resource prospective resource 2013 production 2013 2P reserves 2013 COGEH 2P value 2013 contingent 2013 unrisked 345 mboe/d from 1.6 billion boe ~ $13 billion resource3 prospective ongoing operations2 RLI ~ 12 years 3.3 billion boe4 resource 4.2 billion boe5 1. Includes Algeria. 2. Production from ongoing operations consists of total production less production from assets sold or held for sale. 3. Contingent resource in non-core areas relates to the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. 4. Data as at May 6, 2014. 5. Data as at May 6, 2014. 5 LETTER FROM HAL KVISLE President and CEO Welcome to our 14th annual Corporate Responsibility Report. Our goal is to work safer, better, faster and at lower cost, while maintaining our commitment to being a safe, responsible and ethical company. Corporate responsibility is owned by everyone at Talisman, reflecting who we are, how we work, our culture and our values. The company achieved measurable amounts of data. Improving our corporate be an important priority in 2013. Although progress against our four business responsibility performance is an ongoing we reduced our workforce, we redeployed priorities in 2013 as we worked to live commitment of our executive. Our Board over 90 people into new roles. We are within our means, focus our capital of Directors provides oversight and reviews driving more accountability deeper into program, improve our operating performance quarterly. the business, creating jobs that are performance and unlock net asset value more rewarding and challenging. As we from our portfolio. We are now focused Safety is always our first priority. There is reshape the way we run our business, on two core regions; we reduced costs nothing more important than making sure our people saved us millions of dollars and sold over $2 billion in non-core that everyone who works for us, and with through programs that encouraged them assets over the past 12 months. This us, goes home without injury. Our safety to suggest and implement operational and momentum will continue in 2014, and performance has improved significantly cost efficiencies. We have invigorated a I encourage you to visit our website over the past five years and, in 2013, our grassroots focus on operational excellence (www.talisman-energy.com) to read our lost-time injury performance was rated that means our employees are at the core 2013 Annual Report. as top quartile amongst our peer group. of improving our business. This is a distinction we will work hard Despite changes to our strategy and to maintain. We exceeded all of our Engaging our communities and structure, our commitment to corporate safety targets in 2013: notably, reducing stakeholders in a transparent and responsibility is steadfast. Our corporate lost-time injuries by 36 per cent and total collaborative way is an important part responsibility practices revolve around recordable injuries by 17 per cent. of our operations. In 2013, our activities our guiding principles: responsible contributed over $2.6 billion through operations, mutual benefit, transparency We also continued to exceed our taxes and royalties to the countries and and collaboration. environmental targets in 2013, reducing communities in which we operate, and, our spill frequency by 15 per cent, wherever possible, we employ local I am pleased with the progress we have compared to our goal of 10 per cent, people. Whether entering or leaving a made in the areas of safety, environment, which you can read about on page 13. country or community, we take great care community and stakeholder engagement, In our shale operations, all of our to work with all levels of government and employees and governance. We build well completions used a process to all stakeholders to maintain their trust corporate responsibility into every facet significantly reduce methane emissions and respect. of our operations – including project and every hydraulically fractured well planning, policies and procedures, in the Marcellus and the Montney used Strong governance and robust business training and reporting – all in support flow-back water to limit the need for fresh practices provide the foundation for of continuous improvement. water. We maintain a set of operating running an ethical, responsible and principles that enable us to align with disciplined company. In support of this, It is an iterative journey. Through the emerging industry best practices. each year our Board and employees year, we evaluate our performance: what undertake a formal Business Conduct went right? What can be improved? We People join Talisman for exciting career and Ethics training program, certifying listen to our people, review best practices, opportunities in a vital business. The compliance with our Policy. They are and collect and analyze substantial development of our people continued to 6 encouraged to report any breaches via our confidential Integrity Matters hotline. This hotline is overseen by our independent Internal Audit group, which ensures reported breaches are appropriately investigated and resolved. We are proud of our company, how we conduct business and how we support local communities. We are also proud to be included in the 2013 Maclean’s magazine/Sustainalytics list of “Top 50 Socially Responsible Corporations in Canada” and the Corporate Knights “Best 50 Corporate Citizens in Canada.” In addition, our engagement with indigenous communities in Colombia was recognized by the United Nations as exceeding international best practice. This recognition inspires us to continue to do better. I’d like to thank Talisman employees for embracing and living our commitment to corporate responsibility. Hal Kvisle President and CEO May 30, 2014 7 SAFETY Field operations; Chauvin, Alberta 8 SAFETY SCORECARD 2013 PERFORMANCE AND 2014 PLANS In 2013 we set out to: As part of our accomplishments In 2014 we plan to: in 2013 we: • Reduce our lost-time injury • Reduced our lost-time injury frequency • Reduce our lost-time injury frequency frequency by 20% by 36% – now in OGP top quartile ✓ by 5% and maintain OGP top quartile status • Reduce our total recordable injury • Reduced our total recordable injury • Reduce our total recordable injury frequency by 15% frequency by 17% ✓ frequency by 10% • Reduce our flammable unintentional • Reduced our flammable unintentional • Reduce our flammable unintentional hydrocarbon releases by 15% hydrocarbon releases by 18% ✓ hydrocarbon releases by 15% SAFETY Safe operations are our first priority. We make every effort to ensure the people who work for us go home safely, and that our operations cause no harm to the people who live and work nearby. Safe operations and performance are integral to the performance agreements of each senior leader in the company, and all high profile incidents are reviewed by the senior executive responsible for the region where the incident occurred. Our goal is continuous safety improvement, and we measure our performance on an ongoing basis, learning from our mistakes and taking action to prevent recurrence. We have developed policies, procedures Our front-line employees implement As we strive to continuously improve and processes to help prevent major our safety programs each day, and are our safety performance and create a incidents, and we review and test them encouraged to be proactive in spotting learning culture, a new ‘lessons learned’ regularly. Our executive and leaders and recommending opportunities for program is being developed and will be aim to create safe working conditions improvement. They help drive our safety rolled out during 2014. by empowering our employees to make performance and culture. While we are decisions that protect them and others proud of our performance in 2013 and our In June 2013, we began a large-scale 3D from harm, which in turn supports and continuous improvement trend over the seismic program over the Cypress area of strengthens our safety culture. Safety is a past few years, we always strive to do better. our Montney acreage in northeastern British responsibility shared by all our employees. Columbia. The goal was to acquire seismic data while causing no harm to people and An important part of our safety objective OUR EVOLVING SAFETY CULTURE minimize environmental impacts. is anticipating and preventing incidents This year, we reaffirmed safety as a before they happen. We understand the Given the remote location of the program, responsibility of our front-line employees, risks to our business and take proactive helicopters were used to move people further empowering our operational measures to ensure safety incidents are and equipment, making helicopter safety leaders and employees to positively minimized. When safety incidents happen, paramount to the success of the project. influence and drive our safety culture. we identify root causes and share this For the first time, the final draft helicopter We encourage reporting of all health, knowledge across our business in an safety guidelines for Canadian onshore safety and environment (HSE) incidents, effort to prevent similar incidents from seismic operations created by The no matter how small, and we strengthened happening again. Helicopter Association of Canada our HSE reporting by investing in a were field tested by our teams, and detailed database to enable real-time the project was completed with zero tracking and reporting of metrics. recorded injuries. 9 As a result, in May 2014, we were chosen of areas were identified where improvements they happen. In support of this, we as the Health and Safety category winner could be made to better align with our HSE measure leading process safety indicators at the Canadian Association of Petroleum practices, leading to the execution of a such as compiled Safety Critical Element Producers (CAPP) Responsible Canadian focused safety improvement program. (SCE) maintenance, inspections and Energy awards. We were also recognized repairs. We’ve also strengthened our for our efforts to identify and avoid active PROCESS SAFETY – process safety reporting, and report minor migratory bird nests by conducting process safety events or demands on our pre-clearing nest surveys during the PREVENTING MAJOR INCIDENTS safety systems. This enables us to take active nesting period prior to seismic immediate action to remedy any potential Process safety is about taking preventive operations – part of a comprehensive issues. In 2014, we aim to reduce FUHR measures to ensure hydrocarbons and wildlife awareness program. by a further 15 per cent. other dangerous substances are securely The learnings from this program have contained, our operating procedures are been shared with our CAPP peers to followed, and our facilities and equipment PERSONAL SAFETY support the development of a beneficial are properly maintained. We protect our people through proactively management practice for migratory birds. managing risk, effective processes and Our policies, procedures and processes help prevent major incidents, play a management systems, an evolving culture 2013 marked the fifth year of our annual critical role keeping our people safe of immediate intervention and robust CEO Safety Awards, which recognize from harm and guide our well-trained day-to-day supervision – all of which are outstanding HSE achievements. These employees in the safe and effective use supported by our 10 Golden Rules for awards were created to underline the of our equipment. The company also Safe Operations. importance of continuous safety improvement and to help build a proactive routinely conducts exercises to ensure Launched in 2010, the 10 Golden Rules safety culture across our global operations. preparedness in the event of an incident. are fundamental to our operations. They A primary process safety indicator is focus on the most common incidents in our The 2013 CEO Safety Award for Creating a flammable unintentional hydrocarbon industry and are built on the principles of Proactive Safety Culture went to our team release (FUHR) frequency, which is ‘think safe, work safe, home safe.’ They are in Malaysia, who were responsible for measured per million man-hours. In highly visible throughout our operations, the transition of the Kinabalu platform to 2013, we reduced our FUHR by and incorporate leak prevention, risk Talisman operatorship. During a six-month 18 per cent compared to 2012, assessments, work permits, the isolation period, they conducted detailed operating exceeding our 15 per cent target. of energy sources, safe lifting operations, and safety reviews which included the controlled entry into confined spaces, integrity and condition of wells, flowlines While this reduction represents a significant working safely at height, prevention of and piping, subsurface safety valves, and achievement, we strive to prevent all dropped objects, vehicle safety and platform evacuation and abandonment potential safety process incidents before controlling ground disturbance. procedures. During these reviews, a number Offshore operations; PM-3, Malaysia 10 Beyond the proactive steps we take to our expectation that all our procedures TRIF is a metric of all recordable prevent accidents from occurring, we use and processes be fully complied with. workplace-related injuries, which includes lost-time injury frequency (LTIF) and total We also closely monitored the injured medical treatment cases, restricted work recordable injury frequency (TRIF) as worker’s recovery through to his return cases, lost-time injuries and fatalities, and indicators of our safety performance.6 to work. No further LTIs occurred during is measured per million man-hours. In the remaining 3.3 million man-hours of 2013, we reduced TRIF frequency by LTIF is the number of lost-time the project. This performance is due to 17 per cent – from 2.83 in 2012 to 2.34 workplace-related injuries versus the the skilled and experienced team who in 2013 – exceeding our 15 per cent number of man-hours worked, and is conducted regular risk assessments and target. In 2014, we have set a target to measured per million man-hours. In proactive interventions at every stage reduce this by a further 10 per cent. 2013, we reduced our LTIF frequency of the project. We also completed an by 36 per cent compared to 2012 – independent operational readiness review In addition to our full-time employees, from 0.44 to 0.28 respectively – exceeding prior to startup that identified any risks to we rely upon thousands of contractors our 20 per cent reduction target. the delivery of the project, and ensured who work with us in field operations. we had the right processes, people and We set clear safety expectations that In 2013, our Asia-Pacific team delivered our contractors must adhere to, and we equipment in place to operate safely. first oil production ahead of schedule have seen steady improvements in safety and under budget at our HST/HSD Based on our overall LTIF performance performance over the last few years. Part platform offshore Vietnam. At the onset in 2013, we measured as a top quartile of this improvement can be attributed to of this project in 2012, we experienced performer amongst our peers in the our employing contractors whose safety a lost-time injury and took immediate International Association of Oil and Gas programs meet our requirements, ongoing action to avoid recurrence. We had Producers (OGP). This was a goal we set contractor performance monitoring and discussions with the construction in 2008, and we plan to maintain this our proactive effort to build enduring contractor to reinforce our commitment by delivering a further five per cent LTIF relationships with the contractors who excel. to safe operations and to emphasize reduction in 2014. GLOBAL TOTAL RECORDABLE GLOBAL LOST-TIME FLAMMABLE UNINTENTIONAL INJURY FREQUENCY* INJURY FREQUENCY* HYDROCARBON RELEASES (per one million exposure hours) (per one million exposure hours) (FUHRs)* frequency (number of FUHRs per one million exposure hours) 5.0 2.0 1.5 4.0 1.5 1.0 1.14 3.0 3.72 0.99 0.93 1.0 2.83 2.0 2.34 0.5 0.5 1.0 0.42 0.44 0.28 0.0 0.0 0.0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 * All figures in these tables exclude Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited. To ensure a like-for-like comparison of data, all 2011 and 2012 figures have been restated from the 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report to exclude Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited. 6. LTIF and TRIF are measured in exposure hours, which are collected for Talisman employees, contractors and subcontractors outside of North America using the guidelines provided by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) document Health and Safety Incident Reporting Systems Users’ Guide Report No: 444. Exposure hours for North American operations are collected using the labour factors as percentages of capital or operating budgets described in the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP) document 2008-1029 June 18, 2008 Reporting of Occupational Injuries. Total recordable injury frequency includes the number of fatalities, lost workday cases, restricted workday cases and medical treatment cases per million exposure hours. 2013 LTIF and LTIF frequency exclude Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited. To ensure a like-for-like comparison, 2011 and 2012 figures have been restated from the 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report and exclude Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited. 11 ENVIRONMENT Field operations; Chauvin, Alberta 12 ENVIRONMENT SCORECARD 2013 PERFORMANCE AND 2014 PLANS In 2013 we set out to: As part of our accomplishments In 2014 we plan to: in 2013 we: • Reduce our spill frequency by 10% • Reduced our spill frequency • Reduce our spill frequency by 15% by 15% ✓ • Continue to implement Talisman’s • Commenced transition to industry best • Continue to transition toward industry Shale Operating Principles practices in North America best practices for managing risks in our shale operations in North America ENVIRONMENT Environmental stewardship is an important part of our licence to operate. Our employees care about the environment, and we do too. As a responsible operator, we actively engage all stakeholders and seek to minimize the effects of our operations on air, land and water. We do this through extensive project planning, and striving to meet or exceed laws and regulations. Our goal is for Talisman to be a ‘neighbour of choice.’ We seek to minimize surface disturbances incorporating safeguards to prevent or consultant, a site assessment report and both before and during operations, and have contain hydrocarbon spills. soil remediation plan were developed and comprehensive reclamation and remediation submitted to the British Columbia Oil and Gas plans in place. We strive to meet or exceed In 2013, we achieved a 15 per cent Commission (OGC). In 2014, we will continue air quality standards, and work with suppliers reduction in spill frequency per million to work in coordination with the OGC to and contractors to ensure safe practices in man-hours – from 2.3 in 2012 to 1.95 in ensure all environmental concerns are transporting potentially hazardous materials. 2013. This is our primary environmental adequately addressed, and we have made As part of our standards and policies, metric, as it ties our performance to our improvements to our monitoring programs we often put safeguards and secondary activity levels. In 2014, we aim to reduce and our engineering design and construction containment barriers in place to minimize spill frequency per million man-hours by a practices for water storage facilities. the risk of hydrocarbons escaping into further 15 per cent. We also reduced the the environment. total volume of spills in 2013 by 55 per Reducing the likelihood of leaks and cent, and decreased our total number of failures within our pipeline networks is spills from 95 in 2012 to 69 in 20137. of paramount importance across our PREVENTING SPILLS operations. For example, our Canadian When spills do occur, we take them seriously. pipeline integrity team takes a proactive We are committed to preventing spills due We investigate the root cause, share learnings approach to pipeline risk mitigation to the danger of explosion or fire, or the across our business, remediate each spill by establishing a risk profile for every impact on soil, surface or groundwater. and take action to prevent similar incidents kilometre of our Canadian pipeline Prevention starts at the design and planning from occurring in the future. In 2013, we network. This work is supplemented stages, from preparing to drill the first well to identified an integrity issue with the lining with annual pipeline integrity meetings building production facilities and, ultimately, of a produced water pond at one of our in each of our Canadian operating areas. to ceasing operations and doing the final Farrell Creek operations in northeastern When potential issues are identified, remediation and reclamation work. We British Columbia. As a result, we took the we investigate the root causes and take abide by all regulatory requirements, and pond out of service for inspection and repair. appropriate action to address the problem. aim to follow industry best practices by With the help of a third-party environmental 7. 2013 spill frequency, total volume of spills and total number of spills exclude Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited. To ensure a like-for-like comparison, 2011 and 2012 figures have been restated from the 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report and exclude Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited. 13 The preventive measures we take go natural resource. In 2013, every well Concurrent with the release of our early beyond our own operations. A number of completed across our North American principles, we worked with North American our North Sea and Asia-Pacific operations shale operations were green completions. trade organizations, environmental nonrely on marine tankers to transport our oil governmental organizations, regulators to market, and, in addition to the regulatory Any produced methane that isn’t captured and other stakeholders to help develop assurance provided by shipping companies, is burned off safely in a process called best management practices for shale we undertake our own additional layer of flaring. Whenever practical we seek to development. These are based on marine quality assurance which is aligned reduce flaring as much as possible. environmental stewardship, community with industry best practice. This includes an benefits and transparency, and overlap Throughout 2012, we partnered with the examination of the age of the tanker, crew many of the core concepts within our own University of Texas, the Environmental training and experience, the tanker owner/ initial Shale Operating Principles. Defense Fund and eight industry peers operator’s Safety Management System, to measure the amount of methane emitted Given the emergence of industry best pollution insurance coverage, compliance during completion operations at 190 practice standards and the evolution of with all certification requirements and the onshore natural gas sites. The study showed the shale regulatory environment, in 2013, ship’s inspection history. that methane emissions from shale we began transitioning away from our own Through this additional layer of assurance, operations have come down significantly as Shale Operating Principles toward emerging and by sharing our findings with the tanker the industry adopts new methods, such as industry best practices. As we move forward, companies we do business with, we play a green completions. You can read this study we remain committed to developing shale proactive role in working to prevent shipping on the Proceedings of the National Academy resources in a safe and responsible manner, transport incidents within our industry. of Sciences website. engaging with stakeholders, providing real benefits to local communities and protecting Oil and gas operations, particularly MANAGING EMISSIONS AND shale development, require water. We the environment. PROTECTING OUR FRESH WATER try to minimize our use of fresh water by capturing and reusing flow-back water – RESOURCES fluid that flows back through the wellbore to the surface – for fracturing future GLOBAL NUMBER The concept of “reduce, reuse and recycle” is important to us. We integrate wells. In cases where water recovered OF SPILLS* from our operations cannot be reused, (number of spills greater than 0.5 barrel) energy efficient measures into our we take the necessary steps to properly operations, taking steps to reduce treat and dispose of it. In 2013, all of greenhouse gas emissions and reduce frequency number of spills our shale wells in the Marcellus and the (number of spills our use of fresh water. In addition, we per one million Montney used flow-back water in the exposure hours) collaborate with industry peers and hydraulic fracturing process, and we are academic partners to help develop and looking at ways to maximize the reuse of 3.0 200 implement best environmental practices flow-back water in our Eagle Ford and for the industry. In September 2012, Duvernay shale operations. 2.73 we donated C$1 million to Mount Royal 150 2.0 2.3 University in Calgary to create the Talisman Energy Chair of Sustainability and the RESPONSIBLE SHALE OPERATIONS 1.95 100 Environment. This is currently held by In 2012, at a time when best practices in 1.0 Dr. Michael Quinn, Associate Professor in 50 the shale industry were in their infancy, the Faculty of Environmental Design at the we developed our own Shale Operating 130 95 69 University of Calgary. The chair’s role is to 0.0 0 Principles. These encapsulated issues inspire new and innovative ideas around we believe are important in developing 2011 2012 2013 renewable resources and the environment. this resource. Guided by our existing In our shale operations in North internal standards, including our Policy on * All figures in this table exclude Talisman Sinopec Energy America, we use a technique called Business Conduct and Ethics, Policy for UK Limited. To ensure a like-for-like comparison of data, green completions where we aim to Safe Operations and Global Community all 2011 and 2012 figures have been restated from the 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report to exclude Talisman capture methane produced during well Relations Policy, the Principles were Sinopec Energy UK Limited. For reporting purposes, completions and send it to gas gathering designed to help minimize the impact of Talisman defines a spill as anything greater than half a barrel in volume outside of secondary containment. facilities for sale, if a sales line is available, our operations on the environment, ensure rather than into the atmosphere. This the communities in which we operate reduces greenhouse gas emissions and benefit from our presence and provide ensures we do not waste a precious transparency into our operations. 14 Shale operations; Marcellus, Pennsylvania 15 PEOPLE Employee engagement event; Calgary, Alberta 16 PEOPLE SCORECARD 2013 PERFORMANCE AND 2014 PLANS In 2013 we set out to: As part of our accomplishments In 2014 we plan to: in 2013 we: • Redeploy people, whenever possible, • Redeployed over 90 existing • Embed our leadership model and as we restructure to implement our employees into other roles ✓ begin to measure and reward four priorities leadership performance • Continue to improve our leadership • Introduced a new leadership model, • Implement an employee value culture at all levels of the company focusing on personal leadership, proposition to attract and retain strategic thinking and planning, employees results-oriented decisions and developing others ✓ • Leverage our employee discipline • Conducted competency assessments • Continue to build a culture of networks8 to build critical skills within a number of employee continuous improvement and cost discipline networks ✓ focus across the company • Ensure that our people are engaged, • Invested nearly $12 million in employee • Improve our onboarding process for informed and committed to our future training and career development ✓ new hires • Introduced a new long-term incentive program ✓ • Conducted a brief “pulse” survey to check in with employees on key issues ✓ PEOPLE 2013 was a foundational year for Talisman. We took steps to reset our operations around two core regions and four priorities, we sold non-core assets, cut costs, and reduced and focused our capital spending. Our employees played an integral role in this important work, which is helping us become a more focused and profitable company. We continue to offer employees a work The changes to our strategy have involved As the company continues to evolve, environment which provides opportunities some restructuring and layoffs. We worked we will fill vacancies with internal and for development, interaction with bright, hard to minimize the impact of this on external candidates, seeking always to hardworking colleagues, and careers existing employees, and redeployed over strengthen key areas such as our technical that are both challenging and rewarding. 90 people into other roles. When people disciplines. Many of our new hires in recent In support of changes to our strategy, our were let go, it was done respectfully, years have been attracted to us through employees have embraced running their fairly, transparently and with support to the recommendation of existing employees, parts of the business safer, better, faster help them transition into new careers and the fact the company and the industry and at lower cost. or retirement. have an exciting role to play in satisfying part of the world’s need for energy. 8. Talisman has established networks of employees within core disciplines such as drilling and completions, engineering and geology to share knowledge and promote career development. 17 We continue to build a culture where we leaders to assess their capabilities. ATTRACTING, RETAINING AND listen to, engage and communicate with This assessment then feeds into tailored our employees. Our people are dedicated, development plans for participating ENGAGING TALENTED PEOPLE trust their supervisors and co-workers, employees, while leaders were better Our two core region model is relatively and understand their objectives and positioned to ensure they have the unique amongst our North American how they support our four priorities. appropriate blend of skills in their groups. peers. When combined with the diverse Like all companies, there are areas To support and nurture the professional skills, experiences, cultural backgrounds where we can and will improve, which and personal development of our and perspectives of our employees, is why we introduced a new leadership employees, each department has a Talisman is a rewarding place to build a model and continue to work on engaging training budget – in 2013, we invested career, while the dynamic nature of our all our employees. nearly $12 million in technical, personal company ensures the work is challenging development and leadership training. and engaging. DEVELOPING PEOPLE Strong leadership is integral to our people At year-end 2013, we employed We are committed to helping our people strategy, and, in 2013, partly in response approximately 2,800 people, down nearly develop their careers, and encourage our to employee survey feedback, we nine per cent from the previous year, as employees to create development plans introduced a new leadership model to people left for opportunities elsewhere which incorporate training and career enhance leadership capabilities and or positions were no longer required. advancement possibilities. In addition, our establish consistent behaviours. This We had been increasing our workforce employees are encouraged to proactively practical model focuses on four key to accommodate an aggressive growth manage their own career paths by having competencies: personal leadership, strategy; however, with the dramatic drop regular conversations with their leaders strategic thinking and planning, results in North American natural gas prices, about knowledge gaps, development orientation and developing others. reduced North Sea volumes and other opportunities, aspirations and priorities. Enhancing leadership capabilities is an factors, our strategy has changed. ongoing process, and during 2014, we Beginning in 2013, our supply chain and will work to recognize and reward strong commercial groups worked with their leadership throughout the company. IT Finance Analyst; Calgary, Alberta 18 Eagle Ford, Texas As part of a corporate commitment to ‘Count Me In’ campaign to encourage performance category added in 2012 simplify and streamline our company our employees to run their part of the has increased regional accountability, and lower costs, we reduced our business safer, better, faster and at lower and reinforced our strong pay-formanagement population by approximately cost. We’ve hosted an employee open performance culture. 25 per cent and the number of direct house to showcase these achievements, reports to our CEO by 45 per cent. In which gave employees a chance to In 2012, we announced some changes parallel, we recruited fewer external celebrate success and share ideas. to our long-term incentive program in candidates in 2013 than in previous years, order to better align with our peers and enhance retention. Restricted share as we focused on redeploying existing REWARDING PERFORMANCE units – full share units that track our employees, whose roles were at risk, into parts of the company where they We offer competitive compensation share price – became the primary vehicle can develop new skills and add new packages relative to peers in all of within this program, coming into effect in perspectives. By the end of 2013, we our operating regions, including spring 2013. We will continue to review had reduced our net G&A run-rate base pay, benefits and pay-forand revise our compensation programs by approximately 20 per cent. performance bonuses. to ensure we effectively attract and retain talent and reward strong performance. As promised, we surveyed employees Our total compensation program to evaluate our progress in addressing rewards employees for their personal the three priorities which emerged from performance, as well as corporate our 2012 survey: vision for the future, success. As the strategic direction of the leadership and streamlining the way we company has evolved, we have realigned work. Scores for vision and leadership elements of our performance and were broadly consistent with the previous compensation programs. year and were reflective of companies going through transition. Our variable pay metrics now reflect the profitability and efficiency focus As the Board and management continue of our company, while a new regional to refine our strategy, the long-term vision will become clearer; however, we are confident the majority of our employees understand and are working to deliver on our four priorities. Our employees did TALISMAN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES: recognize improvements in streamlining the way we work. This has been a major focus and collaborative effort in which our employees have played an integral role. 2,809* We continued to keep our employees informed and engaged in our business and strategic progress through a variety of 1,841 communication channels and interactive The Americas events, including global, departmental and and Corporate functional town halls. We hosted monthly ‘Let’s Talk’ sessions with our CEO, giving employees and leaders an opportunity to interact in a small group setting, and our 232 Rest of World executive team hosted a series of informal two-way conversations about leadership, 736 strategy, operational excellence and Asia-Pacific improving the way we work. One of our four priorities is to improve operational performance and reduce *Total permanent employees as at December 31, 2013, does not include our joint venture partnership in the UK North Sea – Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited, costs. The company made significant or in Colombia – Equion Energia Limited. progress in a number of areas in 2013. Supporting this was a grassroots 19 COMMUNITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Employee volunteering event; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 20 COMMUNITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SCORECARD 2013 PERFORMANCE AND 2014 PLANS In 2013 we set out to: As part of our accomplishments In 2014 we plan to: in 2013 we: • Continue to contribute to community • Contributed $8.4 million to • Contribute $10 million to community initiatives in areas where we are community initiatives in areas initiatives in areas where we operate the operator where we operate ✓ • Review and, if necessary, realign • Reviewed and realigned our global • Develop additional guidelines for the global community investment community investment partnerships Global Community Relations Policy partnerships with new where necessary ✓ strategic priorities • Review country exit processes to • Reviewed and enhanced our country • Formalize corporate asset ensure alignment with our Global and asset exit processes ✓ exit guidelines Community Relations Policy • Collect baseline information on • Collected baseline information on community and local benefits community and local benefits ✓ COMMUNITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We build and nurture relationships with the communities where we operate at all stages of our operations, from entry to exit. We outline our plans, address questions and concerns, collect feedback and strive to ensure communities benefit from our presence. Being a responsible and welcome neighbour in the communities in which we have a presence helps ensure our ability to operate. with communities – including indigenous information on planned development at our PROACTIVELY ENGAGING and tribal groups impacted by our Montney unconventional operations. During COMMUNITIES AND operations. We are also committed to this event, we learned water consumption identifying ways communities can share was a leading concern among community STAKEHOLDERS the economic benefits of our presence. members. We responded by publicly Wherever we operate, we work to earn the Our approach is based on a foundation disclosing the volume of water we draw from trust and support of local communities of transparent and open communication, nearby sources. and stakeholders, by explaining our which allows us to work with communities and ensure they are engaged and During the last 18 months, in line with business and operational plans, listening understand our activities. our priority to focus our capital program, and responding to questions, and we exited Poland, received government ensuring the views of these communities Open houses are one example of how we approval to withdraw from Sierra Leone are considered throughout our decisionengage with our stakeholders. They are and announced our exit from Peru. making process. We aim to ensure our important forums which allow us to interact We apply the same values and operations have a positive economic and with communities – particularly those living protocols when we exit a community social impact on these communities. in proximity of our developments – to provide as when we first enter. For instance, in Introduced in 2011, our Global updates and gain a better understanding Peru, we continue to collaborate with Community Relations Policy sets the of their issues and concerns. For example, local communities and government standards we expect of our employees, in 2013, we hosted an Open House in stakeholders to complete the successful defines our standards for engagement Hudson’s Hope, British Columbia, to present transition of our interests in Block 64. 21 BENEFITS TO LOCAL contributed approximately 9,600 hours of Our involvement helped provide items team-building volunteering. In addition, such as hygiene kits, second-hand COMMUNITIES 448 employees donated 29,000 personal clothing, fuel, and food packages for hours to community organizations. pregnant women. We work to ensure the communities and To promote this, our ‘Investing in our countries in which we operate benefit from In the Philippines, large parts of the Communities’ program provides a our presence by creating employment country were devastated by Typhoon donation of up to $500 to charities our opportunities, procuring goods and Haiyan, and, although we do not operate employees and retirees are directly services locally, as well as supporting and there, donations toward relief efforts involved with. sponsoring community activities. made by our employees and matched by In Calgary, we focused much of our Talisman equalled nearly $83,000. In 2013, we paid over $2 billion in effort on our annual United Way program, royalties to host governments and a where employee donations and our further $623 million in taxes. In addition corporate matching program have to these significant fiscal contributions, contributed more than C$9.4 million over our capital spending totaled $3.2 billion. the past 13 years. In 2013, we raised over Where possible, we procure goods and C$728,000 for the campaign. services from qualified suppliers in the communities and countries in which 2013 marked the fourth year of we operate, as well as enhance the ‘A Day Makes a Difference’, a week-long skills, competencies and abilities of the volunteer campaign in Canada and local work force. For example, in Papua Asia-Pacific in which employees and New Guinea, we initiated a green garden leaders donated over 3,300 hours to project supporting 93 local farmers local causes. Activities included residing near our operations. The project preparing meals for hospital patients in introduced modern farming techniques Ho Chi Min City, Vietnam and the to produce fresh vegetables for sale to homeless in Calgary, Alberta. our base camp. The project created income for local farmers, while at the In addition to our ongoing volunteering same time reduced our costs to provide initiatives, Talisman also contributes funds food to camp workers. and employee volunteer efforts to various disaster relief initiatives. In 2013, Calgary In Western Canada, we have partnered experienced major flooding that impacted with the Canadian Women’s Foundation thousands of people. Talisman and its and signed a three-year, C$300,000 employees contributed over C$250,000 agreement dedicated to economic to Canadian Red Cross relief efforts, and development and domestic violence our people donated 750 volunteer hours prevention grants. Our support will to help those impacted in Calgary and help deliver services that provide safe southern Alberta immediately following the accommodations for women and children flood. Many of our employees and their leaving domestic violence. families were impacted by these floods and were displaced from their homes. We actively support the communities Those affected were supported through where we operate, channelling paid time off, financial assistance and investment in the form of sponsorships counselling where needed. Employees and employee volunteering toward also supported their impacted colleagues education, empowering communities by welcoming them into their homes and and the environment. These categories donating time to remove debris. reflect our values and are aligned with our operational risk and business priorities. In 2013, we also supported communities through our partnership with the Civil Our employees once again demonstrated Development Organization (CDO), an a strong commitment to their communities Iraq-based group assisting with Syrian in 2013, donating 39,000 volunteer relief efforts. hours. Within this, 1,562 employees 22 Safety campaign; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 23 GOVERNANCE Field operations; Marcellus, Pennsylvania 24 GOVERNANCE SCORECARD 2013 PERFORMANCE AND 2014 PLANS In 2013 we set out to: As part of our accomplishments In 2014 we plan to: in 2013 we: • Pilot the Supplier Code of Conduct • Developed and introduced a • Implement and conduct training across areas of our operations Supplier Code of Conduct into all on the associated risk assessment supply chain contracts ✓ process for the Supplier Code of Conduct • Undertake an internal review of the • Completed an internal review of • Implement the outcomes of our Policy on Business Conduct and the PBCE ✓ PBCE internal review Ethics (PBCE) • Implement internal global community • Began implementation of internal global • Implement the Global Standard for involvement guidelines community involvement guidelines ✓ Safe Operations in the operating units • Continue to measure global Health, • Developed a new Global Standard for Safety, Security and Environment Safe Operations ✓ Standard implementation against country-specific milestones and plans for existing standards • 100% of Directors and 99% of employees completed the online ethics awareness training ✓ GOVERNANCE Strong governance and robust business practices provide the foundation for running an ethical, responsible and disciplined company. This begins with our Board of Directors, is captured throughout our policies, and is embedded and executed at all levels of our company. We focus on four key areas: governance structure, business ethics, transparency and compliance. We have 13 Directors, each of whom is firm and recommend a new CEO to the GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE a non-executive director, except for our Board for its approval. President and CEO. The Board has five Board of Directors In order to maintain the right combination standing committees: Audit, Governance The primary responsibility of the Board and Nominating, Human Resources, of skills and experience, the Governance of Directors is to set and oversee the Reserves, and Health, Safety, Environment and Nominating Committee engaged our strategic direction of the company and and Corporate Responsibility. shareholders and oversaw a successful create shareholder value. We have Board renewal process in 2013. We clear structures in place that enable With the planned retirement of our welcomed five new Directors, who the Board to operate independently of President and CEO in 2014, we bring valuable experience in energy, management – this is consistent with our established a special CEO Succession governance, finance and capital markets. decision in 2003 to separate the roles of Committee comprising four Directors. In addition, one Director retired in 2013 Chairman of the Board and CEO. Their role is to oversee the succession and another retired in May 2014. process with our executive recruitment 25 More information on the Board can a top priority. In 2013, we held PBCE consistent with the volume of reports be found in the 2013 Management compliance awareness sessions at our received in 2012. Of these, 13 were made Proxy Circular, or on our website, Indonesia office to create a dialogue on anonymously, 11 originated internally and www.talisman-energy.com. compliance matters, provide basic tools nine externally. and techniques, and receive real and Risk Management relevant feedback from front-line As part of responding to each report, we employees. Over 98 per cent of our assess and identify the need for immediate Our Enterprise Risk Management employees attended these sessions, corrective actions and recommendations to (ERM) process is the primary tool we which led to a greater understanding prevent ongoing issues, including use to identify and evaluate potential of how each employee can implement modifications to employee roles or risks to the company. our PBCE in their daily work throughout responsibilities, termination of employees In 2013, consistent with company-wide our operations. or contractors, and policy and process efforts to simplify our business and to improvements. We take potential breaches improve our decision making, we reduced An internal review of the PBCE and of the PBCE seriously. In 2013, following an our risk categories from eight to five. its associated training programs anonymous report reviewed through the Embedded within these is oversight was completed in 2013. The review Integrity Matters program, an internal of operational, health, safety, security, identified the need to reorganize and investigation revealed what we believe to be environmental, social, political and enhance some sections of the PBCE, serious violations of the PBCE in our reputational risk. and to change the delivery method Canadian water management operations and frequency of the training. These group. In September 2013, we We continue to supplement our ERM outcomes will be implemented in 2014 commenced a lawsuit and filed process with a number of tailored risk and will complement ongoing compliance a Statement of Claim against a number analysis and monitoring tools. For initiatives throughout the company. of parties, including a former employee example, our quarterly Political Risk and a former contractor, alleging, Dashboard enables us to track and In addition to the steps we take to amongst other matters, the react to political and regulatory changes ensure a high standard of conduct misappropriation of company funds. in the regions where we operate. We among our employees, we developed also implemented a quarterly update to a Supplier Code of Conduct which sets Last year, in support of continuous the evaluation of risks to the company, out our expectations for ethical supplier improvement, we conducted a two-year allowing us to identify and continuously performance. The Code is now replacing look back on all Integrity Matters reports monitor the changing risk landscape. the Policy on Business Conduct and to better analyze and understand potential Ethics in supply chain contracts. In 2014, trends. This analysis has resulted in the regional supply chain teams will be trained creation of additional tools and targeted BUSINESS ETHICS on the associated risk assessment process training to help employees and contractors to ensure that supplier risk is understood understand and comply with key elements Policy on Business Conduct and mitigated with respect to the Code. of the PBCE. and Ethics Our Policy on Business Conduct and Ethics Integrity Matters You can learn more about the PBCE and (PBCE) provides clear guidelines for our Integrity Matters hotline by visiting our Our 24-hour Integrity Matters hotline employees on a range of issues, including website, www.talisman-energy.com. provides a confidential channel for personal conduct, human rights, community employees, vendors, independent relations, and health, safety, security and contractors and other stakeholders to environment. All employees and contractors raise any concerns of non-compliance are expected to adhere to this Policy. with the PBCE. This is available in more than 140 languages, and, to To help them do so, every year we maintain confidentiality, is hosted by an provide an online ethics awareness independent third party organization. training course on the PBCE. For 2013, all of our Directors and 99 per cent of We raise employee awareness of the our employees completed this training hotline throughout the year as part of the and signed a compliance certificate, online ethics awareness training course which requires them to report any and encourage its use. All calls to the breach of the PBCE. hotline are taken seriously, receive careful attention, and are reviewed, assessed Ensuring our employees are aware of and investigated accordingly. In 2013, 33 and in compliance with the PBCE is issues were reported through the hotline, 26 United Nations Global a stakeholder in discussions between receiving around 50 per cent fewer the Canadian Association of Petroleum notices – although we were subject to Compact (UNGC) Producers and the Government of fewer regulatory inspections than the We are a signatory of the United Canada, regarding proposed legislation previous year. While we are pleased Nations Global Compact (UNGC) – which would require Canadian extractive with our continuous improvement, any a network of companies, governments, companies to report payments to host non-compliance notice is unacceptable non-governmental and labour governments. This work will continue and, going forward, we will continue to organizations who work with the UN to through 2014. learn from regulatory inspections to support ten principles in the areas of improve the way we work. human rights, labour, the environment Political Donations and anti-corruption. This year, we made corporate ASSURANCE In 2013, the UNGC published a case political donations of approximately C$24,000 to political parties in We have processes and programs to study on our engagement with indigenous Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. provide health, safety and environmental communities in Colombia, highlighting the No political contributions were made in assurance across our company. These way our activities respect human rights the US in 2013. processes start with our Board of following the guidelines established by Directors, and are supported by senior the Voluntary Principles on Security and leaders and employees. Our HSE Human Rights (VPSHR). The case study OUR HEALTH, SAFETY assurance programs provide a set of is titled Embedding Human Rights in Business Practice and can be found on AND ENVIRONMENT (HSE) checks and balances, ensuring we conform to our internal standards and the UNGC website. MANAGEMENT SYSTEM comply with the regulatory requirements in every region where we operate. We Resource Diplomacy In 2013, as part of our drive for continuous improvement, we conduct internal and third party safety Host country regulators and national and environmental compliance audits and benchmarked our corporate HSE oil companies recognize Talisman inspections of our operations. management system against our industry as a partner of choice, and are interested peers. The outcome was a considerably in leveraging our expertise as a reputable Ernst & Young conducted a limited simplified system, in which we transitioned shale operator. In recent years, we assurance engagement related to selected from multiple global HSE Standards to a welcomed foreign delegations from several key performance indicators presented single, fit-for-purpose Global Standard for countries to learn more about shale gas in the Key Numbers Table on page 29. Safe Operations. This document clarifies technology, related regulatory frameworks Details of the scope and conclusions of our minimum safety expectations and and to see our shale operations. the assurance engagement can be found clearly articulates our requirements for in the Independent Assurance Statement managing HSE, operational integrity and TRANSPARENCY assets across our business. The Standard found on page 30. is supported by a number of mandatory Extractive Industries practices where consistency across our Transparency Initiative (EITI) operations is vital. Since 2001, we have voluntarily disclosed The Global Standard for Safe Operations and reported revenue payments to foreign was launched in January 2014 and governments, and, in 2005, began progress will be reported in the 2014 participating in the Extractive Industries Corporate Responsibility Report. Transparency Initiative (EITI) – a global coalition of governments and companies who are committed to the open and REGULATORY COMPLIANCE accountable management of natural All our operations are subject to a broad resource revenues. EITI helps ensure all range of laws and regulations, and we revenue payments to host governments are required to report every notice of are transparent, and we are proud to non-compliance of health, safety, support an initiative that is an important environmental or operational integrity. part of ethical business practice. In 2012, we exceeded our 10 per cent In 2013, we supported the Government reduction target in the number of of Papua New Guinea in its application non-compliance notices, and, in 2013, to join the EITI. We also participated as we sustained our downward trend, 27 Field operations; Eagle Ford, Texas 28 This table provides a snapshot of different areas of our performance. For a further list of key numbers, visit the Corporate Responsibility section of our website at www.talisman-energy.com. * From 2013 onwards, activity from Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited is no longer part of our corporate KEY NUMBERS All data is global and as of December 31, 2013 responsibility reporting, with the exception of Exploration unless otherwise stated. All currencies in and development spending and Production. To ensure US dollars unless otherwise stated. like-for-like comparison of data, all 2012 and 2011 HSE and Operational Integrity figures have been restated to exclude Talisman Sinopec Energy Limited. Indicator 2013* 2012 2011 Health Number of Fatalities 0 0 1 and Safety Lost-time Injury Frequency 0.28 0.44 0.42 Number of lost-time injuries per one million exposure hours Total Recordable Injury Frequency 2.34 2.83 3.72 Number of recordable injuries per one million exposure hours Operational Flammable Unintentional Hydrocarbon Releases 0.93 1.14 0.99 Integrity previous years were recorded as unintentional hydrocarbon releases Environment Total Energy use 33,312,199 33,077,000 32,945,000 Gigajoules Production Energy Intensity 0.250 0.227 0.248 Gigajoules per barrel of oil equivalent Total CO2 Equivalent Emissions 9,468,139 10,561,000 10,422,000 Tonnes Production Carbon Intensity 0.070 0.072 0.078 Tonnes of CO2 equivalent emissions per barrel of oil equivalent Fresh Water Use 2,322 2,564 3,875 1,000 cubic metres Flaring 274,575 310,107 334,385 1,000 cubic metres Number of Spills 69 95 130 Greater than 0.5 barrel Volume of Spills 157.6 353.4 705.3 Greater than 0.5 barrel, expressed in cubic metres Spill Frequency 1.95 2.30 2.73 Number of spills per million exposure hours People Number of Employees 2,809 3,091 1 3,696 2 Permanent Employees Employee Turnover 10.5 11.3 6.8 Expressed as %, not including retirements Communities Community Contributions 8.4 9.0 9.5 $millions in total funding to community initiatives Economic Production3 373 426 426 Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day Net income (loss) (1,175) 132 776 $millions Exploration and development spending4 3,164 3,511 4,142 $millions Governance Number of Certificates of Compliance with Policy on 4,454 5,469 6,002 Business Conduct and Ethics Received Employee and contract Amount of Money Paid to Political Parties Canada C24,000 C29,000 C46,645 US 0 25,000 not previously reported 1. Restated to include Netherlands head count which had been filtered with the TSEUK Joint Venture. 2. Restated to include all permanent employees, part time and full time. 3. Includes production from consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, including assets sold or held for sale. 4. Exploration and Development Expenditures from consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2012, 2011 data excludes exploration expensed. 29 INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Board of Directors and Management of Talisman Energy Inc. (“Talisman”) Our Responsibilities procedures, our limited assurance engagement • Checking the completeness of key Our limited assurance engagement has been was not designed to express a conclusion on assumptions and the evidence to support planned and performed in accordance with internal controls. the assumptions the International Standard on Assurance Work Performed • Checking the accuracy of calculations Engagements ISAE 3000 “Assurance In order for us to express a conclusion in performed, on a test basis, primarily Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of relation to the above scope of work, we have through inquiry, variance analysis and Historical Financial Information”. sought to answer the following questions for the re-performance of calculations and Subject Matter Subject Matter reviewed: analytical procedures We have performed a limited assurance • Checking that data and statements had been Completeness engagement on the corporate responsibility correctly transcribed from corporate systems performance indicators that are presented in • Has Talisman fairly presented performance and/or supporting evidence into the Report bold type in the Performance Data Tables on information concerning the selected page 29 of the 2013 Corporate Responsibility performance indicators with respect to Limitations of our Work Performed Report “the Report” for the year ended the boundaries and time period defined in Our scope of work did not include expressing December 31, 2013 which covers corporate the Report? conclusions in relation to: responsibility performance information that has been prepared by Talisman Management. • Has Talisman included sustainability • The materiality, completeness or accuracy performance information from all of data sets or information relating to areas Criteria material entities in its defined boundary other than the selected performance data, for its reporting of the selected Talisman has prepared its specified and any site-specific information performance indicators? performance information in accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines or where relevant, • Information reported outside of Talisman’s • Has Talisman accurately collated corporate internally developed criteria. 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report data relating to the selected performance indicators from operations level data? • Management’s forward looking statements Talisman Management Responsibilities The Report was prepared by the management Accuracy • Any comparisons made by Talisman against of Talisman, who is responsible for the • Is the data reported for the selected historical data collection and presentation of the performance performance indicators sufficiently accurate indicators, statements, claims in the Report and detailed for stakeholders to assess • The appropriateness of definitions for and the criteria used in determining that the Talisman’s performance? internally developed criteria information is appropriate for the purpose of disclosure in the Report. In addition, Our assurance procedures at Talisman’s Our Conclusion management is responsible for maintaining corporate head office included but were not Based on our procedures for this limited adequate records and internal controls that are limited to: assurance engagement described in this designed to support the reporting process. Report, nothing has come to our attention that • Interviewing selected personnel at causes us to believe that the Subject Matter Level of Assurance Corporate and selected international sites is not, in all material respects, reported in Our procedures were designed to obtain a to understand the key sustainability issues accordance with the relevant criteria. limited level of assurance on which to base our related to the selected performance data and conclusions. The procedures conducted do not processes for the collection and accurate provide all the evidence that would be required reporting of performance information in a reasonable assurance engagement and accordingly, we do not express a conclusion • Where relevant, obtaining an understanding Calgary, Canada of the design and implementation of May 29, 2014 conveying a reasonable level of assurance. systems and processes for data aggregation While we obtained an understanding of and reporting management’s internal processes when determining the nature and extent of our 30 ADVISORIES This report contains information that constitutes “forward-looking with Canadian securities regulatory authorities and the United development or chance of discovery. If a discovery is made, information” or “forward-looking statements” (collectively States Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking there is no certainty that it will be developed or, if it is developed, “forward-looking information”) within the meaning of applicable information is based on the estimates and opinions of the there is no certainty as to the timing of such development. securities legislation. This forward-looking information includes, Company’s management at the time the information is presented. In this report, risked prospective resources have been risked among others, statements regarding: business strategy, priorities The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking for chance of discovery but have not been risked for chance and plans; expected allocation of the capital budget; expected information should circumstances or management’s estimates or of development. production; planned reduction in lost-time injury frequency, total opinions change, except as required by law. Production and Reserves Volumes recordable injury frequency and flammable unintentional Talisman uses the term “unlocking value” to describe the Unless otherwise stated, production volumes and reserves hydrocarbon release frequency; planned reduction in spill realization of the value of an asset within Talisman’s portfolio that, estimates are stated on a company interest basis prior to the frequency; targeted liquids growth; and other expectations, beliefs, prior to its full or partial disposition, was not valued at its full deduction of royalties and similar payments. In the US, net plans, goals, objectives, assumptions, information and statements market value, as reflected in Talisman’s share price and production volumes and reserve estimates are reported after the about possible future events, conditions, results of operations or enterprise value. By monetizing the asset through a disposition or deduction of these amounts. The use of the word “gross” in this performance. The Company priorities disclosed in this report are joint venture, the Company is able to attribute a market value to report means a 100 per cent interest prior to the deduction of objectives only and their achievement cannot be guaranteed. the asset that can quantifiably be reflected in Talisman’s share royalties and similar payments. The factors or assumptions on which the forward-looking price and enterprise value. Non-Core Assets information is based include: assumptions inherent in current Reserves guidance; projected capital investment levels; the flexibility of In this report, all references to “core” and “non-core” assets National Instrument 51-101 (“NI 51-101”) of the Canadian and properties align with the Company’s current public capital spending plans and the associated sources of funding; Securities Administrators imposes oil and gas disclosure disclosure regarding its assets and properties. the successful and timely implementation of capital projects; the standards for Canadian public companies engaged in oil and gas continuation of tax, royalty and regulatory regimes; ability to BOE Conversion activities. Talisman has obtained an exemption from Canadian obtain regulatory and partner approval; commodity price and Throughout this report, barrels of oil equivalent (boe) are securities regulatory authorities to permit it to provide certain cost assumptions; and other risks and uncertainties described in calculated at a conversion rate of six thousand cubic feet (mcf) of disclosures in accordance with the US disclosure standards, in the filings made by the Company with securities regulatory natural gas for one barrel (bbl) of oil. This report also includes addition to the disclosure mandated by NI 51-101, in order to authorities. The Company believes the material factors, references to mcf equivalents (mcfes) which are calculated at a provide for comparability of oil and gas disclosure with that expectations and assumptions reflected in the forward-looking conversion rate of one barrel of oil to six thousand cubic feet of provided by US and other international issuers. Accordingly, in information are reasonable but no assurance can be given that gas. Boes and Mcfes may be misleading, particularly if used in addition to the reserves data and certain other oil and gas these factors, expectations and assumptions will prove to be isolation. A boe conversion ratio of 6mcf:1bbl and an mcfe information included in this report which is provided in correct. Forward-looking information for periods past 2014 conversion ratio of 1bbl:6mcf are based on an energy equivalence accordance with NI 51-101, there is data and information assumes escalating commodity prices. conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip and do provided in accordance with US disclosure standards. Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking not represent a value equivalency at the wellhead. A separate exemption granted to Talisman also permits it to information. Forward-looking information is based on current IFRS disclose internally evaluated reserves data. Any reserves and expectations, estimates and projections that involve a number of resources data contained in this report reflects Talisman’s The financial information for contained herein is presented in risks which could cause actual results to vary and in some estimates of its reserves and resources. While Talisman annually accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards instances to differ materially from those anticipated by Talisman obtains an independent audit of a portion of its proved and (IFRS). IFRS may differ from generally accepted accounting and described in the forward-looking information contained in this probable reserves, no independent qualified reserves evaluator or principles in the US. report. The material risk factors include, but are not limited to: the auditor was involved in the preparation of the reserves and Non-GAAP Financial Measures risks of the oil and gas industry, such as operational risks in resources data disclosed in this report. exploring for, developing and producing crude oil and natural gas; Included in this report are references to financial measures risks and uncertainties involving geology of oil and gas deposits; Resources 1 used in the oil and gas industry such as cash flow and risks associated with project management, project delays and/or In this report, Talisman also discloses contingent resources exploration and development spending. These terms are not cost overruns; uncertainty related to securing sufficient egress and prospective resources as at May 6, 2014. Where defined by IFRS. Consequently, these are referred to as and access to markets; the uncertainty of reserve and resource not otherwise indicated, in this report, the contingent resources non-GAAP measures. Talisman’s reported results of such estimates, reserves life and underlying reservoir risk; the provided are 2C and the prospective resources are unrisked measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures uncertainty of estimates and projections relating to production, best estimates. reported by other companies. costs and expenses, including decommissioning liabilities; risks Contingent resources are defined as those quantities of Cash flow represents net income before exploration costs, related to strategic and capital allocation decisions, including petroleum estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially DD&A, impairment, deferred taxes and other non-cash expenses. potential delays or changes in plans with respect to exploration or recoverable from known accumulations using established Cash flow is used by the Company to assess operating results development projects or capital expenditures; fluctuations in oil technology or technology under development, but which are not between years and between peer companies using different and gas prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates currently considered to be commercially recoverable due to one accounting policies. Cash flow should not be considered an and tax or royalty rates; the outcome and effects of any future or more contingencies. The contingencies that prevent the alternative to, or more meaningful than, cash provided by acquisitions and dispositions; health, safety, security and resources from being classified as reserves are: lack of gas sales operating, investing and financing activities or net income as environmental risks, including risks related to the possibility of contract; additional testing; production and performance determined in accordance with IFRS as an indicator of the major accidents; environmental regulatory and compliance risks, appraisal activities; development time frame too far in the future; company’s performance or liquidity. including with respect to greenhouse gases and hydraulic demonstration of economic viability; facilities and egress; access Exploration and development spending is calculated by adjusting fracturing; uncertainties as to access to capital, including the to equipment and services; hydraulic fracturing technology; the capital expenditure per the financial statements for availability and cost of credit and other financing and changes in commodity prices and regulatory approvals. There is no certainty exploration costs that were expensed as incurred. capital markets; risks in conducting foreign operations (for that it will be commercially viable to produce any portion of the example, civil, political and fiscal instability and corruption); risks resources. In addition to these contingencies and uncertainties, related to the attraction, retention and development of personnel; the development or commerciality of resources is also subject to changes in general economic and business conditions; the a number of risk factors, as discussed more fully above. possibility that government policies, regulations or laws may Prospective resources are those quantities of petroleum change or governmental approvals may be delayed or withheld; estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable and results of the Company’s risk mitigation strategies, including from undiscovered accumulations by application of future insurance and any hedging activities. development projects. Prospective resources have both an The foregoing list of risk factors is not exhaustive. Additional associated chance of discovery and a chance of development. information on these and other factors which could affect the There is no certainty that any portion of the resources will be Company’s operations or financial results or strategy are included discovered. If discovered, there is no certainty that it will be in Talisman’s most recent Annual Information Form. In addition, commercially viable to produce any portion of the resources. information is available in the Company’s other reports on file Unrisked prospective resources are not risked for chance of 1. The reserves life index (“RLI”) of 12 years for proved plus probable reserves in the Americas and Asia-Pacific was calculated by dividing the year-end proved plus probable reserves by the 2014 production guidance in the Americas and Asia-Pacific. 31 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) Profile Location in CR Report / Disclosure GRI Description other TLM disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization CRR p. 6-7 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities AIF p. 23-30 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization CRR IFC, AIF p. 1 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services AIF p. 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, AIF p. 4-10 subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters AIF p. 1 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates AIF p. 4-10 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AIF p. 1 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types AIF p. 4-10 of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization CRR p. 4-5, AR p. 1 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership AR p. 25-28 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CRR p. 2, 7 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided CRR IFC 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) CRR web page 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) CRR IFC 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents CRR IFC 3.5 Process for defining report content CRR IFC 3.6 Boundary of the report CRR IFC 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report CRR IFC 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, CRR IFC outsourced operations, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions, Online data tables estimations, etc. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, etc. Online data tables 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Online data tables measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report CRR p. 32-34 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report CRR p. 30 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees CRR p. 25-26, MPC p. 22-41 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body CRR p. 25-26 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or CRR p. 25-26 non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide to the highest governance MPC p. 4-7, 22-24 body recommendations or direction 32 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organization’s performance (including social and MPC p. 42-91 environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided AIF p. 21 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest MPC p. 8-9 governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles, etc. CRR p. 2, 9-11, 13-14, 26-27, AIF p. 11-12 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s CRR p. 25-26, MPC p. 41 CR performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance MPC p. 33-35, 41 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by AIF p. 11 the organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other CRR p. 26-27 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international CRR p. 26-27 advocacy organizations, etc. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization CRR IFC 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage CRR IFC 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by CRR IFC stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement AR p. 43-49, CRR IFC Economic Performance Indicators DMA EC Disclosure of Management’s Approach Economic CRR p. 21-22, AR p. 11-12 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, CRR p. 21-22, AR p. 12 community investments, etc. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due AR p. 48 to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations AR p. 61 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant CRR p. 21-22 locations of operation Environmental Performance Indicators DMA EN Disclosure of Management’s Approach Environment AIF p. 11 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source CRR p. 29, online data tables EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source CRR p. 29, online data tables EN8 Total water withdrawal by source CRR p. 29, online data tables EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight CRR p. 29, online data tables EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Online data tables EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Online data tables EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Online data tables EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills CRR p. 29, online data tables EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent CRR p. 13-14 of impact mitigation 33 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA LA Disclosure of Management’s Approach – Labor Practices CRR p. 17-19 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region broken CRR p. 17-19, 29 down by gender Online data tables LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, CRR p. 17-19, 29 gender, and region Online data tables LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of CRR p. 9-11, 29 work-related fatalities, etc. Online data tables LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued CRR p. 17-19 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews CRR p. 17-19 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to Online data tables gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Social: Human Rights DMA HR Disclosure of Management’s Approach – Human Rights CRR p. 27, AIF p. 11 Social: Society DMA SO Disclosure of Management’s Approach – Society CRR p. 21-22, AIF p. 11 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact CRR p. 21-22 assessments, and development programs SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures CRR p. 25-26 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption CRR p. 25-27 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying CRR p. 27 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related CRR p. 27 institutions by country SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities AIF p. 27-28 SO10 Mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative CRR p. 13-14, 21 impacts on local communities 34 CORPORATE INFORMATION As of May 30, 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVES HEAD OFFICE Christiane Bergevin 3,4 Harold Kvisle Talisman Energy Inc. Quebec, Canada President and CEO 2000, 888 3rd Street SW Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 5C5 Donald Carty 1,2,5 Paul Blakeley p: 403.237.1234 Texas, United States Executive Vice-President f: 403.237.1902 Asia-Pacific Jonathan Christodoro 6 www.talisman-energy.com New Jersey, United States Bob Rooney e: cr@talisman-energy.com Executive Vice-President Thomas Ebbern 1,6 Corporate and General Counsel Alberta, Canada Paul Smith Harold Kvisle Executive Vice-President Alberta, Canada Finance and Chief Financial Officer Brian M. Levitt 2,3,5 Paul Warwick Quebec, Canada Executive Vice-President Europe-Atlantic Samuel Merksamer 2 New York, United States Lisa Stewart 5,6 Texas, United States Henry Sykes 4,6 Alberta, Canada Peter Tomsett 4,5 British Columbia, Canada Michael Waites 1,6 British Columbia, Canada Charles Williamson 2 Chairman of the Board Talisman’s 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report was published May 30, 2014. California, United States Talisman has produced a separate Annual Report, which is available by contacting Charles Winograd 1,3 the company and can also be viewed or downloaded at www.talisman-energy.com Ontario, Canada 1. Member of the Audit Committee 2. Member of CEO Succession 3. Member of Governance and Nominating Committee 4. Member of Health, Safety, Environment and Corporate Responsibility Committee 5. Member of Human Resources Committee 6. Member of Reserves Committee TALISMAN ENERGY INC. Suite 2000, 888 – 3rd Street SW Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 5C5 P 403.237.1234 F 403.237.1902 E tlm@talisman-energy.com www.talisman-energy.com
