ANNUAL REPORT 2014 YEAR ONE 150 YEARS SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER Our purpose Our values To safeguard life, property We build trust and conidence and the environment Our vision We never compromise on quality or integrity We are committed to teamwork and innovation We care for our customers and each other We embrace change and deliver results YEAR ONE Global impact for a safe and sustainable future 150 YEARS CONTENTS ABOUT DNV GL WHO WE ARE WHAT WE DO HOW WE WORK HOW WE PERFORM Driven by our purpose of safeguarding Combining leading technical and operaIFC Worldwide presence 28 Maritime 50 Corporate 76 Financial review life, property and the environment, tional expertise, risk methodology and 03 This is DNV GL 32 Oil & Gas sustainability 84 Notes 04 Highlights 36 Energy 54 Business ethics 104 Auditor’s reports we enable organizations to advance the in-depth industry knowledge, we empower 06 Key igures 40 Business Assurance and anti-corruption 104 Contacts safety and sustainability of their business. our customers’ decisions and actions with 08 Main services 44 Software and 58 People 106 Global Reporting trust and conidence. We continuously 10 CEO’s message Marine Cybernetics 62 Health and safety Initiative (GRI) Index 12 Board of Directors’ 46 Research 66 Environment 107 Scope and boundary We provide classiication, technical assurinvest in research and collaborative innovareport & Innovation 70 Value chain ance, software and independent expert tion to provide customers and society with 22 Organization responsibility advisory services to the maritime, oil & gas operational and technological foresight. 24 History 72 Partnerships and engagements and energy industries. We also provide certiication services to customers across With origins stretching back to 1864, our a wide range of industries. reach today is global. Operating in more than 100 countries, our 16,000 professionals are dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener. WORLDWIDE PRESENCE SUPPORT OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES DNV GL is committed to the DNV GL works to continuously demon10 universal principles in the strate responsible practice in these areas of human and labour rights, areas within its own organization as environmental standards and well as advancing these principles with anti-corruption. It signed the others through its objective to safeguard UN Global Compact in 2003. life, property and the environment. EMPLOYEES BY NATIONALITY AS PER 31.12.2014 NORWEGIAN GERMAN HØVIK, OSLO (HEADQUARTERS) AMERICAN INDIAN BRITISH DUTCH CHINESE Norwegian 2,234 Singaporean 260 German 1,908 Spanish 223 American 1,673 Swedish 204 British 1,373 French 177 Chinese 1,165 Egyptian 160 Dutch 914 Canadian 156 Indian 836 Japanese 155 Korean 529 Mexican 148 Italian 411 Greek 132 Brazilian 370 Australian 115 Polish 369 Russian 108 Malaysian 280 Indonesian 103 Danish 263 Other 1,446 Nationalities > 100 shown in table Nationalities > 800 shown in pie chart CUSTOMERS ESTABLISHED OFFICES WORLDWIDE COUNTRIES 80 000+ 1864 381 100+ 1 HIGHLIGHTS ACQUISITIONS CONSOLIDATED OUR LEADING 150TH ANNIVERSARY POSITIONS IN THE FIELD OF While concentrating our efforts on merging DNV and GL, we grew our LABORATORY TESTING activities with minor acquisitions: a software control testing company, We tripled the size of our laboratory in Singapore Marine Cybernetics, and a solar panel to deliver testing and innovative solutions for the testing expert, PV Evolution Labs. marine and offshore industries. Our Euro 70 million We also increased our minority shareinvestment in the world’s leading high power holding in the weather company laboratory in the Netherlands progressed according StormGeo. to plan and will be inished in 2016. In New York, we opened a battery and energy storage technology testing and commercialization centre. Our proud history dates back to 1864. We used the 150th anniversary to engage with 8,000 key customers and other important stakeholders, in addition to our employees, about how we can contribute to a safe and sustainable future. NEW BRAND ROLLED OUT GLOBALLY The DNV GL brand was introduced in December 2013, but was implemented across all our operations and 139 OFFICES MERGED activities during 2014: from ofice signage, clothing, FIRST FULL YEAR AS A MERGED COMPANY stationery and vehicles, to marketing material, ACROSS THE WORLD websites, documents and software systems. 2014 was the irst full year of operation for DNV GL following the closing of the merger between DNV and GL in September 2013. We merged ofices in locations where both legacy DNV and legacy GL were present. Although the number of ofices was reduced by 139, it still leaves us with one of the industry’s widest and densest global networks, with 381 ofices all over the world. STRONG COMMITMENT TO INNOVATION We reconirmed our commitment to invest 5% of annual IMPLEMENTATION OF COMMON revenues in research and IT AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS innovation, only now from a much larger revenue base. We implemented common IT and Activities included long-term management systems across our global strategic research and insights operations and legacy companies to for the maritime, oil and gas, align the way we work and enable seampower and healthcare sectors, less collaboration. The end goal is to and a range of collaborative serve our customers in an eficient, innovation projects. consistent and professional manner. 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 5 1 KEY FIGURES REVENUE (MILLION NOK) EBITA (MILLION NOK) EBITA MARGIN (%) 21 623 2 203 10.2% 2013: DNV Group and GL Group merged with effect from 1 October. 2012: Key figures for 2012 have been restated to reflect the demerger of DNV Petroleum Services and the real estate companies in Norway (effective 1 Jan. 2013). 2009–2011: Key figures for the years 2009–2011 are in line with financial figures as presented in the audited financial accounts of Det Norske Veritas Group AS for these years. 2,400 LAST FIVE YEARS 21,623 PER BUSINESS AREA 2,203 11.0% 10.1% 10.2% 20,000 2,000 10.0 MARITIME 8.7% 8,806 8.3% 15,234 1,535 16,000 OIL & GAS 1,600 8.0 6,264 12,532 ENERGY 1,122 12,000 10,156 3,122 1,200 1,037 6.0 9,792 855 BUSINESS ASSURANCE 8,000 800 4.0 2,492 SOFTWARE 783 4,000 400 2.0 OTHER 156 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES EBIT / OPERATING PROFIT (MILLION NOK) EQUITY RATIO (%) 15 712 1 612 58.1% 2013: DNV Group and GL Group merged with effect from 1 October. 2012: Key figures for 2012 have been restated to reflect the demerger of DNV Petroleum Services and the real estate companies in Norway (effective 1 Jan. 2013). 2009–2011: Key figures for the years 2009–2011 are in line with financial figures as presented in the audited financial accounts of Det Norske Veritas Group AS for these years. LAST FIVE YEARS 16,107 PER BUSINESS AREA 1,612 15,712 16,000 1,600 80 MARITIME 1,332 66.2% 1,400 70 4,936 61.0% 58.1% 56.0% 12,000 OIL & GAS 1,200 60 10,294 1,058 4,048 51.3% 8,440 8,453 1,000 858 50 ENERGY 810 2,479 8,000 800 40 BUSINESS ASSURANCE 600 30 1,836 OTHER * 4,000 400 20 1,687 SOFTWARE 200 10 726 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * Group functions, Research & Innovation and shared services 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 7 1 MAIN SERVICES We serve our MARITIME OIL & GAS ENERGY BUSINESS SOFTWARE customers ASSURANCE through four business We help enhance the safety, From the drawing board to We support our customers We help customers in PRODUCTS INCLUDE SOFTWARE FOR: eficiency and sustainability decommissioning, we provide across the electric power all industry sectors build areas and two of our customers in the technical advise to enable value chain in ensuring sustainable business Design and engineering Process safety, risk and reliability independent global shipping industry, covering all vessel types oil and gas companies to enhance safety, increase reliable, eficient and sustainable energy supply. performance and create stakeholder trust. QHSE and enterprise risk management Simulation and optimization business units. Asset integrity and performance and mobile offshore units. reliability and manage costs Maritime and class in projects and operations. Electric grid reliability and performance SERVICES INCLUDE: SERVICES INCLUDE: SERVICES INCLUDE: SERVICES INCLUDE: MARINE Classiication of ships and mobile offshore units Risk management advisory Technical advisory Power testing, inspections and certiication Management system certiication Product assurance CYBERNETICS Certiication of materials Noble Denton marine Renewables advisory services Supply chain assessment and components assurance & advisory Renewables certiication and assurance Technical, safety, business risk and Technical assurance Electricity transmission and Sustainability strategy and reporting PRODUCTS INCLUDE: environmental advisory services – Certiication and veriication distribution advisory services Certiication of persons Training and competence– Inspection services Energy eficiency services Training services Hardware-in-the-loop testing related services Food & beverage certiication of control systems software and assessment Dynamic capability analysis Healthcare accreditation and Cybersecurity and network assessment resilience 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 9 1 CEO’S MESSAGE The increase in our portfolio of laboratories and testing facilities means that our emisFIRST YEAR sions and waste generation have also grown. We need to improve both the environmental performance of and reporting from these sites going forward. We continue to support the AS ONE IN OUR UN Global Compact principles relating to human rights, labour practises, the environment and anti-corruption. You will ind details of our performance and goals in these areas in the ‘How we work’ section of this report. 150TH YEAR As a global knowledge company, we rely entirely on our people, so promoting the continued well-being, competence and development of our employees is fundamental to our business. Employee engagement, well-being and staff retention remained high during the integration period. All in all, I am very proud of all our accomplishments in 2014, including our inancial results and the way in which we helped to engage others in supporting our vision of We reached a double milestone The rationale for the merger was to create looking set of riskand performance-based a safe and sustainable future. There is no in 2014: our 150th anniversary and a global leader that could better enable our classiication rules. We are combining almost doubt that some of our main markets are customers to advance their business perfor300 years of accumulated knowledge to irst year of operation as DNV GL . facing tough times ahead. DNV GL will not mance in a safe, eficient and sustainable create this new benchmark for the maritime I am very proud of our strong legacy remain unaffected, but I have strong conimanner: by offering a broader set of services industry. We are producing 30,000 pages and not least the start of a new era and unrivalled technical expertise and innoof technical documentation covering all dence in our ability to constantly improve following the merger of DNV and GL . vations, and by being an impartial partner ship types and 200 experts are working and adapt. We are currently developing Under the theme ‘Year One – 150 Years’, a new strategy for 2016–2020 and have that adds value along the entire shipping, to inalize the new rule set by early 2016. involved many parts of our organization we chose not just to look back at oil & gas and energy value chains in more and a large number of our customers and our 150-year history. than 100 countries. I think we have already CHALLENGING MARKETS. DNV GL operates stakeholders in this process. come a long way in realizing that goal, as in market segments that are cyclical of nature you will see evidence of in this report. W and sensitive to changes in the international e also looked ahead and took economy. Lower freight and charter rates in ient to the sluggish growth of the global ecoand why we engage in a range of initiatives the opportunity to introduce FROM MAKING THINGS WORK TO MAKING the maritime industry and a lower oil price nomy. The special attention we have paid to with NGOs, opinion formers and other stakeI AM CONFIDENT and position the new comTHINGS GREAT. There is still some work to create market challenges that we must face building a position within the healthcare and holders. The publication of the irst Global do before we can state that the integration THAT WE HAVE LAID pany and engage with our by becoming even better at addressing our food and beverages industries has resulted Opportunity Report together with the UN employees and over 8,000 selected customis complete. While we have spent a lot of customers’ shortand long-term challenges. in double-digit growth in these sectors. Global Compact and Monday Morning Global A SOLID FOUNDATION FOR ers and other important stakeholders all over resources on making things work in the I am conident that we have laid a solid founInstitute is one such example. We have exBEING THE MOST TRUSTED the world. We explored and reported on the merged organization, we are now ready to dation for being the most trusted and preFROM RISKS TO OPPORTUNITIES. DNV GL plored how ive global risks can be turned into AND PREFERRED TECHNIfuture of shipping, electriication, transformamake the organization even greater – for our ferred technical partner to help our customers helps identify, assess and manage risks 15 opportunities and have asked 6,000 busiCAL PARTNER TO HELP tive technologies, climate change adaptation customers and for our employees. improve their safety, quality and operational to enable our customers to become safer, ness leaders to assess these opportunities. OUR CUSTOMERS IMPROVE and the Arctic – displaying industry pathways We are currently inalizing the harmonieficiency. A new service concept in which smarter and greener. Integral to that is checkThis work created an open innovation platform THEIR SAFETY, QUALITY to a safe and sustainable future. zation of the ship and offshore classiication we provide our maritime customers across ing compliance and giving impartial advice where stakeholders worldwide can explore AND OPERATIONAL The integration of two such global comrules of legacy DNV and legacy GL . These the globe with around-the-clock direct access on how to improve safety and optimize the and capture sustainability opportunities and EFFICIENCY. panies as DNV and GL has obviously been rules represent the backbone of many of our to our technical experts is a recent example performance of our customers’ assets and more than 120 readily available solutions. complex and a lot of hard work. Our ambiservices. Our ambition is not just to take of our increased responsiveness. day-to-day operations. But there is also a tions for this irst full year of operation have the best from the existing rule sets but also Global demand for energy will continue larger risk picture facing companies and MAKING AN IMPACT. At DNV GL, we remain been to maintain the high quality of services to develop the most modern and forwardto grow, but we are in dire need of an energy society: weak global governance means that committed to enhancing the positive impacts to customers while aligning our employees, transition that makes us less reliant on fossil businesses are competing in a globalized that our core business activities have on DNV GL is built on a solid foundation. integrating service lines and establishing energy sources. Our role is to enable manueconomy without a true ‘level playing ield’. society. The greatest impact is through It rests on our purpose of safeguarding common systems, tools and processes. facturers, utilities, project developers and Challenges related to climate-change adapour services, standards and best practices. life, property and the environment and Almost 16,000 employees are now able to OUR AMBITION regulators in the power sector to address tations, energy supply security, political and We integrate sustainability concepts into our vision of having a global impact for work on a strong common platform, allowIS NOT JUST TO the energy trilemma: clean, affordable and social turmoil, new opportunities and risks everything we do. This is manifested in how a safe and sustainable future. Our 16,000 ing them to effectively help improve our TAKE THE BEST FROM reliable energy. In the past year, we streamcreated by technological change, and inwe conduct our business and in our governemployees live our values every day and customers’ business performance. THE EXISTING RULE SETS lined our service offering to focus on this creasing public scrutiny all call for collaboraance of the entire group. Our health and they share a passion to help our customers Our people have physically come together BUT ALSO TO DEVELOP challenge and will continue to do so in 2015. tion and trust-building between businesses, safety performance is good but, as a key become safer, smarter and greener. in common ofice buildings in almost all of THE MOST MODERN AND With technical expertise spanning renewable regulators and society at large. player in promoting safety, our performance our 380 locations around the world, and our energy, power transmission and distribution, I believe that collaboration and innovation must be excellent. We have therefore FORWARD-LOOKING SET new brand has been implemented across I believe we are uniquely positioned to facilare cornerstones in achieving sustainable launched a Safety Culture programme to thousands of touch points during the year. OF RISKAND PERFORitate this energy transition. development and long-term prosperity. strengthen our attitudes, beliefs and behavThe integration has been demanding, but MANCE-BASED CLASSIOur Business Assurance arm serves all That is why we devote 5% of our annual iours regarding safety. As a service organihas progressed according to plan and I am FICATION RULES. industry sectors and the healthy growth in revenues to research and collaborative innozation, our environmental impact is limited, Henrik O. Madsen proud of what we have achieved using our the certiication of management systems and vation together with customers, industry but we focus on reducing the impact from President & CEO own people and in a short time frame. supply chain services has proven quite resilpartners, research institutes and universities, our ofice buildings and travel activities. DNV GL Group 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONSOLIDATING FOR A WORLDLEADING INDUSTRY as evidenced by the suspension of South a smart decentralized electricity system. The growth was particularly strong in the target POSITION Stream, a pipeline project to transport natural gas from the Russian Federation through the Black Sea to Bulgaria, and through Serbia, As a result, transmission and distribution grids in all regions are evolving to integrate a growing share of renewable energy into sectors of food and beverages and healthcare. The growth was achieved in spite of dificult economic conditions in some of the main Hungary and Slovenia to Austria. This has added the overall energy mix. Other emerging markets, in particular in Southern Europe. to the ongoing cost challenges for those protrends include improving electricity market As a result of the merger, DNV GL has bejects that are proceeding with lower inancial interconnectivity and energy eficiency come a major provider of software solutions margins, and it puts increasing pressure on programmes, and a drive to reduce the to manage risk and improve asset performance. prices. Operators and contractors alike began costs of offshore power generation. DNV GL – Software achieved signiicant reve2014 was the irst full inancial Transformative Technologies, the Future of Newbuilding classiication order intake was issuing requests to their suppliers and service nue growth in software product license sales year of DNV GL Group AS (DNV GL) Shipping, Electriication, the Arctic, and Climate strong in the irst half of 2014 but lost momenproviders to reduce prices in 2014. and implementation services for most of its Change Adaptation. The anniversary events tum over the last few months of the year. While the oil and gas industry’s downturn ALTHOUGH THE product lines, and strengthened its market following the merger between also served as a vehicle for internal engageIn total, DNV GL secured 532 newbuilding has affected DNV GL’s order book, it has also positions in the shipbuilding, ship manageDNV and GL in September 2013. MARKET ENVIRONment, cultural integration, and the introduccontracts for the classiication of ships and created new opportunities for the company ment and operation, offshore oil and gas, The company achieved revenues tion of the new DNV GL brand to employees, mobile offshore units (MOUs), representing to work with customers in developing ‘smarter’ MENT WAS CHALLENGenergy and process industries. for 2014 of NOK 21,623 million and customers, authorities and other relations. 18 million gross tonnes. In terms of gross solutions that improve the eficiency of proING, DNV GL’S MARITIME consolidated its position as a global In the second quarter of 2014, customers, tonnage, DNV GL’s market share in the newjects and operations. As an example, DNV GL SERVICES MET THE INTERFINANCIAL PERFORMANCE leader in classiication, certiication key opinion formers and media were asked building business reached more than 20%. has played a key role in facilitating the onNAL TARGETS SET FOR With effect from 2014, and including comto evaluate the new DNV GL brand in a survey The total DNV GL-classed leet consisted of going drive for standardization to streamline 2014 AND DELIVERED parable igures from 2013, DNV GL Group and technical advisory services. carried out by Ipsos MMI, a global research 13,174 vessels and MOUs at the end of 2014, processes, materials and documentation, has transitioned to International Financial HEALTHY RESULTS. D institute. 3,000 respondents from 18 countries totalling 265.4 million gross tonnes. This gives which helps the industry adjust to this lower Reporting Standards (IFRS) from Norwegian NV GL’s vision of having global representing all main industry segments parDNV GL a 21% share of the classed world margin environment. This was supported by Accounting Standards (NGAAP). The inancial impact for a safe and sustainable ticipated. On average, 88% of customers and leet in tonnage and maintains the company’s signiicant investment in its global network statements have been prepared in accordfuture was a key rationale for the key stakeholders were aware of DNV GL and leading position in ship and offshore classiof technical and innovation hubs. ance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and merger. The new company has of those, 85% were favourable to the company. ication. DNV GL also increased its involvement Regulations on Simpliied IFRS. In all material a broader and better service offering and Most importantly, 75% of those aware of Although the market environment was in many mega projects spanning the globe Following the challenging market conditions, aspects, Norwegian Simpliied IFRS requires technical expertise, a denser global network DNV GL also trusted the company, which is challenging, DNV GL’s maritime services met in 2014, which was a main strategic priority. DNV GL’s energy arm showed a mixed picture that the IFRS recognition and measurement and even stronger research and innovation a high score compared to survey benchmarks the internal targets set for 2014 and delivered These range from Chevron’s Wheatstone in 2014: solid performance for its power testcriteria are complied with, but disclosure capabilities to fulil this vision. This allows and crucial to its business model. In another healthy results. Most notably, the certiication project in Australia, to the classiication ing, inspection, certiication and sustainable and presentation requirements follow the DNV GL to better assist customers in improvindependent global survey, DNV GL was of materials and components, veriication and veriication of ENI’s Jangkrik loating use services, but lower performance for its Norwegian Accounting Act. The transitional ing their business performance in an increasranked ifth for brand preference globally in services, ships in operation and offshore class production unit in Indonesia, and the proadvisory services. In line with market develeffects are shown in note 2. ingly complex risk and sustainability-focused the sustainability category, just behind the in operation services delivered a strong pervision of regulation compliance support opments and the strategy, DNV GL further DNV GL G roup AS achieved operating business environment. Several new strategic Big Four accounting irms. formance. However, some competing classiifor the Statoil Mariner ield, the largest offdivested its services related to coal-based revenue of NOK 21,623 million in 2014, an contracts and new standards and innovations In May 2014, DNV GL acquired a majority cation societies have recently offered services shore development in the UK in more than power generation and invested in worldincrease of NOK 1,919 million from 2013 can be attributed to this in 2014. stake in Marine Cybernetics, a provider of at break-even prices, a trend that has affected a decade. class testing capabilities for solar power, (a pro-forma view in which the GL Group is During the past year, the company delivthird-party testing of computer-based conDNV GL’s newbuilding order book and ships DNV GL’s strength in North America’s growindustrial-scale battery storage and future fully included from 1 January 2013). Of the ered strong inancial results while successfully trol systems to the offshore and maritime in operation leet. The maritime advisory sering LNG sector was illustrated by its appointsuper grids. Following the merger, DNV GL’s 10% revenue growth, 4% is organic growth in completing ambitious merger integration goals industries. vices achieved positive results with signiicant ment to provide process safety in design in-depth knowledge of renewables, comDNV GL. Less than 1% is non-organic growth, within a wide range of areas: from communiThe Board sincerely thanks the managegrowth in the past year. DNV GL’s maritime veriication for the FEED of the Lake Charles bined with its expertise in transmission and including acquisitions of Danish Standard cating the common strategy and rolling out ment and employees for their hard work and experts carried out over 900 projects in 2014, Liquefaction Project. This contract also shows distribution grids, its the current market Certiication and Marine Cybernetics, and 5% a common IT platform and the new DNV GL commitment displayed throughout 2014. with energy eficiency and hydrodynamic the combined competency and signiicant need for the rapid integration of renewables is the result of currency effects. The currency brand globally, to merging ofices and harmoThe Board particularly acknowledges the optimization, risk studies for LNG as ship synergies of DNV GL’s legacy organizations, into the grid. This, combined with DNV GL’s effects accelerated in the last quarter of the nizing management systems, processes, tools extraordinary achievement of integrating two fuel, as well as noise and vibration reduction as teams from DNV’s risk advisory unit in expertise in the oil, gas and maritime indusyear due to a weakening of the NOK versus and services. The extensive work of creating global companies while keeping a focus on dominating the advisory business. Houston and GL’s process engineering team tries, offers clear business opportunities for most major currencies. and rolling out a common set of ship and customers and daily business operations. 2014 was a year where the oil and gas in(formerly Advantica) worked together to the years to come. The third party certiicaThe Maritime business area recorded reveoffshore classiication rules is well under way dustry’s inherent volatility was yet again conprovide optimal project results. tion of two 100 km submarine cables in Qatar nues of NOK 8,806 million and is the main and will continue throughout 2015. MARKET irmed. Cost concerns have been high on the The shale oil and gas revolution in the was one example of how this joint expertise driver of the 2014 growth in the DNV GL Group. Under the title ‘Year One – 150 Years’, the Although seaborne trade grew by over 3% industry agenda for years, but the dramatic US , cheap coal in Europe, geo-political came into use in 2014. DNV GL was the only The Oil & Gas business area grew more slowly company celebrated the 150th anniversary of in 2014, the shipping industry still struggles fall in oil prices over the latter half of the year and national uncertainties and the dificult provider to offer deep technical knowledge in 2014 and recorded revenues of NOK 6,264 DNV and its irst year as DNV GL . Events for with an oversupply of tonnage and continubrought the issue into even sharper focus. inancial outlook in the eurozone impacted of submarine cables and offshore electriicamillion. The Energy business area experienced employees, customers and key stakeholders ing low charter and freight rates in many In reaction to the falling oil price, the indusDNV GL’s energy customers in the US and tion together with testing capabilities and a dificult year with an overall contraction were held across the world emphasizing results shipping segments. After a decline by more try experienced increasing cutbacks and Europe in 2014 and slowed down investment material certiication services. and revenues of NOK 3,122 million. Business from six forward-looking research projects. than 20% in terms of gross tonnage in the delays in projects that have not yet been in renewables. However, we see the onshore DNV GL – Business Assurance performed Assurance concluded the year with healthy DNV GL used this opportunity to position contracting of new ships compared to 2013, sanctioned. Even some projects that are wind and solar industries moving towards very well in 2014 with higher growth rates than growth and revenues of NOK 2,492 million. itself as a thought leader within the following the newbuilding order book represents in execution are being put on hold. Geocommercial maturity in many markets as costs its peers within certiication of management DNV GL – Software recorded revenues of themes: A Safe and Sustainability Future, 17% of the total leet in service. political issues also started to take effect, decline and as part of the trend towards systems, which spans all industry sectors. NOK 783 million, and maintained the strong 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 13 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT growth from previous years. However, proftaxes related to previous years represent The Board conirms that the going concern – both onand offshore. In its strive to enable Within the software sector, DNV GL is scaled Joint Industry Projects (JIPs) continued to be itability dropped and the integration of soft10 percentage points of the average tax rate. assumption applies and that the inancial the industry to become ‘safer, smarter and to strengthen its market position within the an important innovation vehicle for DNV GL ware products from the two legacy compaThe normalized tax rate for the ongoing busistatements have been prepared on this greener’, DNV GL will offer technical expertise oil and gas, maritime, energy and healthcare to drive market-relevant innovation initiatives nies was challenging. Marine Cybernetics has ness is calculated to be 30%, the same level assumption. The Board regards DNV GL’s and innovation to pave the way towards a industries throughout the strategy period. in close cooperation with industry partners been included in DNV GL AS since May 2014 as in the previous years. inancial performance as strong and liquidity safe and sustainable energy future. Continued strong revenue growth is targeted, with the purpose of developing new techand contributed revenues of NOK 72 million The net proit for 2014 was NOK 1,007 as very good. Both give the company a robust In the power sector, DNV GL’s overall goal mainly through new sales of software product nologies, standards and recommended for the eight month period. million, compared to NOK 825 million for platform from which to achieve its strategic is to help its stakeholders manage the growlicenses, annual Service Level Agreements practices. A total of 36 JIPs were initiated Earnings before interest, tax and amortiza2013. The net cash low for the year was growth targets and maintain its independence ing demand for energy while balancing costs, and consultancy services related to software in 2014, mainly supporting the oil and gas tions (EBITA) improved from NOK 1,535 million positive by NOK 57 million. The cash low as a inancially strong and trusted company. reliability and environmental issues – the soimplementation. DNV GL – Software will also industry. in 2013 to NOK 2,203 million in 2014. The strong from operations was NOK 1,658 million The Board also conirms that, to its knowcalled ‘energy trilemma’. DNV GL’s target for continue to be a major supplier of technical The idea of developing ship concepts was EBITA development is primarily driven by in 2014. The cash low from operations reledge, the information presented in the the strategy period is to be a leading advisor software to DNV GL’s business areas and a also continued in 2014. These are intended classiication and veriication services to the lects strong results and positive currency inancial statements gives a true and fair across the entire energy value chain, while major supplier of tools required for classiito serve as inspiration for equipment makers, maritime and oil & gas sectors. After amortizaeffects, but was partly offset by an increase view of the assets, liabilities, inancial posimaintaining its position as the world’s precation services for ships and mobile offshore ship yards and ship owners to develop new tions of intangible assets of NOK 592 million of NOK 701 million in working capital. The tion and result of the DNV GL Group for eminent renewables advisory and certiicaunits. solutions on the path to a safe and sustainable in 2014, the operating proit (EBIT) increased cash low from investments was NOK 1,770 the period and that there are no material tion company. It also aims to strengthen its In 2014, work started on formulating a new future. The ship concept ReVolt generated by NOK 280 million from NOK 1,332 million million in 2014, including; tangible asset events after the balance sheet date affectexisting position as the world leader in indestrategy for the 2016 –2020 period. During much attention in the industry. This is an in 2013 to NOK 1,612 million in 2014. investments of NOK 583 million, mainly from ing the 2014 inancial statements. pendent high power/high voltage testing, 2015, this comprehensive strategy for a fully unmanned, battery-powered, zero-emission 2014 was the last year where the legacy investments in laboratories in Energy and inspection and certiication. integrated DNV GL will be inalized for Board short-sea vessel concept based on current compensation and beneits schemes were Oil & Gas, acquisitions of NOK 387 million STRATEGY approval in time for developing 2016 Annual available technologies. still active. In 2015, all staff will be included and settlement to minority shareholders In the autumn of 2013, the Board approved a Plans. The Board is involved in the strategy The Technology Leadership Programmes in the deferred bonus scheme or the proitin N.V. KEMA . The cash low from inancing strategy for 2014 and 2015 that incorporated development process. aim to ensure that DNV GL stays at the forefront OF THE TOTAL sharing scheme. Based on the overall peractivities was NOK 169 million, included the main elements from the legacy DNV and of the industry in selected core disciplines. formance in 2014, the Board has approved external loans of NOK 500 million and divilegacy GL strategies. During this strategy 5% OF ANNUAL INNOVATION They covered 10 core technology disciplines a bonus payment of NOK 405 million. dends paid to the shareholders of NOK period the majority of the integration of REVENUES INVESTED IN Innovation is a cornerstone of DNV GL’s busiin 2014. The purpose is to fund the developNet inancial income in 2014 was NOK 70 336 million. the legacy companies is to be completed. RESEARCH AND INNOness model and of the differentiation stratment of core technical disciplines across million. The weakening of the NOK in 2014 At the year-end, the DNV GL Group had DNV GL aims to be world leading in all its VATION, ONE FIFTH IS egy enabling DNV GL to meet its strategic business areas, develop technology-focused, led to a positive currency effect of NOK 119 liquidity reserves of NOK 3,978 million and targeted market segments and offer unique ALLOCATED TO LONG-TERM goals and become the leading technical cross-business-area communities and support million due to gains on exposure in foreign unused credit lines of NOK 1,100 million. technical expertise and innovations to drive adviser to the global maritime, energy and technical career paths. The programmes STRATEGIC RESEARCH, currencies. Net interest costs on deined The Group has a strong balance sheet with its targeted industries to become safer, oil & gas industries. Around 5% of annual also utilize DNV GL’s collaborations with beneit pension plans amounted to NOK an equity ratio of 58% of total assets, after more eficient and less damaging to the ONLY NOW FROM A MUCH revenues are invested in research and innouniversities. 50 million in 2014, while expenses related accrual for dividend to shareholders of 50% environment. LARGER REVENUE BASE. vation activities. The purpose is to deliver Extraordinary Innovation Projects are short to interest and fees on external bank loans of net proit for 2014. As a result of the weakIn the current strategy period, the shipthe best insight and technical abilities to help and intense projects, where international were NOK 17 million. Proit from investments ening of the NOK against most currencies in ping industry continues to face challenges solve customer challenges. Innovative soluproject teams within the company address in associated companies was NOK 23 million the last quarter of the year, foreign currency in relation to overcapacity resulting in lower tions and foresight are shared with the indusbold ideas exploring a speciic ield of techand other net interest – and other inancial gains of NOK 1,707 million relating to net freight rates. It also faces stricter environtries in which DNV GL is active. The ambition nology or a new concept to be tested in the expenses amounted to NOK 5 million. investments in foreign subsidiaries were mental regulations. DNV GL’s strategic goal DNV GL is one of the world’s three largest is to become a true innovation leader that market. In 2014, three projects were develThe tax expense in 2014 is estimated to be relected in the equity in 2014. is to be the leading ship classiication society management system certiication bodies, and helps shape and drive industries forward, oped: ‘Natural Gas Capture’ focused on assoNOK 674 million, representing a 40% average Net actuarial losses of NOK 920 million in all ship segments, and to have the leading aims to take a thought leadership position making them safer, smarter and greener. ciated gas currently being lared in oil and gas tax rate for the DNV GL Group. Non tax-deafter tax from deined beneit pension position for mobile offshore units in challengthrough the innovative approach of embedOf the total 5% of annual revenues investproduction ields and assessed how these ductible withholding tax on dividends and plans are relected in the equity for 2014, ing operating environments by offering a ding its sustainability concept across all opeed in research and innovation, one ifth is resources could be converted into higher of which actuarial loss of NOK 1,228 million broader and better range of services than rations. The certiication market is expected allocated to long-term strategic research, value products for use onsite or transported from changes in actuarial assumptions and its competitors. to continue growing due to the increase in only now from a much larger revenue base. to market. ‘Offshore installations in remote an actuarial gain of NOK 208 million from Harsher and deeper waters and increasglobal trade, increased level of outsourcing of The Strategic Research and Innovation unit areas’ examined the future of offshore opeHARSHER AND the actual return on plan assets in excess of ingly complex reservoirs mean that offshore in-house Testing, Inspection and Certiication has a primary focus on new knowledge and rations in remote areas, focusing on natural DEEPER WATERS the discount rate. The NOK 175 million gain oil and gas activities are becoming more and services, stringent regulations, new products technology areas that have a long-term gas. Finally, ‘Power frequency optimization AND INCREASINGLY COMfrom a change of the deined beneit pension more demanding. DNV GL intends to be one covering the broad sustainability area and impact on DNV GL’s business development. for offshore wind-farms’ explored further PLEX RESERVOIRS MEAN plan in Norway was relected in the income of the world’s leading providers of independexpansion into new industries and geograThe purpose is to explore emerging opporcost reductions in offshore wind energy THAT OFFSHORE OIL AND statement in 2014. ent technical and risk management services phies, including Africa. The company will tunities and identify future technology and transmission. GAS ACTIVITIES ARE The accounts of the parent company to the upstream oil and gas industry in chalcontinue to focus on double-digit growth in risk management trends. Other innovations Another internal innovation project DNV GL Group AS show a loss for the year lenging operating environments and to the food & beverage and healthcare sectors, bring immediate customer beneits. One explored the integration of offshore wind BECOMING MORE AND of NOK 21 million, including NOK 3 million strengthen its position as an offshore safety and capitalize its efforts in the automotive such example was a new ship performance power with offshore oil and gas operations, MORE DEMANDING. in dividends received from subsidiaries. expert. Gas is becoming increasingly imporand aerospace industries, where it partners management service (ECO Insight), which potentially reducing costs and emissions NOK 176 million has been accrued as a group tant in the energy mix and is much more than with the major players. DNV GL intends to was launched after piloting the service with while offering a new niche market for offcontribution from DNV GL AS and is relected a transitional solution towards a low-carbon grow its product assurance business and ten customers on more than 50 vessels. shore wind technology and creating momenas inancial income in 2014. The Board prosociety. DNV GL is aiming for signiicant busisupply chain management through both The service is the result of combining legacy tum for both industries. This has now been poses to cover the loss from other equity. ness growth throughout the gas value chain organic and inorganic growth. DNV and GL technical expertise. developed into a Joint Industry Project. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 15 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ORGANIZATION The continued integration of employees in DNV GL continues to use the People EngageThe company launched a partnership with tion and reaction related to business ethics DNV GL is organized in a Group structure DNV GL remained a priority in 2014. Employment Process to measure employee engagethe Monday Morning Global Institute and and anti-corruption. Governing documents, AS PART OF THE with four business areas: Maritime, headees were brought together through common ment and enablement and identify aspects the UN Global Compact Ofice to produce including instructions on anti-corruption quartered in Hamburg, Germany; Oil & Gas, systems, processes and ofices to work toof the working environment that should be AMBITION TO the world’s irst Global Opportunity Report, and how to handle gifts, were published and headquartered in Høvik, Norway; Energy, wards achieving common business objectives. addressed by management at all levels. In CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVE focusing on identifying the opportunities communicated throughout the organization. headquartered in Arnhem, the Netherlands; Good progress was made in terms of imple2014, the People Engagement Process was DNV GL’S PERFORMANCE, involved in the transition towards a safer In addition, two e-learning modules on the and Business Assurance, headquartered in menting common HR processes, including implemented for all employees in DNV GL . SEVERAL PROJECTS WERE and more sustainable future. code of conduct and anti-corruption/antiMilan, Italy. DNV GL Group headquarters is the managing individual performance (MIP) The annual survey was conducted in September, Throughout 2014, it was a priority to trust were launched for all new employees. LAUNCHED TO FOSTER at Høvik, just outside Oslo, Norway. process, the career model, and harmonized and 92.3% of employees gave their opinions deepen the integration of sustainability into The Country Chairs in DNV GL have been compensation and beneits. The MIP process on working in DNV GL . Approximately 1,900 A CULTURE OF TRANSbusinesses and operations. As part of the actively involved in distributing the informaTo streamline operations, a management level was eliminated in two of the business was completed for 87% of employees in 2014. reports were distributed to individual units PARENCY, ETHICS AND ambition to continuously improve DNV GL’s tion and implementing the new measures area organizations, Maritime and Business The harmonization of compensation and and management teams as a tool for identiSUSTAINABILITY. performance, several projects were launched against corruption and bribery. The instrucAssurance. In addition to the four business beneits was one of the largest integration fying issues in the working environment that to foster a culture of transparency, ethics tions on the reporting of misconduct deine areas, DNV GL’s Software unit is organized as projects in 2014. Harmonization of the comshould be addressed. and sustainability. In particular, this included the reporting lines for allegations of misconan Independent Business Unit (IBU). An addipensation and beneit framework is a vital Compared to survey company Hay Group’s developing new training for employees and duct through the line management, tional IBU was established with the acquisipart of the integration process. The objecreference group of high-performing comassessing impact on the company’s value Ombudsmen or Group Compliance Oficer. tion of Marine Cybernetics in 2014. tive of a common framework is to remove panies, DNV GL’s overall results are above CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY chain. The issues were selected based on an In 2014, the Group Compliance Oficer The new Global Shared Services organibarriers for employees to take on new career average. The topics scoring most above For DNV GL, sustainability is about delivering extensive materiality assessment conducted reported new developments and case stazation became operational as of 1 January opportunities within the Group, increase other high performing companies relate long-term value in inancial, social, environmenwith internal and external stakeholders in tistics to the Board´s Audit Committee on 2014. Organized in nine regional hubs, it transparency and simplicity, reduce the to development opportunities in the tal and ethical terms and is deeply embedded 2012/2013. a regular basis. More detailed reporting is provides HR, Finance and IT support services future administrative burden of handling company. The two individual questions in the company’s purpose, values, vision and In 2014, DNV GL appointed a new Corpopublished on dnvgl.com. to all business areas and independent busidifferent compensation and beneits syswith the most favourable responses were: culture. DNV GL’s commitment goes beyond rate Sustainability Board comprising two ness units. The purpose of global shared tems and enable a common culture and ‘ DNV GL’s Purpose, Vision and Values are compliance, and is about how the company representatives from each of the four busiHEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT services is to facilitate common processes the merging of legal entities in the Group. important to me’ (93% favourable); and the contributes, through its research, services ness areas, of whom one is from the Execu(HSE) and control over quality and costs. merger-related question, ‘I am committed and operations, to achieving its vision of tive Leadership Team, in addition to repreThe full implementation of the Group-wide The merging of legacy DNV and legacy to working towards the future success of a safe and sustainable future. sentatives of important Group functions. HSE Management System was conirmed by GL ofices continued according to plan the DNV GL Group’ (91% favourable). DNV GL has been a signatory to the The Corporate Sustainability Board is tasked passing the re-certiication process and reand was 83% complete by the year-end. DNV GL STRIVES Improvement areas include ensuring that United Nations Global Compact since with overseeing the company’s performceiving a combined certiicate according to The total number of ofices was reduced FOR THE DIVERSITY employees understand the relationship 2003, and remains committed to integrate ance in this area and provides advice to the BS OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 standards. by 139. The remaining 28 ofice mergers OF THE WORKFORCE between their individual goals, unit goals the ten principles in the areas of human the Group Executive Committee on related The HSE management system reduces and will take place in 2015. When the process TO BE REFLECTED AT ALL and the overall DNV GL strategy, and that rights, labour standards, environmental risks and opportunities. The Board maintains prevents work-related accidents and injuries is complete, DNV GL will have the industry’s MANAGEMENT LEVELS. they receive regular feedback from their performance and anti-corruption into its the overall responsibility for the company’s and focuses on environmental management densest global network with 353 ofices managers. To address this, there will be a business strategy, culture, management sustainability performance. and ongoing improvement. THE PROPORTION OF in 90 countries. Group-wide HR Key Performance Indicator system and day-to-day operations. The DNV GL reports in accordance with the Maintaining the HSE certiication is a At the year-end, the total number of FEMALE MANAGERS (KPI) in 2015 on improving KPI management Board emphasizes the importance of good Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Framework. strategic priority for building a safer, more employees was 15,712. The largest countries IS NOW 22%. aspects by 3%. There will also be continued performance within these areas in order To improve its reporting practices, DNV GL environmentally assured company. Operatin terms of number of employees are Norway efforts to ensure that all those working for to fulil the company’s vision and purpose, has decided to follow the GRI ‘Comprehening in a safer, smarter and greener manner (18%), Germany (13%), the US (12%), the UK DNV GL have a clear line-of-sight between build trust and ensure long-term viability sive’ level for the current report and to have will contribute to DNV GL being seen as a (9%) and China (7%). Voluntary employee turntheir personal goals and the Group strategy. and proitability. the information veriied by a third party. leader, not only in advising our customers over in 2014 was 7% . There is no indication In addition, local managers are requested In 2014, the company launched several that employee turnover has increased or that to take action on local issues highlighted ambitious projects to clarify its position in BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION exit reasons have changed signiicantly as a A number of exchange programmes were in the local survey results. the sustainability domain. Recognizing the DNV GL does not tolerate corruption or consequence of the merger and integration conducted to facilitate competence developThe Chief Executive Oficer of DNV GL tremendous challenges facing humanity bribery. This principle is clearly outlined in GROUP HSE process. ment and knowledge sharing in the organiGroup will retire in the second half of 2015. in the decades to come, DNV GL wanted DNV GL’s Code of Conduct that was adopted PERFORMANCE A career in DNV GL should not be hindered zation. These included both two-year-long The Board of Directors has initiated a broad to better understand the role the organin 2013. The main objective of the Code of MEASUREMENT PROCESSES by nationality, gender or age if the employee and short-term exchanges between Hamburg process to identify and recruit his successor ization can play in overcoming challenges Conduct is to ensure that DNV GL and its AND INDICATORS ARE has the competence, attitude and values and Høvik for Maritime technical employees in which both internal and external candiand shaping a more sustainable future. employees carry out all activities in compliNOW ALIGNED ACROSS needed for the role. The proportion of female and the ‘Knowledge Booster’ programme to dates are included. Six strategic research projects explored ance with all the applicable laws and internatopics that are considered important for THE ORGANIZATION employees remained stable, ending the year stimulate knowledge development and sharing tional standards that the international comat 31%. DNV GL strives for the diversity of the across units and geographies. The integration CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the future, and where DNV GL can leverage munity recognizes and expects from us as a AND A COMMON GROUPworkforce to be relected at all management of employees was also supported through The Board has decided to issue a separate its history and competence to catalyse the major multi-national organization. All compaWIDE HSE REPORTING levels. The proportion of female managers common introduction training for new annual corporate governance report based transition. As part of this, DNV GL continued nies and employees in the DNV GL Group PROCEDURE HAS BEEN is now 22% . The Board consists of five employees and common leadership training on the principles that apply to listed public to engage with a wide network of leading must follow this code of conduct. ESTABLISHED. women and nine men, while the Group manfor managers; 448 managers participated in limited companies in Norway. The 2014 international experts, seeking to enable Based on this approach, the company agement team (the Executive Committee) one of the four leadership programmes (the report on DNV GL’s corporate governance new thinking about solutions and thereby established a new compliance programme consists of two women and nine men. Journey), almost twice the number in 2013. can be found on dnvgl.com. drive the agenda forward. with three focus areas: prevention, detec16 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 17 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT on HSE risk management, but also in applyOf the absence hours due to occupational Given a certain minimum equity ratio requireCredit risk: receivable balances are moniAgainst this backdrop, the Board believes However, the need for energy should keep ing these practices ourselves. The scope of health issues, 66% were related to physical ment, the risk capacity analysis indicates tored on an ongoing basis with the result that the challenging market situation for shipincreasing, and fossil fuels – oil, gas and the HSE certiication covers all legacy DNV, working environment conditions and 34% to the company’s inancial strength and gearthat the company’s exposure to bad debts ping will continue during the period ahead. coal – are likely to persist as the main source GL and KEMA locations (excluding Business psychosocial working environment conditions. ing capacity. This exercise gives the Board is limited. There are no signiicant concenThe overcapacity situation has created a of energy even though renewable energy Assurance). a measurable overview of the key quantiied trations of credit risk within the company. surplus of ships to be delivered, and leet will grow faster. Group HSE performance measurement CORPORATE RISK MANAGEMENT risks and DNV GL’s capacity to take on addiWith respect to credit risk arising from the growth continues to be in excess of trade Within the energy sector the company processes and indicators are now aligned The Board acknowledges that the world has tional risk. other inancial assets, which comprise cash, growth. The capacity /demand balance is focuses on renewable energy, electricity across the organization and a common become a more complex risk universe and In 2014, a number of key risks were discash equivalents and certain derivative not expected to be fully re-established until transmission & distribution and sustainable Group-wide HSE reporting procedure has underlines the importance of continuously cussed at Board meetings. One of these instruments, DNV GL’s exposure to credit the end of 2016, leading to a slow recovery energy use. The investments in the renewbeen established. having a comprehensive understanding of was the effect of the volatility in the inancial risk arises from any default of the counterin newbuilding prices and second-hand ship able energy sectors may be inluenced by the A global initiative was decided upon in the risks facing DNV GL that could affect cormarkets on DNV GL’s pension commitments. party, with a maximum exposure equal to values, increased scrapping, depressed reduced cost of fossil fuel, new trade agree2014 to strengthen the safety culture across porate values, reputation and key business The present low interest rate environment has the market value of these instruments. freight and charter rates and price pressure ments, political decisions, and subsidies. the organization and to ensure that all objectives. DNV GL has processes in place over several years led to a marked increase Liquidity risk: DNV GL monitors its liquidity on all service providers to the industry. However, the Board believes that this sector employees take responsibility for their own to proactively identify such risks at an early in the pension accruals. The extent of deined risk on an ongoing basis. The liquidity planLower fuel prices due to the drop in oil price together with power transmission and and others’ safety and health as part of their stage in order to initiate adequate risk mitibeneit pension schemes has been limited ning considers the maturity of both the inanmay improve the operating cost situation for distribution and sustainable energy use will daily work. The programme will be executed gating measures and actions, assign roles in order to reduce the exposure to falling cial investments and inancial assets (e.g. most trades, but may in itself not be suficient continue to create many opportunities for and implemented during 2015 and sustained and responsibilities and evaluate whether interest rates. accounts receivable, other inancial assets) to spur a new ordering boom. Classiication DNV GL in the coming years. The company further into the next strategy period. the residual risk is acceptable. A second focus area was the integration and projected cash lows from operations. societies must adapt to this challenging has a strong position within the Testing, During 2014, the SynergiLife tool and mobile process between DNV and GL. This affected market situation, but the Board regards the Inspection and Certiication industry and App for reporting, analysing and following all levels of the organization and was moniOUTLOOK aggressive price competition by certain comhas an extended service and competence up hazards and incidents were further rolled tored closely throughout the year. This work DNV GL has a leading position in all its induspeting classiication societies as unsustainplatform. out and promoted with extensive training THE DEMAND FOR is ongoing and a special integration project try segments: maritime, oil and gas, business able and potentially undermining the value The demand for sustainable business, and support to HSE professionals and line SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS, is coordinating and supervising the process. assurance and energy. of classiication. global best practices and standards and managers globally. The future plan is to GLOBAL BEST PRACTICES The risk of serious quality issues in DNV GL The inancial situation in the world improved The oil and gas sector is heavily inlubusiness innovation will continue to increase, move towards one common software tool AND STANDARDS AND represents another focus area. Numerous in 2014, but the growth has been at a slower enced by the drop in oil prices towards the and DNV GL is well positioned to be in the for risk and HSEQ management across the BUSINESS INNOVATION WILL barriers exist to minimize the chance of pace than in 2013. The volume of international end of 2014, and oil prices may luctuate forefront to develop and take on roles and organization. CONTINUE TO INCREASE, such events occurring and DNV GL’s quality trade also grew at a slower pace in 2014, but around current levels for some time. Hence, positions in these areas. Crisis management procedures have AND DNV GL IS WELL management system is constantly being the signiicant drop in the oil price and hence the trend towards increased production The Board of Directors believes that been improved and real time testing has POSITIONED TO BE IN THE scrutinized to ensure that we are managing fuel costs towards the end of the year may from deep and ultra-deep offshore ields DNV GL’s performance in 2014 demonstrates taken place to better ensure that executive this risk in a satisfactory manner. reverse this development in 2015. The world may slow down in the growing markets. New that the company has maintained the global FOREFRONT TO DEVELOP managers in the business areas and at group DNV GL’s main inancial risks are market is consuming more energy, and globalization discoveries on the Norwegian continental positions, broad competence and resource AND TAKE ON ROLES AND level are able to handle serious incidents in risk (interest rate and foreign currency risk), is continuing, but the geopolitical situation shelf may continue to be assessed in light of base that are required to provide guidance POSITIONS IN THESE AREAS. a synchronized manner and without undue credit risk and liquidity risk. has become tenser. Hence, we see a higher the high cost level and depressed cash low, and support in a business environment where delay. Interest rate risk: as the company has level of uncertainty regarding potential signs and the entire oil service industry could be the need for technical expertise, trust, governThe sickness absence rate remained stable limited external borrowings the exposure of national or regional protection measures affected by the reduced investment activity. ance and risk management is clearly evident. at around 2% in 2014. The lost time accident to interest rate risk is primarily related to being introduced. frequency (LTAF) per million worked hours DNV GL’s risk management policy is part of its deined beneit pension commitments. decreased by 30% compared to 2013 – from the management system and ensures that Lower interest rates over the past few years 2.0 in 2013 to 1.4 in 2014. During the year, the risk management processes and culture have led to an increase in the pension comTHE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF DNV GL GROUP AS, HØVIK, 30 APRIL 2015 716 absence days due to accidents were are an integral part of everything the commitments. The company’s policy is to limit reported. The most common types of lost pany does. The policy is aligned with the the number of new entrants to deined time injuries were fractured bones, sprains ISO 31000 framework. beneit pension schemes. In addition, there and strains (38%), and bruises, contusions, The Board formally reviews the risk manis limited exposure to the risk of changes and cuts (34%). agement status and outlook twice a year. in market interest rates related to DNV GL’s LEIF-ARNE LANGØY J. HINRICH STAHL HEINRICH REBEKKA GLASSER The number of occupational health issues The review of risks and opportunities is forward exchange contracts. CHAIRMAN VICE CHAIRMAN FRANKEMÖLLE SILLE GRJOTHEIM HERLOFSEN resulting in absence was 1.0 per million conducted both as part of the strategic plan Foreign currency risk: DNV GL has revenues hours worked in 2014, which is the same process in a long-term strategic point of and expenses in approximately 70 currencies. as in 2013. There were 384 absence days due view and as part of the annual plan process Of these, six currencies (NOK, EUR, USD, CNY, CHRISTELLE G. V. DAVID MCKAY METTE BANDHOLTZ to occupational health issues. The number for the year ahead. KRW and GBP) make up approximately 75% CLEMENS KEUER JOHANNES LAFRENTZ MARTIN (DEPUTY) NIELSEN of days lost due to occupational health issues DNV GL calculates its risk capacity on an of the total revenue. In many currencies, the per million hours worked increased to 13.5 annual basis, taking into account the most company has a natural hedge through a balin 2014, up from 9.5 in 2013. The majority important risk factors. Based on value-at-risk ance of revenue and expenses. The policy is C. THOMAS REHDER ODD E. SUND HILDE M. TONNE MORTEN ULSTEIN HENRIK O. MADSEN of the absence hours due to occupational methodology, the analysis includes potento hedge balance sheet items where the reGROUP PRESIDENT & CEO health issues were related to ofice work tial losses from normal operations, foreign evaluation has a direct impact on the proit and (51%), to surveys and inspections (21%) exchange exposure, inancial investments loss account. Major imbalances are hedged and to travelling (17%). and pension plans assets and liabilities. through forward exchange contracts. 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 19 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS – DNV GL GROUP AS REBEKKA GLASSER JOHANNES LAFRENTZ SILLE GRJOTHEIM HERLOFSEN German BORN: 1971 POSITION: Norwegian BORN: 1970 POSITION: Norwegian BORN: 1970 POSITION: Managing Director of Maryland Head of section Rules and StanGroup CFO in the Torvald Klaveness GMBH EDUCATION: Business dards Publishing House (Norway Group EDUCATION: Norwegian Administration at Technical & Germany), DNV GL EDUCATION: School of Economics and Business University of Berlin, CPA Chicago M.Sc. – metallurgical/corrosion Administration (MSc) MEMBER OF Illinois MEMBER OF THE DNV GL engineer MEMBER OF THE DNV THE DNV GL BOARD: since June BOARD: Since September 2013 GL BOARD: Since 2007, elected 2013 DIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE DIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE by the Norwegian employees DNV GL: Member of the Board of DNV GL: Member of the Board DIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE Statoil ASA, various Klaveness of Marorka Group of companies DNV GL: None Group companies (15) HEINRICH HILDE M. TONNE CLEMENS KEUER FRANKEMÖLLE Norwegian BORN: 1965 POSITION: German BORN: 1959 POSITION: German BORN: 1957 POSITION: Executive Vice President, Chairman of Group Works Director at McKinsey & ComTelenor Group EDUCATION: Council DNV GL SE, Germany pany Inc. since 1986 EDUCATION: M.Sc., NTH Trondheim, Norway EDUCATION: Diplom-InformaDiploma degree in Agricultural and RWTH Aachen, Germany tiker MEMBER OF THE DNV GL Sciences and Economics, MEMBER OF THE DNV GL BOARD: BOARD: Since 2013, elected Doctorate in Risk Management Since 2008 DIRECTORSHIP(S) by the employees in Germany at University of Bonn MEMBER OUTSIDE DNV GL: Member of DIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE OF THE DNV GL BOARD: Since the Board of Nordea Bank DNV GL: None February 2014 DIRECTORSHIP(S) Norge ASA OUTSIDE DNV GL: None LEIF-ARNE LANGØY CHRISTELLE G. V. MARTIN C. THOMAS REHDER METTE BANDHOLTZ NIELSEN THE COMPANY CHAIRMAN French BORN: 1960 POSITION: German BORN: 1956 POSITION: HAS WITHIN ITS Norwegian BORN: 1956 POSITION: Managing Director General Secretary and member Managing partner of Carsten Danish BORN: 1963 POSITION: FIRST FULL YEAR OF LAPAS AS EDUCATION: Norwegian School of Economics of the Executive Committe of GDF Rehder GmbH & Co KG Senior Support Specialist and Business Administration MEMBER OF THE DNV GL SUEZ Energy Europe EDUCATION: EDUCATION: Business Studies Oil & Gas (Denmark), DNV GL OPERATIONS COME BOARD: Since June 2010, Chairman since June 2011 graduated from Paris-Dauphine at European Business School, EDUCATION: Bachelor, techniVERY FAR IN COMDIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE DNV GL: Chairman of Kværner University (MBA 1983) and from Frankfurt MEMBER OF THE cal and legal English MEMBER PLETING THE MERGER ASA , Sparebanken Møre, Binleru AS, Inpower AS, the International Executive MBA DNV GL BOARD: Since 2009 OF THE DNV GL BOARD: Since Molde Fotball AS, Lag Invest AS, Næringsinvest Møre 2009 HEC, London School of DIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE 2011, elected by the European INTEGRATION AND HAS og Romsdal AS, Nmk Holding AS, Nmk Eiendom AS, Economics and New York Stern DNV GL: President European employees outside Norway DELIVERED STRONG Ålesund Sentrumsbygg AS, Norsk Maritimt Kompe(Trium) MEMBER OF THE DNV GL Community Shipowners DIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE FINANCIAL RESULTS tansesenter AS, Borgundveien 340 AS. Vice Chairman BOARD: Since June 2013 DIRECAssociation, Member of DNV GL: None of The Resource Group Trg AS and of Trg Holding AS. TORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE DNV GL: the Council of German AT THE SAME TIME. Member of the Board of Farstad Shipping ASA , Istad GDF SUEZ Energies Services Shipowners Association AS , Fsv Group AS , Fsv Shipping AS , A-L ifting AS , since June 2011, Fondation Paris Novela AS, Moldekraft, Noro Fotball AS . Deputy Dauphine since 2009 Board Member of Aker Stadion and Molde Fotball. J. HINRICH STAHL MORTEN ULSTEIN DAVID MCKAY ODD E. SUND VICE CHAIRMAN Norwegian BORN: 1953 POSITION: British BORN: 1963 POSITION: Norwegian BORN: 1957 POSITION: German BORN: 1968 POSITION: Managing Director of Borgstein Chief Surveyor Offshore North Principal engineer (Norway), Managing Director of Maryland AS EDUCATION: Rolls Royce BusiAmerica, based in Houston, DNV GL EDUCATION: Engineer, GMBH EDUCATION: Business ness Leadership Program, 2000. Texas, DNV GL JOINED DNV GL: Oslo Ingeniørhøgskole, OIH, Administration at University Training programs at IMD, Lausanne. 1990 EDUCATION: B. Sc. Naval Materials, 1980 MEMBER OF of Trier, MBA at INSEAD The University of Trondheim, Architecture, University of StrathTHE DNV GL BOARD: Since 2009, MEMBER OF THE DNV GL BOARD: The Norwegian Institute of Techclyde, 1985 MEMBER OF THE DNV elected by the Norwegian Since September 2013, Vice nology, Master of Science in naval GL BOARD: Permanent deputy employees DIRECTORSHIP(S) Chairman since February 2015 architecture and marine engisince January 2014, elected OUTSIDE DNV GL: None DIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE neering 1973–77 MEMBER OF THE by the employees worldwide, DNV GL: Vice Chairman DNV GL BOARD: Since June 2011 excluding Norway, Germany of Vapiano SE DIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE DNV GL: and Europe. Elected deputy Chairman of the Island Offshore member since 2002 and has Group of companies and various previously served on the Board directorships in private as well in 2006–2007 and 2010–2011 as publicly listed companies DIRECTORSHIP(S) OUTSIDE DNV GL: None 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 21 1 ORGANIZATION DNV GL GROUP HEADQUARTER: HØVIK NORWAY GROUP CENTRE BUSINESS INDEPENDENT MARITIME OIL & GAS ENERGY ASSURANCE BUSINESS UNITS HEADQUARTER: HEADQUARTER: HEADQUARTER: HEADQUARTER: SOFTWARE HAMBURG HØVIK ARNHEM MILAN MARINE GERMANY NORWAY NETHERLANDS ITALY CYBERNETICS GLOBAL SHARED SERVICES THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OWNERSHIP GROUP STRUCTURE MANAGEMENT 1 THORMOD FJELL 4 REMI ERIKSEN 7 KNUT ØRBECK-NILSSEN 10 LUTZ WITTENBERG Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, DNV GL is structured into The Executive Committee, Global Shared Services Officer Group Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer Group Chief Technology Officer & Chief Operating Officer of Maritime a fully owned subsidiary of four business areas: which is the Group President Norwegian German Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, DNV GL – Maritime & CEO’s management team, Joined DNV GL in 1991 Norwegian Norwegian Joined DNV GL in 1979 owns 63.5% of the DNV GL DNV GL – Oil & Gas consists of 11 people. The Joined DNV GL in 1993 Joined DNV GL in 1990 Group. 36.5% is owned by DNV GL – Energy Executive Committee deals Mayfair Beteiligungsfunds II DNV GL – Business Assurance with issues and decisions 2 DAVID WALKER 5 CECILIE B. HEUCH 8 HENRIK O. MADSEN 11 TOR E. SVENSEN GmbH & Co KG. See more related to strategy, budgetWe have two Independent details about the ownership ing, inancial development, CEO of Energy Group Chief HR Officer President & Group CEO CEO of Maritime Business Units serving more structure in the Corporate investments, mergers and than one industry: British Norwegian Danish Norwegian Governance report on acquisitions, pricing strategy, DNV GL – Software Joined DNV GL in 2007 Joined DNV GL in 2004 Joined DNV GL in 1982 Joined DNV GL in 1993 dnvgl.com. Marine Cybernetics major management appointments, markets and customers. Serving the entire organization: 3 LUCA CRISCIOTTI 6 THOMAS VOGTH-ERIKSEN 9 ELISABETH TØRSTAD Group Centre Global Shared Services CEO of Business Assurance Group Chief Financial Officer CEO of Oil & Gas Italian Norwegian Norwegian In the order from left to right Joined DNV GL in 2001 Joined DNV GL in 1988 Joined DNV GL in 1995 dnvgl.com/about-dnvgl 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 23 YEAR ONE 150 YEARS SAFEGUARDING LIFE, PROPERTY AND FIRST YEAR AS DNV GL THE ENVIRONMENT SINCE 1864 The oficial merger of DNV and GL in September DNV was established in Norway in 1864, just three years 2013 represented the irst consolidation of its kind. before the establishment of GL in Germany in 1867. Never before had two classiication societies merged. We used the 150th anniversary as a stepping stone 2014 marked our irst full year of operation, to look at future societal and industrial challenges. in which we came together as one company We provided insights and pathways to address these with an ambition to help businesses and society challenges and show how the extended capabilities of our newly merged company will make us globally become safer, smarter and greener. relevant for the next 150 years. IMPLEMENTING THE NEW BRAND ‘BUILDING TRUST’ – AN UNUSUAL HISTORY BOOK The DNV GL brand was created to be differentiating The colours of our new logo represent our working ‘Building Trust: the History of these mechanisms have emerged, and aspirational while consolidating many legacy context: sea, land and sky. Through this, we also depict DNV 1864–2014’ describes how we how they have evolved over time, what brands into one strong brand with long legacy and our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the developed from a minor Norwegian they have embraced, what authority credibility. The new brand was implemented across environment. The extended lines represent an expanclassiication society into the world’s they have operated with, and what thousands of operations, surfaces and activities during sive, expert approach to business where we seek the largest enterprise of its kind with forms of knowledge and relation2014. The ‘Year One – 150 Years’ events provided an broader view, the horizon of the issue, and innovative the formation of DNV GL in 2013. ships have been required for this. excellent platform to introduce the new visual proile solutions beyond the traditional boundaries. and brand story to our key relations. It also discusses trust and trustThe book is a result of a four-year building mechanisms as precondiresearch project in the department tions and essential infrastructure for of historical studies at the Norwegian an increasingly globalized society. University of Science and Technology The history book contributes to an (NTNU), which also resulted in ten academic understanding of how masters’ theses and two doctorates. YEAR ONE WE HOSTED FORWARD-LOOKING ‘YEAR ONE – 150 YEARS’ EVENTS AROUND THE WORLD, ENGAGING KEY CUSTOMERS, EXTERNAL RELATIONS AND EMPLOYEES IN OUR VISION TO ACHIEVE A SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE FUTURE. UNDER THE THEME ‘YEAR ONE – 150 YEARS’, WE MARKED OUR 150 YEARS OF PROUD PAST AND OUR FIRST YEAR AS A NEW COMPANY. HØVIK ARENA HOSTED A NUMBER OF EVENTS HØVIK ARENA: A purposebuilt venue built on a loating barge moored outside the headquarters at Høvik: this hosted several events, including 6,000 1,000 1,200 27 28 February February Singapore Singapore EMPLOYEES VIP GUESTS PENSIONERS, the main anniversary event AND THEIR SPOUSES FROM ALL OVER THE NEIGHBOURS AND 29 April Bergen AND PARTNERS WORLD AT THE MAIN SUSTAINIA100 10 June Stavanger on 14 June. FROM NORWAY EVENT ON JUNE 14 DELEGATES 14 June Oslo AND HAMBURG 24 June Hamburg 21 August Rio de Janeiro 04 September Gdynia 09 September Trondheim 13 September London 23 September Copenhagen 25 September Athens 02 October Amsterdam 10 October Rome 13 October Houston WORLDWIDE EVENTS 22 October Tokyo 12,000 8,000 24 October Seoul 27 October Shanghai 29 October Hong Kong 18 November Mumbai 20 November Dubai EMPLOYEES KEY CUSTOMERS IN SOME LOCATIONS, WE COMBINED OFFICE INAUGURATIONS AND ‘YEAR ONE – 150 YEARS’ EVENTS Prime Minister of Norway Erna Solberg on stage Henrik O. Madsen on stage and the audience at Høvik Arena on 14 June. at Høvik Arena on 14 June. Our new Singapore ofice On 1 March, our new Singapore In Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, HRH Crown Prince Haakon of was oficially opened on 28 laboratory was oficially opened we also combined 150th Norway opened our new ofice February by Mr S. Iswaran, by Norway’s Foreign Minister anniversary celebrations with in Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam. Minister in the Prime Minister’s H.E. Børge Brende (right), the oficial opening of a new He is lanked by the Norwegian Ofice, Second Minister for DNV GL Group Executive Vice ofice. We held presentations Minister of Trade and Fisheries, Home Affairs and Second President Remi Eriksen (left) and and panel discussions with Ms Monica Mæland and CEO & Minister for Trade & Industry Yuan Wen Guo, Head of Testing, key industry players on the President of DNV GL, Henrik O. Singapore. Inspection & Certiication (TIC) technologies that are transMadsen. for Oil & Gas SEA (middle). forming Malaysia’s energy landscape. SIX PROJECTS 01 02 03 04 05 06 The challenges and opportuniA BOOK OF VISIONS EXPLORING A SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FROM TECHNOLOGY TO TRANSFORMATION THE FUTURE OF SHIPPING ELECTRIFYING THE FUTURE ARCTIC: THE NEXT FRONTIER ADAPTATION TO A CHANGING CLIMATE ties described in these reports were presented at ‘Year One – 150 Years’ events throughout the 17,000 THE FUTURE PHYSICAL COPIES OF THE COFFEE year. Customers, industry organiTABLE BOOK ‘NEXT’ WERE Here we deined what We investigated how we Analysing six technology Floating offshore wind We examined the complex Presenting tools to help zations, public authorities, opinion DISTRIBUTED TO AUDIENCES we mean by a safe and can accelerate the deploypathways to achieve and smart grid technolArctic risk picture and businesses and commuALL OVER THE WORLD. formers, journalists, universities Now that we are approachTo examine this and other sustainable future, the ment and commercializathree ambitions for 2050: ogies were examined to explored its implications nities share best practices, and research institutes were ing 9 billion people on the questions, we launched barriers to change and the tion of sustainable techreduce shipping’s fatality see what contributions for shipping, oil and gas make sound investments engaged via panel debates, planet, what can organizasix ambitious projects in concrete actions needed nologies while ensuring rates by 90%, reduce they can make to providand oil spill response. and manage community talk shows and stands. Read tions like DNV GL do to 2014, exploring themes to seize opportunities that they are introduced leet-wide CO2 emissions ing low-carbon power resilience in order to adapt more and download the reports: contribute to a safe and we believe are critical for safer, smarter and safely in society. by 60%, all without to future generations. to the risks associated dnvgl.com/technologysustainable future? for the future: greener growth. increasing costs. with a changing climate. innovation/broader-view/ 1914 1927 150 YEARS The irst International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) is adopted. KEMA is established as the Dutch electricity industry’s Arnhem-based test house by provincial and large municipal GL has some 10% of authorities that own the world’s merchant electricity companies 1864 1867 1872 1883-88 1900-12 leet in class. and a number of private power generators. Det Norske Veritas Germanischer Lloyd (GL) is Samuel Plimsoll starts 1883: Norway has 1900: Close to 100% of the (DNV) is established founded in Hamburg by a the process leading to the third-largest leet DNV-classed ships were owned by Norwegian insurance companies as a national group of 600 shipowners, shipbuilders and insurers. the compulsory load lines on every British ship, in the world, measured in registered tonnage. by Scandinavian shipowners. 1920 1927 1907: DNV loosens its ties alternative to foreign put into force in 1891. From 1920 to 1940, diesel Working as part of the 1888: First DNV surveyor with the insurance clubs and classiication societies. engines are introduced as Association of International 1870 GL Headquarters moved to Berlin, where they stationed in China. 1893: GL adds its irst becomes a regular certiication and classiication society. propulsion on new ships. DNV is quick to adopt Registers, GL adds the classiication of non-military Steamships are introduced will remain until 1945. motorised ship, the 1912: Following the Titanic this new technology and aircraft to its activities. in the 1870s, and most of gaff schooner Frieda, disaster, safety at sea ‘engineering surveyors’ This lasts until the end the sail ships are phased to the registry. becomes the subject of are recruited. of the Second World War. out by the 1920s. August Behn signed increasing public concern. GL’s statutes in 1867. 1938 1940 1945-49 1951 1953 1954 1964 GL is the irst classiication As the irst classiication DNV takes a signiiDNV is inally united in one As the Netherlands’ During the Second 1945: A provisional GL Georg F. Vedeler is society to develop rules, society to do so, DNV cant and pioneering headquarters. The DNV leet electricity infrastructure World War, DNV is headquarters is estabappointed managing new test methods and a publishes new rules, step by establishing grows to almost 20 million continues to develop, divided in two; one half lished in Hamburg, director of DNV. class notation AUT for based on an analytical a dedicated research gross tonnes (GT), twice as KEMA grows with it. in Newcastle, UK, and following the loss of He introduces a unattended machinery and theoretical department. much as in 1960. In the 1930s, a shortone half in occupied the Berlin HQ. scientiic approach spaces. scientiic approach. circuit lab is built to Norway. This leads 1949: The decision to to ship construction. carry out tests at high to close cooperation return to Hamburg is His vision is to build voltages. with Lloyds Register made permanent. safer ships in a more that lasts until 1952. 1948: The International proitable way. Maritime Organization (IMO) is created. 1973-76 Georg F. Vedeler. GL begins to provide technical services to 1975-79 the oil and gas industry, The Berge Istra (1975) and Berge 1967-68 1969 1970 including assessing the design and supervising Vanga (1979) accidents occur. the installation of the 1977: Wind energy services 1967: The golden age for KEMA starts to build DNV enters the oil ‘Nordsee’ offshore reare irst added to GL’s portfolio. both shipping and DNV. a new lab, still known business, in both the search platform and the The internationalisation today as the world’s offshore installations irst German oil platforms. 1978: DNV becomes an and expansion of the biggest short-circuit and cargo sectors, Society take off. laboratory. including pipelines independent foundation. and vessels. This 1968: Formation of develops into a new IACS in Oslo, GL holds important market. the chairmanship for the irst two years of the association’s existence. 2004 2004 2005 2007-09 1980 1984 1989-90 1990 DNV becomes the irst company to be accredited by the United Risk Based Certiication introduced, representDNV acquires Cortest Columbus Technologies GL acquires Helimax, Windtest and merges with The Alexander Kielland Based on analysis The fall of the Berlin The ISO standards are KEMA expands its Nations Framework Convention ing a revitalisation of (CCT) – a specialist in Garrad Hassan, creating the platform disaster in the harnessing the increasWall unites the East introduced and DNV activities internationally on Climate Change to validate management system corrosion control, pipeworld’s largest renewable North Sea. Regulations ing power of computers, German class society quickly grows its and acquires ABB’s climate change mitigation certiication. line and plant integrity energy consultancy. are subsequently GL introduces the COLL DSRK, founded after management system Powertest laboratory in projects under the CDM (Clean analyses and material improved. notation, the irst which the separation of certiication activities. Chalfont, in the United Development Mechanism) evaluation for the Gas consultancy Advantica indicates the collision Germany, with GL. States. scheme. pipeline industry. is also acquired by GL. resistance of a ship. 2008 2009 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 DNV acquires Global GL acquires Noble DNV acquires Behnke, The Deepwater DNV submits a report containing DNV and GL On 12 September, the DNV The company marks its Energy Concepts, Denton. KEMA acquires Erdman and Whitaker Horizon accident in the conclusions of its forensic announce and GL merger is oficial. 150th anniversary and a US-based wind power Gas Engineering Services Engineering (BEW) to the Gulf of Mexico. examination of the Deepwater the merger The irst-ever merger of irst year as DNV GL. It is consulting irm with from Gasunie and sells strengthen its positions Horizon blowout preventer. agreement. two global classiication established as a leading 95 employees. part of its testing and within solar, wind, The launch of GL Noble societies. Stiftelsen Det global technical assurance certiication activities to power transmission Denton, the new comDNV acquires 74.3% of the Norske Veritas becomes and advisory company DNV approved to the German company and grid integration. pany formed after the shares in KEMA, creating a the majority shareholder within the maritime, oil accredit hospitals DEKRA. merger of GL with world-leading consulting and with 63.5%, while Mayfair and gas and power sectors in the US. DNV opens the Clean Noble Denton, an certiication company within Vermögensverwaltungs SE and a world-leading Technology Centre independent oil and the cleaner energy, sustainholds the remaining 36.5%. certiication body. in Singapore. gas technical advisor. ability, power generation, Leif-Arne Langøy and Hinrich Stahl after signing transmission and distribution the merger agreement. sectors. 2 WHAT WE DO We enable our customers to turn risks into rewards by helping them to identify, assess and manage their most critical risks. That includes assisting customers in balancing a wide range of technical, operational, business and societal aspects to optimize performance. In addition, we verify or certify compliance with standards, rules and regulations in order to safeguard life, property and the environment. As such, we perform a balancing act between business and society. 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 27 2 FOCUS ON MARITIME TAILOR-MADE SOLUTIONS FOR EFFICIENT SHIPS The best suits don’t come off the rack and neither do the best ships anymore. Today’s ships are being tailored, both during design and operation, to maximise their efficiency for their individual routes. 20,000 HULL VARIATIONS EFFICIENCY THROUGH COMPUTING POWER ARE GENERATED AND ANAThe basis for many of the eficiency LYSED TO FIND THE OVERALL BEST DESIGN FOR SPECIFIC enhancements essential to remain comOPERATING PARAMETERS. petitive in modern ship operation and ship 400 VESSELS ROUTE SPECIFIC CONTAINER STOWAGE design lies in running intensive computer simulations. Such simulations underpin many of DNV GL’s services, including the 70 HAD COMPLETED RSCS DNV GL’s new Route Speciic Container trim optimizer ECO Assistant and ECO Lines. APPROVALS BY DNV GL BUILD2DESIGN AT THE END OF 2014. Stowage (RSCS) notation is already We use one of the shipping industry’s helping boxship operators boost most powerful computing clusters. Build2Design is a service that helps TERAFLOPS eficiency by giving them enhanced OF COMPUTING CAPACITY shipyards and shipowners improve ARE USED TO RUN THESE lexibility in the loading and stowage the fuel economy of their ships by SIMULATIONS. 200 of containers. The new class notation reducing variations in their building for route speciic container stowage process. In developing the new is based on the use of long-term statisVESSELS service, we undertook a sensitivity WERE READY TO SIGN tical data on the wave conditions of analysis of over twenty parameters. UP FOR THE NEW many different shipping routes. CLASS NOTATION. We considered both the complexity of addressing the parameter and its impact on fuel consumption. The new service was rolled out in the spring of 2014. 200 WEATHER-SPECIFIC ROUTING In 2014, DNV GL increased its stake in StormGeo with the aim of giving TONNES OF FUEL customers even greater access to ship IS THE ESTIMATED SAVINGS PER YEAR FOR A TYPICAL route advisory services and maritime CAPESIZE BULK CARRIER. weather and decision-support software. THIS EQUALS USD 120,000 SAVED PER YEAR. StormGeo in turn acquired Applied Weather Technology (AWT). 5,000 SHIPS PER DAY 1.6 MILLION RECEIVE GUIDANCE AND WEATHER FORECASTS OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY PER YEAR DELIVERED SUPPORT FROM AWT. BY STORMGEO. 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 29 2 FOCUS ON MARITIME REVENUE: MARITIME’S SHARE OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES: MARITIME’S SHARE OF TOTAL dificulties and best technologies to help Advanced engineering systems are also technical challenges. As an example from with the fuel change-over procedure and packaged into the portal. Navigator Insight 2014, Hanjin, GTT and DNV GL signed an With 90% of world trade travelling by new requirements. We also developed a uses plausibility checks against speciic agreement to jointly investigate and desea, shipping is the global economy’s ship-speciic Fuel Change-Over Calculator vessel particulars to ensure high-quality velop a gas-fuelled large container vessel lifeline. Nonetheless, pressure remains speciically to determine the ideal paradata collection on board. concept equipped with membrane fuel on the industry to improve its safety meters for a vessel’s fuel change-over. The new AIS Business Intelligence tanks. The objective is to develop a conrecord, operational efficiency and Service uses Big Data to gain valuable cept for sailing long distances on LNG environmental footprint. insights into a range of different areas. by using technologies and associated 4,936 57.7% 8,806 W Case-relevant data is fed into advanced systems which are well-proven or ale enable our customers models and analytics schemes in order ready deployed in the market. and the global shipping NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES to analyse information about voyage manindustry to enhance safety, agement, port and bunker operations OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 optimize performance and and benchmark data from other market ensure compliance with regulations and players. This enables us to tailor our own class rules. As a leading global of all newbuilding containerthe analysis to each customer’s needs and Offshore class – jack-up successes classiication society, we are committed to ships (by Gross Tonnes (GT)) provide advice on reducing operational We signed agreements for the classiiare built to DNV GL class rules. drive the industry forward by helping to costs, voyage management optimization cation of two newbuilding jack-ups with tackle the challenges of today and ind and retroit solutions. dynamic positioning – Vahana Aryan and safer, smarter and greener solutions for Vahana Arjun. They have been designed tomorrow. NEW GAS READY NOTATION. Facilitating Developed in 2014, the DATE (Direct Access PERFORMANCE OPTIMIZATION . One of our for Vahana Offshore (S) Private Limited the introduction of cleaner fuel alternatives to Technical Experts) programme is the most most widely used maritime software products of Singapore by GustoMSC and will be CREATING A NEW STANDARD FOR SHIPS for shipping has long been a key focus concrete expression of our global service is the award-winning trim and fuel eficiency constructed by Eversendai Offshore RMC AND OFFSHORE STRUCTURES. Throughout area for DNV GL and Liqueied Natural outreach. DATE means that customers can MANAGING BIG DATA . At the SMM trade tool ECO Assistant. Since it was launched FZE, Dubai. 2014, our most important project was the Gas (LNG) is one of the most promising access a broad service base locally, while fair in Hamburg, DNV GL introduced ECO ive years ago, 500 vessels of all types have BW Offshore has chosen DNV GL to prodevelopment of the new DNV GL classiicaalternatives to heavy fuel oil. While still in knowing that they enjoy a global support Insight, a unique performance management beneited from improved proitability and vide classiication, veriication and certiication rule set. This will replace the legacy class its infancy, 2015 saw a sharp increase in system that delivers quality wherever they portal. Combined with the new Navigator sustainability. In this short time, ECO Assistion services for the UK North Sea Catcher rules of DNV and GL . Classiication rules LNG-fuelled ships. We further contributed are and within a 24-hour response time. In Insight data collection and logging software, tant has saved in excess of USD 150 million FPSO. We provide such services to 70% of the are the signature of a classiication society to this development by introducing a new 2014, Oslo, Hamburg and Singapore became ECO Insight gives shipping companies in fuel costs, with a resulting reduction in UK shelf FPSO s and have been involved in and form the foundation of our maritime GAS READY notation. This puts a vessel the irst ofices to offer the new service, which a fast track to an effective performance CO2 emissions of 700,000 metric tonnes. all the newbuild units since 2000 in this sector. organization. Our goal is to have a new set on the right track to LNG use, speeding up covers a wide-ranging multi-disciplinary management system. That equals the amount of carbon removed of standards that not only represents the and simplifying a later conversion to LNG. technical base, including: classiication ECO Insight provides a comprehensive from the atmosphere by over 100,000 Ethane firsts for DNV GL and Hartmann best of what both organizations have The basic notation veriies that the vessel systematics, hulls, machinery, stability, and easily accessible way to manage leet acres of forest over the same period. Hartmann Schiffahrts GmbH & Co. KG, developed over our long histories. complies with the gas fuelled rules in safety and emissions. The Houston and performance, including voyage, hull & Jaccar Holdings, HB Hunte Engineering terms of its overall design for future Piraeus ofices will roll out DATE in 2015. propeller, engine & systems performance. COLLABORATIVE INNOVATION. DNV GL and DNV GL signed a letter of intent for LNG fuel operations and that the main It enriches customers’ own leet reports with takes part in more than 100 innovation the classiication of ive ECO STAR 85k very 21% engine can be converted to or operates IN COMPLIANCE AND PREPARED FOR industry data, such as Automatic Identiiprojects annually, where we combine our large ethane carriers. on gas fuel. OPERATION. Preparing for the introduction cation System (AIS), weather, or fuel, and expertise with that of industry partners and The vessels will have a capacity of 85,000 The owner can also choose to add extra of stricter limitations on sulphur emissions provides benchmarking capabilities. customers to ind solutions to complex m3 each and are equipped with the new levels under the notation. These include for ships operating in Emission Control cargo tank design Star-Trilobe. This combines structural reinforcements and the choice Areas in 2015 posed both a regulatory and three cylinders into one, resulting in a 30% of correct materials to support future LNG operational challenge for many owners and FIGURE 01 HOW SHIPOWNERS ARE MEETING NEW LOW-SULPHUR REGULATION increase in cargo carrying capacity. of the world’s classed leet of ships tanks, preparations for future gas fuel operators. We have worked actively and and loating offshore structures systems, the certiication and installadirectly with our customers to prepare for (measured in Gross Tonnes (GT)) tion of LNG fuel tanks and the installation the switch and to operate safely and effecFrom 1 January First methanol-fuelled vessels VESSELS WITH SCRUBBER Bulk is classed by DNV GL . This totals 2015, ships naviBY CLASS The irst three vessels to use DNV GL class of gas-fuel-capable or convertible tively under the new regime. At the same ship 265.4 million GT. gating in so-called rules for low-lashpoint fuels, released in machinery. time, our new publication ‘Sulphur Limits Emission Control Gas VESSELS WITH LNG-FUELLED 2013, will be a series of 50,000 dwt tankers 2015 – Guidelines to ensure Compliance’ Areas face strict carrier SCRUBBER VESSELS DEEPENING OUR SERVICE NETWORK. was released to give a general overview CLASSED ordered by the owners Marinvest and limits on how much BY DNV GL To meet our customers’ needs for fast of the regulatory background, potential sulphur can be 45% PSV 213 134 Westfal-Larsen. The vessels are also the very irst to be fuelled by methanol – a fuel The goal is also to have the most advanced service and response, we have put our emitted in the IN TOTAL IN TOTAL ship’s exhaust. that signiicantly reduces local air emisclass rules yet created by any classiication technical competence within easy reach 900 Tanker society. In line with our strategic goals, of every customer. The merger has sions. These product carriers will be built Shipowners can the new rule set is based upon modern riskgiven us a deeper pool of expertise to at Hyundai Mipo Dockyards and are meet the new Container based principles that will enable innovation draw on than ever before and a denser regulations by ship scheduled for delivery in 2016. LNG-FUELLED VESSELS and eficiency, while improving the safety global network of ofices, ensuring that using fuel with BY CLASS General of the maritime and offshore industries. we are close to wherever our customers a lower sulphur cargo Launch of the new giants content, alterDuring the irst half of 2015, the proposed are doing business. Overall, we have maritime advisory projects 2014 saw the delivery of the new CSCL native fuels like DNV GL rule set will be shared with industry survey stations in more than 80 countries CLASSED Ro-Ro Globe, at the time the world’s largest were carried out in 2014. LNG, or by itting BY DNV GL stakeholders. Input will also be gathered from technical working groups, training sessions and 365 Maritime ofices worldwide. Approval centres are located in Oslo, an exhaust gas scrubber. 58% Cruise /Ferry container ship. Constructed by Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd (HHI) for China and industry cooperation on newbuilding proHamburg, Pusan and Shanghai, with addiShipping Container Lines (CSCL), the jects. The rules will be published in July 2015, tional Fleet in Service centres in Houston, Other DNV GL-classed containership is the ready to enter into force in January 2016. Piraeus and Singapore. irst in a series of ive 19,100 TEU vessels. No. of ships 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 31 2 FOCUS ON OIL & GAS FULL-SCALE TESTING AT SPADEADAM 35% Gas releases and explosions can cause signiicant damage to life, property and the environment. OF THE WORLD’S LNG PLANTS Experts at our full-scale Spadeadam HAVE BEEN SUPPORTED Test Site in Northern England have UNLOCKING BY DNV GL TO ENSURE SAFE DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION. used large-scale ire and explosion tests to validate oil and gas industry products and methodologies. OPPORTUNITY The tests enable customers to understand practical considerations ACROSS THE GAS in high-risk situations. Projects in 2014 included the testing of passive ire protection materials using jet VALUE CHAIN ires and two fracture propagation tests for inter-national companies. DNV GL maintains a deep focus on initiatives that plot a pathway to a more sustainable energy future. In 2014, the company redoubled its efforts to help the industry achieve safer, smarter and greener operations. In the gas sector, we have enhanced safety, reliability and performance 1,624 DESTRUCTIVE AND at every stage of the value chain. NON-DESTRUCTIVE TESTS WERE CONDUCTED AT DNV GL’S SPADEADAM TEST SITE IN 2014. SETTING STANDARDS FOR LNG The combined competence and synergies of DNV GL legacy organizations is a powerful proposition for the LNG sector. In 2014, this expertise paved the way for a contract with BG Group for process safety CAPTURING LOST in the design veriication for the FEED POTENTIAL of the Lake Charles Liquefaction project. 5% of the world’s gas supply is wasted through laring The contract was awarded on the back and venting. In 2014, DNV GL of previous BG Group assignments to launched an Extraordinary legacy GL colleagues in Australia, Trinidad Innovation Project to investi& Tobago and Egypt. Meanwhile, the local gate solutions to capture gas legacy DNV team provided LNG expertise. lared in oil ields. By examining ways to convert, transport and utilize this resource, it is possible to increase energy eficiency and mitigate environmental impact across the entire oil industry. 750 BILLION KILOWATT HOURS OF ELECTRICITY COULD BE PRODUCED IF THIS GAS WAS HARNESSED FOR POWER. FOCUSED ON THE FUTURE DNV GL was commissioned by the Energy Technologies Institute in 2014 to lead a project that explores future energy systems in the UK and Europe. Our project team has begun initial exploratory work into the potential production, utilization and infrastructure requirements of several gas scenarios in the UK in 2050. These include bio-SNG, high-hydrogen gas and alternative natural gas. 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 33 2 FOCUS ON OIL & GAS REVENUE: OIL & GAS’ SHARE OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES: OIL & GAS’ SHARE OF TOTAL SUPPORTING EVOLVING NEEDS, ONAND The tank, one of the largest assets ever 30 OFFSHORE. 2014 was a game-changing successfully ofloaded at Lerwick, will collect 2014 was defined by the inherent year within the industry, and not just due to and store oil from Premier Oil’s new Solan volatility that occurred in the oil the economic environment. The continued ield, prior to export via shuttle tanker. and gas industry. Operating costs growth of the unconventional oil and gas continued to rise and the industry sector in North America led to increased THE POWER OF INNOVATION. Our commitfaced a rapid fall in oil prices. DNV GL interest in safe and eficient onshore operament to joint industry projects (JIPs) allows was well-positioned to support custions in the US. new joint industry projects us to share knowledge and examine new tomers in their efforts to enhance the safety, reliability and performance of projects and operations in this 6,264 4,048 At DNV GL, we responded by proposing a joint industry project on decision strategy development for water management in were initiated by our Oil & Gas business area in 2014. solutions to emerging technical challenges. This has resulted in greater technical competence and new paths to smarter ways NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES rapidly evolving energy landscape. shale gas as well as progressing our work of working: for us, our partners and the in quantifying fracking risk. This project entire industry. D will be further developed and presented In 2014, we initiated 30 new JIPs. These NV GL was appointed as techin 2015. included an enhanced oil recovery concept, nical advisor and assurance The growth of onshore developments in in wells in water depths over 500 metres. combining mature water injection technopartner to a variety of landmark the US has not diminished the focus on safe We are also working alongside the national logy with the latest developments in offprojects and operations in 2014. operations offshore. Oil and gas companies oil company through a consortium to shore wind power, and the launch of a JIP These included a multi-million pound thirdoperating in national waters are currently undertake pipeline integrity work. to combat microbiologically inluenced party Independent Competent Person We also signed a ive-year agreement with industry standard for subsea factory adapting to fresh offshore regulatory corrosion on onshore transmission contract related to compliance with offshore one of Shell’s oldest joint venture companies, interface standardization. In addition, requirements. To assist them, DNV GL GROWING MARINE COMPETENCE. We pipelines. regulations for the Statoil Mariner ield; BSP. DNV GL will provide third-party inspecDNV GL has joined forces with 19 induslaunched a new roadmap of requirements continued to grow the capability of our Demonstrating our ability to adapt technithe largest offshore development in tion and specialist services to more than try players to facilitate the streamlining for loaters, providing a comprehensive Noble Denton marine assurance and cal innovation from analogous industries, the UK in more than a decade. 300 onand offshore facilities in Brunei. of subsea documentation, seeking to overview – the irst of its kind – of the advisory services in 2014. A pioneer of we also proposed a new hybrid power increase eficiency through the presennecessary steps to comply with US Coast the marine warranty concept, this service concept for offshore units, utilizing batteries 40 INVESTING IN INNOVATION. A continuing tation of a minimum uniied set of documenGuard requirements for operating FOI s, area now offers major marine companies in combination with traditional power geneprogramme of investment, in both people tation requirements for all major subsea FSOs and FPSOs in US waters. a broad range of technical assurance and ration equipment. This concept has already and facilities, is key to DNV GL’s aim of components. In Mexico, the government’s decision to advisory services, from marine warranty beneited the maritime and automotive innovating to add value for customers As the digitalization of the oil and gas open its energy sector to foreign companies surveying to dynamic positioning. sectors, but has yet to be adopted in the and the industry at large. In 2014, this was industry continues, the opportunities and in 2014 heralds a new age of opportunity. In 2014, the company helped CNOOC oil and gas industry. supported through a strengthening of our challenges provided by accessing ‘big data’ Bidding for ields begins in mid-2015 perform the irst offshore platform installaCOUNTRIES global network of technical and innovation become more evident. We are honing our and DNV GL is supporting both national tion in China using advanced dynamic posihubs and laboratories. competency in the ield through our involveoperator Pemex and new entrants to the tioning loat-over technology. A further OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 Our global network of oil This included trebling the size of the ment in the four-year Optique joint industry recently liberalized market. Our Mexico Cityassignment was conducted in Lerwick, and gas experts is spread Deepwater Technology Centre in Singapore project. This industry-academia initiative based team of 170 employees is currently Shetland, where DNV GL acted as marine Risk management consultancy of the year across 40 countries. and augmenting our harsh-environment exwill seek to enhance access to large and working on a number of projects, includconsultant when a Solan Oil Storage Tank DNV GL was awarded the title of ‘Risk pertise. We also established a new research complex data sets to facilitate more ining delivering, with Pemex, a inancial risk (SOST) was ofloaded from a heavy lift Management Consultancy of the Year’ at and development hub in Brazil to focus on formed decision-making – another key assessment of deepwater drilling activities vessel and towed to its quayside mooring. the Global Risk Awards 2014. Organized offshore safety, subsea systems, deepwater to driving forward future eficiencies. by the Institute of Risk Management (IRM), Our integrated expertise facilitated success drilling and well control. Activity at our the accolade was presented for our excepacross the industry, as illustrated by the conmultiphase low laboratory in Groningen, FIGURE 02 MOVING IN TANDEM: OIL PRICE VERSUS MAINTAINED/INCREASED CAPEX tional performance and overall contribu1st tract win with BG Group for process safety the Netherlands, also increased in 2014, tion to the risk management profession. in design veriication relating to the frontas epitomized by a six-week test on the Research conducted by DNV GL among senior oil and gas industry proend engineering and design (FEED) for the Twister supersonic gas separator commisSame /increased capex fessionals shows that companies’ intentions to maintain or increase capital Oil price Middle East integrity conversion of the Lake Charles Liqueied sioned by Samenwerkingsverband Noordexpenditure is decreasing in line with the drop in the price of oil. DNV GL was recognized for protecting Natural Gas (LNG) import terminal to an Nederland (SNN). customers’ assets in the Middle East in export facility. Here, legacy GL process $120 100% 2014. At its Asset Integrity Workshop, engineering experts’ previous experience DRIVING EFFICIENCY, REDUCING COSTS. We facilitated eficiency by 87% 85% 90% the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) of BG Group LNG projects in Australia, Ongoing rises in operating costs collided introducing the irst certiication $100 $105 presented DNV GL with an award for the Trinidad & Tobago and Egypt, combined with a dramatic fall in oil prices in the second scheme for subsea equipment $101 80% $98 73% best ‘Company Contribution to Asset with the LNG expertise of local legacy half of 2014. Operators across the industry and components. 70% Integrity in the Middle East’. DNV staff, helped secure a contract for the responded with further cutbacks in their $80 $82 $82 FEED of the Louisiana-based development. capital expenditure plans and cost cutting 60% In Asia, we signed a contract with ENI across their operations. This enforced $60 50% Recognition for exceptional competence 45% Muara Bakau B.V. for the classiication and our work to enable customers to achieve Oil price calculation: Average oil price (WTI, Brent) Dr Carl Arne Carlsen, with a career span(Source: eia.gov). Chart source: A Balancing Act: The outlook 40% veriication of the Jangkrik Floating Prosigniicant cost eficiencies and develop Advances in, and the industry’s increasing for the oil and gas industry in 2015, DNV GL. $49 ning 40 years in DNV GL, was awarded $40 duction Unit (FPU) in a joint venture with a more sustainable cost base through reliance on, IT leads to risks as well as Research ieldwork: Fieldwork to derive capital spending was 30% the Distinguished Individual Achievement conducted during the month of October each year, except for BKI (PT Biro Klasiikasi Indonesia). The newindustry standardization. opportunities. Cyber security is one area of this year’s study, which was conducted in January 2015. Award at the 2014 Offshore Technology 20% build FPU will have the capacity to treat In the subsea sector, we introduced the concern where we are supporting customers, $20 Conference (OTC) for his ‘outstanding, 450 mmscfd of gas plus condensates and irst certiication scheme for subsea equipproviding in-depth risk assessment and 10% signiicant and unique achievements’ is scheduled to start production in 2017. ment and components to drive eficiency, management solutions. In 2014, we used 0 0 within the offshore industry. This marks DNV GL’s entry into FPU classiwhile also collaborating with Statoil on our expertise to address the issue for Total OCT OCT OCT OCT OCT JAN ication in the Indonesian market. a project to introduce an international E&P Norge and its Martin Linge project. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 35 2 FOCUS ON ENERGY ASSESSING ENERGY SAVINGS IN THE US We help hundreds of customers each year with 16 GW energy eficiency projects. In one case, we led a team of four consulting irms to help a US-based customer understand the baseline conditions at each of its sites. OF PV-SOLAR POWER CAN We identiied and analysed potential energy-savings THE SHIFTING BE ABSORBED BY THE DUTCH DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS WITHOUT GETTING OVERLOADED, ACCORDING TO OUR STUDY. projects, and prepared documentation to support the implementation of selected projects. ENERGY MUSD PLAYING FIELD 5.9 INVESTMENT IN 26 ENERGY-SAVINGS As renewables become more dominant in the energy mix, security PROJECTS WAS MADE BY ONE OF OUR of supply from variable power generators is at stake. At the same time, CUSTOMERS BASED security of supply becomes an issue touching everyone’s daily life. ON OUR ASSESSMENT. We have the means to keep energy affordable and energy efficiency is the low-hanging fruit. We help the power industry address the trilemma of clean, reliable and affordable energy. INTEGRATION OF RENEWABLES In 2014, the European Commission asked us to conduct a study together with Imperial College London and NERA on the impact 60% OF THE EUROPEAN ELECTRICITY of renewables on distribution grids. SYSTEM CAN POTENTIALLY COME FROM RENEWABLES BY 2030 ACCORDING TO OUR STUDY. The study showed that integration of 60% of renewables into the European electricity system will be feasible by 2030. However, it will require extensive expansion of infrastructure, including transmission and distribution networks, as well as conventional backup generation. SECURING RENEWABLES GENERATION DEVELOPING ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE IN AFRICA 247 1.6 Offshore wind farm projects are associated with Africa’s economy is booming; seven out a range of risks due to complex wind and wave 7 GW of the ten fastest growing economies in the loading conditions. Project Certiication is a wellOFFSHORE WIND TURBINES MILLION HOUSEHOLDS world are in sub-Saharan Africa. In Kenya, Our role is to conirm the WERE COVERED BY THE CAN BE POWERED BY THE proven system for third party review and approval DNV GL developed project speciications safety and reliability of 18 OFFSHORE WIND FARM 1,600 MW INSTALLED POWER of wind turbines, support structures and subOF WIND ENERGY PROJECTS THAT WE FROM THESE PROJECTS. and provides construction supervision and the installed wind turbines. CERTIFIED IN 2014. stations at a speciic location to minimize these risks. WILL BE HARVESTED BY 2030 asset-management training for a 426 km AT ASHEGODA IN ETHIOPIA, Ashegoda is situated in Project Certiication comprises speciic technical 400 kV transmission line. We also provide ONE OF AFRICA’S LARGEST complex terrain at 2,200– reviews ranging from design veriication and siteWIND FARMS. general technical expertise and insights. 2,500 m above sea level. speciic environmental conditions to manufacturing and commissioning surveys. 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 37 2 FOCUS ON ENERGY REVENUE: ENERGY’S SHARE OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES: ENERGY’S SHARE OF TOTAL developed a probabilistic risk-cost-beneCOMBINING EXPERTISE UNDER ONE BRAND. 1,000 it framework called ADAPT-Power for In 2014, we merged the rich heritage of our Record-breaking electricity producanalysing power system investments to legacy brands DNV, KEMA , Garrad Hassan tion from renewable energy sources mitigate severe weather and climate change and GL Renewables Certiication into the and dropping oil prices are turning impacts. The components in ADAPT help new DNV GL brand. An independent survey the ‘world of energy’ into an exciting build scenarios that identify stressors, revealed that, after one year, 75% of our and challenging global playing field. ISSUED CERTIFICATES vulnerabilities and consequences which Energy customers are aware of the DNV GL Geo-political developments, related can be used to determine appropriate brand and know that we have a wide global 3,122 2,479 energy security concerns, the public In 2014, we passed the milestone resilience options and investments for network of ofices, provide unique technical need for lower energy prices and of 1,000 issued Grid Code power system planners and operators. expertise and work in close partnership the increasing demand for electricity NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES Compliance certiicates and with our customers and partners. are all driving energy up the global reports, representing a capacity SMART ENERGY SYSTEMS. Increased urbanpolitical agenda. of more than 8 GW in Germany. ization is leading to an interest in ‘smart O green cities,’ which enable citizens to live OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 ver the past century, electricand work in an energy eficient manner. ity has been transformed from New technology is allowing home renewa luxury into a commodity. borders and carry bulk electricity through ables generation to combine with smart Accurate prediction of wind speed. Along this path, demand and new interconnection corridors. Our ongoing appliances. Increases in sensor usage and DNV GL secured the highest score in a dependency on electricity have increased investments in our high-power test laboradata analysis allow the individual to control wind-low-modelling blind test organized exponentially. At the same time, there is an solar capacity. Countries in Asia Paciic have it is to be used. As a member of a worldtory in Arnhem, the Netherlands, will create the way energy is used at home and work by E.ON, a leading power and gas company. increasing expectation that energy will be rapidly moved into second place, followed leading team of energy economists, we additional capability where manufacturers on an hour-by-hour basis. These smart The blind test challenged six parties in the clean, secure and affordable. At DNV GL, by the Americas. Lower prices and increased helped the European Commission undercan test their equipment for these supersystems allow for demand response, where global wind industry to accurately predict we call this the ‘energy trilemma’ and work competition may impact the quality and stand the costs of integrating variable grids. We also initiated a joint industry customers voluntarily reduce power usage the wind regime at eight complex wind with all types of stakeholders in the energy performance of solar panels. renewable energy sources into the grid project with ten industry players to develop during peak times. We are a partner of, farm sites. industry to help address it. In 2014, we acquired PV Evolution Labs in and the impact on distribution systems. a methodology for the technology qualiand driving force behind, the Universal Berkeley, California. DNV GL now has a test The results gave insights about what could ication of offshore High Voltage Direct Smart Energy Framework (USEF), an industry Testing and certification of smart meters. laboratory and an outdoor test site offering be achieved through the smart integraCurrent (HVDC) technologies. This recominitiative with the aim to design an open We own the leading centre for testing and 30% performance testing of PV panels. It allows tion of large-scale renewables. mended practice will facilitate a safer framework to accelerate the development certifying smart meters in Spain. This certiies investors and owners to curtail risk and build In Africa, we supported the Kenyan adoption of offshore HVDC grids. of smart energy products, services and technology that enables communications, proitable business cases in a market with transmission system operator, KETRACO, solutions for the large-scale implemeninteroperability and functionality. Spanish many new players, intensiied price compein developing its new and robust grid TESTING ENERGY STORAGE SOLUTIONS. tation of smart grids. By deining a minimal companies will roll out 27 million smart tition and increasing quality and perforcomprising 4,000 km of high-voltage transEnergy storage will facilitate renewables set of speciications for smart energy systems, meters to residential customers by 2018. mance issues. DNV GL aims to become the mission infrastructure. We advised on the integration. We anticipate that both buildingUSEF ensures that products and services of prototype components world’s leading provider of solar energy construction of substations and helped and grid-scale energy storage, which can for smart grids become ‘interoperable’, tested in our laboratories initially testing and advisory services by 2020. to develop the 426 km overhead transmisstore generated electricity until it is needed, or more easily adopted by communities. Low Carbon Technologies (LCT) transfer fail to pass the tests and do sion line which will connect Africa’s largest will grow substantially in the years to come. and deployment in Asia and the Paciic is not achieve certiication. SUPPORTING OFFSHORE WIND. Offshore wind farm, Lake Turkana, to the Kenyan In 2014, we opened our New York BEST TestENERGY EFFICIENCY. We help manage or supported by the Asian Development Bank wind power is promising, but costs need transmission grid. Once operational, Lake ing Center, in partnership with the State advise on a number of energy eficiency for the sustainable development of the region. to be reduced. A unit of wind electricity Turkana will represent 17% of Kenya’s of New York, to test battery technologies. projects. As an example, we helped We were selected as the technical expert generated offshore is currently 50% more installed power generation capacity. the New York State Energy Research providing initial technical screening, assessexpensive than if it is generated onshore. ADAPTING TO CLIMATE CHANGE. Climate and Development Authority manage its ment and due diligence consultancy services FROM HYDROCARBONS TO RENEWABLES. However, it is tempting to make use of FACILITATING TOMORROW’S SUPERGRIDS. change is expected to lead to more severe two-year heating, ventilation and air conin the form of advice and recommendation Energy generation is shifting away from the sea’s wide open spaces and rich wind Direct current technology will be used for weather events, and may also result in ditioning business partner programme. on the feasibility and viability of LCT options conventional hydrocarbon-fuelled power resources and the potential is massive. subsea interconnectors between markets unprecedented impact on the electricity In 2014 alone, more than 4,200 Quality and projects. plants to renewable energy sources. In our project FORCE (‘FOr Reduced Cost and will help create a subsea grid for offinfrastructure, as happened with superMaintenance projects were completed, Climate change awareness and the desire of Energy’), our wind turbine engineering shore wind developments. Onshore superstorm Sandy in 2012 in the US. We have beating the programme goals by 350%. Substation automation standard gaining for clean air stimulate the growth of renewsupport team deined four ways for the grids will also be built to cross international momentum. As our Arnhem laboratory is the able energy sources globally. In addition wind industry to reduce the cost of elecFIGURE 03 EVOLUTION OF LEVELIZED COST OF ELECTRICITY (LCOE) FOR DIFFERENT RES TECHNOLOGIES irst level ‘A’ accredited Utilities Communicato technology shifts, the issue of energy tricity generated by offshore wind by at tions Architecture (UCA) test laboratory, we 8.46 security was paramount throughout 2014, least 10%. In our ‘cost reduction manifesto’, 250 have performed IEC 61850-10 conformance resulting in renewables being considered we state our aim of teaming up with the Solar PV tests over the past few years, resulting in not only as a method of ighting climate industry to achieve further 25% reductions GWh Wind Offshore (Floating) 356 certiicates issued by UCA . Our testing change, but also as a path to energy inin offshore-generation costs by 2020. 200 and advisory services to utilities, manufacdependence in a changing energy mix. Wind Offshore (Fixed) turers and system integrators help improve LCOE (EUR/MWh) NEXT GENERATION GRIDS. Adapting the Wind Onshore the interoperability of assets. SOLAR POWER BECOMING COMPETITIVE. grid is crucial in the energy transition. of energy savings are reported 150 The cost of solar photovoltaic (PV) power Power generators and owners of transmisby the energy eficiency business has declined signiicantly in the past few sion and distribution grids face new techpartner programme in New York The world’s largest offshore wind State, US, equalling the electric100 years, leading to market growth of 35% nical, environmental, economic and policy turbine in series production is the Siemens ity consumption of 1.3 million in 2013, with a total installed capacity of challenges. On the transmission grid level, SWT-6.0-154. DNV GL certiied the turbine’s households. 137 GW and continued sound growth in we will see larger, more volatile power lows 50 design, manufacturing, installation and 2014. Europe remains the world’s leading over longer distances since renewable commissioning processes and related 0 region in terms of cumulative installed power is often generated far from where 2012 2020 2030 2040 2050 documentation. 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 39 2 FOCUS ON BUSINESS ASSURANCE RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Traceability of the source of raw materials is driving consumer demand. The food & beverage industry looks SUSTAINABLE to assure that commodities such as tea, coffee and soy are responsibly sourced. In the electronics sector, responsible sourcing from suppliers SUPPLY CHAINS that manufacture components is vital to protect reputations and meet consumer expectations. Every product is the result of a supply chain. But the notion of supply We have worked to meet increased chains may be far too simplistic for today’s globally connected economy. requirements in social and ethical Often they constitute vast networks or ‘webs’ created amongst different auditing schemes such as the SEDEX companies producing, packing, handling, storing, distributing and Members Ethical Trade Audit and retailing specific products. Sustainable supply chain practices ensure EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship resilience, efficiency and agility whilst addressing quality, safety, Coalition). The frequency of requests ethics and responsible sourcing. for ‘Labour and Human Rights’ and ‘Code of Conduct’ compliance audits grew signiicantly in 2014. 12x SUPPLY CHAIN ASSURANCE Supply Chain Assurance is the means by which organizations demonstrate to themselves and MORE PROFITABLE A STUDY BY BAIN & COMPANY their customers that all vulnerabilities in the SHOWED THAT COMPANIES supply chain are understood and managed: EMPLOYING SOPHISTICATED SUPPLY CHAIN METHODS from identiication of the criteria suppliers MADE 12 TIMES THE PROFIT need to adhere to, collection of up-to-date OF COMPANIES USING UNSOinformation, external audits, statutory reporting PHISTICATED METHODS. and public domain information, to published veriication and audit reports and supplier approval and procurement processes. We have further developed our assurance services to be increasingly supply chain centric in order to help organizations understand their supply chain risks when designing or selecting a bespoke protocol or standard and assurance programme. In 2014, we helped companies across the world build the assessment criteria required to assure a robust and appropriate supply chain. SUPPLY CHAIN RISK MANAGEMENT The potential for things to go wrong throughout such complex networks is arguably proportionate to the number of organizations RESOURCE FOOTPRINTING involved, but many other factors come into play. Increasing complexity means increasing risk. Supply Chain Risk Management identiies 19–29% Usage of water and energy and carbon emissions continue to concern companies across all industry sectors. Assessing 100,000 OF THE GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS COME FROM the water and carbon footprint of an and measures vulnerability within the supply OUR FOOD SYSTEM. chain to allow active management to avoid organization and carrying out energy failure and ensure business continuity. eficiency assessments in response to SUPPLIERS new initiatives (such as the EU Energy 2,500 LARGE CORPORATE BRANDS ARE We were engaged by a number of the most KNOWN TO HAVE UP TO AND WELL Eficiency Directive) is increasingly globally recognized brands in 2014 to assess OVER 100,000 SUPPLIERS THAT becoming part of our service to customers. THEY HAVE TO MANAGE. the compatibility of their suppliers. In 2014, we strengthened our assessLITRES OF WATER IS USED TO PRODUCE 500G OF CHEESE. ment services for water management and carbon mitigation. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 41 2 FOCUS ON BUSINESS ASSURANCE REVENUE: BUSINESS ASSURANCE’S EMPLOYEES: BUSINESS ASSURANCE’S ENHANCING SAFETY AND QUALITY IN to address infection control and brings a 3,400 SHARE OF TOTAL SHARE OF TOTAL THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY. In 2014, we fresh approach to address one of the most Companies and organizations face a continued to support healthcare providers pressing and persistent challenges that growing demand from their stakeholders in applying systems thinking to address threatens patient safety across the world. to demonstrate sustainable business the unique risks that they must manage performance. Their ability to underin order to deliver quality care tailored to LOOKING AHEAD. We continue to see a stand and manage these expectations the needs of the patients. By combining our robust demand for independent certiicahospitals and healthcare may mean the difference between global infrastructure and local presence tion, veriication, assessment and training providers have been success and failure. Identifying and with our risk management experience services. Our certiication market is expectcertiied by us. 2,492 1,836 managing the most relevant risks and expertise, we are uniquely positioned ed to continue to grow due to the increase to reach long-term business goals in global trade, stringent regulations and to help healthcare providers continually is complex. By certifying companies’ NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES improve their safety and quality perfornew products covering the broad sustainamanagement systems, we enable mance. bility area. We also plan to expand into companies to address this challenge. In 2014, we received accreditation new geographies, notably Africa. Increased H from the International Society for Quality stakeholder demands for transparency and aving a well-functioning certiin Healthcare (ISQ ua) for our healthcare Feedback from hospitals we have worked sustainable operations fuel this need. ied management system can accreditation programme. This complewith reveals that our approach is rigorous We remain committed to being a thought be a good start for companies ments the accreditation we already have and robust while still allowing the lexibility leader in the certiication industry through to manage a broader set of for our DNV GL Hospital Accreditation needed to develop appropriate local innovative approaches that incorporate business challenges and build sustainStandards (DIAS). In addition to hospital solutions. the sustainability concept and partnerships able business performance. 2014 saw The objective is that customers should to improve its sustainable business peraccreditation, we also offer accreditation In 2014, our Managing Infection Risk with customers and other stakeholders to the International Organization for Standexperience an easier transition to ISO ’s formance, and has started to address for Primary Care Providers and Specialist Programme resulted in the irst two hospitals help business and society operate more ardization (ISO) raise the bar with a revi2015 version of the management system issues like water and food waste manOutpatient Clinics. The DIAS set of standbeing awarded ‘Centres of Excellence’ sustainably. We plan to grow our product sion of its management system standards. standards. agement. ards integrates requirements for staff and certiicates, with many more in the process assurance business and supply chain manThe expected 2015 versions of ISO 9001 Coupled with this, we continued to autoThe increased complexity and globalipatient safety and quality of care with the of obtaining the same. The programme uses agement offering, through both organic (quality management system) and ISO mate data collection for core services to zation lead to a transformation from ISO 9001 quality principles and framework. a risk-based safety management approach and non-organic means. 14001 (environmental management improve service quality and enable analy‘food chains’ to ‘food webs’. Coupled system) will include requirements for sis of the data collected. This will allow us with this complexity are industry players’ companies to understand the context of to provide accurate benchmarks to our decisions to shift production to different FIGURE 04 SURVEY – SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLY CHAINS OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 their organization, stakeholder demands customers. locations. The result is increased demand and their most critical risks, also referred Certiication to ISO management system for assurance in the logistics segment. to as materiality. standards continued to increase worldwide. This trend is relected in an growing ASC accreditation Revenues from our management system number of certiications against speciic In 2014, we conducted a survey among 2,061 professionals from companies DNV GL was accredited to certify salmon certiication services grew by 6% last year. segment protocols. across different industries worldwide. We asked them to rate what they see farms according to the Aquaculture Stew92,250 In order to support further global growth DNV GL continues to be a main player as the main characteristics of a sustainable supply chain: ardship Council (ASC) Salmon Standard, and reach new markets, we expanded our in the food and beverage sector and grew which communicates an environmentally e-learning offer in 2014. This forms part of this business by 18% in 2014, in line with friendly and socially responsible produc55.6% 42.8% our training services related to managethe previous year’s strong growth igures. tion of seafood. ment system certiication. Going forward, we plan to continue to Management Systems expand into new geographical markets LOW ENVIRSTRONG Growing community PRODUCT ASSURANCE. The expansion of and to broaden our service portfolio with ONMENTAL FINANCIAL and Product Certiication The ViewPoint Community, comprised of IMPACT MANAGEcertiicates issued by product compliance into product sustainathe objective of helping our customers MENT DNV GL – Business Assurance customers, DNV GL . bility has long been a fact. A more recent to raise the bar in safety and sustainability was established to share insight, knowledge trend is the integration of management internally and with their suppliers. and foresight on topics that impact our systems to support product sustainability. We also continue to engage with NGOs customers’ operations, sustainable busiAlthough management system certiicaand other stakeholders to help achieve ness performance and stakeholder trust. tion accounts for the vast majority of revea world with safe and sustainable food. After two years, the community comprises nues generated by Business Assurance, more than 8,000 active members globally, A SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. it is a strategic priority to grow our prorepresenting companies of different sizes 10,400 Anticipating the changes to the ISO standduct assurance services. Revenues from ards, we evolved our service portfolio to include new and enhanced services. our product certiication portfolio grew by 6.9% last year. 50.6%HEALTH 28.6% ETHICS and in different industries. Our proprietary methodology for how & SAFETY Best verification company AT WORK we deliver management system certiicaTARGETING THE FOOD AND BEVERAGE DNV GL was ranked as the ‘best veriication tion, Next Generation Risk Based CertiINDUSTRY. Food safety and responsible food and beverage company’ in the Environmental Finance ication, became fully operational. All sourcing are still at the top of the agenda companies worldwide magazine’s 2014 survey, continuing our our auditors have been trained to apply for the food and beverage sector. Howcertiied by DNV GL . leadership position in the worldwide market the new methodology when performing ever, consumers are demanding increased for voluntary carbon offset projects and tradaudits of customers’ management systems. transparency and trust in the supply chain ing of carbon emissions credits. We also The new service provides more business in addition to focusing on the way the earned top honours in the 2013 survey. insight to our customers while verifying industry contributes to tackling global compliance against the chosen standard. risks. The sector is taking more action 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 43 2 FOCUS ON SOFTWARE AND MARINE CYBERNETICS BUILDING TRUST Paciic Basin – owner of the world’s largest Computer control systems run complex 10,000 Handysize leet – also adopted ShipManager software that must be tested to ensure their for 100 ships. In the offshore oil and gas safety and performance for the full enveWITH INTEGRATED sector, our great reputation and good collaboration secured a substantial deal with Eni E&P Italy to extend the use of our softlope of operation. Marine Cybernetics uses a test technology (Hardware-in-the-Loop) that was well established as best practice ware solutions (Sesam, Phast and Maros) in the automotive, avionics and aerospace indings from our HardwareSOFTWARE in different departments and its associated company Tecnomare. In the onshore gas sector, Synergi Gas industries before being introduced to the maritime and offshore industry by Marine Cybernetics’ founders in 2002. in-the-Loop (HIL) testing to date. AND TESTING had a breakthrough in the Chinese urban gas pipeline market with Changchun Gas, the largest urban gas pipeline operator in HARDWARE-IN-THE-LOOP TESTING. Last year, Marine Cybernetics successfully completed Jilin province. Changchun Gas has approxithe irst-ever third-party Hardware-in-themately 900,000 customers and 3 million Loop (HIL) test of a Managed Pressure Our software solutions help our customers in the maritime, oil and gas, end-users. In the petrochemicals sector, Drilling (MPD) control system. The test was energy and healthcare sectors to ensure compliance and enable more Ineos, one of Europe’s principal petroconducted at the main ofice in Trondheim OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 eficient and safer operations. Testing of control software was added chemical producers, has chosen Synergi for Statoil and AGR Enhanced Drilling. as a new capability through the acquisition of Marine Cybernetics. Plant to help safeguard the integrity of its This test is a part of Statoil’s technology assets and installations. qualiication of EC-DRILL , developed by 150 customer project references AGR Enhanced Drilling to enable effective Marine Cybernetics achieved 150 drilling of depleted reservoirs and narrow customer project references relating 18% pressure windows. to control-software testing for both vessels and offshore rigs. SUCCESS IN NEW MARKET. 2014 also saw Marine Cybernetics sign its irst contract for delivery of Hardware-in-the-Loop (HIL) Improved customer satisfaction testing to a total of six mobile drilling unit Since 2012, we have measured customer growth in revenue in 2014 from our software solutions. newbuilds to be hired by Petrobras in Brazil. satisfaction in yearly surveys. The overall Marine Cybernetics has for many years customer satisfaction score increased and downstream process plants and offDNV GL’s software solutions are important actively worked to enter this market, from 69 in 2013 to 73 in 2014. The critical SOFTWARE shore platforms worldwide. By combining tools for delivering other DNV GL services, threshold for acceptable customer and this marks an important milestone. O the best of these two solutions, a new including classiication and advisory services Petrobras has now introduced a requiresatisfaction is 70 or above. ur wide range of software soluSynergi Plant software was launched. for the maritime and offshore industries. ment for independent testing of software tions enables our customers One of the successes in the maritime and control systems on all newly-built to manage risk, demonstrate 18% REVENUE GROWTH. Despite operating sector in 2014 was when Maersk Line – the drilling rigs to be operated in Brazil. compliance with regulatory in challenging markets, DNV GL – Software world’s largest container shipping comrequirements, improve their return on achieved 18% revenue growth in 2014. pany – made a decision to replace multiple MARINE CYBERNETICS assets and achieve operational eficiency External customers accounted for 84% of in-house applications with DNV GL’s ShipM Our software supports the and business optimization. All in a safe the revenue, while sales to other DNV GL Manager software on board 250 vessels. arine Cybernetics ensures maritime, oil and gas and electric and sustainable way. entities accounted for the remaining 16%. the proper testing of control power sectors to enable more systems by verifying correct eficient and safer operations. SUCCESSFUL INTEGRATION OF PRODUCTS. functionality and robustness REVENUE: SOFTWARE’S SHARE OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES: SOFTWARE’S SHARE OF TOTAL The merger of DNV and GL brought according to rules and regulations, functiontogether two leading software houses and al descriptions, user manuals and intended combined their technical know-how and use. As an independent test provider, one domain expertise. Our vision is to be the of our key roles is to facilitate dialogue, global leader in enterprise software used cooperation and problem solving between for managing operational risk and perforall parties involved as well as integration mance. Both legacy DNV and legacy GL testing across a number of vendors. had numerous software solutions, some of which were complementary. While much integration work remains, 783 726 STATE-OF-THE-ART TESTING TECHNOLOGY. In May 2014, Marine Cybernetics became NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES several software solutions were integrated part of DNV GL, enhancing our capabilities or discontinued in 2014. One such example for independent software testing and veriwas the integration of GL’s Galiom product ication. At the heart of modern vessels for managing asset integrity risk with DNV ’s and rigs lies sophisticated automation legacy software, Synergi Plant, which has systems that are critical for the eficiency been used by operators of both up-stream of regular operations and the handling of emergency and off-design situations. 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 45 2 FOCUS ON RESEARCH & INNOVATION INNOVATING FOR How will the Internet at sea impact JOINT INDUSTRY PROJECTS: THE VALUE 100+ shipping and classiication? OF CO-CREATION. The great number and How can we apply sensor technology range of our joint industry projects (JIPs) A SAFE AND and new materials performance to ensure safe and eficient operations? enable us to drive market-relevant innovation initiatives in close cooperation with industry partners. These projects and our On the theme of climate change, our overability, helped by our independent stance, SUSTAINABLE arching research question concerns how to promote a transformation to a low-carbon future, build resilience and support adapWe had more than 100 ongoing joint industry project initiatives in 2014, in which we drove will drive innovation across industries to pursue new technology standards and practices. In the oil and gas industry alone, innovation in collaboration FUTURE tation to a changing climate. We believe that a safe and sustainable future is technically possible, in both the with other industry players. we run more JIPs (over 40 at any one time in 2014) than ever, with a common thread of standardization and eficiency running shortand long-term. Whether or not we through most of these collaborative efforts. achieve it depends not just on the technolOur experts tend to ind working on JIPs We thrive when our customers expect us to provide them with safer, greener ogies themselves, but also on how effectivesharing of knowledge across disciplines. engaging, as do their counterparts in partand smarter operations. We feel a special responsibility to develop broad ly we are able to introduce them at scale, We have two main programmes to achieve ner companies. There is never a shortage and deep insights into the technical and operational challenges facing manage the risks they pose and catalyse these goals. The irst is an educational proof ideas for new projects and we apply a our current and future customers and their industries. We do this through trust, in a way that generates economic, gramme we run with UC Berkeley called rigorous process to select and market-test social and environmental value. ‘Top Tech’, which sees 36 of our key techideas to prioritize investment in those with an unwavering and passionate commitment to research and innovation. the highest industry impact. Our research programmes that have been nical employees attend the university’s active throughout 2014 include: Maritime courses on cutting-edge aspects of techTransportation; Information Technology; nology and the business environment each Oil & Gas; Materials; Healthcare; Power & year. Altogether, we have had over 250 OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 Electriication; Climate Change (including Top Tech ‘graduates’ in DNV GL over the Low Carbon Future) and Foresight. The last seven years. Findings from our research programmes. Arctic programme, which has long been The other formal programme, dubbed New position papers were published by A part of our strategic research portfolio, ‘Technology Leadership’, sponsors a our Strategic Research & Innovation unit lmost all the industries we Athens, Columbus, Hamburg, Houston, was moved to the Oil & Gas business series of in-house networks of the most on: Next generation energy management; 200 serve are caught in the viceLondon, Milan, Oslo and Singapore – with area at the end of 2014 – an excellent talented and knowledgeable experts in Beyond condition monitoring in the like grip of lower revenues due each centre focused on globally-relevant example of how research and innovation our company who collaborate to ensure maritime industry; Additive manufacturto slower economic growth on solutions, standards and practices to drive knowledge is built up and then integrated that we stay at the forefront in selected ing – a materials perspective; Integrated the one hand, and rising costs and technoindustry transformation. into our operations. core disciplines. In 2014, in addition to the multiscale modelling of materials; Creating logical complexity in their operations on the Over and above our ongoing investment existing seven programmes, three techvalue from subsea processing; Reliability other. Consequently, some of our customin research and innovation, we have an TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP. As a knowledge nology leadership networks were added: of future power grids; and Mixed methods: ers have reduced their R&D and technical ambitious programme of capital investment MILLION NOK -driven company, we actively nurture and Gas Value Chain, Future Management improving the assessment of safety support budgets recently, despite the in our network of high-tech laboratories develop the competence of our people Systems and Future Transmission & culture in hospitals. The approximate amount urgent need for innovation. dedicated to testing, inspection and certiand formally encourage curiosity and the Distribution System Integration. we invested in long-term We will, however, continue to invest ication. In March 2014, we opened a new strategic research in 2014. Extraordinary innovation. Each year, more than 5% of the annual revenue of world-class front-end testing and failure our CEO initiates Extraordinary Innovation our much larger post-merger revenue investigation laboratory in Singapore. ReVolt – taking current technology Programmes that allow international proin research and innovation, including at Civil construction work on the EUR 70 to the extreme, we developed and ject teams to sketch out new ideas for comleast one per cent in long-term strategic million upgrade to our already worldunveiled a revolutionary concept for mercialization within a two-year horizon. research. This investment is split across leading High Power Laboratory in Arnhem STRATEGIC RESEARCH. Within our Strategic an unmanned, zero-emission short-sea The 2014 programmes introduced ideas our strong hubs of expertise in Arnhem, began in December 2013 and delivery of Research & Innovation group, our primary vessel. The ‘ReVolt’ generated unprecedented industry and press interest. for: clean and economic re-use of associthe various new electrical components focus is on new knowledge and technology ated gas currently lared in oil production started in mid-2014. areas that have a long-term effect on both ields; a futuristic FLNG, the ‘Solitude’; 5% We believe our global approach, high the industries we serve and our own work power frequency optimization for offshore research and innovation intensity and and core services. Two broad themes wind-farms; and a win-win business case investment in our laboratories are crucial to characterize our strategic research agenda: for powering offshore oil installations prepare both ourselves and our customers climate and energy mix changes, and connecwith offshore wind. for an increasingly complex and uncertain tivity and big data. Several high-level quesfuture. tions arise from these themes. For example, Challenges related to a changing climate a number of our programmes explore the Strategic partnership. In August, the Each year, we invest approximately 5% of the Group’s and energy mix will affect all of us, irrespecimpact of connectivity on our main industries United Nations Environmental Programme annual revenues in research tive of business location. The same is true by seeking answers to questions such as: (UNEP) and DNV GL entered into a strategic and innovation. of technology-related changes, which are partnership through the Climate Technoltaking place at an accelerating pace and How can better data analytics and ogy Centre & Network to improve access are inluenced by rapid advances in sensor modelling improve performance and to climate-change mitigation and adaptatechnologies and data analytics. make operations safer? tion technologies in developing countries. 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 47 3 HOW WE WORK The main way in which we try to achieve our vision of making a global impact for a safe and sustainable future is through the services we offer. In addition, we have a responsibility to ensure that we adopt best practices in the way we run our business; from the way we manage our key stakeholders to the actions we take to reduce our impact on the environment. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 49 3 FOCUS ON CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY OPENING UP FIGURE 02 DNV GL SUSTAINABILITY MATERIALITY MATRIX MANAGING KEY IMPACTS. To better understand where we have the greatA WORLD OF – Economic contribution – Employee competence – Diversity and engagement est impact on sustainability and – Recruitment and retention where we may be exposed to risk, – HSE & employee wellbeing MATERIALITY RATING ACCORDING TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS we conducted an extensive materiality HIGH – Business ethics and anti-corruption assessment of legacy DNV in 2013, OPPORTUNITIES – Value chain management Privacy and security – Service value & innovation – Impact of services and updated the information based on similar yet minor assessment of legacy GL in 2014. The assessment involved more than 50 internal and external stakeholders through in– GHG emissions depth interviews, surveys and workHIGH MATERIALITY – Waste management shops. The results from the assess– Partnerships & social investments ments were combined into the DNV MEDIUM FIGURE 01 FROM VISION TO IMPACT – Tax contribution GL Sustainability Materiality Matrix Persistently remaining at the fore(shown here). The highest priority, front of knowledge and innovation for both what we do and what we report on, has been placed on the enables us to take a leading role issues identiied as being of high in the markets we are in, remain importance to both internal and flexible and adapt to changing external stakeholders. circumstances. It also enables us WHAT WE DO – Water & biodiversity – Use of natural resources FOR OUR – Use of private security forces to see new opportunities – not only – Political contributions CUSTOMERS For more details on the materiality to strengthen our own business, & lobbying assessment process and how we – Impact on local communities but also to improve our impact LOW – Customer health and safety engage our stakeholders: on society and the environment. – Product and service dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/ packaging & labelling As an organization spending how-we-report/index.html every day providing advice to others, we aim to practice the GLOBAL IMPACT FOR A SAFE AND LOW MEDIUM HIGH highest possible standards in SUSTAINABLE our own operations. FUTURE MATERIALITY RATING ACCORDING TO DNV GL STAKEHOLDERS WHAT WE DO WHAT WE DO Our progress is reported under WITH OUR OURSELVES the following areas: PARTNERS Business ethics and anti-corruption People FIGURE 03 2013–2014 DNV GL GROUP CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME AND TACTICAL PRIORITIES Health and safety Environment W hereas our greatest impact to provide long-term value in inancial, The DNV GL Corporate Sustainability on sustainability is through ethical, social and environmental terms. Board reports to the CEO, oversees the services we provide to sustainability performance across the customers, we work conSTRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE. DNV GL’s business and monitors progress towards stantly to improve our own performance Corporate Strategy outlines our commitour objectives. In 2014, the Board was BUSINESS ETHICS & HUMAN & VALUE CHAIN PARTNERSHIPS COMMUNICATIONS to ensure that we operate ethically, responment to corporate sustainability, and this reconigured to ensure top management ANTI-CORRUPTION LABOUR RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT & ENGAGEMENT & REPORTING sibly and sustainably; from the way we is translated into concrete and measurable representation from the four Business advance a culture of integrity and ethics in projects and activities to be implemented Areas in addition to key Group functions Corporate Integrity profile SHE monitoring Energy efficiency Supply chain review Review of partnerships GRI A+ reporting our business relations to the way in which across the company in the Tactical Plan on and one employee representative. Dealing with dilemmas & reporting Climate emissions Customer risk review Continuation of existing Sustainability place we safeguard the health and well-being Corporate Sustainability. While the responThe Board met twice in 2014. Reporting of misconduct SHE awareness & training reductions partnerships Communications of our employees, the actions we take to sibility for our sustainability performance Country risk assessment Occupational health Waste management & outreach reduce our impact on the environment and lies with the Board of Directors and the Governing documents Emergency preparedness Employee initiatives For more information on how we govern Employee engagement the way we partner with organizations to Executive Committee, responsibility for our sustainability performance: CR competence advance broader sustainable-development implementation lies with the individual dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/ Diversity objectives. Through all our actions, we seek operating companies and units. how-we-govern/index.html Data security 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 51 3 FOCUS ON CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING FROM BUSINESS AREAS SIX PROJECTS EXPLORING THE FUTURE. The NEXT – A SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE FUTURE. GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY NETWORK AND world around us is changing dramatically: A collection of interviews with inspiring REPORT. Launched in 2014, the Global The natural environment is deteriorating, sustainability leaders from business, governOpportunity Network is a joint collaboraeconomies are stagnating and societies ment and civil society makes up the coffee tion between DNV GL , the United Nations are in turmoil. table book NEXT, launched in April 2014. Global Compact and the Scandinavian thinkWe looked at six areas where we believe we We asked: What is a safe and sustainable tank Monday Morning. The aim is to facilitate can make a difference globally by delineatfuture? And what does the world need to a new mindset. ing our vision for a more sustainable future. do today to change course? The book has More than 200 experts on ive continents Six reports were presented at a number been distributed in over 17,000 copies attended eight Opportunity Panels to disof events throughout 2014. worldwide, including a version in Chinese. cuss the opportunities that emerge from the See page 24 and our website for more ive greatest sustainability risks the world is information on the six projects and NEXT. currently facing. Their insights were tested against the opinions of 5,000 private and pubENGAGING EXPERTS ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY lic sector leaders through an online survey. CHALLENGES. For the second year in a row, DNV GL convened a high-level roundtable The output was presented in a Global Opportunity Report, launched in January 2015. MARITIME OIL & GAS ENERGY BUSINESS with leading international sustainability Visit globalopportunitynetwork.org for ASSURANCE experts from business, government, civil more information. society and academia. The two-day event entitled ‘The Road Less Travelled: Pathways STEPPING UP OUR REPORTING. In order to to Transformation’ aimed at developing a build trust among our stakeholders, DNV GL’s The Maritime business area has The oil and gas industry has the Shale gas in the US, cheap Building on a platform of concrete strategy for change towards a Executive Committee decided that we shall focused on ‘Environment’ and opportunity to play an imporcoal in Europe, geo-political ‘Sustainability in Everything A BROADER VIEW more sustainable regenerative economy. become a best in class sustainability reporter the principles 8 and 9 of the tant role in a sustainable energy and national uncertainties put We do’, we work every day A SAFE AND in accordance with the Global Reporting UN Global Compact. In 2014, portfolio. We engage with the pressure on the global investto build and offer a service SUSTAINABLE FUTURE: BUILDING A CULTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY Initiative (GRI) ‘Comprehensive’ level. A major we have continued to develop industry to define short term ment in renewable energy portfolio of certification, ENABLING THE AND ETHICS. A project was launched to upeffort has taken place throughout 2014 to and promote services related concrete measures of energy sources in 2014 jeopardizing verification, assessment and TRANSITION date our ethics training programme focused prepare the organization for the additional to fuel efficiency for ships. efficiency, use of renewables a fast transition towards a training services that help SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER on creating a common understanding of reporting requirements. Visit the Corpoand reduced emissions from, low carbon economy. companies build sustainable what sustainability is for DNV GL, along with rate Sustainability section of our website The services span from fuelfor example, gas flaring. business performance. raising important dilemmas that employees at dnvgl.com/sustainability for more eficient design of hull and Through its expertise and might face in their daily work. information. machinery to operational In addition to developing stanservices in wind, solar, energy In 2014, we implemented measures like trim optimization, dards and best practices, we storage, power grids and energy the evolution of Risk Based weather routing, optimal speed provide foresight in long-term eficiency, DNV GL actively conCertiication™, our proprieand optimization of the fuel technology and policy develtributes to a cleaner, affordable tary audit methodology for consumption of machinery. opments, needed to enhance and reliable energy system, it management system certiiGROUP PERFORMANCE We have also continued to the sector’s environmental for future generations. cation. Next Generation Risk promote LNG as fuel for ships performance. To further drive sustainability Based Certiication helps as an intermediate solution We also reinforce our commitinternally, HSE audits and awarecompanies use their manSAFETY DIVERSITY CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING before more climate-friendly ment to responsible industry ness activities for health and agement systems to operate 30% 22% 1200 energy sources are made availpractice by ensuring a transsafety were conducted, contributmore sustainably by taking able. We have provided both parent and non-discriminaing to increased HSE consciousstakeholder expectations foresight and insight reports tory approach to recruitment. ness among management and into account and expanding on energy sources like use of All vacant positions are clearly employees. their scope of risk to include electric power from batteries deined within a common Preparations started for external inluences. decrease in lost time accidents of managers in DNV GL are people completed training in antias well as biofuels to customers recruitment tool securing that new Energy headquarters in a Recent assurance service compared to 2013, down to female, while the proporcorruption in 2014, representing 1.4 per million hours worked. tion of female employees 67% of new employees. and other stakeholders like our adherence to UN principles BREEAM certiied building to be developments address water was 31% at year end. authorities in different counis implemented consistently opened in 2015. We increased and supply chain management. tries. across the world. external promotion of sustainaWe also actively engage We promote environmentalWe also kept business combility practices through David in standards development, friendly behaviour in our empliance in sharp focus. During Walker’s participation in the partnerships to drive improvePEOPLE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RESULTS SIX STRATEGIC PROJECTS FOR THE FUTURE SIX-WORD CHALLENGE ployee base by supporting use 2014, a number of cases with Energy Board of the WBCSD. ment and share knowledge 13 500 14 000 1225 of public transport, for example potential grey zones and areas Community engagement has around how businesses can the use of trains where possible of dificulty as to corruption been put on the agenda through work to build sustainable instead of lying. We have enviwere discussed, reviewed and an agreement with the Netherbusiness performance. We ronment-related targets and concluded on senior managelands Red Cross. have an obligation and strong accounting systems, especially ment level. An online training commitment to build knowpeople, of our almost 16,000 employees, people were presented with key findings, people though about what our vision for energy usage in ofices and module on this topic will be ledge and contribute to soluresponded that ‘DNV GL’s Purpose, including highlights of our roadmap ‘a safe and sustainable future’ means for control and reduction of all launched to all employees tions that can help companies Vision and Values are important to me’. to a safe and sustainable future. them as we challenged them to formulate their own version in just six words. They were kinds of waste. in 2015. operate more sustainably. collected at events and on social media. 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 53 3 FOCUS ON BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION BUILDING A CULTURE 1 2 3 4 OF INTEGRITY OUR AMBITIONS WHAT WE SAID WE WOULD DO WHERE WE ARE TODAY (RESULTS) WHAT WE PLAN TO DO NEXT (GOALS, PLANS, TARGETS FOR 2015) ‘We never compromise on quality or integrity’ is one of our values and our leading principle for fostering a common culture of integrity across all operations. We want to ensure that our Improve the job description New compliance programme Prepare regional instructions For this reason, DNV GL has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption and value ‘We never compromise for investigators and clarify who set up. and guidelines. on quality or integrity’ to report to in cases of fraud unethical behaviour for all employees, subcontractors and agents. is adhered to wherever and corruption. All key instructions are improve the risk management we do business. in place. process related to fraud and Develop and implement a corruption risks. deployment plan to improve Extensive communication new and existing employees’ to reach everyone in DNV GL. Strengthen the compliance understanding of fraud and network and increase communiRolled out training modules cation measures. corruption risks. 1 and 2 on Code of Conduct, Incorporate compliance, Anti-Corruption and Anti-Trust. Introduce express learning fraud and corruption factors modules on specific topics, such A review of fraud and coras reporting of misconduct. in business reviews. ruption risks has been included HIGHLIGHTS Develop a fraud and corrupin the regular risk process through Initiate an annual management tion case register. adding a separate risk category review of the compliance profor bribery and fraud in our gramme in order to evaluate the Review external corporate company risk tool. effectiveness of the managegovernance requirements. ment approach. LAUNCH OF NEW COMPLIANCE to carry out their duties in an ethical and situations and how to deal with them. PROGRAMME. Our new compliance proresponsible manner. This training will help Both modules include sections on the Review ‘most corrupt countries’. Develop audit questions on gramme is based on the criteria of the new them recognize the importance of the process of reporting misconduct. compliance with the Internal Evaluate access to information. ISO standard 19600 for the establishment topics addressed in the Code of Conduct Audit. of an effective and responsive compliance and acknowledge their personal responsiFINALIZATION OF KEY GOVERNING Develop fraud and corruption Communicate on integrity management system. The programme bility to follow it. The employees are trained DOCUMENTS. In 2014, we inalized all training for controllers. to business partners. is based on the action areas prevention, to make the right decisions in ethical and key governing documents related to detection and reaction. compliance matters. They also have to compliance. In addition to the compliconirm that they have read and underance policy, they included instructions ESTABLISHMENT OF E-LEARNING stood the Code of Conduct. on anti-corruption; the acceptance or MODULES. Two e-learning modules were The second training module provides granting of gifts, entertainments, travel developed and launched in 2014. One insight into the deinition of corruption and or other beneits; anti-trust; and reporttraining module was based on the new anti-trust, so that our employees are aware ing of misconduct. Code of Conduct to enable our employees of possible risks, how to identify critical WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT? 67% 32 10 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE performance 3) build trust amongst our employees, – MATERIAL ASPECTS COVERED: customers and other key stakeholders. We have defined compliance as impeccable legal Anti-corruption and ethical conduct by all employees in their daily Anti-competitive behaviour work. We do not tolerate any violation of applicable of new employees completed compliance cases were risks related to fraud and Customer privacy laws, our Code of Conduct or internal regulations. the anti-corruption and anti-trust reported in 2014. corruption were identified To help our managers to meet this responsibility, training. as part of our regular risk Our policy is to be compliant with all applicable a compliance programme has been set up, focusing management process. laws, including anti-corruption and privacy on integrity in business dealings, anti-corruption, legislation at all times in order to: 1) mitigate commitment to fair competition, upholding of identified business risks 2) improve business trade laws and privacy law. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 55 3 FOCUS ON BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION G overning documents: in addition RISK ASSESSMENT TO IDENTIFY FRAUD all governing body members, which are to developing key global instrucAT DNV GL WE STRIVE AND CORRUPTION. The identiication the Board of Directors, the Board Audit CASE tions, we started to develop and assessment of fraud and corruption Committee and the Executive Committee. TO TAKE BUSINESS additional measures at local risks was facilitated within the regular risk The Executive Leadership Teams in all ETHICS FROM LEARNED and regional level in 2014. The Code of management process. Our risk managebusiness areas, the global top 100+ manConduct was also translated for those BEHAVIOR TO HABIT, AND ment tool included 10 identiied risks agers and the Country Chairs (representcountries where legal requirements make LET THIS HABIT BECOME related to fraud and corruption. Business ing all countries DNV GL operates in) it necessary. OUR SECOND NATURE. Assurance identiied two risks, Oil & Gas have also all received training. A irst local guideline on the handling three, Energy two, Global Shared Services We established worldwide compliance of gifts in Greater China was implemented one, and Maritime two risks in relation networks, consisting of all Country Chairs and further regional guidelines will be to fraud and corruption. and business-nominated employees. developed in 2015. THOMAS VOGTH-ERIKSEN The existing risk management process Their role is to actively raise awareness The existing global instructions on purCFO was modiied to achieve a higher level of of compliance issues in their respective chasing and subcontracting were reviewed, transparency. In addition, we started to countries and to help communicate the taking the speciic needs of the operation identify countries with a high risk of fraud compliance programme. into account. The revised versions will be to attend the classroom training ‘We in and corruption. The countries were ranked All Country Chairs were introduced to published in early 2015. Communication DNV GL’ as part of their onboarding proby revenue and their score in Transparency the programme. measures relating to business partners gramme. This course includes an introInternational´s corruption perception index. will then be initiated. duction to the compliance programme. This process will be inalized in the irst REPORTING ON INCIDENTS. We adjusted The new e-learning modules will become half of 2015. the instructions on the reporting of misTRAINING. Since employees in legacy mandatory for all employees in DNV GL In the light of the above, we reviewed conduct in regard to the new compliance DNV and legacy GL had received extensive in 2015. the recruitment process as to the need programme and the new organizational training through mandatory e-learning Several additional training sessions refor background checks of candidates set-up. This was done to clearly show which modules on the Code of Conduct and antilating to the compliance programme and using a sanctions-check tool for high-risk cases have to be reported through the corruption, the new training modules on anti-corruption were held for line managecountries. designated channels. The cases are iled in the Code of Conduct and anti-corruption / ment teams across business areas in Dubai, a case register and reported to the Board anti-trust were made mandatory for new Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Shanghai. FOCUS ON COMMUNICATION. We believe of Directors (Audit Committee) and the THE FIRST YEAR OF A employees only. The training has to be The line managers were instructed to that communication is key to establishing Group CEO. In order to ensure the anonycompleted within the irst six months cascade the information to their staff. a successful compliance programme which mous reporting of incidents or concerns, COMMON COMPLIANCE after joining DNV GL. In 2014, the compliance programme was is endorsed by everyone in DNV GL. This we set up a helpline and appointed PROGRAMME The statistics in table 01 also include on the agenda at some Country Chair communication must be channelled through internal and external Ombudsmen. those employees who joined the company meetings where all business areas were the top management and line manageFurthermore, we implemented a process in the second half of 2014 and were thererepresented. This will continue in 2015. ment in order to show their commitment to to handle investigations and the roles and fore not obliged to inalize the training A separate workshop took place with the our programme. The Compliance Oficer responsibilities of internal and external until the end of the year. Global Shared Services team focusing presented the compliance programme resources. We also introduced a case It is also mandatory for new employees on areas related to HR, IT and Finance. to, and discussed the programme with, report template for use by line managers to ensure the proper handling and iling INTERVIEW WITH GESA HEINACHER-LINDEMANN, GROUP COMPLIANCE OFFICER of cases. There were no conirmed TABLE 01 COMPLETION RATES OF MODULE 1 AND MODULE 2 TABLE 02 COMPLIANCE CASES incidents of corruption in 2014. PER BUSINESS AREA OF ALL NEW EMPLOYEES IN 2014 WHAT ARE THE BENEFITS OF A NEW But we must also live our values, and COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME FOR DNV GL? that starts by recruiting the right people Code of Conduct Anti-corruption & New cases It combines the best of both legacy organcourse anti-trust training Case type in 2014 DOING THE with the right mindset. And then we izations. It relects the latest developments need to keep up our communication RIGHT THING Business Assurance 48% 46% Labour related* 6 in how a compliance programme has to efforts. We can never communicate GOES BEYOND COMbe set-up. The discussions we have had this enough. Energy 76% 72% Allegations 18 PLYING WITH LAWS in workshops and classroom training about AND REGULATIONS. a common integrity level will help us obtain WHAT ARE THE CHALLENGES? Maritime 82% 83% Data Protection 1 a common understanding of ethical Establishing a common integrity culture Oil & Gas 70% 67% Ethical helpline 1 behaviour within our organization. while addressing the different aspects of our different cultures is, of course, Software 77% 73% Others 6 HOW DO WE BEST GET OUR PEOPLE TO a challenge. The culture, values and HENRIK O. MADSEN PRESIDENT & CEO CARE ABOUT ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR AND ways to behave differ from country to Global Shared Services 57% 53% Total 32 COMPLIANCE? country, but all this needs to be at a level Group functions 67% 56% Experience shows that the background that we are comfortable with. The cultural * Five of the labour-law cases were closed in 2014. None of and beneit of a compliance programme aspects are very important to me and the reported cases were related to discrimination or sexual Grand total 70% 67% harassment. Furthermore, two cases from previous periods For more info on our code of conduct is manifold. It is very effective to have alignment with local needs is both fasciwere ongoing in 2014. One of them was resolved. and ethics policies: a direct dialogue in workshops and classnating and challenging. I very much Completion rate considers new employees in DNV GL in 2014. That includes employees who are not yet obliged to undergo the training due to a six-month completion time frame. dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/ room training and to use dilemma trainappreciate the discussions I have with anti-corruption/index.html ing and realistic cases and scenarios. employees on these aspects. 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 57 3 FOCUS ON PEOPLE INTEGRATING PEOPLE THROUGH COMMON 1 2 3 4 PROCESSES OUR AMBITIONS WHAT WE SAID WE WOULD DO WHERE WE ARE TODAY WHAT WE PLAN TO DO NEXT (RESULTS) (GOALS, PLANS, TARGETS FOR 2015) As a knowledge company, we aim to develop the competence of our employees, safeguard their well-being and create a workplace that is attractive and challenging and where people are motivated to fulfil our Purpose and Vision and live our Values. With the closing of the Our strategic People goal is Harmonize compensation All countries, with the Strengthen the safety culture merger in September 2013, the continued integration of employees in DNV GL remained ‘to develop highly competent, and benefits according to exception of the Netherlands in DNV GL through the 2015 a priority in 2014. Employees were brought together through common systems, training, high performing and engaged group-wide principles to (scheduled for 1 April 2015) Safety Culture initiative. processes and offices to work towards achieving common business objectives. people who are committed to ensure that the composition and Germany (in progress), our Purpose, Vision and of compensation and benefits implemented harmonized Improve the quality of the Values’. is aligned across DNV GL. compensation and benefits performance management frameworks on 1 January process and dialogues. The HIGHLIGHTS A career in DNV GL should Implement the global career 2015. Group-wide HR Key Perfornot be hindered by age, model to facilitate employees’ mance Indicator is to improve nationality or gender if the competence development, The MIP process was comthe quality of key performance employee has the compeas well as transfers between pleted for 87% of employees management aspects by 3%. tence, attitude and values business areas, units, roles, in 2014, exceeding the Group IMPROVING PERFORMANCE. organization. Two-year-long and shortWhen the process is complete, DNV GL needed for the role. services and geographies. KPI of 80%. Continue to implement Good progress was made in terms of term exchanges for Maritime technical will have the industry’s densest global common HR processes: define implementing the managing individual employees were established between network, with 353 ofices in 90 countries. DNV GL strives to have a Implement the Managing 448 managers participated and align the succession manageperformance (MIP) process, the career Hamburg and Høvik. The ‘Knowledge consistent, transparent and Individual Performance (MIP) in one of the four ‘Journey’ ment process; roll out the model, and harmonized compensation Booster’ programme received extra STABLE EMPLOYEE NUMBERS. market-relevant compensation process and tool across the Leadership Development common salary adjustment and beneits across the DNV GL Group. funding to increase and stimulate There is no indication that employee turnand benefit framework that organization. programmes, almost twice and promotion process; and The MIP process was completed for 87% knowledge development and sharing over has increased or that exit reasons have supports the organization’s as many as in 2013. support the implementation of employees in 2014, exceeding the across units and geographies within Oil changed signiicantly as a consequence need for flexibility with Drive aligned leadership of workforce planning and target of 80%. Integration of employees & Gas and Maritime. We also established of the merger and integration process. respect to tasks, work location based on the Expectations flexibility. was also supported through internal a buddy programme to connect colleagues Overall voluntary turnover for the year and career opportunities. to Leaders. communication, common onboarding based on common areas of interest. was 7%. At the year-end, the total number training for new hires and common of permanent (class A) employees was leadership training for managers. OFFICE MERGERS. The merging of legacy 15,159. The largest countries in terms DNV and legacy GL ofices is progressing of number of permanent employees are FACILITATING KNOWLEDGE EXCHANGE. according to plan and was 83% complete by Norway (2,756), Germany (1,906), the US A number of exchange programmes were the year-end. The total number of ofices (1,839), the UK (1,441) and China (1,048). conducted to facilitate competence develhas been reduced by 139. A further 28 opment and knowledge sharing in the ofice mergers will take place in 2015. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT? 93% 119 17.2 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – MATERIAL ASPECTS COVERED: Our role as a supplier of services and source Employment of expertise relies upon the knowledge, Labour/management relations skills and attitudes of our people. Therefore, of employees say: nationalities are represented was the average number Training & education ‘DNV GL’s Purpose, Vision and among our employees, of hours of formal classroom our policies and processes must support Diversity & equal opportunity Values are important to me’. the largest nationality training per employee in 2014. the careers and development of highly Equal remuneration for women & men being Norwegians (14%). competent, high performing and engaged Non-discrimination people who are committed to our Purpose, Labour practices grievance mechanisms Vision and Values. 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 59 3 FOCUS ON PEOPLE T he past year was exciting and challenging for many of our TABLE 03 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER CASE employees. We celebrated the 150th anniversary of our company with customers, stakeholders and employInternal and external training Number of trained Total hours Average hours ees around the world. This was an excellent for DNV GL employees by gender employees opportunity to relect on our proud history, as well as to look ahead in terms of our role Female 1 951 36 400 18.66 in making our customers and industries External 333 5 162 15.50 safer, smarter and greener. We also achieved the milestone of the irst year of joint operaInternal 1 618 31 238 19.31 tions in DNV GL. The integration process continued to demand a high workload for Male 8 390 147 897 17.63 many parts of the organization. NevertheExternal 820 12 094 14.75 less, employee engagement remains high. Internal 7 570 135 803 17.94 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND ENABLEMENT. In 2014, our people were brought together through common systems, processes and tify aspects of the work environment that The ‘temperature check’ surveys that ofices to work towards achieving common should be addressed by management at were initiated with the announcement of business objectives. In addition, we estaball levels. In 2014, the People Engagement the merger were continued and followed GLOBAL PRINCIPLES lished a customized ‘buddy’ programme to Process was implemented for all employees up during the irst two-thirds of 2014 to – LOCAL IMPLEMENTATION connect employees from different legacy the DNV GL Group. The annual survey was assess employee perceptions of the mergorganizations based on their interests. conducted in September and 92.3% of er and merger-related communication. HARMONIZATION OF More than 3,500 user proiles have been employees gave their opinions on workIn general, the results were quite positive, COMPENSATION AND created in the programme. ing in the company. Approximately 1,900 relecting a strong commitment to make BENEFITS AROUND DNV GL continues to use the People reports were distributed to individual units the merger a success. Engagement Process to measure employee and management teams as a tool for idenTHE WORLD engagement and enablement and identifying issues in the work environment that DIVERSITY SOUGHT AFTER. DNV GL strives should be addressed. for the diversity of the workforce to Compared to survey company Hay Group’s be relected at all management levels. FIGURE 04 EMPLOYEES, LEVEL OF EDUCATION reference group of high-performing comThe proportion of female employees panies, DNV GL’s overall results are above was 31% at the year-end, and the proporaverage. The topics scoring most above tion of female managers is now 22% . other high performing companies relate We will continue to conduct mentoring to development opportunities. The two programmes and have senior managers A natural and important step in It is a key enabler for legal entities to merge. IMPLEMENTATION. All countries, with the individual questions with the most favourlocated outside of headquarters to gain establishing DNV GL is to implement It is a key element in building a common exception of the Netherlands (scheduled able responses were: ‘DNV GL’s Purpose, better knowledge of local communities common HR principles and processes. DNV GL culture. for 1 April 2015) and Germany (in progress), Vision and Values are important to me’ and employees. The make-up of the total By implementing a common frameimplemented the new compensation and (93% favourable); and the merger-related manager pool must show year-on-year work aligned with Group-wide princiDEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL HARMONIZAbeneits frameworks on 1 January 2015. question, ‘I am committed to working improvement towards relecting the comples in each country, we ensure that TION PLANS. Global principles, based on The group-wide principles are applied towards the future success of the DNV GL position of the DNV GL workforce. the compensation and benefits are our company Values and People Policy, were consistently in all countries, though the Group’ (91% favourable). aligned across DNV GL . established for aligning compensation and structure of allowances and beneits differs beneits. These were the basis for the based on local legislation and labour AREAS TO IMPROVE. The survey highharmonization in each country. markets. I’M VERY PLEASED TO SEE lighted some areas to improve, including THE ANNUAL ENGAGEMENT Subsequently, all compensation and beneensuring that employees understand the SURVEY’S POSITIVE RESULTS AND SUPPORTING INTEGRATION. The harmoniits data were collected and analysed to ind GLOBAL IMPLEMENTATION relationship between their individual goals, HIGH RESPONSE RATES THROUGHzation of the compensation and beneit differences between the legacy companies’ 99.6% unit goals and the overall DNV GL strategy, OUT THE ORGANIZATION. THIS IS framework is closely connected to other terms and conditions in each country. ESPECIALLY IMPRESSIVE CONSIDMaster 42% and that they receive regular feedback HR processes and is a vital part of the inteIn parallel, all legacy GL employees were ERING THE AMOUNT OF INTEGRAfrom their managers. To address this, there gration process for a number of reasons: assigned a grade and track in the DNV GL Bachelor 39% TION ACTIVITIES AND TOUGHER will be a Group-wide HR KPI in 2015 on MARKET CONDITIONS WE HAVE Career Model. Based on this analysis, Basic education 9% improving key performance management FACED DURING THE PAST YEAR. It removes barriers for employees harmonization scenarios were developed Doctorate 6% aspects by 3%. to take on new career opportunities to identify and document various roadmaps 70 countries, covering 99.6% of employees, More work will also be carried out to enwithin DNV GL. and establish a common compensation and have updated Personnel Administrative 2-year college 3% sure that all DNV GL staff have a clear lineCECILIE B. HEUCH It increases transparency and simplicity beneits framework in each country. Guidelines as a result of the compensation Technical / professional 1% of-sight between their personal goals and GROUP CHIEF HR OFFICER related to compensation and beneits. Next, harmonization plans were proposed and benefits harmonization. Approximately the Group strategy, starting with the sharIt signiicantly reduces the future for each country based on the assessment 10,000 employees will have an updated Sum: Bachelor, Master 87% ing of the new Group Strategy 2016–2020 administrative burden of handling of alternative scenarios. All plans and data total compensation package as a result with all employees once it is inalized in the different compensation and beneits were assessed and quality assured before of the harmonization. or PhD level degree summer of 2015. In addition, local managers For more info on our people policies: systems. the preparation of new individual total comare expected to take action on local issues dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/ pensation statements for those employees Education levels are largely captured through an employee self-service system. highlighted in the local survey results. people/index.html affected by the harmonization. 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 61 3 FOCUS ON HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGING OUR 1 OUR AMBITIONS 2 WHAT WE SAID 3WHERE WE 4 WHAT WE PLAN HEALTH AND SAFETY WE WOULD DO ARE TODAY (RESULTS) TO DO NEXT (GOALS, PLANS, TARGETS FOR 2015) PERFORMANCE DNV GL is committed to Define and implement a The common occupational health In 2015, the key focus is to managing and continually common occupational health and safety management system strengthen the overall safety improving its occupational and safety management system was ready in early 2014. Extensive culture across the entire organiTaking care of the health and safety of our people is a responsibility we take health and safety perforfor the merged DNV GL group. training in the HSE tools and zation. A global initiative has seriously. It is embedded in our values and in our purpose of safeguarding mance with the overall processes has been performed. been launched to start the goal of preventing injury Increase the number of process. life, property and the environment. In 2014, our greatest effort was to create and occupational disease. reported incidents and hazards 2,313 work-related incidents common management systems, processes and training to support this goal. per employee so we can look and hazards were reported for A successful implementation Develop and implement at trends and identify actions 2014, representing 0.15 reports of the initiative will result in a occupational health and safety to mitigate risks. per employee, an increase of 36% positive safety culture where all plans to deliver continual from 2013. This reporting ratio employees take responsibility improvement in HSE perforEnsure that all business areas is still considered to be too low. for their own and other people’s mance. in DNV GL set goals and implesafety and health and where ment actions to decrease their All business areas have contrithis is part of everyday work. Treat incidents and hazards lost time accident frequency. buted to the satisfactory decrease and feedback from employees in the Lost Time Accident Frequency. Alignment and re-design and customers as an important Implement the revised Two business areas have developed of the global HSE training portHIGHLIGHTS learning opportunity. DNV GL group crisis managepractical Personal Safety Handbooks. folio based on results from the ment procedures. A cross organizational project team safety culture initiative. has been established to develop common safety training modules Sustain the emergency for field and laboratory activities. preparedness level with the RECERTIFIED TO THE OHSAS 18001 APPLYING OUR OWN SOFTWARE. For POSITIVE ATTITUDE. The results of our continuation of crisis manageSTANDARD. Introducing a common occureporting and managing incidents and annual survey among employees reveal Crisis management plans and ment exercises. pational health and safety standard for hazards, we rolled out the software solution a positive attitude towards safety, and procedures have been developed the newly merged DNV GL group was a SynergiLife, developed by DNV GL – Software. 90% stated they had received adequate at country level. The group crisis key priority. Our main initiative in 2014 This includes the use of a mobile app for imsafety training and equipment. management team performed a was to establish a common occupational mediate reporting following an occurrence. total of 10 crisis exercises in 2014. health and safety management system. CRISIS MANAGEMENT TRAINING. DNV GL was recertiied to the OHSAS HSE TRAINING. Safety training for all new 10 crisis management exercises were 18001 standard by an external certiiemployees and three HSE culture-building conducted at group level, involving cation body. courses for managers and HSE professionall levels of the organization. als were conducted in 2014. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT? 1.4 lost time accidents per million 2.0 % was the total sickness absence 0.15 incidents and hazards were GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – MATERIAL ASPECTS COVERED: Occupational health and safety safety performance with the overall goals of preventing injury and occupational disease. With one-third of all our employees performing work at shipyards and vessels, factories, offshore rigs, wind turbines and other installations, we are exposed to health and safety hours worked. This is a decline rate in 2014, down from 2.1% reported per employee. Our employees are DNV GL’s most valuable risks across our operations worldwide. Stress of 30% compared to 2013. in 2013. This level is considered This is an increase of 36% asset, and health and safety performance is also a risk we encounter. acceptable. from 2013. is an essential measure of our duty of care. DNV GL has as its core business to enable We are committed to managing and continuits customers to improve safety. We must apply ally improving our occupational health and best practice in our own organization. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 63 3 FOCUS ON HEALTH AND SAFETY O ccupational health and safety 66% of the absence hours due to occupaIMPROVED TRAINING. The focus on HSE are high on DNV GL’s agenda. OUR WORK IS tional health issues were related to physical competence and awareness training conCASE In 2014, we established work environment conditions and 34% to tinued in 2014. All new employees are a common management and NEVER SO URGENT psychosocial work environment conditions. required to complete HSE induction trainreporting system. With many different OR IMPORTANT THAT ing within the irst two weeks of working reporting practices and systems from WE CANNOT TAKE INVOLVING EMPLOYEES. To ensure that for DNV GL. In addition, the business areas the legacy companies, this was in itself TIME TO DO IT SAFELY. employees’ opinions are heard, local occudevelop and maintain safety training to a major achievement. pational health and safety evaluations are ensure implementation of their safety held annually throughout the organization. instructions through adequate knowledge INCIDENTS AND HAZARDS. 2,313 workThe objective of these events is to improve of safe behaviour among ield workers. This related incidents and hazards were reportoccupational health and safety awareness safety training includes both theoretical and ed in 2014. This represents 0.15 reports through involving employees in identipractical modules as relevant. Three HSE per employee and is an increase of 36% SARAH GRØNDAHL fying occupational health and safety culture building courses for managers and HEAD OF GROUP HSE from 2013. Of the reported incidents and improvement initiatives. About 82% of HSE professionals were conducted in 2014. hazards, 35% were assessed as having employees participated in local health medium and high loss potential. There is and safety evaluations in 2014. IMPROVED CRISIS PREPAREDNESS. Followstill a need for increased awareness of how accident and one serious car accident, In addition, formal occupational health ing the review of the DNV GL crisis manageimportant reported incidents and hazards but is also affected by improved control and safety committees are established ment protocol and plan components in are for improving occupational health and of recording of the absence hours related in 16 countries, either as a consequence 2013, the members of the group crisis mansafety performance. Figure 05 shows how to accidents. The most common types of of local legal requirements or because the agement team participated in altogether incidents and hazards are distributed by lost time injuries were ‘fractured bones, usefulness of such committees has been 10 crisis exercises in 2014. DNV GL’s own work processes. sprains and strains’ (38%), and ‘bruises, identiied internally. At year end 2014, Emergency Response Service unit planned 157 occupational health issues were recontusions and cuts’ (34%). 54% of the workforce were represented and conducted these exercises and ensured ported in 2014. The most common causes in formal joint management-worker that interfaces with country level crisis were ‘overstrain, exertion or repetitive OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH ISSUES. The health and safety committees. teams were integrated in the exercise. strain’ (57%), and ‘exposure to too high or low temperatures, or inadequate lighting number of occupational health issues leading to absences was 1.0 per million A FATAL ACCIDENT AT DNV GL’S HEAD Teams from Chile, Singapore, Korea, Brazil and Germany participated in scenarios that THE RIGHT or air quality’ (15%). worked hours in 2014, the same as in 2013. There have been 384 days absences due OFFICE, HØVIK. On 11 August 2014, a fatal accident occurred at DNV GL’s head ofice. included hurricanes, helicopter crashes, tsunamis and ire on an oil rig. TO SAY ‘NO’ LOST TIME ACCIDENTS. Lost time accidents to occupational health issues. The number The injured person was an employee of per million worked hours decreased by of days absence due to occupational health an external company, and the accident 30% compared to 2013. There have been issues per million worked hours has inoccurred when two employees from the FIGURE 05 INCIDENTS AND HAZARDS WITH HIGH LOSS POTENTIAL 716 days of absences due to accidents. creased to 13.5 in 2014, up from 9.5 in 2013. company were to repair a broken roller gate. DISTRIBUTED ON WORK PROCESSES The Severity Accident Index increased The majority of the absence hours due The external company was contracted in by by 71% compared to 2013. This signiicant to occupational health issues were related Coor Service Management, a subcontractor increase is partly due to one serious HUET to ofice work (51%), surveys and inspecunder DNV Eiendom, which is responsible The backbone of DNV GL’s occuthe surveyor to attend when the vessel (Helicopter under water escape training) tions (21%), and travelling (17%). for all maintenance of the buildings at the pational health and safety manageentered the inner anchorage. When the Høvik headquarters. The formal investigation ment system is that all employees surveyor performed the survey at inner of the accident revealed that all the direct anchorage, the master told him that a are fully aware of their right to say TABLE 04 HEALTH AND SAFETY INCIDENTS STATISTICS causes of the accident were related to the welder who did board at the outer anchor‘No’ when they do not consider external company’s HSE management system. age broke his leg as the conditions were DNV GL has however investigated indirect the situation to be safe. challenging during the transfer. 20101 20111 20121 20131 2014 causes of the accident and how internal Fatal accidents 0 0 0 0 0 procedures could have reduced or elimiDuring an inclination test on a vessel, Lost Time Accidents (LTA) 39 32 30 38 41 nated the risk of the accident occurring. Our employees feel conident and empowinspection of all tanks and spaces was Important learnings are captured and will ered to stop work and to intervene when required to ensure they were empty. The Injury accidents 108 101 102 124 221 be implemented in our contractor safety they encounter inappropriate behaviour vessel’s crew opened all the manholes Occupational health issues, with absence 13 17 17 19 29 programme. or unacceptable working conditions. and within ive minutes the DNV GL surveyGeneral site visit 22% Every year there are several cases where ors were called to inspect inside the tanks. Near accidents 202 246 244 284 492 POSITIVE HEALTH AND SAFETY ATTITUDE. DNV GL surveyors have to refuse to perNo gas meter readings were taken, and no Transport / travelling /driving 15% Lost Time Accident Frequency (LTAF) 2 2.5 2.0 1.9 2.0 1.4 In our annual People Engagement Survey, General office work / 12% form work until a satisfactory safety standard ventilation was put in place. Checklist for 90% of all employees responded positivepresence DNV GL premises / is established. Here are some examples Safe Entry into Conined Spaces was used Severity Accident Index (SAI) (days) 2 28.8 25.2 39.0 14.7 25.2 ly to the question: ‘I have been provided from 2014; and entry was refused by the surveyor. social arrangements Injury Accident Frequency (IAF) 2 6.8 6.4 6.3 6.6 7.8 with relevant safety training and personal Working at heights 10% protective equipment for my job’ and Laboratory work 10% A surveyor was requested to attend a A DNV GL engineer was asked to inTotal sickness absence rate (%) 2.2 2.4 2.2 2.1 2.0 survey at an outside anchorage. The owner spect 31 machines at a wind farm, and 85% responded positively to the quesWitnessing 8% tion: ‘My line manager always promote Confined space entry 7% was advised that the survey could not be found unsafe access up to the nacelle 1 The years 2010 through to and including 2013 include DNV legacy only. 2 Per million hours worked by employees on permanent and long-term contracts. safety irst’. While these are important Building inspections 6% carried out as the location was not suitable in the wind turbines. The inspection was safety components, we are striving to Transfers /sea trials / 4% for transfer from the launch boat to the suspended, followed by a meeting with Lost Time Accident (LTA): Occupational Health Issue (OHI): The occupational health and Total sickness absence rate (%): continuously improve our safety culture. voyage surveys vessel. The case was escalated through the customer’s management. After the inAccident resulting in injury Work environment conditions safety reports include hazards ((Accident+Sickness absence hours)/ to people and work absence (including psychosocial work and incidents involving employNumber of worked hours)*100 That is why in 2015 we have a programme Wind turbine inspections 4% management, who continued to support adequate safety condition was explained, of >= 8 hours environment and musculoskelees and subcontractors (indeMinor (irst-aid level) injuries are etal load) where exposure over pendent contractors) working included in the statistical data. to strengthen our attitudes, beliefs and Power plant inspections / 1% the decision of the local DNV GL ofice actions were taken by the customer, the Injury Accident (IA): a period of time results in illness for and on behalf of DNV GL. behaviour related to both health and measurements not to perform the survey as requested. safety standard brought to an acceptable Accident resulting in injury to people, or a normal work activto people and work absence ity resulting in illness to people. safety across every area of our business. Emergency / field training 1% Eventually, a solution was reached for level and the inspection continued. of < 8 hours 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 65 3 FOCUS ON ENVIRONMENT ALIGNING OUR EFFORTS FOR THE 1 OUR AMBITIONS 2WHAT WE SAID 3WHERE WE 4WHAT WE PLAN WE WOULD DO ARE TODAY TO DO NEXT ENVIRONMENT (RESULTS) (GOALS, PLANS, TARGETS FOR 2015) A fundamental part of our purpose and vision is to have a positive impact DNV GL is committed to Implement a common The common environmental Increase the focus on managing and continually environmental tool at all management system for the environmental management, on the environment through the services we provide. We also continuously improving its environmental office locations, test sites merged DNV GL group was in particular in relation to work to manage and reduce the environmental footprint of our own operaperformance with the overall and laboratories subject to ready and documented early test sites and laboratories. goal to protect the environthe mandatory reporting in 2014. To facilitate the impletions and the personal footprint of our employees. Implementing a common ment. requirement. mentation of the system in the Improve the quality of the environmental management system was an important achievement in 2014. merged organization, extenenvironmental reporting proWe aim to foster a culture Define and implement sive training in environmental cess to ensure reliable data. where we take responsibility a common environmental management tools and profor our environmental performanagement system for cesses has been performed mance through the impact the merged DNV GL group. during the year. of our services, of our operations and of our employees’ 77 of the 82 locations HIGHLIGHTS personal behaviour. that were required to report environmental performance used the common tool in their annual environmental IMPLEMENTING A COMMON ENVIRONSIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN REPORTED NOK 40 MILLION TO REDUCE PERSONAL reporting. MENTAL STANDARD. A main activity in WASTE. The increase was due to an imFOOTPRINT. For the seventh year running, 2014 was to establish a common enviproved reporting process, an increased the ‘WE do’ programme rewarded ronmental management system for the number of laboratory activities reportemployees for reducing their personal merged DNV GL group. ing for the irst time and the removal environmental footprints. 5,500 applicaof 165 m3 of contaminated soil tions were received and NOK 40 million RECERTIFIED TO THE ISO 14001 was reimbursed to employees. STANDARD. It was an important mileMOVING INTO ENVIRONMENTALLY stone to obtain recertiication of our FRIENDLY BUILDINGS. DNV GL moved into environmental management sytem to LEED -certiied buildings in Russia and the ISO 14001 standard by an external Italy and a building with green marked certiication body. platinum standard in Singapore. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT? 7.4 MWH energy consumption per 18%increase in the use of high-end 218 KG waste generated per person GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – MATERIAL ASPECTS COVERED: Environmental impact was assessed to be of medium importance by our stakeAs a global organization, we are committed to do our part to tackle some of the world’s greatest environmental challenges and reduce the environmental impact of our operations. Safeguarding the environment is part of our employee – a decrease video conferencing in 2014. – an increase of 54% from of 10% from 2013. We have 200 high-end video 142 kg in 2013. holders (see the Sustainability Materiality purpose and a key aspect of our service conferencing systems in more Matrix on page 51). offering is to help our customers improve than 80 different locations. their environmental impact. 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 67 3 FOCUS ON ENVIRONMENT A ll employees need to be involved The speciic CO 2 emissions of all the in improving our environmental OUR WE DO reporting locations increased to 2.2 tonnes FIGURE 07 REPORTED WASTE PER TYPE OF WASTE CASE performance. That is why DNV of CO 2 per person in 2014, up 22% comPROGRAMME IS GL complies with the ISO 14001 pared to 2013. The CO2 emission per perstandard for environmental management A UNIQUE WAY OF HELPson in 2014 from energy consumption at systems and is certiied by TÜV Rheinland ING OUR EMPLOYEES TO the reporting locations was 1.8 tonnes, the Cert. GmbH. This ensures that we have a REDUCE THEIR PERSONAL same as for 2013. Estimated emissions of common approach, processes and systems ENVIRONMENTAL NO x increased by 13% compared to 2013 for managing our environmental perforFOOTPRINT. due to increased gas combustion. TOTAL: mance throughout the company. Our annual 2,433 environmental reporting is mandatory for all CO2 EMISSIONS FROM AIR TRAVEL. DNV GL TONNES locations with 40 or more employees and HENRIK O. MADSEN has implemented a common global tool for all laboratories and test sites. A few PRESIDENT & CEO accounting for mileage and CO2 emissions locations have either reported only energy related to business lights. Air travel is an consumption or generated waste. Figures integral part of our work, so the intention is for 2012 and 2013 only include DNV legacy. an increase in the reported energy consumpnot to stop travelling, but rather to increase tion of approximately 4.8% compared to employees’ awareness of their travel footENERGY CONSUMPTION. A total of 77 2013. There is an increase in district heating print. The reported CO 2 emissions from Paper /cardboard Electronic and locations, representing 76% of employees, from external suppliers of 422% compared business air travel decreased to 0.92 tonnes Residual waste electrical waste reported their energy consumption in 2014. to 2013. This is mainly due to reporting from per employee in 2014, down from 1.15 Metal Glass ENVIRONMENTALLY Five locations with more than 40 employees locations that did not report last year. tonnes in 2013. This decrease is assumed Hazardous waste Plastic FRIENDLY IT AND were not included in the energy consumpThe renewable energy on-site has demainly to relect underreporting due to Bio / Organic waste Non-hazardous tion statistics due to problems encountered creased to 2.9 GWh, down 29% compared delays in implementing the recording Masses and chemicals OFFICE BUILDINGS with the data collection. to 2013. This is due to changes the use of system in the merged organization. inorganic waste Furniture Wood or wood waste The total reported energy consumption the heat pump at Høvik, which was earlier for 2014 was 87.5 GWh (figure 06). Of that, used both for heating and cooling, but WASTE. 68 locations comprising 11,140 23.4 GWh was consumed by locations that which is now only used to produce heat. employees reported generated waste in ‘WE DO’ PROGRAMME. Our WE Do Prodid not participate in the environmental Water for cooling is now pumped directly 2014. The amount of waste generated at gramme to help employees contribute reporting for 2013. Locations that reported from the sea. the reporting locations in 2014 was 2,433.1 towards reducing their personal envienergy consumption in 2013 but not in 2014 The speciic energy consumption detonnes – an increase of 53%. Most of this ronmental footprint was continued and Server space, smart IT solutions MOVING INTO LEED-CERTIFIED BUILDaccount for 0.3 GWh. In sum, the locations creased to about 7.4 MWh per person in signiicant increase is related to metal NOK 40 million was paid out. Permanent and green office buildings have INGS IN RUSSIA AND ITALY. Leadership in that reported for both years experienced 2014 – down 10% from 8.2 MWh per person waste from the power testing laboratories employees can select a project from an Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) is been targeted to reduce our in 2013. This decrease is affected by an in Chalfont (US) and Arnhem (the Netherapproved list and apply for a reimbursea green building-certiication programme improved energy measuring process for lands) where the process for reporting environmental impact. that recognizes best-in-class building ment of two-thirds of the project cost – FIGURE 06 ENERGY CONSUMPTION one large location that reported too high waste has been improved. This metal waste up to a maximum amount of NOK 10,000 strategies and practices. In June, DNV GL’s IN THE REPORTING LOCATIONS igures in 2013, energy saving initiatives is from customers’ equipment that has been before taxes. The most popular items on staff in St. Petersburg moved into the irst at several locations and underreporting burnt up or exploded during testing. the approved list of projects were ‘Low IT AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT. InforLEED-certiied commercial ofice building GWh MWh / person by some of the locations that are reporting The speciic waste generation at all the energy appliance’ and ‘bycycle to work’. mation Technology is an important tool in Russia. In October, employees in Milan 90 for the irst time. reporting locations increased to 218 kg for reducing the environmental footprint. moved into new ofices in the Vimercate 8.2 8.2 per person in 2014, up 54% from 2013. The main contribution to reducing power Energy Park. 80 EMISSIONS TO AIR FROM OPERATIONS AT This is partly due to the increase in reported FIGURE 08 EMISSIONS OF CO2 FROM consumption in our IT infrastructure comes The Energy Park obtained the irst Green DNV GL’S LOCATIONS. The emissions of metal waste, waste intensive testing and THE REPORTING LOCATIONS from increased virtualization of servers, Building Council PLATINUM-Level LEED 70 8.0 CO 2 equivalents at the reporting localaboratory activities at several of the locaenergy reduction in the Global Data Cencertiication in Italy. Optimization of water tions in 2014 were 26,336 tonnes, of which tions and the removal of 165 m3 of contatres and the increased use of lash disks. resources, use of wood from certiied 60 CO2 (1,000 tonnes) T CO2 / person in offices 7.8 about 6,196 tonnes were from locations minated soil calculated to weigh 287.7 During 2014, we reached close to 80% sources, enhanced flexibility in the 50 that reported for the irst time. Locations tonnes. 30 3.0 virtualization of servers in the Data Centres management of the thermal control Indirect emissions reporting both in 2013 and 2014 showed Hazardous waste increased to 326.7 Direct emissions and terminated a signiicant number of system and optimization of natural light 7.6 40 7.6 an increase in CO 2 emissions of about tonnes in 2014 from 22.2 tonnes in 2013. Tonnes CO2 /person physical servers. are just some design characteristics 25 2.5 57% compared with 2013. This signiicant increase is mainly due to Collaborative tools such as search techimplemented in the offices in order 30 7.4 This is a result of an increase in reported the contaminated soil resulting from the 2.4 nologies, collaboration spaces, video to guarantee employees a comfortable 7.4 energy consumption in countries with uncontrolled release of oil at Groningen. 20 2.0 streaming facilities and an internal social and environmentally friendly working 20 relatively high emissions from electricity Between 500 and 1,000 litres of oil were media solution enable employees to share environment. 7.2 production, emissions from the use of 202 released onto a non-impervious surface. 1.8 knowledge and access our global pool 10 1.7 kg of sulphur hexaluoride (SF6) gas correAn impervious concrete surface is to be 15 1.5 of expertise across our global network GREENMARK FOR DNV GL’S NEW FACILITIES 0 7.0 sponding to 4,484 tonnes of CO 2 equivainstalled over the decontaminated area of ofices. IN SINGAPORE . The DNV GL Technology 2012 2013 2014 lents and emissions from the direct release and technical and procedural measures Our IT platform and collaboration tools Centre in Singapore achieved the Greenmark 10 1.0 of natural gas equal to 74 tonnes of CO 2 will be taken to prevent recurrence. The are also helping the merged organization Platinum Standard awarded by the Building Renewable energy (on-site) equivalents. spill was reported to the local authorities, to operate as one company and are essential and Construction Authority Singapore. The Renewable electricity (off-site) The SF6 gas is used at our test sites to who were satisied regarding the action for the utilization of shared competence DNV GL Singapore Laboratory achieved Non-renewable energy (on-site) 5 0.5 Electricity (off-site) test customers’ objects and in auxiliary taken and took no enforcement action. across geographies, while at the same time Greenmark Gold Standard. The Greenmark District heating from external supplier breakers. Emissions result from both test Hazardous waste is disposed of by reducing the need to travel. High-end video assessment criteria cover energy eficiency, MWh/person failures of the customers’ objects and the authorized handlers. For 99.3% of the 0 0 conferencing surpassed 40,000 meeting water eficiency, environmental protection, Renewable electricity off-site covers renewable electricity from the grid handling of the SF6 gas. The emission of waste, the disposal method determina2012 2013 2014 hours in 2014 and shows a steady increase indoor environmental quality and other that has been ordered speciically by the locations. Electricity off-site covers this substance is 0.56% of the total usage tion is based on information provided from 34,000 hours in 2013. green features and innovations. all other electricity from the grid, general electricity from the grid delivered when no action has been taken to select the source of energy desired. of SF6 gas at our premises. by the waste disposal contractors. 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 69 3 FOCUS ON VALUE CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY 1 OUR AMBITIONS 2WHAT WE SAID 3WHERE WE 4WHAT WE PLAN WE WOULD DO ARE TODAY TO DO NEXT LIVING THE VALUES (RESULTS) (GOALS, PLANS, TARGETS FOR 2015) Our ambition is to posiImplement a system in The assessment of current Update key governance IN OUR VALUE CHAIN tively influence the sustainability performance of our partners in our value chain, DNV GL for systematically assessing, monitoring and mitigating sustainability risks procurement practices has been completed and recommendations have been presented to the documents and embed new procedures in the management system. and thereby to h practices in our supply chain. Sustainability Board and CEO. around the world. Implement the roll-out of At DNV GL, we extend our commitment to sustainable business practices to our value chain. Establish a project to review A plan on how to incorporate the plan for new policies and As part of our corporate sustainability strategy, we are stepping up our efforts to commuTo this end, we aim to the extent to which DNV GL recommendations to strengthen procedures, including screendevelop a global procurement faces unacceptable sustainsustainable procurement has been ing of suppliers’ performance nicate expectations, monitor performance and improve the social, environmental and system which enables us to ability risks associated with established, to be executed in 2015. based on the criteria set out in economic impact of our business partners globally. We do this not only to reduce risks, effectively communicate our our customers. the Supplier Code of Conduct. but also because we believe sustainable value chain management can be a strong expectations to our suppliers Because the new procurement world-wide. system is not yet in place, we were The system for monitoring driver of value and success – for business and for society. not able to monitor and report in a and following up on these centralised way on how many supissues in our supply chain will pliers were screened in 2014 accordbe incorporated in our new ing to the criteria in the Supplier financial / procurement system, Code of Conduct. Consequently, to be launched in 2015. we are not able to report the impact of our supply chain for 2014. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT? HIGHLIGHTS OF ACTIVITIES The DNV GL Sustainability Materiality Matrix With several thousand suppliers and close In 2014, a major effort was launched ASSESSING CUSTOMER RISK – (see page 51) identifies sustainable supply chain to 80,000 customers worldwide and in many to centralize procurement in DNV GL . ‘ARE ALL CUSTOMERS GOOD CUSTOMERS?’ management as being of high importance to different industries and geographies, DNV GL Global procurement functions have been our internal and external stakeholders. faces significant risk in terms of human rights, established, and a project was created labour standards, environmental performance to establish a more systematic approach In 2014, a project group was established The project group reviewed internaGLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE and anti-corruption. However, for us, sustainto the management of sustainability risks to start assessing DNV GL’s downstream tional standards and policies, including – MATERIAL ASPECTS COVERED: able value chain management is also a driver of and opportunitiesin the DNV GL supply value chain responsibility and to conthe UN Global Compact guidelines on business opportunity. We believe principled suschain. The work is the result of cooperasider to what extent the company faces the tobacco industry and the NorweSupplier Environmental Assessment tainable business is key to commercial success, tion between various group functions, unacceptable sustainability-related risks gian Government Pension Fund Global Supplier Assessment of Labour Practices and it is therefore important to us to work with including Global Procurement, Group associated with any customer groups. policy. It also reviewed our current conSupplier Human Rights Assessment suppliers and customers that share our values Sustainability, Compliance and HSE. tracts with the industry and found some Supplier Assessment of Impact on Society and commitment to corporate sustainability. Throughout 2014, the focus was on The group comprised representatives contracts of a limited nature in DNV GL mapping current procurement practices of several functions, including Finance – Business Assurance. A total of 68 certiin DNV GL against best practice for sustain& Legal, Group Sustainability, Research icates were issued to tobacco compaable procurement. Based on this exercise, & Innovation as well as representatives nies in 2014. we have identiied key strengths, improvefrom business areas. Because of requirements from accrediThe corporate sustainability principles to labour standards, environmental perment areas and recommended actions. The project was established speciitation bodies not to discriminate sectors which DNV GL is committed also extend formance and anti-corruption. The recommendations were approved cally because of a concern raised by the that are legal, it is dificult to exclude SUSTAINABLE to our relationships with suppliers, subAccording to the Group Purchasing by the Corporate Sustainability Board World Health Organisation (WHO) regardtobacco companies from DNV GL’s PROCUREMENT contractors, contractors and agents. Instructions, signing the Code is mandain November 2014. ing DNV GL’s commercial relations with customer portfolio. DNV GL communicates its sustainability tory for suppliers with contracts above companies in the tobacco industry. WHO The issue was raised during the expectations to suppliers, and evaluates NOK 50,000 (part of the complete bindhas a policy of avoiding relationships Corporate Sustainability Board meetRECORDED INCIDENTS In living up to our vision of global impact and monitors suppliers’ corporate sustaining contract). The instructions require with enterprises whose activities are ining in November 2014, and the Board for a safe and sustainable future, we have ability behaviour and performance. suppliers to be screened according to compatible with its work, of WHO, such as concluded that DNV GL is to continue to ensure a positive impact on both our Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines a standard screening checklist and, Currently, we do not have a good system tobacco and arms industries (WHO Guideworking with companies from this sector. customers and suppliers. Our obvious our expectations as to suppliers, and is if serious violations are found, they can in place to record our suppliers’ statistics. lines on Working with the Private Sector). We will review dilemmas from business impact is on our customers through the aligned with recognised international be excluded from the DNV GL supplier However, we experienced a fatal accident This policy may have consequences units related to potentially unsuitable services we deliver, but we recognize that standards for supply chain management, registry. If exposure to risk is identiied, involving one of our suppliers at our corpofor DNV GL’s healthcare business. customers on an ongoing basis. we also impact sustainability through the including the 10 UN Global Compact local units will engage with the supplier rate head ofice in Norway. See page 64 goods and services we buy. principles in the areas of human rights, to improve practices. for more details. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 71 3 FOCUS ON PARTNERSHIPS AND ENGAGEMENTS GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY REPORT. Identifying how global sustainability challenges RED CROSS WORLD WILDLIFE and risks can be seen as opportunities – an open innovation platform called the FUND Global Opportunity Network, where stakeholders worldwide can explore and capture sustainability opportunities and solutions. INNOVATION THROUGH In 2014, we celebrated the tenth anniversary of our strategic partnership with the In 2012, we launched a three-year partnership with WWF, the world’s leading conserThe Report is a collaboration between DNV GL, the UN Global Compact, the Monday Morning Global Institute and Sustainia. Norwegian Red Cross. We support global vation organization. The aim of the agreeCOLLABORATION Red Cross projects financially as well as providing our professional services pro-bono in human aid work. In total, ment is to strengthen the ability of both organizations to work towards a greener society through the sustainable use and CASE we donate NOK 2.5–3 million annually. management of natural resources. Water and sanitation being an acute Collaboration is a robust way to overcome challenges in any field. Through worldwide issue, DNV GL decided to put actively partnering with other organizations we identify complex sustainability this at the very centre of the partnership. KEY ACTIVITIES challenges and co-create innovative solutions. This section outlines how we We collaborate with the WWF in four have engaged with selected partners in the sustainability sphere. KEY ACTIVITIES speciic areas: sustainable shipping Kajsa Li Paludan, PROJECTS SUPPORTED a low-carbon society winner in 2014. CHINA: Supported water and sanitation assurance for 61 homes in Yanbian Prefecture, Jilin sustainability standards and the Arctic Province with 250 KNOK . We have also asked WWF to provide advice VIETNAM: Supported water and sanitation SOCIAL MEDIA CAMPAIGN: as a ‘critical friend’ in internal discussions projects in Lao Cai province with 250 KNOK. on some projects like the Aqua Recovery 56 households and one school beneited. project and the Global Opportunity FUTURE PHILIPPINES: Donated 200 KNOK toward a project to rebuild 800 homes with latrines Network. SUSTAINABILITY on the island of Samar in the Philippines, LEADER UNITED NATIONS WORLD BUSINESS after Typhoon Haiyan destroyed the area. FOR THE SECOND YEAR in a row, we GLOBAL COMPACT BOTH DNV GL AND WWF COUNCIL FOR STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP: The Red Cross SUSTAINIA worked with Sustainia to run an innoacted as a sounding board on our InnoARE COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABLE vation Project Aqua Recovery and Global vative social media campaign to SOLVING GLOBAL ENVIRONDEVELOPMENT Opportunity Report. identify future sustainability leaders MENTAL CHALLENGES, ARE for our Sustainability Roundtable in We are a signatory to the United Nations INNOVATIVE AND OPERATE PEOPLE INVOLVEMENT June. The campaign ran on Twitter Global Compact since 2003 and work to WITHIN LONG-TERM TIME NORWAY: Our people are involved in volunDNV GL is one of the founding partners and Facebook for two weeks in May FRAMES. THROUGH OUR COintegrate the Global Compact principles Our membership of the WBCSD provides 2014. The goal was to ind a fresh OPERATION, WE WANT TO teering to provide literacy help and ensure of Sustainia, a sustainability initiative on human rights, labour standards, environa platform for our advocacy of more mind who has taken inspiring action CONTRIBUTE TO A SAFER AND equal opportunities and in fundraising. working to scale the deployment of mental management and anti-corruption responsible business practices globally. for sustainability, and who is young, MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE. VIETNAM: Employees support Red Cross iniinnovative solutions. Together, we have into our business strategy, management We actively participate in WBCSD initiavocal and passionately engaged in tiatives with personal funds and time to help co-created publications and projects system, culture and day-to-day operations. FOR WWF, IT IS IMPORTANT tives such as the 16-member Climate and the ight against climate change. improve agriculture /hygiene /education. that have identified 2,000+ solutions, We actively engage in activities like the TO BE A ‘CRITICAL FRIEND’ Energy Cluster Board, where the focus is technologies and innovations from 150 Global Compact Caring for Climate, and THAT MAKES SURE DNV GL on the Road to Paris: Business Solutions WE RECEIVED 40 NOMINATIONS from EXTRAORDINARY DONATIONS countries and provided solid proof of in networks like the Global Compact Nordic IS REALLY MOVING IN A MORE and Technologies towards a Low Carbon around the globe pointing in the Donation campaigns by employees toward the positive environmental, economic and Network – a forum for exchanging best SUSTAINABLE DIRECTION. Economy. Our President and CEO, Ebola (matched by DNV GL), the Balkans’ social impact of implementing sustainabildirection of new and upcoming practices on the advancement of Global Henrik O. Madsen, is Co-Chair of the voices. After carrying out additional loods and Water for life totalled 150 KNOK. ity in both the public and private sectors. Compact principles in the Nordic region. Vision 2050 Action 2020 project. research in the ield, Kajsa Li Paludan NINA JENSEN In connection with the 150th anniversary, GENERAL SECRETARY, a rescue vessel worth 11 million NOK was was named our Future SustainaWWF NORWAY KEY ACTIVITIES bility Leader for 2014 for her work KEY ACTIVITIES KEY ACTIVITIES donated to the Norwegian Red Cross (Tjøme and Hvasser). co-founding and driving Cultura21 SUSTAINIA 100 SOLUTIONS. We hosted Nordic & Cultura21 International as In 2014, we strengthened our relationWe actively engaged with Executive In 2014, the CEO of DNV GL Energy, David the launch of Sustainia’s annual guide well as her general public commitship with the UN Global Compact in Director Georg Kell in our Sustainability Walker, became a member of the WBCSD PARTNERSHIP WITH on 100 available solutions with positive ment to the agenda. The announcevarious ways: Roundtable in June to identify pathClimate and Energy Cluster Board where THE NETHERLANDS RED CROSS impacts and the potential to scale called ment took place at DNV GL’s 150th ways towards a regenerative economy. we participate in the following business Sustainia100 on 16 June 2014. The 100 Jubilee in Høvik, 14 June 2014. Signed in 2014, this partnership We base our corporate sustainability solutions: agreement has three elements: solutions were identiied among 900+ subEarlier winners include Alec Loorz strategy and tactical priorities on the We participated in conferences and a) Resilience in global supply chains Financial aid following natural missions from more than 144 countries. and Grace Muthoni Mwaura who Global Compact framework. events, such as the Private Sector forum and b) Electrifying cities towards zero emissions disasters. have gone on to make a mark in Climate Summit in New York in September. c) Carbon capture, utilization and storage Disaster Relief Partner Programme CO-CREATING FOR A SUSTAINABLE AND their chosen sustainability ields. We actively use UN Global Compact d) Scaling up renewables – fund raising by employees HEALTHY FUTURE. DNV GL and Sustainia tools and resources to improve our We launched an ambitious project in cole) Redeining value following selected disasters. explored the link between sustainability internal best practices. An example is laboration with the UN Global Compact First aid course offered by and health with the Guide to Co-CreatOur total monetary contribution how we use Global Compact guidance to assess their impact in their 15 years of We also participate in Action 2020 Red Cross to all employees ing Health and Person-Centred Care. to voluntary initiatives in 2014: to improve the sustainability perforexistence and to provide recommendaBusiness Solutions: in the Netherlands. This laid the grounds for an ongoing 17 MNOK mance of our supply chain. tions for how they can achieve their vision. a) Human rights working group series of workshops in eight countries. 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 73 4 HOW WE PERFORM The inancial statements for DNV GL Group AS include consolidated income statement, statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of cash low, statement of changes in equity and notes for DNV GL Group AS and all companies in which DNV GL Group AS directly or indirectly has actual control. 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 75 4 KEY FIGURES 2014 20131 20122 20112 20102 2014 20131 20122 20112 20102 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION IFRS IFRS NGAAP NGAAP NGAAP IFRS IFRS NGAAP NGAAP NGAAP INCOME STATEMENT CASH FLOW ITEMS, WORKING Operating revenue 21 623 15 234 12 532 10 156 9 792 CAPITAL AND INVESTMENTS EBITDA 2 551 1 807 1 238 1 271 1 010 Purchase of tangible ixed assets 583 450 236 132 169 Depreciation 348 271 201 150 155 Working capital 5 988 5 659 2 808 3 696 3 069 EBITA 2 203 1 535 1 037 1 122 855 Cash low 57 (570) (927) 781 396 Amortization 592 203 179 64 44 EBIT / Operating proit 1 612 1 332 858 1 058 810 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 15 712 16 107 10 294 8 453 8 440 Net inancial income (expenses) 70 (14) 38 32 19 Proit before tax 1 681 1 318 896 1 091 829 FINANCIAL RATIOS Proit for the year 1 007 825 579 763 552 PROFITABILITY EBITDA margin 11.8% 11.9% 9.9% 12.5% 10.3% BALANCE SHEET EBITA margin 10.2% 10.1% 8.3% 11.0% 8.7% Non-current assets 15 447 14 135 3 462 2 438 2 327 EBIT / Operating margin 7.5% 8.7% 6.8% 10.4% 8.3% Current assets 12 930 11 395 6 160 6 347 5 310 Pre-tax proit margin 7.8% 8.7% 7.2% 10.7% 8.5% Total assets 28 377 25 530 9 622 8 785 7 637 Net proit margin 4.7% 5.4% 4.6% 7.5% 5.6% Equity 16 496 15 561 4 937 4 922 5 058 LIQUIDITY Non-current liabilities 4 939 4 232 1 333 1 212 338 Liquidity reserves 3 978 3 875 1 774 2 874 2 092 Current liabilities 6 942 5 736 3 352 2 651 2 241 LEVERAGE Equity ratio 58.1% 61.0% 51.3% 56.0% 66.2% DEFINITION OF RATIOS Profitability Liquidity Leverage EBITDA: EBITA: Operating margin: Cash flow: Equity ratio: 1) GL SE Group figures included for the period 1 October– 31 December 2013. Earnings before interest, Earnings before interest, Operating profit x 100 / Net change in liquidity Equity x 100 / Total assets tax, depreciation and tax and amortization Operating revenue from cash flow statement 2) Key figures for the years 2010–2011 are in line with financial figures as amortization presented in the audited financial accounts of Det Norske Veritas Group AS EBITA margin: Pre-tax profit margin: Liquidity reserves: for these years. Key figures for 2012 (NGAAP) have been restated to reflect EBITDA margin: EBITA x 100 / Profit before tax x 100 / Cash and bank deposits the demerger of DNV Petroleum Services and the real estate companies EBITDA x 100 / Operating revenue Operating revenue in Norway (effective 1 Jan. 2013). Operating revenue Net profit margin: Profit for the year x 100 / Operating revenue 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 77 4 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP 2014 2013 NOTE 2014 20131 2014 2013 2014 20131 OPERATING REVENUE (21.2) (92.2) Profit (loss) for the year 1 007.1 825.3 13.3 0.0 Sales revenue 21 622.8 15 234.1 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: 13.3 0.0 Total operating revenue 5 21 622.8 15 234.1 Actuarial gains /(losses) on deined beneit pension plans (920.2) 99.4 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: OPERATING EXPENSES Currency translation differences / Translation differences 0.0 0.0 Payroll expenses 6,8,9 11 597.5 8 446.3 foreign operations 1 707.0 1 075.2 0.0 0.0 Depreciation 15 348.4 271.3 Gain /loss on hedge of net investments in foreign operations 0.0 (198.2) 0.0 0.0 Amortization and impairment 13,14 591.5 203.0 Share of other comprehensive income from associates (29.4) 0.0 15.1 100.1 Other operating expenses 7,8 7 473.8 4 981.0 0.0 0.0 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 757.3 976.4 (1.8) (100.1) Operating profit (loss) 1 611.5 1 332.4 (21.2) (92.2) Total comprehensive income for the period 1 764.4 1 801.7 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO: 0.0 0.0 Income / (loss) from associates 16 22.8 (5.5) Non-controlling interest 8.2 2.6 182.0 18.6 Other inancial income 10 175.1 60.7 Equity holders of the parent 1 756.2 1 799.2 (209.8) (10.3) Financial expenses 10 (128.0) (69.2) Total 1 764.4 1 801.7 (27.8) 8.3 Net inancial income (expenses) 69.9 (14.1) (29.7) (91.8) Profit (loss) before tax 1 681.5 1 318.3 8.4 (0.4) Tax expense 12 (674.4) (493.0) (21.2) (92.2) Profit (loss) for the year 1 007.1 825.3 PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD ATTRIBUTABLE TO: Non-controlling interest 8.2 2.6 Equity holders of the parent 998.9 822.8 Total 1 007.1 825.3 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 1) GL SE Group figures included for the period 1 October– 31 December 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 79 4 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP 31 DEC. 2014 31 DEC. 2013 1 JAN. 2013 ASSETS NOTE 31 DEC. 2014 31 DEC. 2013 1 JAN. 2013 31 DEC. 2014 31 DEC. 2013 1 JAN. 2013 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES NOTE 31 DEC. 2014 31 DEC. 2013 1 JAN. 2013 NON-CURRENT ASSETS EQUITY INTANGIBLE ASSETS PAID-IN CAPITAL 16.0 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax assets 12 1 192.6 856.2 468.2 100.0 100.0 10.1 Share capital 24 100.0 100.0 9.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Goodwill 13,14 8 068.3 7 189.4 1 000.6 9 323.5 9 323.5 0.0 Share premium 9 323.5 9 323.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 13 3 420.7 3 459.1 385.6 RETAINED EARNINGS 417.4 1 277.6 2 762.9 Other equity 7 037.3 6 120.2 5 037.2 16.0 0.2 0.2 Total intangible assets 12 681.6 11 504.8 1 854.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-controlling interest 35.5 17.5 4.5 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 0.0 0.0 0.0 Land, buildings and other property 1 011.5 941.2 717.3 9 840.9 10 701.1 2 773.0 Total equity 16 496.4 15 561.2 5 050.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Ofice equipment, ixtures and ittings 1 199.6 906.0 518.3 LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total tangible ixed assets 15 2 211.1 1 847.2 1 235.6 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 500.0 0.0 0.0 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 500.0 0.0 0.0 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension liabilities 9 2 824.4 1 952.5 187.0 11 606.7 10 936.5 1 754.7 Investments in subsidiaries 3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax 12 988.1 982.7 226.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in associates 16 147.4 8.5 14.1 528.9 250.2 0.0 Loan from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 Available for sale investments 42.6 42.4 36.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current provisions 20 110.7 161.7 50.5 516.0 516.0 516.0 Net pension assets 9 4.9 283.0 52.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other non-current liabilities 515.5 1 135.5 857.2 785.3 6.7 39.6 Loan to subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 42.7 Other long-term receivables 19 359.5 449.3 370.9 1 028.9 250.2 0.0 Total non-current liabilities 4 938.7 4 232.5 1 321.1 12 908.0 11 459.5 2 353.2 Total non-current inancial assets 554.4 783.2 473.8 CURRENT LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 0.0 Overdrafts 4.5 0.0 0.0 12 924.0 11 459.7 2 353.4 Total non-current assets 15 447.1 14 135.1 3 563.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade creditors 476.6 576.8 339.8 7.0 0.0 0.0 Tax payable 12 699.1 429.3 230.6 CURRENT ASSETS 0.0 0.0 0.0 Public duties payable 482.4 442.4 391.3 DEBTORS 2 263.0 865.9 97.1 Short-term liabilities group companies 27.2 22.7 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade debtors 18 5 141.7 4 268.2 2 578.3 503.5 0.0 0.0 Dividend declared to shareholders 503.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Work in progress 2 881.5 2 501.1 1 351.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current provisions 20 164.4 101.8 47.0 49.1 0.0 1.4 Other current liabilities 17 4 584.0 4 163.3 2 342.4 175.6 4.3 0.0 Other receivables group companies 30.9 44.8 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 Other debtors 897.6 706.1 456.6 2 822.6 865.9 98.5 Total current liabilities 6 941.8 5 736.3 3 351.9 175.6 4.4 0.0 Total debtors 8 951.6 7 520.2 4 386.0 3 851.5 1 116.1 98.5 Total liabilities 11 880.6 9 968.8 4 673.0 592.5 353.1 518.1 Cash and bank deposits 21 3 978.2 3 874.7 1 773.9 13 692.3 11 817.2 2 871.5 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 28 376.9 25 530.0 9 723.7 768.1 357.5 518.1 Total current assets 12 929.8 11 394.9 6 159.9 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF DNV GL GROUP AS, HØVIK, 30 APRIL 2015 13 692.3 11 817.2 2 871.5 TOTAL ASSETS 28 376.9 25 530.0 9 723.7 LEIF-ARNE LANGØY J. HINRICH STAHL HEINRICH REBEKKA GLASSER SILLE GRJOTHEIM CHAIRMAN VICE CHAIRMAN FRANKEMÖLLE HERLOFSEN CHRISTELLE G. V. DAVID MCKAY METTE BANDHOLTZ CLEMENS KEUER JOHANNES LAFRENTZ MARTIN (DEPUTY) NIELSEN C. THOMAS REHDER ODD E. SUND HILDE M. TONNE MORTEN ULSTEIN HENRIK O. MADSEN GROUP PRESIDENT & CEO 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 81 4 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP NONSHARE SHARE OTHER TRANSLATION CONTROLLING 2014 2013 2014 2013 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION CAPITAL PREMIUM EQUITY DIFFERENCES INTEREST TOTAL DNV GL GROUP AS CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS (29.7) 7.4 Proit before tax 1 681.5 1 318.3 Equity at 31 December 2012 – NGAAP 10.1 2762.9 2 773.0 0.0 0.0 Gain/loss on disposal of tangible ixed assets (2.3) (0.1) Effect of transition to IFRS 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain on divestments (18.7) (12.0) Equity at 1 January 2013 – IFRS 10.1 0.0 2 762.9 0.0 0.0 2 773.0 0.0 0.0 Gain on conversion of loan to associated companies (26.3) 0.0 Demerger 1 January 2013 / 0.0 0.0 Gain from change of deined beneit pension plans (175.0) 0.0 demerger difference (1.0) (677.0) (678.0) (175.4) (4.3) Group contribution recorded as inancial income 0.0 0.0 Extraordinary dividend paid to 0.0 0.0 Depreciation, amortization and impairment 940.0 474.4 Det Norske Veritas Holding AS 2013 (661.7) (661.7) 0.0 0.0 Tax payable (702.9) (570.0) Contribution in kind GL SE Group 36.5 9 323.5 9 360.0 Change in work in progress, trade debtors Share capital fund issue 54.5 (54.5) 0.0 0.0 0.0 and trade creditors (701.1) (731.0) Proit for the period (92.2) (92.2) 1 445.7 719.5 Change in accruals, provisions and other 663.0 98.6 Equity at 31 December 2013 100.0 9 323.5 1 277.6 0.0 0.0 10 701.1 Proit for the period (21.2) (21.2) 1 240.6 722.6 Net cash flow from operations 1 658.2 578.2 Dividend paid (335.5) (335.5) Dividend accrued (503.5) (503.5) CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENTS Equity at 31 December 2014 100.0 9 323.5 417.3 0.0 0.0 9 840.8 0.0 0.0 Acquisitions (business combinations) (288.8) (50.2) (670.0) 0.0 Settlement minority share owners N.V. KEMA (670.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Divestments of subsidiaries 12.0 35.1 DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP 0.0 0.0 Investments in tangible ixed assets (582.7) (449.7) 0.0 0.0 Investments in intangible assets (175.0) (48.6) Equity at 31 December 2012 – NGAAP 9.0 4 923.7 4.5 4 937.2 0.0 0.0 Sale of tangible ixed assets (sales value) 32.9 26.9 Effect of transition to IFRS 113.6 113.6 0.0 8.8 Change in other investments (98.6) 0.0 Equity at 1 January 2013 – IFRS 9.0 0.0 5 037.3 0.0 4.5 5 050.8 (670.0) 8.8 Net cash flow from investments (1 770.2) (486.5) Proit for the period 822.8 2.6 825.3 Dividend paid (661.7) (661.7) CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Contribution in kind GL SE Group 36.5 9 323.5 9 360.0 (500.0) 250.2 Change in loan from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 Share capital fund issue 54.5 (54.5) 0.0 Actuarial gains /(losses) on deined 0.0 0.0 Change in overdraft 4.5 0.0 beneit pension plans 99.4 99.4 500.0 0.0 Borrowings 500.0 0.0 Exchange differences 877.0 877.0 (335.5) (661.7) Dividend paid (335.5) (661.7) Other equity changes 10.4 10.4 4.3 (11.8) Group contribution paid/received 0.0 0.0 Equity at 31 December 2013 100.0 9 323.5 5 243.3 877.0 17.5 15 561.2 (331.2) (423.3) Net cash flow from financing activities 169.0 (661.7) Proit for the period 998.9 8.2 1 007.1 Dividend paid (335.5) (335.5) 239.4 308.1 Net increase /(decrease) in cash and bank deposits 57.0 (570.0) Dividend accrued (503.5) (503.5) Actuarial gains /(losses) on deined 353.1 518.1 Liquidity at beginning of period 3 874.7 1 946.1 beneit pension plans (920.2) (920.2) 0.0 (473.1) Demerger 1 January 2013 cash transferred 0.0 (172.2) Exchange differences 1 707.0 1 707.0 0.0 0.0 Cash in acquired companies 46.5 2 670.8 Share of other comprehensive income 592.5 353.1 Liquidity at end of period 3 978.2 3 874.7 from associates (29.4) (29.4) Other equity changes 9.8 9.8 Equity at 31 December 2014 100.0 9 323.5 4 453.4 2 584.0 35.5 16 496.4 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 83 4 NOTES 01 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CLASSIFICATION AND VALUATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES. The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement of financial position based on current/non-current classification. An asset is current when it is: at the end of the reporting period. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate. Expected to be realized or intended to be sold or consumed Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the BASIS FOR PREPARATION. The financial statements are prepared in In the accounts of the parent company, dividends, group contribuin normal operating cycle carrying amount of assets and liabilities and the corresponding tax accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act § 3-9 and Regulations tions and other distributions are recognized in the same year as they Held primarily for the purpose of trading bases as well as on tax losses carried forward at the reporting date. on Simplified IFRS as enacted by the Ministry of Finance 3 November are recognized in the financial statement of the subsidiary according to Expected to be realized within twelve months after the reporting Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for all taxable tempo2014. In all material aspects, Norwegian Simplified IFRS requires that the Norwegian Regulation of simplified IFRS § 3-1. If dividends / group period, or rary differences. Deferred tax assets for temporary differences and the IFRS recognition and measurement criteria (as adopted by the contribution exceed withheld profits after acquisition, the excess Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged tax loss carry forwards are recognized to the extent that it is probable European Union) are complied with, but disclosure and presentation amount represents repayment of invested capital, and the distribuor used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the that future taxable income will be available at the level of the relevant requirements (the notes) follow the Norwegian Accounting Act and tion will be deducted from the recorded value of the acquisition reporting period tax authority for utilization. Tax increasing and tax reducing temporary Norwegian Generally Accepted Accounting Standards. in the Balance sheet statement for the parent company. differences expected to reverse in the same period are offset and calcuThe financial statements are presented in Norwegian Kroner (NOK) All other assets are classified as non-current. lated on a net basis as far as this relate to the same taxable entity and and all values are rounded to the nearest million (NOK million), except DIVIDEND TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY. Current and non-current liabilities are classified correspondingly. the same taxation authority. when otherwise indicated. Dividends declared to shareholders are recognized as a liability Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each at the end of the reporting period according to the Norwegian assets and liabilities. reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES. The consolidated statements include Regulation of simplified IFRS § 3-1. Current assets are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the the parent company DNV GL Group AS and all companies in which Short-term debt is recognized at fair value and subsequently measured deferred tax asset to be utilized. Unrecognized deferred tax assets are the parent company directly or indirectly has controlling interest. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES. An associate at amortized cost. Transaction cost on short-term borrowings are usually re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognized to the extent The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights is an entity in which the Group has a significant influence but does not minor, and the value of short-term debt at amortized cost is therefore that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the to, variable return from its involvement with the entity and has the ability control the management of its financial and operating policy decisions normally identical with face value. deferred tax asset to be recovered. to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries (normally when the Group owns 20%–50% of the company). Fixed assets are valued at cost. However, if a decline in value is expectDeferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that ed not to be temporary, fixed assets are impaired to the recoverable that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realized or to the group and deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the amount. Fixed assets with a limited useful economic life are depreciated the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been The group accounts show the Group’s consolidated Income statement, joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control in accordance with a linear depreciation plan. enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Statement of Comprehensive Income, Balance Sheet, Statement of of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flow as a single economic activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. REVENUE RECOGNITION. Revenue is recognized when it is probable FOREIGN CURRENCIES. The Group’s consolidated financial stateentity. Subsidiaries follow the same accounting principles as the The considerations made in determining significant influence or that future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue ments are presented in Norwegian Kroner (NOK), which is also the parent company. All intra group assets and liabilities, equity, income, joint control, are similar to those necessary to determine control over can be measured reliably, regardless of when the payment is being parent company’s functional currency. The functional currency of an expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between Group subsidiaries. made. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration entity is the currency of the economic environment in which the comentities are eliminated in the consolidated accounts. Investments in associated companies and joint ventures are accounted received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms pany primarily operates. For each entity the Group determines the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on for using the equity method. of payment and excluding taxes or duties. functional currency and items included in the financial statements the basis of going concern. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint Revenue from services is recognized by reference to the stage of of each entity are measured using that functional currency. venture is initially recognized at cost. The carrying amount of the investcompletion (percentage of completion method). Stage of completion Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL. Business combinations ment is adjusted to recognize changes in the Group’s share of net assets is measured by reference to hours incurred / contract costs incurred entities at their respective functional currency spot rates at the are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquiof the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill to date as a percentage of total estimated hours / total estimated date the transaction first qualifies for recognition. Monetary assets sition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying contract costs for each contract. When the contract outcome cannot and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at measured at the acquisition date at fair value. Acquisition-related amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment individually. be measured reliably, revenue is recognized only to the extent that the functional currency spot rates of exchange at the reporting date. costs are expensed in Income statement as incurred. The income statement reflects the Group’s share of profits after tax the expenses incurred are recoverable. Differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those investees When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract are recognized in the Income statement. Non-monetary items that at their fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill is recognized as is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has revenue, the expected loss is recognized as an expense immediately. are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are transthe residual value between fair value of the consideration transferred been a change recognized directly in the equity of the associate or joint When the selling price of a software product includes an identifiable lated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. and the fair value of the identifiable net assets. venture, the Group recognizes its share of any changes, when applicable, amount for subsequent servicing (e.g. after sales support and product Forward exchange contracts are included at market value at the After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accuin the statement of changes in equity. Unrealized gains and losses enhancement / maintenance on the sale of software products), that reporting date. mulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or amount is deferred and recognized as revenue over the period during On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, goodwill acquired in a business combination is from the acquisition joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate which the service will be performed. The amount deferred covers the including goodwill and fair value adjustments are translated into date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are or joint venture. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals expected costs of the services under the agreement together with NOK at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date. The expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured a reasonable profit on those services. Income statements are translated at the average exchange rate for other assets or liabilities of the acquire are assigned to those units. receivables, the group does not recognize further losses, unless it has the financial year. Exchange rate differences arising are recognized The allocation of costs in a business combination is changed if new incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf DEBTORS. Trade receivables and other current receivables are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI). On disposal of a foreign information on the fair value becomes available and is applicable on of the associate. in the balance sheet initially at fair value and subsequently measured operation, the component of OCI relating to that particular foreign the date when control is assumed. The allocation may be altered within The aggregate of the Group’s share of profits (or losses) of an assoat amortized cost less provision for impairment. Provisions for doubtful operation is recognized in the Income statement. one year from acquisition date. ciate and a joint venture is shown in the income statement as financial debts are calculated on the basis of individual assessments. Impairments Realized and unrealized currency effects not reflected in OCI items. of trade receivables are recognized in the income statement if objective are included on a net basis in either other financial income or other SUBSIDIARIES. Investments in subsidiaries are recognized at cost in The financial statements of the associate or joint venture are indicators suggest that the due amounts cannot be covered in full. financial expenses. the accounts of the parent company. Investments carried at cost are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs The recognized value of the associate or joint venture in the StateTAXES. Income tax expense comprises both current tax and deferred PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT. Property, plant and equipment to sell. The fair values of the investments are tested annually based on ment of Financial Position is tested for impairment annually or more tax, including effects of changes in tax rates. Current and deferred tax are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairexternal and/or internal indicators implying revaluation. If estimated frequently when deemed necessary. is recognized in income statement, except to the extent that they relate ment losses. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over fair value is less than the carrying amount, the investments are impaired to items recognized in equity or other comprehensive income, of which the expected useful life of the assets. The estimated useful life, residual in the Balance sheet statement and the corresponding cost is recogNON-CONTROLLING INTEREST. The non-controlling interest in the the tax is also recognized in equity or other comprehensive income. values and depreciation method are reviewed, and adjusted if approprinized in the income statement. Impairment losses recognized in prior consolidated financial statements, represent the minority’s share of Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount ate, at the end of each reporting period. Periodic maintenance costs periods are reversed if the basis for the impaired value no longer the carrying amount of the equity in entities with minority shareholders. expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. are capitalized and depreciated over the expected maintenance period. exists or have decreased. The current and deferred income tax is calculated based on tax rates Other repair and maintenance costs are recognized in the Income state(and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted, in the ment as incurred. Improvement and upgrading are assigned to the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income purchase cost / carrying amount and depreciated along with the asset. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 85 4 NOTES An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to Actuarial assumptions are made to measure the pension obligation are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associdisposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current and the pension expense. Actuarial assumptions are mutually compatated assumptions are based on historical experiences and other factors from the continued use of the asset. Any gains or losses is determined market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific ible and reflect the economic relationship between factors such as inflathat are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying to the asset. In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent tion, rate of salary increase and discount rate. The actuarial assumptions estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on amount of the asset and is recognized in profit or loss. market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can comprise: demographic assumptions such as mortality and employee an ongoing basis. Update of accounting estimates are recognized in be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculaturnover and financial assumptions such as discount rate, rate of salarythe period of which the estimate is updated, if the update affects only LEASES. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards tions are corroborated by valuation multiples or other available fair and pension benefit increase. that period, or in the period of the update if the update affects both of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating value indicators. The pension obligations are measured on a discounted basis. current and future periods. leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as an operating The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets Pension plan assets are valued at their fair value. The fair value of plan expense in the Income statement on a straight-line basis over the and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of assets is deducted from the present value of the defined benefit obliCONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND ASSETS. Contingent liabilities are not period of lease. the Group’s CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. These gation when determining the net defined benefit liability or assets. recognized in the annual accounts. Significant contingent liabilities are budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized through other compredisclosed, with the exception of contingent liabilities that are unlikely BORROWING COSTS. Borrowing costs are recognized in the Income For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied hensive income (OCI). Actuarial gains and losses are not reclassified to be incurred. Contingent assets (unless virtually certain) are not statement in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs to project future cash flows after the fifth year. to profit or loss in subsequent periods. recognized in the annual accounts but are disclosed if the inflow of consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reportChanges to existing defined benefit plans that will lead to changes economic benefits is probable. with the borrowing of funds. ing date to determine whether there is an indication that previously in pension obligation are recognized in the statement of income as they recognized impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such occur. Gains or losses linked to changes or terminations of pension EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD. New information on the INTANGIBLE ASSETS. Intangible assets acquired separately are indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable plans are also recognized in the statement of income when they arise. company’s financial position on the end of the reporting period which measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets amount. A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there Net interest on the net defined benefit /assets is presented as part becomes known after the reporting period is recorded in the annual acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s of financial items. accounts. Events after the reporting period that do not affect the acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. Service costs comprising current service costs, past-service costs, company’s financial position on the end of the reporting period at cost less any accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not gains and losses on curtailments and non-routine settlements is but which will affect the company’s financial position in the future losses. Except for capitalized development costs, all other internally exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that presented as part of payroll expenses. are disclosed if significant. generated intangibles are reflected in the Income statement in the would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment period in which the expenditure is incurred. loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recogUSE OF ESTIMATES. The preparation of the Group’s consolidated finanCASH FLOW STATEMENT. The cash flow statement is presented using The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite nized in the Income statement. cial statements in accordance with simplified IFRS requires management the indirect method. Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, bank or indefinite. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as part of the Group’s to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying deposits and other short-term, highly liquid financial assets with Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over the useful ecoannual plan process and when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period that maturities of three months or less. nomic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication value may be impaired. that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortization period for Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the amount of each CGU to which the goodwill relates. When the recover02 end of each reporting period. able amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but loss is recognized. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cashreversed in future periods. TRANSITION TO IFRS generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be annually at the CGU level, as appropriate, and when circumstances supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. is made on a prospective basis. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS. Research costs are expensed CASH AND BANK DEPOSITS. Cash and bank deposits in the Balance sheet comprise petty cash and cash at bank and short-term deposits With effect from 2014, including comparable figures from 2013, DNV GL Group has transitioned to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from Norwegian Accounting Standards (NGAAP). 3i Under previous NGAAP, DNV GL Group did not capitalize or measure development expenditures as assumed by IAS 38, and consequently no reliable estimate for development cost to be capitalized as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insigThe financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Norwegian existed at 1 January 2013. Based on this, development costs are only recognized as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: nificant risk of changes in value. Cash and bank deposits are initially Accounting Act § 3-9 and Regulations on Simplified IFRS as enacted recognized as an intangible asset subsequent to the transition to IFRS. The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that and subsequently measured at fair value. by the Ministry of Finance 3 November 2014. In all material aspects, the asset will be available for use or sale Norwegian Simplified IFRS requires that the IFRS recognition and measThe main effects of transition to IFRS 1 January 2013 for the Group are: Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell PROVISIONS. Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present urement criteria (as adopted by the European Union) are complied with, the asset How the asset will generate future economic benefits The availability of resources to complete the asset obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable (more likely than not) that the Group will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. but disclosure and presentation requirements (the notes) follow the Norwegian Accounting Act. DNV GL Group AS has prepared an IFRS opening balance sheet as Ai Acquisition-related costs incurred in the acquisition of N.V. KEMA and in the Business Combination with GL have under NGAAP been considered part of the acquisition cost, these costs have in line The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are disof 1 January 2013. The IFRS implementation effects identified for the with IFRS been expensed in the period the costs were incurred. counted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the Group are few and mainly related to amortization of goodwill not Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Amortization of the asset begins risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as a financial expense. allowed under IFRS and accounting for periodical maintenance for the Energy laboratories. The same principles used in the opening balance are used throughout the periods presented, therefore there are no Bi Goodwill related to the acquisition of N.V. KEMA and the Business Combination with GL have under NGAAP been amortized over the expected economic lifetime. These goodwill amortizations have been when development is complete and the asset is available for use. The POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS. The group operates various postchanges in accounting principles in these financial statements. reversed to comply with IFRS . No impairment of Goodwill in excess asset is amortized over the period of expected future benefit. During employment schemes, including both defined benefit and defined DNV GL Group have applied the following exemptions from retroof impairments reflected under NGAAP has been deemed necessary the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually. contribution pension plans. spective application of certain IFRSs: at 1 January 2013. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS. The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for pays fixed contribution into a separate entity (a fund) and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits relating 1i Cumulative currency translation differences for all foreign operations are deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2013. Ci Periodic maintenance /overhaul related to the laboratories in BA Energy have under NGAAP been built up as provisions for expected maintenance cost. In the transition to IFRS, the periodic maintenance/ an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The to employee service in the current and prior periods. The pension cost related to the defined contribution plans is equal to the contributions to the employee’s pension savings in the accounting period. 2i With the exception of the acquisition of N.V. KEMA late February 2012 and the business combination with GL SE Group in September 2013, the classification of former business combinations under previous overhaul have been recognized when the costs are incurred and amortized over its useful life. A related deferred tax effect has been recognized to reflect the temporary difference between the IFRS recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset Multi-employer plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. NGAAP is maintained, and the carrying amount of goodwill recognized adjustment for periodic maintenance /overhaul and related tax values. does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contriunder NGAAP has not been adjusted. from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying amount of an bution plan. In the defined benefit plans, the Group’s obligation is to asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered provide the agreed benefit to current and former employees, actuarial impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. risk and investment risk fall in substance on the Group. The Group’s defined benefit plans are both funded and unfunded. 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 87 4 NOTES RECONCILIATION OF TRANSITIONAL EFFECTS RECONCILIATION OF TRANSITIONAL EFFECTS DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP DNV GL GROUP AS (PARENT COMPANY) DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP There are no effects of transition to IFRS 1 January 2013 for the parent company DNV GL Group AS. IFRS effects included after 1 January 2013: (1 JAN. 2013) (31 DEC. 2013) A. Acquisition-related costs incurred in the Business Combination with GL have under NGAAP been considered part of the acquisition cost, BALANCE SHEET these costs have in line with IFRS been expensed in the period the costs were incurred. EFFECT OF TRANEFFECT OF TRANAMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION REF. NGAAP SITION TO IFRS IFRS NGAAP SITION TO IFRS IFRS DNV GL GROUP AS (31 DEC. 2013) Intangible assets A,B,C 1 823.7 30.8 1 854.4 11 309.2 195.6 11 504.8 BALANCE SHEET EFFECT OF TRANTangible ixed assets C 1 164.8 70.8 1 235.6 1 762.2 85.0 1 847.2 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION REF. NGAAP SITION TO IFRS IFRS Non-current inancial assets 473.8 473.8 783.2 783.2 Intangible and tangible ixed assets 0.2 0.2 Trade debtors, work in progress Non-current inancial assets A 11 558.7 (99.2) 11 459.5 and other receivables 4 386.0 4 386.0 7 520.2 7 520.2 Current assets 357.5 357.5 Cash and bank deposits 1 773.9 1 773.9 3 874.7 3 874.7 TOTAL ASSETS 11 916.4 (99.2) 11 817.2 TOTAL ASSETS 9 622.2 101.6 9 723.7 25 249.4 280.6 25 530.0 Equity A 10 800.3 (99.2) 10 701.1 Equity A,B,C 4 937.2 113.6 5 050.8 15 269.7 291.5 15 561.2 Total liabilities 1 116.1 1 116.1 Provisions 1 333.1 (12.0) 1 321.1 4 243.4 (11.0) 4 232.5 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 11 916.4 (99.2) 11 817.2 Current liabilities 3 351.9 3 351.9 5 736.3 5 736.3 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9 622.2 101.6 9 723.7 25 249.4 280.6 25 530.0 DNV GL GROUP AS (1 JAN.– 31 DEC. 2013) INCOME STATEMENT DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP EFFECT OF TRAN(1 JAN.– 31 DEC. 2013) AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION REF. NGAAP SITION TO IFRS IFRS INCOME STATEMENT EFFECT OF TRANAMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION REF. NGAAP SITION TO IFRS IFRS Operating revenue 0.0 0.0 Other operating expenses A 0.9 99.2 100.1 Operating revenue 15 234.1 15 234.1 Operating profit (0.9) (99.2) (100.1) Payroll expenses 8 446.3 8 446.3 Net inancial income 8.3 8.3 Depreciation C 267.7 3.7 271.3 Tax expense (0.4) (0.4) Amortization and impairment B 455.6 (252.6) 203.0 Profit for the period 7.0 (99.2) (92.2) Other operating expenses A, C 4 887.4 93.5 4 981.0 Operating profit 1 177.1 155.3 1 332.4 Net inancial income (14.1) (14.1) 03 Tax expense C (491.9) (1.1) (493.0) Profit for the period 671.0 154.3 825.3 GROUP INFORMATION DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP CONSIST OF SHARE CAPITAL 1 THE PARENT COMPANY DNV GL GROUP AS IN 1000 AND THE FOLLOWING SUBSIDIARIES: BUSINESS OFFICE LOCAL CURR. OWNERSHIP BOOK VALUE DNV GL AS Bærum, Norway NOK 5 000 100% 9 368.9 Det Norske Veritas Business Assurance Group AS Bærum, Norway NOK 1 033 100% 1.1 N.V. KEMA Arnhem, Netherlands EUR 9 015 100% 2 236.7 DNV KEMA AS (dormant) Bærum, Norway NOK 100 100% 0.1 Total investment in subsidiaries 11 606.7 1 incl. share premium 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 89 4 NOTES 04 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE 2013 On 20 December 2012, Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas and Mayfair Effective 1 January 2013, the shares in Det Norske Veritas Petroleum Vermögensverwaltungs SE (‘Mayfair’) signed an agreement to merge Services AS and in the real estate companies Det Norske Veritas CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE 2014 the GL group of companies into Det Norske Veritas Group AS to form Eiendom AS and Rosenberggata 101 AS were transferred to Det the DNV GL Group AS. The closing took place 11 September 2013. Norske Veritas Holding AS through a demerger of Det Norske Veritas Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas AS owns 63.5% through Det Norske Group AS (renamed DNV GL Group AS). 6 May 2014, DNV GL AS acquired 70% of the shares in Marine solidated accounts from 1 March 2012 with no minority interest and Veritas Holding AS and Mayfair ows 36.5%. Cybernetics AS. In addition, DNV GL AS has entered into an agreement the net present value of the expected payment for the remaining shares with the owners of the remaining 30% of the shares, where DNV GL AS has been reflected as a liability under other non-current liabilities. has an obligation to acquire the remaining shares after three years at This liability was settled 9 May 2014. ACQUISITIONS 2013 an agreed price. 100% of Marine Cybernetics AS has been included in In January 2014, NOK 47 million convertible loan to StormGeo the DNV GL Group AS consolidated accounts from 1 May 2014 with no Holding AS, including interest, was converted to equity. In addition, EXTERNAL ACQUISITION REVENUE INCL. minority interest. The expected payment for the remaining shares has a capital contribution/share issue of NOK 99 million has been made. PURCHASE COST LOCAL IN 2013 ACCT. been reflected as a liability under other non-current liabilities. After these transactions, DNV GL Group ownership (through DNV GL COMPANY / ACTIVITIES TRANSACTION DATE OWNERSHIP CURRENCY CURRENCY MILL NOK Marine Cybernetics is a leading provider of third-party testing and AS) in StormGeo Holding AS is 27%. The investment is recognized in verification of control system software for the maritime and offshore accordance with the equity method in the accounts of DNV GL Group AS. Business combination GL SE Group 11 Sept. 2013 100% EUR 1 200.0 1 575.0 industries. With increasing importance of software-dependent systems 12 March 2014, KEMA USA Inc. acquired 100% of the shares in PV Business acquired from DS Certiisering 31 Oct. 2013 100% DKK 54.0 10.0 in ensuring safe, reliable and efficient operations, the Marine Cybernetics Evolution Labs LLC (PVEL). The purchase price was NOK 34 million acquisition is a strategic investment in total system quality assurance which resulted in a goodwill of NOK 20.7 million. PVEL tests, assesses, The acquisition cost in excess of net book value of the equity has been allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets. to further broaden DNV GL’s service portifolio. and predicts the performance of solar panels and also other PV system 9 May 2014, DNV GL Group AS acquired the remaining 25.7% of the components. The acquisition fits well with DNV GL’s solar business shares in the N.V. KEMA Group. As part of the acquisition agreement and vision. PRELIMINARY PURCHASE ACQUISITION COST OF WHICH: PRICE ALLOCATION (PPA) from December 2011, DNV GL Group AS had an agreement with the In line with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, adjustments to the FOR THE ACQUISITION OF CUSTOM. minority share owners, where DNV GL Group AS had a call option on preliminary purchase price allocation for the acquisition of GL SE Group 100% OF GL SE GROUP1: TRADEMARKS CONT. & REL. TECHNOLOGY LIABILITIES DEF. TAX NET ASSETS GOODWILL acquiring the remaining shares after two years. The option structure have been reflecteed as a result of new information about facts and was such that it was highly unlikely at time of acquisition that an acquisition circumstances existing at the date of the acquisition. The adjustments PPA (NOK mill) 9 459.0 267.2 1 684.4 664.0 (145.8) (691.6) 2 083.5 5 597.1 of the remaining 25.7% of the shares would not take place after two years. led to a reduction of Technology with NOK 10.4 million, increased 100% of N.V. KEMA has been included in the DNV GL Group AS conliabilities of NOK 45.0 million and increased goodwill of NOK 55.4 The goodwill of NOK 5 597.1 million comprises the fair value of expected synergies and workforce arised from acquisition. million. The adjustments have been reflected in 2014. 1 Adjusted in 2014 based on new information about facts and circumstances existing at the date of the acquisition, ref section 6 under ‘Changes in group structure 2014’. CASH FLOW ON AQUISITION AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION ACQUISITIONS 2014 Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 2 670.8 EXTERNAL Consideration paid in cash 0.0 ACQUISITION REVENUE INCL. PURCHASE COST LOCAL IN 2014 ACCT. Net cash low on acquisition 2 670.8 COMPANY / ACTIVITIES TRANSACTION DATE OWNERSHIP CURRENCY CURRENCY MILL NOK 05 Marine Cybernetics AS 6 May 2014 70% EUR 324.1 72.0 EXTERNAL OPERATING REVENUE The acquisition cost in excess of net book value of the equity has been allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets. DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP PRELIMINARY PURCHASE ACQUISITION COST OF WHICH: AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION PRICE ALLOCATION (PPA) FOR THE ACQUISITION OF CUSTOM. CUSTOM. GEOGRAPHICAL AREA 2014 2013 MARINE CYBERNETICS AS: RELATIONS CONTRACTS TECHNOLOGY LIABILITIES DEF. TAX NET ASSETS GOODWILL Nordic countries 4 542.1 4 119.6 PPA (NOK mill) 209.3 10.8 9.8 79.8 (116.8) (27.1) 53.1 199.8 Europe and Africa 7 387.2 4 377.5 Asia Paciic 5 800.6 3 631.0 The fair value of the trade receivables amounts to NOK 36.1 million. from continuing operations for the Group. If the combination had taken None of the trade receivables have been impaired and it is expected place at the beginning of the year, revenue form continuing operations North and South America 3 892.9 3 106.0 that the full contractual amounts can be collected. would have been NOK 104.1 million and the profit before tax from Total operating revenue 21 622.8 15 234.1 From the date of acquisition, Marine Cybernetics AS contributed continuing operations for the Group would have been NOK 10.7 million. NOK 72.0 million of revenue and NOK 8.4 million to profit before tax The goodwill of NOK 199.8 million comprises the fair value of expected synergies and workforce from the acquisition. BUSINESS AREAS AND BUSINESS UNITS 2014 2013 CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION DNV GL – Maritime 8 805.8 5 700.3 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL – Oil & Gas 6 264.2 4 218.7 DNV GL – Energy 3 122.1 2 612.3 Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 46.5 DNV GL – Business Assurance 2 491.7 2 217.2 Consideration paid in cash (209.3) DNV GL – Software 783.3 445.0 Net cash low on acquisition (162.8) Marine Cybernetics 72.0 0.0 Other 83.7 40.6 Total operating revenue 21 622.8 15 234.1 For management purposes, the Group is organized into business areas based on the industries in which the Group operates. DNV GL is structured into four business areas; Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy and Business Assurance, and two independent business units; Software and Marine Cybernetics. 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 91 4 NOTES 06 PAYROLL EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP In 2014, harmonization plans were prepared and approved in order for legacy DNV and legacy GL to have a common compensation system from January 2015. Group CEO Henrik O. Madsen has a pensionable annual base salary Madsen has a right to retire at 62 years with a yearly pension equal to 66% of his pensionable annual base salary at date of retirement. In case of resignation before the age of 62, Group CEO is entitled to, given certain circumstances, a severance pay of maximum two years of base salary. of NOK 4 203 thousand and a functional allowance including free The Board of Directors may award a discretionary bonus to the Group AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2014 2013 housing of NOK 1 102 thousand. CEO, who is not eligible for the bonus bank scheme. Salaries 9 332.6 6 641.4 Payroll tax 1 213.7 908.5 REMUNERATIONS TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR 2014 Pension costs 645.3 593.0 AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND SALARY & FUNCTIONAL ALLOWANCE OTHER BENEFITS BONUS PENSION COST Other contributions 406.0 303.4 Total payroll expenses 11 597.5 8 446.3 Henrik O. Madsen 5 462.6 563.7 2 000.0 3 487.8 Man years (average) 15 428 10 890 Tor E. Svensen 3 217.1 64.3 467.6 1 178.8 Total bonus expenses 451.8 317.0 Remi Eriksen 2 777.4 123.0 406.5 609.0 Thomas Vogth-Eriksen 2 522.7 64.3 356.6 633.7 Cecilie B. Heuch 2 215.0 33.1 320.4 85.5 07 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP Luca Crisciotti David Walker Elisabeth Tørstad 2 006.3 2 670.4 1 726.4 73.9 298.6 299.7 213.5 316.3 94.4 630.5 0.0 374.6 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2014 2013 Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen 1 124.4 11.2 529.3 365.2 Lutz Wittenberg 1 464.1 57.3 1 849.8 465.8 Travel expenses 1 251.0 874.8 In addition, one former member of the Executive Committee has received total compenation of NOK 7 919.6 thousand including severance pay. Hired assistance 1 442.6 824.5 ICT and communication expenses 897.8 417.9 Rent and real estate expenses 826.4 517.4 LOANS TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AT 31 DEC. 2014 Loss on claim 95.2 43.6 AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND REPAYMENT LOAN AMOUNT INTEREST RATE PERIOD SECURITY Expenses group companies 228.0 170.3 Education and marketing 429.3 309.0 Henrik O. Madsen 1 257.6 1.13% Nov. 2018 Mortgage Administration expenses 1 009.1 765.9 Tor E. Svensen 423.4 1.13% Mar. 2018 Mortgage Other expenses 1 294.3 1 057.6 Thomas Vogth-Eriksen 1 692.4 1.13% Apr. 2024 Mortgage Total other operating expenses 7 473.8 4 981.0 Elisabeth Tørstad 997.8 1.13% May 2035 Mortgage The Group recognized expenses of NOK 727.4 million in relation to operating leases in 2014. Operating lease relates mainly to office rent, with lease terms between 1 to 15 years and company cars, with lease terms between 1 to 5 years. REMUNERATIONS TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PAID OUT IN 2014 AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS RELATING TO OPERATING LEASE 2014 REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION BOARD OF BOARD BOARD BOARD OF BOARD BOARD Within one year 592.2 DIRECTORS AUDIT COMPENSATION DIRECTORS AUDIT COMPENSATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE After one year but not more than ive years 1 613.8 More than ive years 928.3 Leif-Arne Langøy 204.0 50.0 J. Hinrich Stahl 136.0 75.0 32.5 Total 3 134.3 Günter H.W. Herz 160.0 Johannes Lafrentz 136.0 32.5 Morten Ulstein 136.0 32.5 Odd E. Sund 136.0 08 C. Thomas Rehder 136.0 Sille Grjotheim 136.0 REMUNERATIONS AND LOANS TO GROUP CEO, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETC. Hilde M. Tonne 136.0 60.0 Mette Bandholtz Nielsen 136.0 Christelle G.V. Martin 136.0 David McKay 136.0 Rebekka Glasser Herlofsen 136.0 60.0 Clemens Keuer 136.0 COMPENSATION GUIDELINES FOR THE GROUP CEO AND THE MEMBERS With effect from the beginning of 2012, a new bonus scheme with a retenOF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The compensation guidelines for the tion component was introduced to all employees in legacy DNV beyond members of the Executive Committee support DNV GL’s vision of being a given salary group level. This was done to become more aligned with a global organization with a long-term perspective. The main compenthe external market in relation to variable pay for those salary grade levels. sation elements are focused around a market based salary, a bonus The bonus is based on a combination of Business Area and Group EBITA FEES TO THE AUDITORS FOR 2014 GROUP AUDITOR GROUP AUDITOR scheme with a retention element and a few standard employee benefits results and target varies by salary grade and performance assessment. OTHER NORWEGIAN NON-NORWEGIAN OTHER AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND in line with the local markets. Target bonus for the Executive Committee is 25% and the maximum value DNV GL GROUP AS ENTITIES ENTITIES AUDITORS TOTAL The Group CEO and executive management team participate in the is at 50% of base salary. The earned bonus is divided in three parts and standard pension and insurance schemes applicable to the employees the first part is paid the following year and thereafter another third the Statutory audit 2 625.0 1 875.0 17 355.0 4 093.7 25 948.7 in Norway, United Kingdom, Germany and Italy respectively. The legacy following two years. The pay-outs are forfeited if the executive resigns. DNV members of the Executive Committee (except Group CEO) have The Legacy GL members of the Executive Committee have individual Tax consulting services 663.0 6 077.5 691.8 7 432.3 standard employment contracts and standard terms and conditions compensation agreements defined in their employment contracts. Other audit related services 791.0 2 682.0 285.3 3 758.3 regarding notice period and severance pay. Being partly owned by The total compensation includes a pensionable fixed salary, nona foundation, DNV GL Group does not offer share option programmes. Non-audit services 169.0 91.0 572.7 832.7 pensionable fixed salary as well as a variable bonus part. 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 93 4 NOTES FUNDED NORWEGIAN GERMAN OTHER DEFINED BENEFIT DEFINED BENEFIT DEFINED BENEFIT 09 PENSION PLANS PENSION PLANS PENSION PLANS NET PENSION ASSET (LIABILITIES) PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION LIABILITIES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 14 31 DEC. 13 1 JAN . 13 31 DEC. 14 31 DEC. 13 1 JAN . 13 31 DEC. 14 31 DEC. 13 1 JAN . 13 Market value of plan assets 5 808.4 5 397.7 4 743.6 61.1 46.1 37.1 2 018.2 1 445.0 1 066.3 DNV GL Group AS has both defined benefit pension plans and defined The basis for calculating the pension cost and the pension liabilities Actuarial present value contribution pension plans. The structure of the pension plans depends as included in the accounts and in this note, is based on the presented on the legal, tax and economic conditions in the respective country, actuarial assumptions, together with remuneration of the employee of pension liabilities (5 955.3) (5 087.6) (4 634.2) (2 347.3) (1 784.0) (169.3) (2 311.6) (1 657.8) (1 121.1) and is usually based on length of service and remuneration of the and length of service. Payroll tax (93.1) (28.8) (57.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 employee. The defined benefit pension plans are covered through Contribution to the Group’s pension plans are made in accordance separate pension funds, through arrangements with independent with common actuarial methods in the country where the pension plan Net pension asset (liabilities) (240.0) 281.3 52.0 (2 286.1) (1 737.9) (132.2) (293.4) (212.8) (54.9) insurance companies or as unfunded plans. is administered. Total pension costs for 2014 are NOK 645.3 million, Hereof recorded as plan assets 5 769 persons are covered by defined benefit pension plans, while of which NOK 472.0 million are related to the defined benefit pension 11 524 employees are covered by the defined contribution pension plan. plans and NOK 173.3 million are related to the contribution pension in balance sheet 0.0 283.0 52.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.9 0.0 0.0 The defined benefit pension plans in Norway are financed through plans. Hereof recorded as pension a separate pension fund. For defined benefit pension plans in Germany, The Norwegian companies in the Group are subject to the Norwegian liabilities in balance sheet (240.0) (1.7) 0.0 (2 286.1) (1 737.9) (132.2) (298.3) (212.8) (54.9) the major plans are unfunded with the gross liability reflected as a Pension Act. The companies’ pension schemes fulfil the requirements pension liability, however there are also pension plans in Germany of the law. Norwegian employees are covered either by the Norwegian financed through independent insurance companies. Of the other defined contribution pension plan (mainly employees employed after defined benefit pension plans, the major UK plans are financed through 1 January 2005), or the defined benefit pension plan organized in one The assumptions for calculation of the pension liabilities in Norway have Effective from 31 December 2014, the defined benefit pension plan a separate pension fund, while the other plans are mainly financed Norwegian pension fund (employees employed before 1 January 2005) been changed, including reduced discount rate (covered bonds) from in Norway was capped at 12G (G = Norwegian government basis for through independent administrative funds/insurance companies. and in one unfunded pension plan (employees employed before 3.9% to 2.3%, salary adjustment from 4% to 3%, pension benefit adjustpension). NOK 174 million is reflected as reduced pension liabilities 1 January 2005). The pension assets in the Norwegian pension fund ment from 2% to 1.8% and Norwegian government basis for pension and gain from change of pension plan in 2014. are invested as follows: from 3% to 2.5%. The changed assumptions lead to increased pension End of service benefit schemes in some countries outside Norway, liabilities of NOK 1 062 million in 2014. considered to be defined benefit schemes, have been actuarially The assumptions (discount rate ) for calculation of the pension liabilities calculated. The total liability not included in above table amounts in Germany have been changed from 3.5% to 2.2%, leading to increased to NOK 81 million at year-end (NOK 61 million in 2013 and NOK MARKET VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS IN NORWAY pension liabilities of NOK 344 million in 2014. 53 million in 1 January 2013). AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 14 31 DEC. 13 1 JAN. 13 Buildings and property 352.0 330.0 273.1 THE CALCULATIONS OF THE PENSION LIABILITIES ARE BASED ON THE FOLLOWNORWEGIAN SCHEMES GERMAN SCHEMES OTHER SCHEMES Mutual equity funds and hedge funds 2 325.7 2 222.8 1 776.3 ING ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS: Norwegian bonds and bond funds 1 166.5 745.4 733.6 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 14 31 DEC. 13 1 JAN . 13 31 DEC. 14 31 DEC. 13 1 JAN . 13 31 DEC. 14 31 DEC. 13 1 JAN . 13 Non-Norwegian bonds and bond funds 195.0 437.4 619.1 Discount rate1 2.3% 3.9% 3.8% 2.2% 3.5–3.6% 3.6% 2.1–3.7% 3.0–4.7% 3.6–4.5% Bank accounts, other assets and liabilities 1 754.2 1 636.0 1 341.5 Projected annual salary Total market value of plan assets Norway adjustment 3.0% 4.0% 4.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 2.0–4.0% 3.0–4.3% 3.0–4.0% (DNV GL Pension fund) 5 793.4 5 371.6 4 743.6 Projected annual increase Actual return on plan assets 459.8 593.3 395.2 in pension beneit 1.8% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 0.0–3.2% 0.0–3.0% 0.0–3.0% Projected annual increase in Norwegian government FUNDED NORWEGIAN GERMAN OTHER basis pension 2.5% 3.0% 3.0% DEFINED BENEFIT DEFINED BENEFIT DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS PENSION PLANS PENSION PLANS Expected annual return PENSION COST AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION on plan assets 2.3% 3.9% 3.8% 2.2% 3.6% 3.6% 2.1–3.7% 3.8–4.7% 3.6–5.7% 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 1 Covered bond rate for Norwegian schemes. Net present value of this year’s pension contribution 169.2 159.8 37.8 11.9 41.5 29.1 The retirement age in the group differs from country to country. from 65 to 67 years based on the year of birth of the plan members. Effect of plan changes 175.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 In the most significant pension plans the ordinary retirement age is Some managers and employees are entitled to early retirement 67 years (Norway) and 65–67 years (Germany). To align with German before 67, with full pension rights earned. Payroll tax 48.5 22.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 regulations, the major German pension plans are gradually shifting Net present value of this year’s pension contribution 392.7 182.4 37.8 11.9 41.5 29.1 Net interest on the net deined beneit liability (asset) (14.3) (6.2) 58.6 18.3 7.3 (4.2) SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF PENSION CALCULATIONS. The sensitivity reporting period, while keeping all other assumtions unchanged. Payroll tax (2.0) (1.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible Sensitivities decrease (increase) the benefit obligation year-end. changes of the respective assumptions occuring at the end of the Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (16.3) (7.2) 58.6 18.3 7.3 (4.2) DISCOUNT RATE FUTURE SALARY INCREASES ASSUMPTIONS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% INCREASE DECREASE INCREASE DECREASE Impact on deined beneit obligation Norwegian plans 583.8 (510.6) (261.1) 214.7 Impact on deined beneit obligation German plans 174.1 (178.3) (24.0) 23.8 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 95 4 NOTES 10 FINANCIAL INCOME AND FINANCIAL EXPENSES 12 TAX DNV GL GROUP AS DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP DNV GL GROUP AS DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP 2014 2013 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2014 2013 2014 2013 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2014 2013 3.0 4.5 Dividend from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 Tax expense consists of: 176.0 4.3 Group contribution received 0.0 0.0 7.0 0.0 Norwegian income tax 106.2 147.8 0.0 0.0 Proit (loss) from investment in associates (note 16) 22.8 (5.5) 0.4 0.3 Income tax outside Norway 656.7 496.6 0.0 0.0 Net interest on the net deined beneit liability (asset) (Note 9) (49.5) (7.0) 7.4 0.3 Total tax payable 762.9 644.4 6.7 6.6 Other interest received 35.6 27.4 (15.8) 0.0 Change in deferred tax in Norway 45.2 (27.8) (4.8) (3.0) Net interest expense group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Effect of changed tax rate Norway 0.0 5.9 (12.3) (0.1) Other interest expenses (44.8) (31.7) 0.0 0.0 Change in deferred tax outside Norway (133.7) (129.5) (190.0) 3.4 Currency gains (losses) 118.8 (7.4) (15.8) 0.0 Total change in deferred tax (88.5) (151.4) (6.4) (7.3) Other inancial items (12.9) 10.1 (8.4) 0.4 Tax expense 674.4 493.0 (27.8) 8.3 Net financial income (expenses) 69.9 (14.1) (8.0) (25.7) Tax on proit at 27% (28% in 2013) 454.0 369.1 Tax effect of: 11 0.0 0.0 Foreign tax exempt branches (24.1) (28.4) FINANCIAL MARKET RISK 0.0 0.0 Non refundable foreign withholding taxes 27.7 44.8 (0.4) 26.1 Other permanent differences 79.5 87.6 0.0 0.0 Changes of previous years taxes 137.6 (8.1) The Group’s main financial market risks are liquidity risk, foreign million and a change in operating profit (EBIT) of approximately +/– currency risk, credit risk and interest rate risk. NOK 3 million. A change in EUR exchange rate of +/– 1 percentage 0.0 0.0 Tax assets not recognized current year 21.0 7.9 point will lead to a change in operating revenue of approximately 0.0 0.0 Differences between tax rates in Norway and abroad (21.2) 20.1 LIQUIDITY RISK. The Group monitors its liquidity risk on an ongoing +/– NOK 53 million and an insignificant change in operating basis. The liquidity forecasting considers planned investments in nonprofit (EBIT). (8.4) 0.4 Tax expense 674.4 493.0 current assets, financing activities, working capital needs, as well Effective tax rate 40% 42% as projected cash flows from operations. CREDIT RISK. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is limited. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK. The Group has revenues and expenses There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. in approximately 70 currencies. Of these, six currencies (NOK, EUR, With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of Net tax-reducing / tax-increasing temporary differences: USD, CNY, KRW and GBP) make up for approximately 76% of the total the Group, which comprises cash and cash equivalents and certain 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets 3 127.6 3 332.1 revenue. In many currencies the group has a natural hedge through derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises a balance of revenue and expenses. The policy of the Group is to from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal 0.0 0.0 Current assets 149.5 (93.8) hedge significant project exposures and balance sheet items where to the market value of these instruments. (59.1) (0.6) Liabilities (3 139.1) (1 890.9) the re-evaluation has a direct impact on the profit and loss account. Major imbalances are hedged through forward exchange contracts. INTEREST RATE RISK. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes 0.0 0.0 Tax loss to be carried forward (1 285.5) (1 081.7) As part of this hedging, the Group has forward exchange contracts in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s forward in 6 currencies, totalling a net amount of approximately NOK 1 965 exchange contracts. (59.1) (0.6) Basis for deferred tax asset/liability (1 147.5) 265.7 million. The most important contracts are in USD (61%) and KRW (17%). 27% 27% Tax rates applied 17%-42% 17%-42% The Group does not apply hedge accounting and realized and PENSION PLAN RISK. The Group is exposed to volatility in the finanunrealized gains and losses are recognized in the income statement. cial market affecting the value of the pension plan assets. The Group 16.0 0.2 Deferred tax asset 1 192.6 856.2 Unrealized net loss at year-end is NOK 59.8 million. is also exposed to interest rate volatility effecting the pension liabilities. 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax liability (988.1) (982.7) A change in USD exchange rate of +/– 1 percentage point will lead In addition, inflation and real wages development will have impact to a change in operating revenue of approximately +/– NOK 31 on the pension liabilities. The Group has accumulated tax-loss to be carried forward amounting to NOK 902.6 million. As the future utilization of these tax losses cannot be demonstrated, the related deferred tax asset (DTA) of NOK 186.2 million, is not recognized in the balance sheet. 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 97 4 NOTES 13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS 14 IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL OTHER CUSTOMER CUSTOMER INTANGIBLE Goodwill obtained through acquisitions is allocated to the Group’s business areas and followed up and tested collectively for the group of AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION GOODWILL CONTRACTS RELATIONS TECHNOLOGY TRADEMARKS ASSETS TOTAL cash-generating units that constitute the business area. The cash-generating units correspond to DNV GL’s business areas Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy, Business Assurance, Software and Marine Cybernetics. Goodwill is allocated to the business areas as follows: Acquisition cost AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2014 2013 1 January 2013 1 035.8 0.0 306.6 11.1 97.4 0.0 1 450.9 Additions 5 545.5 347.5 1 495.5 689.3 340.1 246.7 8 664.6 Maritime 2 687.3 2 458.8 Translation differences 665.1 9.9 86.5 21.0 23.6 7.4 813.5 Oil & Gas 3 207.8 2 933.9 Total acquisition cost 31 Dec. 2013 7 246.49 357.4 1 888.6 721.4 461.1 254.1 10 929.1 Energy 1 887.7 1 717.3 Additions 219.6 19.0 10.8 79.8 12.6 182.7 524.5 Business Assurance 68.2 62.0 Adjustment to Purchase Price Software 17.4 17.4 Allocation GL SE (note 4) 55.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (10.4) 45.0 Marine Cybernetics 199.8 0.0 Translation differences 606.0 30.1 169.0 61.7 40.8 22.6 930.3 Total goodwill 8 068.3 7 189.4 Total acquisition cost 31 Dec. 2014 8 127.53 406.5 2 068.4 862.8 514.5 449.0 12 428.9 The Group has used value in use to determine recoverable amounts for the cash-generating units. Value in use is determined by using the discounted cash flow method. The expected cash flows are based on the business areas’ budgets and long-term plans, which are approved Accumulated amortization by the Board of Directors and executive management. Budgets and long-term plans cover maximum a five year period. After the five years of explicit plans, the cash flows are stipulated by extrapolation. and impairment 1 January 2013 (35.2) 0.0 (25.9) (3.5) 0.0 0.0 (64.7) KEY ASSUMPTIONS Amortization 0.0 (32.8) (71.3) (40.5) 0.0 (39.8) (184.5) Impairment (18.5) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (18.5) Cost of capital (WACC) 9.0% Translation differences (3.3) (0.8) (6.9) (0.9) 0.0 (0.9) (12.8) Long-term nominal growth rate 1.5% Total accum. amortization An increase in WACC of 1% will not result in impairment in any of the cash generating units. and impairment 31 Dec. 2013 (57.1) (33.6) (104.1) (44.9) 0.0 (40.8) (280.6) Amortization 0.0 (129.1) (194.1) (163.6) 0.0 (49.2) (535.9) 15 Impairment 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (55.6) (55.6) Translation differences (2.2) (14.2) (25.9) (17.1) 0.0 (8.4) (67.8) FIXED ASSETS Total accum. amortization and impairment 31 Dec. 2014 (59.3) (176.9) (324.2) (225.6) 0.0 (154.0) (939.9) LAND, BUILDINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT, AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION OTHER PROPERTY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS TOTAL Net book value Acquisition cost 31 December 2014 8 068.3 229.7 1 744.3 637.2 514.5 295.1 11 489.0 1 January 2013 920.6 2 071.1 2 991.7 31 December 2013 7 189.4 323.8 1 784.5 676.4 461.1 213.3 10 648.5 Additions 154.3 303.9 458.2 Additions from business combinations 64.0 259.7 323.7 Useful life 1–5 years 6–16 years 5–7 years Indef. 5–10 years Disposals (7.4) (137.4) (144.8) Translation differences 110.5 206.7 317.2 Total acquisition cost 31 December 2013 1 242.0 2 703.9 3 945.9 Other intangible assets mainly consist of capitalised software development costs and acquired software. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested annually for impairment (note 14). Additions 75.6 523.2 598.7 Other intangible assets are amortized linearly, based on evaluation of useful life. Additions from business combinations 8.6 3.2 11.8 Trademarks has an indefinite useful life and are not amortized but tested for impairment annually. Disposals (2.1) (109.6) (111.7) Translation differences 113.2 274.4 387.6 Total acquisition cost 31 December 2014 1 437.2 3 395.1 4 832.3 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 99 4 NOTES FIXED ASSETS CONTINUED 18 LAND, BUILDINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT, AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION OTHER PROPERTY FIXTURES AND FITTINGS TOTAL TRADE DEBTORS Accumulated depreciation DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP 1 January 2013 203.3 1 552.8 1 756.1 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 2014 31 DEC. 2013 1 JAN. 2013 Depreciation for the year 75.6 195.8 271.4 Disposals (2.7) (115.4) (118.0) Gross trade debtors 5 485.9 4 575.2 2 678.4 Translation differences 24.5 164.8 189.4 Provision for bad debts (344.2) (307.0) (100.0) Total acccumulated depreciation 31 December 2013 300.8 1 798.0 2 098.8 Net trade debtors 5 141.7 4 268.2 2 578.3 Depreciation for the year 90.8 257.6 348.4 Disposals (0.8) (80.3) (81.1) 19 Translation differences 34.9 220.3 255.2 OTHER LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES Total acccumulated depreciation 31 December 2014 425.7 2 195.5 2 621.3 DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP Net book value AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 2014 31 DEC. 2013 1 JAN. 2013 31 December 2014 1 011.5 1 199.6 2 211.1 31 December 2013 941.2 906.0 1 847.1 Loans to employees 59.0 69.9 59.6 Convertible loan to StormGeo Holding AS 0.0 46.7 42.4 Useful life 15–67 years 3–15 years Other long-term receivables 300.4 332.7 268.9 Depreciation plan Linear Linear Total other long-term receivables 359.5 449.3 370.9 16 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES In January 2014, NOK 47 million of convertable loan to StormGeo After these transactions, DNV GL Group AS’ ownership (through 20 PROVISIONS DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP Holding AS, included interests, was converted to equity. The converDNV GL AS) in StormGeo Holding AS is 27%. The investment is AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION LITIGATION RISKS OTHERS TOTAL sion resulted in a gain of NOK 26.3 million. In addition, a capital recognized in accordance with the equity method in the consolidated contribution/share issue of NOK 99 million has been made. financial statements. Balance at 1 January 2013 45.1 52.4 97.5 Currency translation differences 6.1 6.7 12.8 COMPANY SHARE OF PROFIT AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION BUSINESS OFFICE OWNERSHIP ACQUISITION COST FOR THE YEAR BOOK VALUE Additions 7.5 20.0 27.5 Additions from business combinations 180.9 20.1 201.0 DNV Nemko Presafe AS Oslo 50% 14.1 (2.2) 6.3 Utilization (23.0) (52.3) (75.3) StormGeo Holding AS Bergen 27% 145.5 25.0 141.1 Reversal 0.0 0.0 0.0 Book value in StormGeo Holding has in 2014 been adjusted for a negative change in other comprehensive income of NOK 29.4 million. Balance at 31 December 2013 216.6 46.9 263.5 Current 66.5 35.3 101.8 17 Non-current 150.1 11.6 161.7 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Balance at 1 January 2014 216.6 46.9 263.5 DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP Currency translation differences 14.2 1.7 16.0 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 2014 31 DEC. 2013 1 JAN. 2013 Additions 38.0 70.4 108.4 Advances from customers 2 052.4 1 897.2 1 165.1 Utilization (23.0) (32.6) (55.7) Accrued bonus to employees 624.0 620.7 304.0 Reversal (57.1) 0.0 (57.1) Accrued holiday allowances 558.8 503.0 354.3 Balance at 31 December 2014 188.7 86.4 275.1 Unrealized loss (gain) and interest related to forward contracts 58.7 38.1 (171.0) Current 78.0 86.4 164.4 Accrued expenses and other short-term liabilities 1 290.0 1 104.3 689.9 Non-current 110.7 0.0 110.7 Total other short-term liabilities 4 584.0 4 163.3 2 342.4 Provisions for litigation risks concern fair value of pending legal disputes from acquisitions and provisions for other pending legal disputes. Included in other provisions are provisions for restucturing, termination benefits and onerous contracts. 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 101 4 NOTES 21 CASH AND BANK DEPOSITS 26 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP DNV GL Group AS has a cash pool system with DNB ASA, in which DNV GL Group AS’ wholly owned subsidiary in India, DNV Business most of legacy DNV legal entities participate. This system includes Assurance India Private Ltd has an agreement for an INR 250 million an overdraft facility of NOK 50 million. credit facility with Citibank in India. The facility is guaranteed by AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OTHER DNV GL Group AS’ wholly owned subsidiary in China, Det Norske DNV GL Group AS through a parent company guarantee. The facility AT FAIR VALUE LOANS AND AVAILABLE FINANCIAL Veritas China Company Ltd has an agreement for a CNY 150 million is overdrafted at year-end 2014 with INR 37.8 million. 31 DECEMBER 2014 THROUGH P&L RECEIVABLES FOR SALE LIABILITIES credit facility with Citibank in China. The facility is guaranteed by Balances on bank accounts participating in the cash pooling systems DNV GL AS through a parent company guarantee. The facility is are considered as internal assets or liabilities vis-à-vis other Group Assets – non-current assets undrawn at year-end 2014. participants. For DNV GL Group AS on a consolidated basis, the net DNV GL Group AS has a cash pool system with Handelsbanken, total balance of NOK 593 million with DNB ASA, NOK 22 million with Available for sale investments 42.6 in which all of DNV GL Group AS’ legal entities in Sweden, Finland, Handelsbanken and NOK 68 million with Citibank are included in Loans to employees 59.0 Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania participate. Cash and bank deposits in the balance sheet at 31 December. DNV GL Group AS has a cash pool system with Citibank, in which Cash and bank deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks Other long-term receivables 300.4 most of legacy DNV legal entities in the Euro-countries participate. and on hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Assets – current assets 22 Cash and bank deposits 3 978.2 LONG-TERM LOANS Trade debtors 5 141.7 Other debtors 928.5 DNV GL Group AS has an agreement for a NOK 1 600 million multiThe credit agreement supporting this facility has certain covenants, currency revolving credit facility with Handelsbanken Norwegian including a negative pledge clause, and also restrict DNV GL Group branch of Svenska Handelsbanken AB. The facility expires in December AS’ ability to freely dispose of material assets. The credit agreement Financial liabilities – non-current 2016 and as per year-end 2014 NOK 200 mill was drawn. In addition, further requires that DNV GL Group AS on a consolidated basis Interest bearing loans and borrowings 500.0 NOK 300 mill was drawn short-term from UniCredit Bank AG. The maintains a certain minimum level of equity and that the net interest Other non-current liabilities 515.5 whole amount of NOK 500 mill has been repaid in January 2015. bearing debt does not exceed a set level relative to total equity. DNV GL Group AS was well within all covenants at year-end. Financial liabilities – current 23 GUARANTEES DNV GL GROUP AS DNV GL GROUP AS – GROUP Trade creditors Overdrafts Forward contracts 58.7 476.6 4.5 31 DEC. 14 31 DEC. 13 1 JAN . 13 AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 14 31 DEC. 13 1 JAN . 13 0.0 0.0 0.0 Guarantee commitments not included in the accounts 293.8 206.1 152.4 31 DECEMBER 2013 These guarantees are not secured by mortgage. Assets – non-current assets Available for sale investments 42.4 24 Loans to employees 69.9 SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERS Convertible loan to StormGeo Holding AS 46.7 Other long-term receivables 332.7 The share capital of DNV GL Group AS consist of 1 000 000 shares, and 36.5% by Mayfair Beteiligungsfonds II GmbH & Co. KG with with par value of NOK 100 each. The company is owned 63.5% by business office in Hamburg, Germany. Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, with business office in Bærum, Norway Assets – current assets Cash and bank deposits 3 874.7 Trade debtors 4 268.2 25 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS DNV GL AS has a lease agreement for the office buildings at Høvik and administrative services. The revenue reflected for these services Other debtors Financial liabilities – non-current 750.9 Stavanger, Norway with the related party Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS, in 2014 is NOK 11 million. Other non-current liabilities 1 135.5 the rent expensed in 2014 amounts to NOK 222 million. DNV GL AS has a service agreement with the related party DNV GL DNV GL AS has a lease agreement for the office building in Stavanger, Pension fund for management and administrative services. The revenue Norway with the related party DNV GL Pension fund, the rent expensed reflected for these services in 2014 is NOK 2.7 million. Financial liabilities – current in 2014 amounts to NOK 4.5 million. Several subsidiaries of DNV GL Group AS have business transactions Trade creditors 576.8 DNV GL SE has a lease agreement for the office building in Hamburg, with the related party DNV Nemko Presafe AS. Total revenue reflected Germany with the related party BTK 18 GmbH, the rent expensed in 2014 was NOK 5 million and total expenses incurred NOK 12 million. Forward contracts 38.1 for 2014 amounts to NOK 60 million. Certain key personnel in Germany have received retention bonuses DNV GL AS has a management services agreement with the related from the related party Mayfair SE in 2014. There are no unsettled party Det Norske Veritas Holding AS for general management and retention bonuses as per 31 December 2014. The total retention bonuses received amounts to NOK 61 million in 2014. 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 103 4 AUDITOR’S REPORT AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON SPECIFIED INFORMATION IN DNV GL GROUP AS’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and the Group as at 31 December 2014 and their that we comply with ethical requirements and engagement vary in nature from, and are inancial performance and cash lows for the year plan and perform the assurance engagement less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance TO THE ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF DNV GL GROUP AS then ended in accordance with the Norwegian TO DNV GL GROUP AS to obtain limited assurance on whether any engagement conducted in accordance with Accounting Act and accounting standards and matters have come to our attention that IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality practices generally accepted in Norway. would cause us to believe that the above Control and other generally accepted auditing REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS that we comply with ethical requirements and We have been engaged by the management speciied information has not been prepared, standards. The procedures performed conseplan and perform the audit to obtain reasonREPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY of DNV GL Group AS to perform a limited assurin all material respects, in accordance with quently do not enable us to obtain assurance We have audited the accompanying inancial able assurance about whether the inancial REQUIREMENTS ance engagement on certain sustainability inforthe reporting criteria. that we would become aware of all signiicant statements of DNV GL Group AS, comprising statements are free from material misstatement. mation stated as externally assured in the GRI G4 matters that might be identiied in a reasonable the inancial statements for the Parent Company OPINION ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT. index on page 106 and the inside back cover Our limited assurance statement is provided assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do and the Group. The inancial statements of An audit involves performing procedures to Based on our audit of the inancial statements in the printed version of DNV GL Group AS only on the information referenced as externot express a reasonable assurance conclusion. the Parent Company and the Group comprise obtain audit evidence about the amounts and as described above, it is our opinion that the Annual Report for the inancial year 2014. nally assured in the GRI G4 index. We have the statement of inancial position as at 31 disclosures in the inancial statements. The information presented in the Directors’ report not been engaged to provide assurance Our procedures are based on the criteria December 2014, the statements of income, procedures selected depend on the auditor’s concerning the inancial statements, the going MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY. The Manageon amounts or other disclosures relating deined by the Management as described comprehensive income, cash lows and judgment, including the assessment of the concern assumption and the proposal for the ment of DNV GL Group AS is responsible for to the prior reporting periods presented above. We consider these criteria suitable for changes in equity for the year then ended as risks of material misstatement of the inancial allocation of the result is consistent with the preparing and presenting the information by DNV GL Group AS. The presented inforthe preparation of the Sustainability Report. well as a summary of signiicant accounting statements, whether due to fraud or error. inancial statements and complies with the referenced to in the GRI G4 index in accordmation referenced to in the GRI G4 index policies and other explanatory information. In making those risk assessments, the auditor law and regulations. ance with the reporting criteria as set out is to be considered in connection with the We believe that the evidence we have considers internal control relevant to the in the company’s own reporting guidelines explanatory information on data collection, obtained is suficient and appropriate to THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ AND GROUP PRESentity’s preparation and fair presentation OPINION ON REGISTRATION AND DOCUMENTATION. as well as the Global Reporting Initiative’s consolidation and assessments provided provide a basis for our conclusion below. IDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S RESPONof the inancial statements in order to design Based on our audit of the inancial statements (GRI) Guidelines G4. by DNV GL Group AS. This independent SIBILITY FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The audit procedures that are appropriate in the as described above, and control procedures limited assurance report should not be CONCLUSION. Based on our work described Board of Directors and Group President and circumstances, but not for the purpose of we have considered necessary in accordance AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY. Our responsibility is used on its own as a basis for interpreting in this report, nothing has come to our Chief Executive Oficer are responsible for expressing an opinion on the effectiveness with the International Standard on Assurance to express a conclusion on the above speciied DNV GL Group AS performance in relation attention that causes us to believe that the the preparation and fair presentation of these of the entity’s internal control. An audit also Engagements (ISAE) 3000, «Assurance Engageinformation based on the limited assurance to its principles of corporate responsibility. information regarding the above speciied inancial statements in accordance with the includes evaluating the appropriateness of ments Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical procedures we have performed. The selection information has not, in all material respects, Norwegian Accounting Act and accounting accounting policies used and the reasonaFinancial Information», it is our opinion that of information to be reviewed has been made Our review procedures are designed to been prepared in accordance with the standards and practices generally accepted bleness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and Group President by the management of DNV GL Group AS. obtain limited assurance on whether the reporting criteria stated above. in Norway, and for such internal control as the management, as well as evaluating the overand Chief Executive Oficer have fulilled their We do not accept, nor assume responsibility above speciied information are presented Board of Directors and Group President and all presentation of the inancial statements. duty to ensure that the Company’s accounting to anyone else, except to DNV GL Group AS in accordance with the Sustainability Oslo, 18 May 2015 Chief Executive Oficer determine is necessary information is properly recorded and docufor our work, for the limited assurance report, Reporting Guidelines of the Global ReportErnst & Young AS to enable the preparation of inancial stateWe believe that the audit evidence we have mented as required by law and generally or for the conclusion that we have reached. ing Initiative, G4, in all material respects. ments that are free from material misstatement, obtained is suficient and appropriate to accepted bookkeeping practice in Norway. A limited assurance engagement consists Finn Ole Edstrøm whether due to fraud or error. provide a basis for our audit opinion on the We conducted our limited assurance engageof making inquiries, primarily of persons Authorized Public Accountant inancial statements for the Parent Company ment in accordance with the International responsible for the preparation of the inforAUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY. Our responsibility and the Group. Oslo, 30 April 2015 Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) mation referenced to in the GRI G4 index Håkan Ulrichs is to express an opinion on these inancial Ernst & Young AS 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other than and applying analytical and other evidence Partner Climate Change statements based on our audit. We conducted OPINION. In our opinion, the inancial stateAudits or Reviews of Historical Financial gathering procedures, as appropriate. The & Sustainability Services our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, ments of DNV GL Group AS have been preFinn Ole Edstrøm Information’. The ISAE 3000 standard requires procedures performed in a limited assurance and auditing standards and practices generally pared in accordance with laws and regulations State Authorised Public accepted in Norway, including International and present fairly, in all material respects, Accountant (Norway) Standards on Auditing. Those standards require the inancial position of the Parent Company PUBLISHED BY: SUBSCRIPTION: FEEDBACK: CONCEPT AND DESIGN: Gyro: Cover, page 4 (badge), 19 Erin Heard: page 25 (wind turbines). Paper: Artic Volume Group Communications, You can subscribe to printed Please let us know your views or and 24. Johs Bøe: page 11, 17, iStock: page 25 (food safety). (130 / 200g) DNV GL Group AS copies of the report and other comments on this report by email fasett.no 20 and 21. Jo Michael: page 23. Alamy: page 14. Xvision: page 45. Circulation: 25,000 Editor: Per Busk Christiansen DNV GL publications on to communications@dnvgl.com Nina Eirin Rangøy: page Statoil/Kim Laland: page 15. Print: 07 Media dnvgl.com/resources/publications or write to us at: DNV GL, ILLUSTRATIONS: 26–27, 48–49, 74–75 and 61. Statoil: page 53 (platform). Group Communications, page 8–9 and 28–41 Damir Cvetojevic: page 57. Getty Images: page 13, 16, NO-1322 Høvik, Norway. Magnus Dorati: page 65. 18 and 53. 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 105 GRI CONTENT INDEX SCOPE AND BOUNDARY GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERAL IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION EXTERNAL STANDARD PAGE NUMBER (OR LINK) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) FOR OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 p. 10–11 N/A N/A N/A Yes G4-2 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/key-sustainability-risks-impacts-and-opportunities.html N/A N/A N/A Yes This annual report presents DNV GL’s inancial, social DNV GL – Business Assurance also conduct large scale and environmental performance. The Global Reporting annual customer surveys of thousands of customers, ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and engage stakeholders through a wide range of G4-3 DNV GL Group N/A N/A N/A Yes (GRI G4) have been applied in preparing the report. committees. The GRI Content Index on the inside G4-4 p. 8–9 N/A N/A N/A Yes back cover of the report shows where you can ind G4-5 Inside front cover N/A N/A N/A Yes The selection of reported aspects is based on a systeminformation on the material GRI Aspects, as well as G4-6 Inside front cover N/A N/A N/A Yes atic and comprehensive materiality assessment conducton our environmental performance. These aspects are G4-7 p. 22 N/A N/A N/A Yes ed in 2012–2013, involving a range of internal and external reported on according to the ‘Comprehensive’ level. G4-8 Inside front cover, p. 8–9 N/A N/A N/A Yes stakeholders (customers, civil society organisations, We also report on a selection of other relevant GRI G4-9 Number of employees: p. 6. Number of operations: 381 ofices in 83 countries. Net sales: p. 76 N/A N/A N/A Yes industry associations, management and employees). indicators (see page 50-51 and on www.dnvgl.com/ Total capitalization: p. 81. Quantity of products or services provided: 31 about/sustainability/how-we-report/materiality G4-10 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html N/A N/A N/A Yes The process of the materiality assessment and for dein-assessment.html). G4-11 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html N/A N/A N/A Yes ing the report content is described in detail on page 51 in G4-12 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/index.html N/A N/A N/A Yes this report and on our web page: www.dnvgl.com/about/ (G4-17) The report covers all of DNV GL’s global G4-13 Changes in operations: We reduced the total number of ofices by 139 following the merging of N/A N/A N/A Yes sustainability/how-we-report/materiality-assessment.html operations and subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise legacy DNV and GL ofices. Changes in capital structure: p. 83. Changes in location of suppliers: www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/index.html (G4-24 to 27). DNV GL engages with all our key stakeholders throughout the report. In 2014 we have worked G4-14 p. 66, www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/index.html N/A N/A N/A No frequently an on a regular basis on a broad range of issues. systematically to implement uniied systems for G4-15 p. 72 N/A N/A N/A Yes Employees are represented in DNV GL governing bodies, sustainability reporting across legacy DNV and G4-16 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/partnerships/memberships-of-associations.html N/A N/A N/A Yes including the Board of Directors, the Council and the legacy GL . However, some GRI indicators do not DNV GL Corporate Sustainability Board (read more cover the whole group. Where this is the case, IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES about how DNV GL engages with stakeholders here: we state which entities are covered. All environG4-17 Entities included in the inancial statement: p. 89 N/A N/A N/A Yes www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/ mental reporting is considered not of materiality, All major entities are covered in the GRI report. See scope and boundary for boundaries within these. engaging-our-stakeholders.html. and is therefore not reported according to GRI G4-18 p. 51 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-report/materiality-assessment.html N/A N/A N/A Yes G4 ‘Comprehensive’ and as such not under the G4-19 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-report/materiality-assessment.html N/A N/A N/A Yes We partner and have a close dialogue with a number scope of the limited assurance provided by EY. G4-20 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-report/materiality-assessment.html N/A N/A N/A Yes of civil society organizations (see page 72–73 for global The environmental reporting is limited to locations G4-21 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-report/materiality-assessment.html N/A N/A N/A Yes partnerships) and actively seek their input on how we work, with more than 40 employees. Based on number G4-22 No statements since previous year N/A N/A N/A Yes through bilateral meetings and surveys. Moreover, we of employees by the end of 2014, the environG4-23 No signiicant changes (p. 107) N/A N/A N/A Yes regularly meet with government representatives around mental reports represent approximately 73%. the world to discuss issues of relevance to DNV GL). STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT This report is in accordance with the GRI G4 G4-24 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/engaging-our-stakeholders.html N/A N/A N/A Yes Comprehensive, and EY has conducted a limited G4-25 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/engaging-our-stakeholders.html N/A N/A N/A Yes assurance of speciied information in the report. G4-26 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/engaging-our-stakeholders.html N/A N/A N/A Yes G4-27 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/engaging-our-stakeholders.html N/A N/A N/A Yes REPORT PROFILE G4-28 01.01.2014 – 31.12.2014 N/A N/A N/A Yes G4-29 21.05.14 N/A N/A N/A Yes G4-30 Annual N/A N/A N/A Yes G4-31 www.dnvgl.com/contact/index.html N/A N/A N/A Yes G4-32 G4 ‘Comprehensive’. GRI Content Index: www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/GRI N/A N/A N/A Yes External assurance G4-33 DNV GL seeks external assurance of the GRI aspects identiied as ‘high materiality’ for our external stakeholders, N/A N/A N/A Yes and the process by which we arrived at this conclusion. P. 51. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Corporate Governance Report p. 6–8 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html N/A N/A N/A Yes G4-35 Corporate Governance Report p. 7–8 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes G4-36 DNV GL Group Chief Sustainability Oficer reporting to the Chief Executive Oficer. Yes G4-37 No formal process in place. Yes G4-38 p. 20–21 Yes G4-39 Corporate Governance Report p. 6–8 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes G4-40 Corporate Governance Report p. 7 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes G4-41 Corporate Governance Report p. 7 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes G4-42 Corporate Governance Report p. 10 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes G4-43 No formal or systematic measure in place, but regular orientation of the company's performance on various topics are conducted. Yes G4-44 Corporate Governance Report p. 9 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes G4-45 Corporate Governance Report p. 10–11 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes G4-46 Corporate Governance Report p. 9–10 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes G4-47 Corporate Governance Report p. 9–10 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes G4-48 The Chief Executive Oficer formally reviews and approves the sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered. Yes G4-49 Corporate Governance Report p. 11 available here: www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html Yes 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 107 G4-50 No critical concerns reported. Yes SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS G4-51 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-52 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/diversity.html Yes G4-53 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes G4-HR3 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/diversity.html Yes G4-54 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes G4-55 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA p. 72–73 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-HR10 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Omitted: The number and percentThe information is Click on link for explanaYes age of suppliers are not reported currently unavailable tion about the omission G4-56 www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/purpose-vision-values.html N/A N/A N/A Yes G4-HR11 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Omitted: Not reported on assessThe information is Click on link for explanaYes www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/index.html ment of impact currently unavailable tion about the omission www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/compliance-anti-corruption.html G4-57 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/compliance-anti-corruption.html#detect Yes SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-58 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/compliance-anti-corruption.html#detect Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/compliance-anti-corruption.html Yes G4-SO3 p. 56 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/compliance-anti-corruption.html Yes G4-SO4 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/compliance-anti-corruption.html Omission: We cannot report on The information is Click on link for explanaYes number and percentage of business currently unavailable tion about the omission SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES partners which anti-corruption have been communicated to. G4-SO5 p. 56 Omission: In 2014, no statistics are The information is Click on link for explanaYes DMA AND IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION EXTERNAL available with regards to the terminacurrently unavailable tion about the omission INDICATORS PAGE NUMBER (OR LINK) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) FOR OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE tion of contracts with business partners. MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/anti-trust.html Yes CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-SO7 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/anti-trust.html Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/economic-performance.html Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-EC1 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/economic-performance.html Yes G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/compliance-anti-corruption.html Yes G4-EC2 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/inancial-implications-of-climate-change.html Yes G4-SO8 No signiicant ines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: Yes G4-EC3 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes Total monetary value of signiicant ines Total number of non-monetary sanctions G4-EC4 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/how-we-govern/economic-performance.html Yes Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms CATEGORY: SOCIAL MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-DMA p. 72–73 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-SO9 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Omitted: The number and percentThe information is Click on link for explanaYes G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes age of suppliers are not reported currently unavailable tion about the omission G4-SO10 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Omitted: Not reported on assessThe information is Click on link for explanaYes G4-LA1 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html ment of impact currently unavailable tion about the omission G4-LA2 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html G4-LA3 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Omission: Data on The information is Click on link for explanaSUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY number of maternity currently unavailable tion about the omission and paternity leaves MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY across the organization G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/customer-privacy.html Yes G4-PR8 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/customer-privacy.html Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT G4-LA4 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes ENERGY G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-EN3 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No G4-DMA p. 62–65 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/health-and-safety/Occupational-health-and-safety.html Yes G4-EN4 No reporting No G4-LA5 p. 64 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/health-and-safety/Occupational-health-and-safety.html Yes G4-EN5 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No G4-LA6 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/health-and-safety/Occupational-health-and-safety.html Omission: Data on gender The information is Click on link for explanaYes and sub-contractors currently unavailable tion about the omission G4-EN6 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No G4-LA7 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/health-and-safety/Occupational-health-and-safety.html Yes G4-EN7 No reporting No G4-LA8 https://www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/employment.html Yes EMISSIONS MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/training-education.html Yes G4-EN15 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No G4-LA9 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/training-education.html Yes G4-EN16 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No G4-LA10 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/training-education.html Yes G4-EN17 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No G4-LA11 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/training-education.html Yes G4-EN18 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No G4-EN19 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-EN20 No reporting No G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/diversity.html Yes G4-EN21 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/energy-emissions.html No G4-LA12 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/diversity.html Yes EFFLUENTS AND WASTE MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/waste.html No G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/diversity.html Yes G4-EN22 No reporting No G4-LA13 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/people/diversity.html Yes G4-EN23 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/waste.html No G4-EN24 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/waste.html No MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-EN25 No reporting No G4-DMA p. 72–73 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html G4-EN26 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/waste.html No G4-LA14 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Omitted: The number The information is Click on link for explanaYes and percentage of supcurrently unavailable tion about the omission pliers are not reported COMPLIANCE (ENVIRONMENT) G4-LA15 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Omitted: Not reported The information is Click on link for explanaYes G4-DMA www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/environment/index.html No on assessment of impact currently unavailable tion about the omission G4-EN29 0 No MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA p. 56 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/compliance-anti-corruption.html#detect Yes G4-DMA p. 72-73 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Yes G4-LA16 p. 56 and www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/anti-corruption/compliance-anti-corruption.html#detect Yes G4-EN32 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Omitted: The number and percentThe information is Click on link for explanaYes age of suppliers are not reported currently unavailable tion about the omission G4-EN33 www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/value-chain/sustainable-procurement.html Omitted: Not reported on assessThe information is Click on link for explanaYes ment of impact currently unavailable tion about the omission SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER HEADQUARTERS: Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, DNV GL DNV GL AS enables organizations to advance the safety and sustainability of their business. NO-1322 Høvik, Norway We provide classiication and technical assurance along with software and indeTel: +47 67 57 99 00 pendent expert advisory services to the maritime, oil and gas, and energy industries. www.dnvgl.com We also provide certiication services to customers across a wide range of industries. Operating in more than 100 countries, our 16,000 professionals are dedicated to helping our customers make the world safer, smarter and greener. The trademarks DNV GL and the Horizon Graphic are the property of DNV GL AS. All rights reserved. ©DNV GL 05/2015 Design: Fasett Print production: 07 Media
