Annual Report and Accounts 2014 1 Introduction Introduction Highlights “20 14 wa s a yea r of good pr ogr ess for the Gr oup. In pa r ticula r , in the fir st ha lf of the yea r we under took a deta iled str a tegic r eview of a ll our a ctivities a nd developed a r obust gr owth pla n to ha r ness the Gr oup’s full potentia l a nd deliver a cceler a ted gr owth a nd long-ter m sha r eholder va lue.” Strategic Review Roberto Quarta Chairman Revenue Adjusted basic earnings per share • Delivered another set of positive results with organic revenue growth of 2% and £1,686m +2%* 78.0p +7% adjusted EPS growth of 7% 2000 80 • Recommending a 7% increase in the full year dividend 1500 60 • New strategic plan embedded across Performance Review 1000 40 the Group 500 20 • Strategic initiatives beginning to deliver 2013 2014 2013 2014 • Acquired the global power generation valve specialist Bopp & Reuther in January 2015, significantly enhancing Adjusted profit before tax Segmental operating margin the Group’s presence in the attractive power sector £278.1m -7% 17.7% -70bps • Disposed of two non-core businesses to increase focus on specialist flow 300 20 control activities 15 • 14 new products launched by IMI Corporate Governance 200 10 Hydronic Engineering 100 5 2013 2014 2013 2014 Reported profit before tax Total dividend for year £245.7m -1% 37.6p +7% 300 40 30 Financial Statements 200 20 100 10 2013 2014 2013 2014 * On an organic basis, after adjusting for the impact of acquisitions, disposals and movements in exchange rates, see Section 2.1.1 on page 94. 2 IMI plc Group overview Our pur pose is to deliver gr ea t solutions tha t ta ckle the most dema nding engineer ing cha llenges. We help some of the wor ld’s biggest industr ia l compa nies oper a te their pr ocesses sa fely, clea nly, efficiently a nd cost effectively. We oper a te thr ough thr ee divisions – IMI Cr itica l Engineer ing (for mer ly Sever e Ser vice), IMI Pr ecision Engineer ing (for mer ly Fluid Power ) a nd IMI Hydr onic Engineer ing (for mer ly Indoor Clima te) – a nd employ over 12,0 0 0 people in over 50 countr ies a r ound the wor ld. Revenue Revenue Revenue £692m £710m £284m % of Group revenue % of Group revenue % of Group revenue 41% 42% 17% Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit £119.8m £126.4m £51.9m Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 4,300 6,000 2,000 IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading IMI Precision Engineering specialises IMI Hydronic Engineering designs and provider of critical flow control solutions in developing motion and fluid control manufactures technologies which deliver that enable vital energy and process technologies for applications where optimal and energy efficient heating and industries to operate safely, cleanly, precision, speed and reliability cooling systems to the residential and reliably and more efficiently. are essential. commercial building sectors. Key brands Key brands Key brands IMI CCI, IMI Bopp & Reuther, IMI Fluid Kinetics, IMI Norgren, IMI Buschjost, IMI FAS, IMI Herion, IMI TA, IMI Flow Design, IMI Heimeier, IMI InterAtiva, IMI NH, IMI Orton, IMI Remosa, IMI Maxseal IMI Pneumatex IMI STI, IMI SSF, IMI TH Jansen, IMI Truflo Marine, IMI Truflo Rona, IMI Z&J Main markets Main markets Main markets Oil & gas; fossil power; nuclear power; Commercial vehicle; food and beverage; Water based heating and cooling systems petrochemical, and iron & steel. life sciences; rail; energy and industrial for commercial buildings; and temperature pneumatic applications. control for residential buildings. Major operational locations Major operational locations Major operational locations Belgium, Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Germany, Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Switzerland, UK and USA Switzerland and USA Sweden, Switzerland, UK and USA Find out more about IMI Critical Engineering Find out more about IMI Precision Engineering Find out more about IMI Hydronic Engineering Turn to page 36 Turn to page 38 Turn to page 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 Introduction Introduction IMI’s global footprint Strategic Review Nort h America Europe Asia Performance Review Sout h America Af rica Key IMI Headquarters IMI Critical Engineering Aust ralasia IMI Precision Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering This map illustrates locations with more than ten employees and includes manufacturing sites and sales offices Corporate Governance Group revenue by geography Revenue by division RoW Western Europe IMI Critical 5% 38% Engineering UK 41% 6% IMI Hydronic Engineering 17% Emerging North IMI Precision Markets America Engineering 32% 19% 42% Divisional revenue by geography Financial Statements IMI Critical Engineering IMI Precision Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering RoW Western Europe 7% 18% Western Europe RoW RoW 44% 1% UK Western Europe 4% 2% UK 73% 5% North America UK Emerging 18% 8% Markets 19% Emerging Markets North North Emerging America 52% Markets America 25% 5% 19% 4 IMI plc Chairman’s Statement A year of good progress 20 14 wa s a yea r of good pr ogr ess for the Gr oup. In pa r ticula r , in the fir st ha lf of the yea r we under took a deta iled str a tegic r eview of a ll our a ctivities a nd developed a r obust gr owth pla n to ha r ness the Gr oup’s full potentia l a nd deliver a cceler a ted gr owth a nd long-ter m sha r eholder va lue. Results overview After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £96m and for acquisitions and disposals, Group revenues on an organic basis increased by 2%. Group revenues on a reported basis were down 3% to £1,692m (2013: £1,743m). On a like for like basis, after adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £18m, segmental operating profit decreased slightly by 1%. Segmental operating profit on a reported basis was 7% lower at £298m (2013: £322m). The Group’s operating margin was 17.7% (2013: 18.4%) reflecting our investment in a range of growth initiatives. Adjusted earnings per share increased by 7% to 78.0p (2013: 72.6p) principally as a result of the share consolidation in the first quarter of the year. Based on these results, and reflecting continued confidence in the Group’s prospects, the Board is recommending that the final dividend be increased by 7% to 24.0p Roberto Quarta (2013: 22.5p). This makes a total dividend for the year of 37.6p, an increase of 7% Chairman over last year’s 35.3p. Strategic developments During the first half of 2014 Mark Selway, who became Chief Executive in January 2014, initiated a detailed review of all aspects of the Group’s business. The findings of this review together with the Group’s new strategic plan was announced in August at the time of the interim results. Our new strategic plan, details of which are set out on pages 8 to 23 of this Annual Report, is focused on harnessing IMI’s full potential to drive accelerated growth and build long-term shareholder value. The opportunities are significant and that is reflected in our ambition to double the Group’s operating profits over the next five years, while retaining our financial discipline. I am pleased to report that the strategic plan is now embedded in all our businesses and a number of its initiatives are already beginning to deliver real benefits. Mark, in his Chief Executive’s review on pages 8 and 9, will cover these positive developments in more detail but by way of example I would like to mention some of the operational improvements I have seen first-hand. Improving both our competitiveness and our efficiency are key elements of our plan and, in particular, ensuring that we have in place the most effective operational processes. In July last year I visited our Hydronic Engineering’s Füllinsdorf plant in Switzerland and was delighted to see the team implementing key elements of our new plan including adopting new processes to accelerate new product development, help reduce working capital and enhance competitiveness, all of which were delivering positive results. During the year we further increased our focus on specialist flow control activities. On 1 January 2014 we completed the sale of the Retail Dispense and Merchandising divisions to the Marmon Group for an enterprise value of $1,100m (£690m) and subsequently returned £620m of cash to shareholders. Additionally, in October, we sold the non-core Eley businesses for £42m and in November 2014 we announced the acquisition of the power generation valve specialist, Bopp & Reuther, for a cash Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 Group Introduction Overview Strategic Review consideration of e153m (£118m). This acquisition, which Finally, following the announcement of my appointment to the completed at the beginning of 2015, is a significant and Board of WPP plc, I confirmed that I intend to step down as important first step in our acquisitive growth plan. It significantly non-executive Chairman. An external search for my successor enhances our presence in the growing power market and is well underway, led by Anita Frew, and I will be remaining with increases our Critical Engineering division’s growth prospects. IMI until your new Chairman is identified. Board changes Our people In September 2014 we announced the retirement of Douglas IMI is a very special Company with many strengths – worldPerformance Review Hurt as Finance Director. Douglas has been in the role since class engineering skills, long standing customer relationships 2006 and has played a major part in IMI’s development over and great people. The progress we have made this year has the course of the last eight years. Douglas will be succeeded involved a great deal of hard work and I would like to take by Daniel Shook who joined us in January 2015 and who this opportunity to thank all our employees for their ongoing will become Finance Director on 1 March 2015. Daniel was commitment, passion and support. previously Chief Finance Officer at Borealis AG and brings with him over 20 years of financial management experience across a Summary range of industrial sectors and a strong international perspective. I have been proud to be your Chairman. Since I joined in 2011 Ross McInnes joined the Board as a non-executive director much progress has been made preparing the Group for the on 1 October 2014. He took over as Chairman of the Audit next phase of its development. The Group has adopted a Committee on 1 January 2015 after Phil Bentley stepped new strategic growth plan, strengthened the Board with down from the Board at the end of the year. Anita Frew, new director appointments and recruited Mark Selway as Corporate Governance our senior independent director, will retire after nine years the new Chief Executive. IMI is now on a positive track to as a non-executive at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in deliver sustainable accelerated top and bottom line growth. May 2015. Bob Stack will succeed Anita as senior independent I wish Mark, his team and everyone at IMI much success in director immediately following the AGM. On behalf of the Board the future. I would like to thank Anita, Douglas and Phil for the significant contributions they have all made to the Board and IMI. Adjusted EPS Dividend per share +7% +7% Financial Statements Pence Pence 80 40 60 30 40 20 20 10 35.3p 37.6p 2013 2014 2013 2014 Board details Corporate Governance Turn to page 44 Turn to page 47 6 IMI plc Strategic review In this section our Chief Executive Ma r k Selwa y r eviews the key events a nd developments tha t took pla ce in 20 14. We a lso expla in the Gr oup’s str a tegy which wa s la unched in 20 14 following a deta iled r eview of a ll a spects of the business, our str a tegic pr ior ities a nd the ena bler s which will help us deliver our str a tegic goa ls. Additiona lly, ther e a r e deta iled expla na tions a nd ca se studies on how the str a tegy is being implemented in the businesses which cover oper a tiona l impr ovements, new pr oduct development, ta r geted a cquisitions a nd cor por a te r esponsibility. Chief Executive’s Review Ma in photo: IMI Pr ecision Engineer ing collea gues in their Bir m in gha m UK hea dqua r ter s. Group Overview Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 7 Engineering GREATt he IMI Way Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8 IMI plc Chief Executive’s Review Early signs of strategic progress Performance in 2014 Despite challenging economic and ma r ket conditions in a number of our key sector s, we deliver ed r esults in line with expecta tions while a t the sa me time ma king significa nt investment in the Gr oup, which will dr ive futur e gr owth. Our new str a tegic pla n is now being executed a cr oss the Gr oup a nd I a m plea sed to r epor t tha t we ar e a lr ea dy sta r ting to see ear ly signs of ta ngible benefits. Our new growth strategy Shortly after I arrived at IMI I initiated a detailed review of all the Group’s activities. The review confirmed many of IMI’s inherent strengths. The Group is a specialist flow control business focused on industrial end markets with good prospects and market leading expertise. We have a great team of people, strong long-term relationships with world-class customers and a robust balance sheet, which provides headroom and flexibility to support a range of both organic and acquisitive growth opportunities. The review process did however identify a number of challenges that must be addressed in order to deliver long-term accelerated growth. We need to invest in product development, which will become a critical component of our growth plan, to build sustainable competitive advantage. And because of the historically diverse make-up of the Group, and the autonomous nature of the businesses, there is also a need to invest in Group-wide IT systems and facilities. Furthermore the organisational Mark Selway structure that has evolved over the years is complex and in many places inefficient, Chief Executive and in the Precision Engineering division in particular, we have significant underutilised capacity which has caused top line margins to be absorbed by increasing levels of fixed costs. Using all the detailed findings that emerged from the review we have developed a strategic plan that builds on the Group’s inherent strengths, addresses the challenges we have identified and ultimately harnesses the Group’s full potential to deliver sustainable accelerated growth and long-term shareholder value. Detailed information about our strategic plan including our growth priorities and strategic enablers are set out on pages 10 and 11 and the priorities for each of our divisions are covered on page 12. Early signs of strategic progress As the Chairman has highlighted in his report, our new strategic plan is now in the early stages of execution and real progress has been achieved on a number of fronts: • our operational performance is improving: in August 2014 when we announced our five year strategic plan, each division set a target to improve their lean assessment score on average by 50% within six months and to achieve world-class scores by 2018. The initial target lean scores have largely been achieved with IMI Critical Engineering improving its benchmark results by 54%, IMI Precision Engineering by 44% and IMI Hydronic Engineering by 55%. As a result of these improvements, tangible operational benefits are evident in all divisions. In our Hydronic division, on time delivery has improved from 82% to 90% while inventory has reduced by 10%. In Critical Engineering we have achieved significant reductions in both set up times and work in progress and in Precision Engineering the early initiatives to address the complex supply chain have resulted in improvements in both quality levels and delivery times. By the middle of 2015 each division is targeting to deliver further improvements in their benchmark lean performances; Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 Introduction Strategic Review • more efficient streamlined structures and processes are • our addressable market and product and geographic being put in place across the organisation: beyond our reach has been expanded: at the beginning of 2015 we plants, the efficiency and effectiveness of a number of our acquired the power generation valve specialist Bopp & core processes, including financial forecasting and risk and Reuther, for a cash consideration of £118m. This acquisition control, have been enhanced. Plans to introduce a number creates a number of growth opportunities and significantly of new systems, all of which will support IMI’s future growth, enhances our presence in the growing power sector, while including new ERP systems in each of our divisions, are well extending our existing product range and current addressable advanced. In addition, with effect from January 2015, the market. It also increases the Group’s exposure to faster Precision Engineering division’s European operations were growing emerging markets and the higher margin aftermarket. Performance Review restructured to provide improved line of sight to customers; On pages 10 and 11 of this Annual Report you will see our • investment in product development has increased and strategic plan mapped out as a time line. Currently we are in our product development process is gaining significant the early stages, however, it is pleasing to report that progress momentum: in 2014 our Hydronic Engineering division is being made and that real benefits are starting to become launched 14 new products compared to five in the previous evident in our operations and responsiveness to the market. five years. These world leading new products will underpin The opportunities we have are significant and that is reflected our organic growth and help maintain our competitiveness in our ambition to double the Group’s 2014 operating profits and market leading positions. In Critical Engineering we over the next five years, while retaining our financial discipline. benchmarked our project management processes and have developed new standard operating procedures, which are focused at reducing lead times and improving the rigour of People managing our project costs. In Precision Engineering we All that has been achieved to date is down to the hard work Corporate Governance embarked on an extensive review of the Industrial Automation and dedication of our employees. In a year when much has sector which will translate into an ambitious product been achieved in terms of the Group’s operational performance development roadmap; and its strategic direction I would like to thank all our employees around the world for their commitment, energy and focus. • Group-wide collaboration is increasing and gaining momentum: in June last year we began the roll out of I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Roberto a Group-wide intranet accessible to all employees with Quarta for his significant contribution to IMI. He has overseen an objective to facilitate collaboration and share best practice. a period of much change and as a result, the Group is now By January 2015 over 9,000 of the Group’s employees were well positioned for long-term growth. He has been an excellent able to access the intranet and its content and this will be Chairman and I have very much enjoyed working with him. extended to all IMI employees over the next 12 months. On behalf of the Board I would like to wish him all the very A simple unifying brand programme, centred around the best for the future. IMI brand, was also developed and has already been implemented across all businesses; Outlook Financial Statements • our concentration on specialist flow control activities has In 2015, based on current market conditions and excluding been further enhanced: in October last year we sold the the impact of exchange rate movements, we expect the Group non-core Eley businesses for £42m to further increase IMI’s to deliver modest organic revenue growth weighted towards focus on specialist flow control activities. The proceeds from the second half with margins slightly lower than in 2014, the disposal are being utilised to exploit a number of good reflecting the impact of the disposal of Eley and acquisition growth opportunities; and of Bopp & Reuther by the Critical Engineering division and the ongoing investments we are making in all our businesses as we ready them for accelerated long-term growth. 10 IMI plc Strategic growth priorities Our str a tegic pla n to acceler a te gr owth is focused on the following key gr owth pr ior ities: 1 2 3 4 Capitalising on Improving operational Increased investment Expand addressable significant organic performance in product markets through growth opportunities development targeted acquisitions We already operate in a The benefits of moving We will increase our We will supplement our number of attractive end towards and achieving best in investment in product organic growth opportunities markets and we intend to class operational performance development, a key enabler with targeted acquisitions focus on those that offer the are significant. As we improve of our growth plan, which is to capable of producing greatest potential in terms how our businesses operate build sustainable competitive returns in excess of the of delivering top and bottom we will better utilise capacity, advantage. Progressively Group’s weighted average line growth. These end enhance our competitiveness, we will increase R&D spend cost of capital within three markets include those where reduce working capital and from around 3% of revenues years. Beyond our existing we already are, or have the generate cost savings by in 2014 to 5% over the next business portfolio, our potential to be, in a leading operating more efficiently. two to three years. To ensure review has identified the position, markets where we Our ambition is to that we maximise to the full potential to double the can grow share and markets progressively self-fund our the benefits of this increased Group’s addressable market where there are significant organic growth initiatives investment, we are improving by making acquisitions in higher margin aftermarket using the benefits generated our product development adjacent non-valve product opportunities. Our current from our operational processes and systems and markets. Further details market positioning and the improvements. Details further detail is contained of our acquisition strategy growth targets we have set are about how we are improving on pages 20 and 21. are detailed on page 22. detailed on pages 14 and 15. operational performance are set out on pages 16 to 19. Strategic timeline 2014 2015 2016 Organic initiatives • Assess our markets and drivers • Invest in products and capital for growth • Accelerated growth evident in results for growth • Foundations established and early • Working capital benefits visible in results • Benchmark performance and benchmark improvements evident • Emerging markets ready for local full develop plans for improvement • Sorting the basics in Precision Engineering technology supply complexities and structure Supported by value enhancing acquisitions Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Introduction Strategic enablers To deliver our str a tegic gr owth pr ior ities we ha ve outlined the following key str a tegic ena bler s: Maintain financial Invest in Group-wide IT Work together as one discipline and infrastructure simplified IMI As we execute our strategy to deliver Because of the historically diverse To harness the Group’s full potential we accelerated growth we will continue to make-up of the Group, and the are determined to channel and maximise maintain financial discipline. Capital will autonomous nature of the businesses our scale to act as one IMI. The new brand Strategic Review be allocated to drive organic growth, there is a need to invest in Group-wide IT co-ordinates and creates a single focus maintain a progressive dividend policy in systems and facilities. Each division is for everything we do. Our core processes line with earnings and fund acquisitions. now implementing new ERP systems to provide a strong platform and underpin a Whilst retaining flexibility to develop support their long-term growth ambitions. framework for creating consistent Group– IMI’s full potential, we will continue to The implementations are being phased on wide standards and behaviours. To enable focus on maintaining an efficient balance a site by site basis to minimise risk and to us to operate as one IMI on a day-tosheet and, in the event of us having deliver an optimal solution. The Group is day basis we have put in place a global cash in excess of the Group’s current also investing in its sites, alongside the intranet that all employees, regardless of needs, we will return this excess capital lean manufacturing initiatives, to ensure location, are able to access. Sharing best to shareholders. Through the life of our that we have best in class facilities. practice is now an important part of life at five year plan we will target net debt to Overall capital spending is progressively IMI and having a single place to manage EBITDA of two times through the cycle. increasing to around two times our processes and record our progress depreciation where it will remain for will be essential to improving our overall Performance Review the first few years of the plan. performance. Net debt to adjusted EBITDA 0.6 0.4 0.2 2013 2014 Financial discipline will support our strategy In October 2014, we launched the IMI Eye, Our global intranet is available to for accelerated growth over the life of our a Group-wide newsletter, written by 9,000 employees five year plan employees for employees 2017 2018 2019 Corporate Governance Financial Statements • Growth outruns peers in every division • Ambitions for growth fully realised • All divisions in attractive, • Benchmark performance nearing • Achievement of world-class high growth markets world-class standards performance evident in results • Precision supply chain and capacity issues resolved 12 IMI plc Business priorities For ea ch of the divisions we ha ve developed five yea r pla ns which a r e closely a ligned to the a mbitions of the Gr oup. These pla ns a r e now fully embedded within ea ch division a nd a r e a lr ea dy beginning to deliver r ea l pr ogr ess. The key str a tegic pr ior ities for ea ch division a r e a s follows: Focus and grow Fix, focus and grow Focus and grow • Capitalise on attractive growth in • Fix the basics in the next two years • Capitalise on attractive growth in existing markets > Simplify organisational structure existing markets > Our goal is 6-8% organic compound > Introduce standard costing > Our goal is >5% organic CAGR over average growth rate over 5 years 5 years • New ERP implementation underway in • Invest to support growth markets Brazil and North America • Increase new product development > New larger sites in Houston, Italy and > 14 new products launched in 2014 Korea completed • Grow emerging market local > Double investment in new product > Planned refurbishment of IMI Z&J site manufacturing content development over 5 years in Germany > Address supply chain complexity > 15 new products planned for 2015 > Investing in additional service locations > Manufacture closer to end customers to support aftermarket • Optimise organisational structure • Increase plant utilisation > Introduce core processes • Enhance systems and processes > Significantly improve operational > Project underway to implement new > New product development performance divisional ERP system > Project execution benchmarking > Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system • Revitalise industrial automation • Acquisitions implementation progressing well at IMI CCI and grow organically > Potential bolt-on acquisitions to target > New product development North America • Acquisitions to support growth > Our goal is growth in line with GDP in years 1 > Add strategically aligned bolt-ons and 2 and 6-8% organic CAGR thereafter such as Bopp & Reuther acquired in January 2015 • Acquisitions > Extend into adjacent markets > Future opportunity for larger acquisitions > Expand product portfolio semi-severe to accelerate growth and configured valves Executive Committee* Mark Selway Daniel Shook Roy Twite Peter Spencer Paul Roberts Geoff Tran eld John O’Shea Chief Executive and Finance Director Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Group Business Group Human Legal & Compliance Interim Divisional From 1 March 2015* Director, IMI Critical Director, IMI Hydronic Development Director Resources Director Director and Company Managing Director, IMI Engineering Engineering Secretary Precision Engineering *Douglas Hurt was the Finance Director and a member of the Executive Committee until 28 February 2015 Executive biographies www.imiplc.com/about-imi/leadership-and-governance/executive-committee Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Introduction IMI business model Our business model is built a round our cor e str a tegic pr ior ities of ca pita lising on gr owth oppor tunities, opera tiona l excellence, investment in product development a nd ta r geted a cquisitions. Continuous investment in these a r ea s will deliver impr oved, mor e innova tive pr oducts a nd ser vices to our customer s a nd help us incr ea se our competitive a dva nta ge. By meeting our customers’ needs a nd investing in our lea ding ma r ket positions, we a r e well pla ced to gr ow pr ofita bly to the benefit of a ll sta keholder s including our sha reholder s. Engineering GREAT Strategic Review the IMI Way ties ort uni t h opp 2. Im pro row Performance Review vin ni cg g op ga p rod uc ts and er or vative serv inno ice e 1. Capita anc ling st l oo se lisin orm nd ur go erf a lp en ns Man os na ufa ch ign ctu io rke ifi c rin g ma at Goal ts an Our ambition: t to become a world-class business Organisation and leader in our chosen sectors structure Corporate Governance to deliver sustainable accelerated d top and bottom line growth 4. Expan to double the Group’s 2014 How we operating profits by 2019 generate dev our revenue e elo abl pme ess ur se pt rv nt addr Ca ice in Strategic g nd aft pr s erm rt a od growth et ark p po uc rk et o , su t priorities ma th pp ortunities for spares in t ro ug men t h tar es Strategic get inv ed ed acqu . Increas enablers Financial Statements isitions 3 14 IMI plc Strategy in action 1. Capitalising on significant organic growth opportunities The Gr oup cur rently oper a tes in a number of a ttr a ctive end ma r kets a nd to a chieve our a mbitions we must focus on those tha t offer the gr ea test potentia l in ter ms of deliver ing top a nd bottom line gr owth. Our pr ior ity is to ca pita lise on those end ma r kets wher e we a lr ea dy a r e, or ha ve the potentia l to be, in a lea ding position – ma r kets wher e we ca n gr ow sha r e a nd ma r kets wher e ther e a r e significa nt higher ma r gin a fter ma r ket oppor tunities. Market and positioning Power Oil & Gas Petrochemical & Metals Actuation We are the world We supply anti-surge We design and We focus on the design • Almost £7bn addressable market leading supplier of valve and actuator manufacture integrated and production of engineered to order systems to the world’s flow control systems complete actuation • Attractive growth markets turbine bypass valves largest LNG compression for critical applications systems to operate • Leadership position in power for critical applications in facilities. Our systems in Fluid Catalytic industrial valves for and potential to achieve in other conventional and nuclear are capable of ultra-fast Cracking. We also supply the most demanding key sectors power plants – helping to response to maximise bespoke valves into the applications and • Barriers to entry provide excellent provide the safest, most LNG production ethylene, polypropylene processes in terms opportunity in high margin reliable and efficient power while protecting the and delayed coking of forces, speed aftermarket generation. compressor. production processes. and accuracy. 2014 Revenue: £248m 2014 Revenue: £200m 2014 Revenue: £144m 2014 Revenue: £36m In 2014, IMI Critical Engineering had £64m of other revenue. Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences We supply high We design and We offer a comprehensive We supply precision • £14bn addressable market opportunity performance products manufacture a range range of products which flow control solutions including valves, valve of cab, chassis and deliver precision control used in medical devices, • Challenging competitive environment islands, proportional powertrain solutions in even the harshest diagnostic equipment • Best in class returns but falling and pressure monitoring which deliver fuel environments, including and biotech and analytical market shares controls and air efficiency, emissions stainless steel valves and instruments. Our products • Significant potential in Industrial preparation products, as reduction and faster regulators, nuclear class help to reduce the size Automation well as a comprehensive assembly times for valves and emergency of equipment, while > Ieading brand range of pneumatic the world’s leading shutdown controls. enhancing accuracy, actuators. commercial vehicle 2014 Revenue: £74m throughput and fluid > high margins from aftermarket 2014 Revenue: £426m manufacturers. control performance. 2014 Revenue: £163m 2014 Revenue: £47m Balancing & Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality Our hydronic balancing We design and Reliable pressurisation is The single most • £2bn addressable market opportunity and control solutions manufacture thermostatic a basic requirement for important component in • Low cyclicality due to resilience of enable buildings to keep control systems which a trouble-free operation any hydronic system is refurbishment markets comfort at the right level guarantee direct or of heating, cooling and always water itself. When and lift HVAC efficiency automatic control of solar systems. Our compromised, the effects • Leadership position in core North by up to 30%. Our radiators and underfloor robust range of pressure can be felt throughout the European markets expertise covers constant heating systems to maintenance systems system. Our dirt and air • Best in class returns but falling and variable flow and perfectly control individual with compressors or separators and pressuremarket shares both static and dynamic room temperatures. pumps and expansion step degassers protect balancing. 2014 Revenue: £94m vessels maintains the right the installation by keeping 2014 Revenue: £148m pressure in the system at water free of microall times. bubbles and sludge. 2014 Revenue: £30m 2014 Revenue: £12m Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Introduction Organic growth opportunities High Best in class = c. £1bn Oil & Gas CE market size Power Oil & Gas PE Control Strategic Review Industrial Automation Thermostatic Balancing Life Sciences Control Market attractiveness Water quality We are well positioned in att ractive Petrochemical Commercial Vehicle market s Water Pressure Actuation Maximise potential Performance Review Low Low Competitive Position High Corporate Governance Market position Market position Market position Attractive high growth markets with Attractive high growth markets with Attractive high growth markets with good competitive position good competitive position good competitive position Goal Goal Goal Over the life of our five year strategic Significantly improving operational Our goal is to deliver compound organic plan our goal is for an average organic performance and driving organic growth growth in excess of 5% over the life of growth rate of around 6 to 8%. are our first priorities. As we focus on these our five year plan. priorities, during the first two years of our plan the goal is to grow at a rate in line with GDP. Thereafter the goal is to grow at an organic rate in the range of 6 to 8%. Financial Statements 16 IMI plc Strategy in action 2. Improving operational performance The benefits of moving towa r ds a nd a chieving best in cla ss oper a tiona l per for ma nce a r e ver y significa nt. As we impr ove how our businesses oper a te we will better utilise ca pa city, enha nce our competitiveness, r educe wor king ca pita l a nd gener a te cost sa vings by oper a ting mor e efficiently. By doing this, we will a lso impr ove ser vices for our customer s. Our a mbition is to pr ogr essively self-fund our or ga nic gr owth initia tives using the benefits gener a ted fr om our oper a tiona l impr ovements. We a r e on a self-help lea n jour ney, under pinned by the enga gement of ma na gement a nd employees a t a ll levels a s we believe this is the best wa y to susta in our a chievements. The oper a tiona l per for ma nce of ever y site in the Gr oup is now being benchma r ked ever y six months a ga inst the ten a r ea s of lea n a nd significa nt pr ogr ess ha s a lr ea dy been a chieved. A wor ldcla ss oper a tiona l per for ma nce scor e is 85% or m or e a nd a t the time of the fir st benchma r k, none of our fa cilities ca me close to a chieving this, with the highest scor e being 57%. Ea ch of our businesses now ha ve deta iled pla ns in pla ce to a chieve wor ld-cla ss per for ma nce by 2018. Second round assessment average lean scores by division IMI Critical Engineering Chart shows signi cant IMI Precision Engineering opportunity to improve IMI Hydronic Engineering competitiveness World-class > 85% Cultural Awareness Level Visual Management Production & Housekeeping The lean assessment score for every IMI site is available for all employees to view via the lean benchmarking Material Standardised application on the global intranet. Benchmarking identifies Control Work best practice within IMI and provides visibility of where to focus improvements and where to go for assistance to improve performance going forward. 2014 operational snapshot Total Productive Flexible Maintenance Operations • Significant excess installed capacity • Increased efficiencies will improve competitiveness • Supply chain efficiencies will Quick Continuous improve working capital utilisation Changeover Improvement • Average score increased Error from 31% to 46% and further Proofing ambitious improvement targets in place for 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Introduction Lean assessments During 2014, our Critical Engineering sites were benchmarked against the ten areas of lean and the average score of the division’s first round of assessments was 26%. Improvement targets were set and plants have now been benchmarked for a second time, this time scoring an average of 40%. Plans are in place to improve this score to an average of 51% in the first half of 2015. 1st assessment score 1st improvement 2nd assessment score Next improvement target target Site Key: 1 IMI CCI Brno 15 IMI Truflo Rona % score Belgium Strategic Review 60 2 IMI CCI Korea 16 IMI SSF 3 IMI CCI RSM 17 IMI Z&J Houston 50 4 IMI CCI Sweden 18 IMI CCI SPEC JV 5 IMI CCI Switzerland 19 IMI STI 40 6 IMI Truflo Marine 20 IMI Z&J China 30 7 IMI InterAtiva 21 IMI Bopp & Reuther* 8 IMI CCI Japan 20 9 IMI Orton 10 IMI Fluid Kinetics Performance Review 10 11 IMI CCI SriCity 12 IMI NH Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 13 IMI Remosa 1st improvement 14 IMI Z&J Germany target % 55 45 42 49 45 46 39 46 45 45 40 41 46 41 41 39 42 30 41 31 40 2 assessment nd score % 51 47 46 41 44 44 45 41 39 44 41 38 38 37 38 29 36 31 44 32 The first phase of lean implementation Daily Management Team Boards Case study across IMI Critical Engineering has are designed to provide specific key focused on building a stable foundation performance data that enables local SMED is a system for reducing of key processes. In order to drive work teams to manage, control and the time it takes to complete Corporate Governance improved manufacturing stability and drive continuous improvement of daily equipment set-up – by performing consistency, we are focusing on three performance. The boards include change over steps while equipment lean tools; Total Productive Maintenance relevant daily performance data for is running and simplifying and (TPM); Single Minute Exchange of Dies safety, quality, delivery, cost and people streamlining the remaining – changeover time reduction (SMED), management issues. With all Critical steps. SMED benefits make the and Daily Management Team Boards. Engineering sites actively adopting operator’s job safer and easier this process, we are seeing increased and also include less equipment TPM focuses on proactive and employee engagement aligned with down time, more efficient product preventative maintenance to maximise performance goals and predictable changes, improved responsiveness the operational efficiency of equipment team performance. to customer demand, reduced and places a strong emphasis on providing operators with the tools throughput time and lower and organisational support they need inventory levels. At IMI CCI Brno in to maintain their own machines. Ultimately the Czech Republic, the first SMED Financial Statements this will help to improve productivity by event delivered a reduction of over increasing up time, reducing cycle times 50% in set-up times. and eliminating defects which in turn will allow us to improve our lead times. Machine 1 Before After Saving Time 139 49 65% At our first formal TPM shop floor (minutes) improvement session at IMI CCI in Rancho Distance 565 134 76% Santa Margarita, California, the newly Mark Selway on a recent visit to IMI Remosa in Italy, (metres) trained team completed over 55 machine with Mauro Natalini (the designated lead for lean at IMI Remosa) and Giuseppe Buscemi, Operations Director improvement actions and restored machines to a ‘like-new’ condition. * IMI Bopp & Reuther joined the division in January 2015 and has only had one assessment so far. 18 IMI plc Lean assessments During 2014, our Precision Engineering sites were benchmarked against the ten areas of lean and the average score of the division’s first round of assessments was 32%. Improvement targets were set and plants have now been benchmarked for a second time, this time scoring an average of 46%. Plans are in place to improve this score to an average of 54% in the first half of 2015. 1st assessment score 1st improvement 2nd assessment score Next improvement target target Site Key: % score 1 IMI Norgren Brno 16 IMI Norgren 80 Singapore 2 IMI FAS Switzerland 17 IMI Norgren Brazil 3 IMI Norgren Seattle 70 18 IMI Norgren 4 IMI Webber Brookville 5 IMI EDC warehouse 19 IMI Norgren 60 Alpen Switzerland 6 IMI Norgren 20 IMI Norgren Queretaro 50 Australia 7 IMI Norgren India 21 IMI Herion 8 IMI Watson Smith Systemtechnik 40 9 IMI Norgren China 22 IMI Thompson 10 IMI Norgren Valves 30 Farmington 23 IMI Norgren Detroit 11 IMI Buschjost 24 IMI IMF 20 12 IMI Norgren 25 IMI Norgren Germany Fellbach Denmark 13 IMI Norgren Kloehn 26 IMI Norgren Fradley 10 14 IMI Norgren 27 IMI Norgren Germany Alpen warehouse Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 15 IMI Norgren Louisville Littleton 28 IMI Norgren 1st improvement target % 62 58 52 52 54 52 48 44 44 42 43 52 46 46 48 46 48 51 47 40 42 43 40 37 36 44 50 23 Belgium 2nd assessment score % 62 61 52 52 53 53 52 49 50 48 44 50 42 50 45 50 40 33 34 50 39 44 39 33 36 39 38 24 With varying levels of operational Objectives that have been set for 2015 Case study performance across sites, the Precision include the integration of quality and lean Engineering division set improvement to reduce scrap, raise quality standards, IMI Precision Engineering in Alpen, targets focused on culture, visual improve sales and operations planning Germany used Value Stream management and standard work. to better link our customer requirements Mapping to improve the efficiency Collaboration and sharing of best to our manufacturing footprint, reduce of their Quick Response Cell for practice were also seen as vital tools complexity, increase efficiency and actuator orders, which has reduced to accelerate improvement. productivity and responsiveness to the order lead time for customers market demand. by 25%. This improvement initiative Our Brno facility has already been identified as a show-case site, to be used was led by a cross business unit as a reference point for other locations. team who are now taking the In six months, the team improved their process to other sites. assessment score from 53% to 62%, due to a continuous improvement culture, Summary Before After Saving enhanced material flow and the further Number of 76 38 50% development of customer relationships. non-value adding steps Flow time 1307 608 53% Precision Engineering’s European Distribution Centre (minutes) in Germany held an event to look at the end-to-end Manual time 61 48 22% process from customer quotation and sales order receipt (minutes) through to customer invoice payment. Hands off 19 11 42% The extensive portfolio and variety of Distance 398 360 10% travelled products adds significant complexity to Precision Engineering’s supply chain and operations. An ambitious plan to Our new Precision Engineering facility at Fradley Park, rationalise the portfolio using established UK has their lean journey – a 150 square foot collage in lean tools will be a priority for completion the employee canteen area – on display for all to see. in 2015. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Introduction Lean assessments During 2014, our Hydronic Engineering sites were benchmarked against the ten areas of lean and the average score of the division’s first round of assessments was 38%. Improvement targets were set and plants have now been benchmarked for a second time, this time scoring an average of 59%. Plans are in place to improve this score to an average of 63% in the first half of 2015. 1st assessment score 1st improvement 2nd assessment score Next improvement target target Site Key: % score 80 1 IMI Hydronic Slovenia Strategic Review 2 IMI Hydronic Poland 70 3 IMI Hydronic Poland warehouse 60 4 IMI Hydronic Sweden warehouse 5 IMI Hydronic Germany warehouse 50 6 IMI Hydronic Germany 40 7 IMI Hydronic Switzerland 8 IMI Hydronic Sweden 30 9 IMI Hydronic North America 20 Performance Review 10 Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1st improvement 69 61 55 45 47 51 50 56 36 target % 2nd assessment score % 66 74 68 49 55 54 53 56 51 Our teams have received comprehensive and warehouses in a connected value Case study training and support in order to secure stream, reducing inventories and engagement for the planned lean customer lead time. Impressive results have been transformation. Internal benchmarking achieved on changeover time The objective for 2015 includes the Corporate Governance has taken place and experience across reduction and assembly line adoption of strategy deployment across sites has been shared in order to balancing in our factory in Ljung, all Hydronic Engineering businesses. accelerate the pace of improvement. Sweden where ‘One Piece Flow’ The process uses the key critical The lean concept at Hydronic has been implemented, meaning strategic priorities and builds a Engineering goes beyond manufacturing that there is only one part or job structured plan to disseminate the excellence and embraces the whole in each workstation. This reduces actions across every plant and engage supply chain and sales process. work in progress and lead time. every employee through the division. Results have been impressive – our on time delivery rate has moved to over Product Before After Improvement line 90% and the reliability of our machines and processes are getting close to STAF 2.1 5.3 152% pieces/ pieces/ world-class targets. hour hour Financial Statements All five factories in Europe demonstrated STAP 2.7 5.8 115% pieces/ pieces/ progress in the implementation of key hour hour lean processes and achieved over 50% Mätventil 2.2 5.4 145% scoring on their second assessments. pieces/ pieces/ hour hour Our show-case Poland site achieved particularly impressive results and reached 74%, the highest lean score across the Group. Team members were pleased to demonstrate their progress in ‘One Piece Flow’ and on time delivery rates Another important step has been the to non-executive director, Carl-Peter Forster, when he integration of the division’s factories visited Hydronic Engineering in Poland. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Introduction IMI CCI Vienna develops one of the largest titanium valves ever built The benefits of titanium in sea water The latest IMI CCI titanium valve allows applications have been widely periodical cycling tests of the platform’s recognised by the offshore Oil & Gas fire water system, and real time safety industry in recent years. Today, principally testing for the personnel on board. in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea, Titanium is immune to corrosion and the number and variety of applications for reduces the installation weight by half titanium and titanium alloys is increasing Strategic Review which is an important factor for offshore at an exponential rate. floating platforms. The extended service The development of unique titanium life and reduced maintenance needs, in valves is part of the industry’s effort combination with enhanced safety provide to ensure the highest safety levels for further crucial benefits for the client. the new generation of offshore Innovation in new product development floating platforms. is firmly embedded within IMI CCI © Statoil ASA Engineering. Performance Review New generation air dryer IMI Precision Engineering’s Adsorbent NYC Transit now has a dryer that is Media Tube (AMT) dryer uses a patented projected to last up to 6 years, or 18,000 Maintenance engineers at New York technology radically different from service hours, significantly exceeding the City (NYC) Transit had experienced conventional desiccant beads. This specified two-year maintenance cycle. conditions where moisture in design delivers higher moisture uptake compressed air caused mechanical and faster purging without degrading problems on subway cars. the dryer media, improving both The engineers found that the performance and longevity. standard pressure dryers removed NYC Transit replaced the conventional damaging moisture when they were pressure dryers with AMT test units, and first installed on the subway cars, but after 12 months of operation, the test Corporate Governance performance progressively declined, results showed that the air leaving the especially during hot, humid New York dryers was as dry as when the system City summers. was first installed. Unique diagnostic capabilities TA-Compact-P: a great new product Unidirect access to developed and introduced in nine months f unctions Kicked off in September 2013 with a cross-functional and cross-site team and a commitment to an accelerated time line, Financial Statements development of the TA-Compact-P was driven by customer requirements and competitor differentiation. This new range of pressure independent balancing and control valves required a high-flow capacity, allowing universal application in cooling and heating systems. TA-Compact-P was developed to stringent cost, timing and operational specifications which were all satisfied using the newly developed project disciplines adopted by the greater longevity division. This new range is promising to be one of Hydronic The most compact & high resist ance Engineering’s most exciting product developments in years. valve on the market to corrosion Case studies online www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action 22 IMI plc Strategy in action 4. Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions We will supplement our or ga nic gr owth initia tives with ta r geted a cquisitions, ca pa ble of pr oducing r etur ns in excess of the Gr oup’s weighted a ver a ge cost of ca pita l within thr ee yea r s. Beyond our existing business por tfolio, we ha ve identified the potentia l to double the Gr oup’s a ddr essa ble ma r ket by ma king a cquisitions in a dja cent non-va lve pr oduct ma r kets. Cr iter ia for such a cquisitions include a focus on Nor th Amer ica n r evenues, str ong a fter ma r ket dyna mics a nd cr itica l pr oducts tha t cr ea te significa nt ba r r ier s to entr y. Our acquisition strategies for each of the divisions are as follows: We will supplement this organic growth by Our Precision Engineering division offers The growth plan in our Hydronic continuing to target bolt-on acquisitions significant potential for accelerated Engineering division is predominantly to expand our product range and our growth. However, harnessing this organically focused. However, there is geographic footprint within our existing potential will take time. In the first phase potential to grow the division through markets and to extend our Oil & Gas of our plan we will address the existing acquisition. Any addition would need presence into adjacent attractive markets infrastructure, including simplifying to satisfy stringent criteria including, including subsea. We will also consider the organisation, implementing robust in particular, building critical mass in expanding our product range to include systems and improving operational the North American market. semi-severe and configured opportunities performance. Once the division is in each of our key sectors. operating optimally we will look to supplement growth by targeting larger scale acquisitions. Broadening the acquisition universe • Potential to double addressable market • Leverage existing positions in attractive end markets i.e. Oil & Gas • Non-valve related products and businesses Geographies Market dynamics Products • North America • Aftermarket >30% • Barriers to entry • Europe • Growth rate >5% pa • Criticality of application • Latin America • Customer intimacy • Predictable aftermarket • Asia Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Introduction IMI welcomes Bopp & Reuther We announced the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther in November 2014, and the acquisition completed on 2 January 2015. With decades of experience, Bopp & Reuther is a global specialist in the design, manufacture and servicing of safety, control and shut off valves for process industries as well as conventional and nuclear power plants world-wide. Strategic Review Bopp & Reuther was privately owned, with its head office and manufacturing The acquisition of Bopp & plant located in Mannheim, Germany Reuther offers significant benefits about 70km from Frankfurt. It includes and opportunities, including: five service centres with two in Germany, • The acquisition of a well-established and employs 419 people. Following the business with a strong presence acquisition, the current CEO Bernard and installed base in Germany. Engel and the management team, will remain with the business. • An increased product range for fossil and nuclear power which Established over 135 years ago, Bopp & can be offered to IMI CCI’s existing Reuther is a pioneer in the valve industry customer base. Performance Review and launched the first pneumatically operated safety valves in the 1950s – • Manufacturing capability for a breakthrough in efficiency and safety medium volume configured valves for process industries at the time. which will support growth in China and India. • The opportunity to extend Bopp & Reuther’s products to new markets in North and South America. • The potential to extend IMI’s aftermarket capability to service the global installed base of Bopp & Reuther’s valves. Corporate Governance • The opportunity to maximise performance of IMI CCI and Bopp & Reuther through purchasing, Turbine bypass valve manufacturing and lean systems collaboration. with desuperheat er Financial Statements 24 IMI plc Corporate Responsibility Our approach “Our a mbition is for IMI to become a wor ld-cla ss business a nd the lea der in its chosen sector s – a tr uly gr ea t compa ny tha t we ca n a ll be pr oud of both for its business a nd the wa y we conduct our business. And by ‘gr ea t’ we mea n a compa ny tha t thinks longter m, deliver s pr ofita ble susta ina ble gr owth, invests in its futur e, is pr efer r ed by a ll sta keholder s including employees, customer s a nd investor s a nd a t a ll times beha ves r esponsibly. At the hea r t of our a ppr oa ch to ma king IMI a gr ea t compa ny is Members of the IMI CCI RSM team with Carol Gamble, The IMI Wa y which sets out our va lues excellence, innova tion, Mayor of Rancho Santa Margarita, collecting their award. integr ity a nd colla bor a tion a nd embr a ces a ll our a ctivities. It cover s the pr oducts a nd ser vices we pr ovide to customer s, our innova tion a nd continuous impr ovement pr ogr a mm es a nd Health & Safety the ongoing development of our people. It a lso a ddr esses a ll The health and safety of our employees is a spects of the wa y we do business a nd the impa ct we ha ve on paramount. We also have a duty to protect other stakeholders, including our customers, the envir onment a nd the communities we oper a te within.” visitors and suppliers, who may be affected by what we do and the surroundings in Mark Selw ay which we operate. Chief Executive During the year we made excellent progress towards achieving world-class health and safety performance for all operations. In Our vision particular the lost time accident rate was further reduced by 15%. Throughout 2014 over 100,000 hours were devoted to HS&E training. Engineering GREAT Across the Group, our divisional HS&E teams continued to drive ongoing improvements by focusing on root-cause investigations of near“Engineering GREATmeans t aking what’s good misses as well as accidents. A key component at IMI and t ransf orming it int o somet hing of this work is the sharing of ideas and experience around the Group. Following every brilliant , lif echanging, longlast ing and lost time accident, a safety alert is circulated worldclass.” to all HS&E teams so they can learn from it and avoid similar events at their sites. Our purpose In 2014, after a rigorous process we were delighted that one of our facilities was recognised for its work in this area. IMI CCI RSM (RSM) in the USA received the California “We deliver GREATsolut ions f or our cust omers Voluntary Protection Programme Cal/VPP Star designation. RSM is one of only four t ackling the world’s most demanding valve manufacturers in the USA to receive this engineering challenges.” recognition, which is the highest bestowed by the Occupational Safety and Health Our mindset Administration (OSHA). The award recognises both employers and employees for implementing health and safety programmes that go beyond minimal standards and provide the best protection “Engineering GREATt oget her” against occupational hazards. RSM Mot ivat ing values: is now considered a leader in their industry and is exempt from Cal/OSHA programmed inspections. Int egrit y Excellence Innovat ion Collaborat ion Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Introduction IMI is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and we report our climate change data to the Investor CDP programme, including the Supply Chain CDP to encourage action on climate change from our key suppliers. FTSE4Good has again recognised our performance across environmental, social and economic sustainability criteria by continuing to include us in its Index. IMI Hydronic Engineering has installed its newest and Our Code of Conduct is a crucial component of The IMI The Precision Engineering team in France collected Strategic Review most efficient balancing & control solution into the ALMA Way we must always behave responsibly and ethically. 200kg of litter and debris from a National Forest in the Hospital, Eelko in Belgium, which will help the customer vicinity of their manufacturing site. to meet their efficiency targets. Environment Business integrity & ethics Community Our technologies are helping our customers Our Code of Conduct (the ‘Code’) sets out We have a significant presence around the respond to a number of global environmental the standards we expect everyone in the world and in addition to benefits from creating challenges, including climate change, Group to comply with and covers a number jobs and investment we believe we should resource scarcity and urbanisation. In our of areas including workplace conduct, antidirectly contribute through relevant charitable Performance Review own day-to-day business operations, we are bribery and anti-corruption and fair market and educational community programmes. committed to minimising the environmental competition. The Code is reviewed annually In addition to the Group charitable donations impact of our business operations and and in 2014 amendments have been made policy, where we support a range of becoming more energy efficient. to bring the language in line with the current national and international causes, some of expression of the Group’s purpose and our business units have relationships with We operate a Group-wide energy efficiency values. All employees are given annual facecharities that are local to their operating sites. programme, Project 20:20, that was launched to-face refresher training on the Code and the in 2011 and covers 20 of our largest energy importance of ethical behaviour. The Code is In the Czech Republic, colleagues from using sites, which together account for more supported by more specific policy and training IMI CCI Brno were nominated for a national than 70% of our overall energy consumption. and implementation programmes on the areas award by the Kociánka Center who they have To date, Project 20:20 has identified over 100 it covers. had a relationship with for a number of years. best practice emissions reduction projects, The nomination was in appreciation of the which are now being rolled out across this Our whistleblowing policy encourages relationship between the Center and group. Projects in 2014 included ‘right-sizing’ employees to speak up through line employees who have not only given and modernisation of a ventilation system management and our HR teams when they donations, but also their time to help this saving some 18 tonnes of CO2 at our IMI see conduct that does not accord with the worthwhile organisation, which helps prepare Corporate Governance Precision site in Farmington, USA. We also Code. Where normal channels may not be children and adolescents with physical or enhanced the use of local hydro-electric appropriate we provide a confidential, learning difficulties for mainstream schools power at IMI Hydronic Engineering in Sweden independently operated reporting hotline and jobs. and this is providing us with 300,000 kWh of in more than 20 languages which enables electricity per annum. Collectively, the energy employees to raise issues anonymously. In addition to programmes which run efficiency initiatives completed in 2014 will Our Ethics and Compliance Committee throughout the year, on one dedicated day provide savings of around 800 tonnes of meets monthly to review hotline reports each year – The IMI Way Day – all of our CO2e per annum. and is chaired by Geoff Tranfield, Group employees spend time engaged in activities Human Resources Director. During 2014, to benefit their local community. These All this work has delivered some tremendous 103 cases were reported which is down activities included employees collecting savings. Our 2014 gross CO2e emissions from the previous year (2013: 116 cases). donations for food banks, renovating a local have reduced by 9% to 62,500 tonnes play area used by disadvantaged children, compared with the previous year (2013: We also operate a supplier evaluation process painting and clearing out a community centre 69,000 tonnes). Of this amount 43,000 which assesses our suppliers to ensure that used by the elderly, volunteering at local tonnes resulted from the purchase of they comply with the provisions contained hospices, and raising money for a school electricity, heat, steam or cooling by IMI within the Code and our Supply Chain Policy. for blind children. Financial Statements (2013: 47,500 tonnes). Our normalised In 2014, 80 supplier audits took place. performance has improved from 39.6 to 37.4 tonnes per £million sales from 2013 to 2014, which is a 6% reduction. This is very encouraging as we move into the final year of our three-year target period that is seeking at least 7.5% reduction compared to 2012. For further information please refer to page 142 of the Directors’ Report. Code online www.imiplc.com/corporate-responsibility 26 IMI plc Corporate Responsibility Our people Our per for ma nce a nd the success of our businesses r ely hea vily Diversity and inclusion on our employees, who a re one of our key a ssets. To ensure tha t We aim to recruit the very best we ha rness IMI’s full potentia l we must r ecr uit the best people people to help us deliver our strategic objectives and to reflect who ha ve excellent r eleva nt skills a nd pr ovide them with a the diverse global footprint of our wor king envir onment within which they ca n develop a nd locations, customers and markets. be fully enga ged. We are committed to ensuring that employees are treated fairly in an Dur ing 20 14 we fur ther developed a nd en ha n ced our cor e environment which is free from any fr a mewor k of people pr ocesses. We ha ve intr oduced a nd form of discrimination on the grounds m a nda ted a consistent globa l per for m a nce m a na gement of age, religion, race, sex, disability, gender reassignment, marriage/civil pr ocess, w hich will help bind a ll our key Huma n Resour ces partnership, pregnancy and maternity pr ocesses; including r ecr uitment, people development, and sexual orientation. succession pla nning, induction a nd r ewa r d. This new pr ocess, During 2014 we revised our Diversity which will ena ble us to ma na ge mor e effectively a nd consistently and Inclusion policy, further details of the per for ma nce of our tea ms a nd businesses, wa s intr oduced which are contained in the Nominations in r esponse to feedba ck pr ovided thr ough the 2013 Employee Committee Report on pages 55 and 56. We also continued to track our progress Sur vey, which highlighted the need for r egula r per for ma nce in terms of gender diversity. r eviews a nd open feedba ck. In 2014 30% of our graduates were Also in r esponse to employees’ r equests for clea r er a nd mor e female (a slight decline from 2013 open r ewa r d pr ocesses a nd fr a mewor ks, we ha ve esta blished where the number was 36%) and we will continue to focus our efforts a for ma l ma na gement committee, ma de-up of r epr esenta tives to recruit more diverse international fr om a cr oss the Gr oup, to r eview our ma na gement business leaders across the Group. r emuner a tion pr a ctices on a r egula r ba sis. Extensive consulta tion wa s under ta ken by em ployees a cr oss the Gr oup to fur ther enha nce the IMI Wa y a nd our va lues. As a result, we have incorporated the fourth va lue of collabora tion a s we know this is cr ucia l to the over a ll success of the Gr oup. We a r e a lso evolving our IMI Wa y beha viour a l fr a mewor k which will be embedded into a ll our key people pr ocesses dur ing the course of 20 15. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Introduction “We a im to cr ea te a n envir onment tha t a llows existing employees to give of their best a nd is a ttr a ctive to a diver se r a nge of potentia l employees.” Geoff Tranfield Group Human Resources Director Engineering GREATt he IMI Way Strategic Review Performance Review We look to recruit the best people with relevant skills Teams 9 & 12 of the Management Fundamentals Our employees understand the contribution they make Programme Graduating in Shanghai, China to the performance of the business Resourcing/Recruitment Development Employee engagement Our ability to harness the Group’s full To help us attract and retain the right We aim to create an environment in potential of course relies on having people and to ensure that we have which our employees are engaged with the right people in the right places at a strong talent pipeline, we operate their work, understand the contribution the right times. This means recruiting development programmes at all levels they make to the performance of and developing the best people, who of the Group. the business and have a means of have excellent relevant skills and who providing constructive feedback. To ensure that our people are clearly aligned to both our values development initiatives support In June 2014 we launched a new global and our ambitions. our growth agenda and provide intranet which facilitates the sharing of Corporate Governance Accountability for recruitment sits our employees with the most relevant knowledge and best practice, as well with our local management teams training and learning opportunities, as encouraging collaboration and team who determine their recruitment during 2014 all development work across the Group’s businesses needs, taking into account their programmes were reviewed. regardless of division or geography. business’s strategic plan and the As a result of this review a number All desk-based employees now have need to reflect both our customer of changes have been made and both access to this platform, which serves and marketplace footprints. new and updated programmes will be as a very effective communication launched in 2015, including a Groupchannel and, by way of example, During the course of 2014 much work wide on-line learning portal and an has been used to share the Chief has been undertaken to standardise expanded graduate programme to Executive’s regular video updates and strengthen our recruitment further develop and strengthen our which have covered the Group’s processes to ensure both excellence technical capabilities. strategy and our progress against plan. and consistency. In particular we have launched a new induction procedure In 2015 we will also be focusing To further enhance the sharing of Financial Statements for our managers who are leading on improving senior management news and success stories around IMI’s strategy where we identify our succession and enhancing core the Group, we launched the IMI Eye, expectations and what they can supervisory and front-line management a newsletter which will be published expect as an employee of the Group. skills across the Group. every six months and is written by and for our employees. The first edition in October 2014 contained a range of stories including updates on lean improvement, new product development and major project wins. 28 IMI plc Measurements and targets Business per for ma nce is mea sur ed thr ough Gr oup-wide ta r gets a nd impr ovement mea sur es. Ea ch IMI business pa r ticipa tes in a n a nnua l r ound of pla nning meetings with the Executive Committee, during which per for ma nce a nd futur e pla ns for tha t business a r e r eviewed a nd upda ted. These business pla ns ha ve a ll been a ligned with the Gr oup’s new gr owth str a tegy which wa s a nnounced in August 20 14 a nd deta ils of which a r e set out on pa ges 8 to 23 of this Annua l Repor t. The Key Per for ma nce Indica tor s (KPIs) set out below r epr esent the fina ncia l a nd non-fina ncia l ta r gets which a r e integr a l to the deliver y of the new str a tegy. Organic revenue grow th Segmental operating profit % Millions 6 400 5 300 4 3 200 2 100 1 4% 1% 2% £300.1m £321.6m £298.1m 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Organic revenue growth excludes the Our strategic ambition is to double the impact of acquisitions, disposals and Group’s 2014 operating profits over the foreign exchange rate movements. next five years. In 2014 Group segmental The revenues from acquisitions are only operating profit was £298.1m compared included in the current year for the period to £321.6m in 2013 representing a during which the revenues were also decrease of 7% on a reported basis. included in the prior period. In 2014, On an organic basis, after adjusting the Group’s continuing businesses for the adverse impact of exchange grew by 2% on an organic basis. rates and acquisitions and disposals, segmental operating profit was down 1%. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Introduction Strategic Review Return on capital employed Lean score Health & Safety Lost time accident rate Performance Review % % 20 100 0.3 0.25 15 75 0.2 10 50 0.15 0.1 5 25 0.05 18.9% 19.7% 18.3% 31% [ ]% 46% 0.31 0.13 0.11 2012 2013 2014 First assessment Second assessment 2012 2013 2014 Corporate Governance Return on capital employed (ROCE) is During the year we introduced a new The health and safety of all of our defined as segmental operating profit benchmarking process to assess employees remains paramount. divided by segmental operating assets. the operational performance of every We measure our progress in this In 2014 ROCE was 18.3% which manufacturing and major warehousing area by tracking our lost time accident compares to 19.7% in 2013. site in the Group against the ten key rate (LTAs). In 2014 our >1 day rate areas of lean. A world-class operational improved by 15% relative to 2013. performance score is considered to In previous years we reported our be 85% or more. None of our facilities >3 day LTA performance but, as a scored close to this figure in the first result of performance improvements assessment. The highest score was on the number and severity of accidents, 57% and the average across the Group the >3 day metric is no longer a key was 31%. Improvement plans have been performance indicator and will no put in place and each of the sites will be longer be reported. reviewed every six months. Following Financial Statements the latest review all sites had improved their operational performance and the Group average had improved to 46%. We aim to be world-class by 2018 and will update progress towards this goal in each future Annual Report. For more information about the importance of lean to our strategy, please go to pages 16 to 19. 30 IMI plc Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Boa r d ha s r esponsibility for deter mining the na tur e a nd extent of the pr incipa l r isks it is willing to ta ke to a chieve the Compa ny’s str a tegic objectives. The Executive Comm ittee is r esponsible for implem enting a n d m onitor ing inter na l contr ols a nd other elem ents of r isk m a na gem ent system s a nd oper a tes in pa r a llel with the Audit Comm ittee, which ha s pr im a r y r esponsibility for over sight of fina ncia l contr ols, the Nom ina tions Comm ittee, which ha s pr ima r y r esponsibility for succession r isk, a nd the Rem uner a tion Comm ittee, which ha s pr ima r y r esponsibility for r emuner a tion a nd incentive str uctur e r isk. During the year a new business unit based risk management Through these processes a list of significant risks is identified, process was introduced within the Group. Each site is required assessed and ranked according to their probability and to develop and keep updated a full risk profile identifying the materiality and, following Executive Committee review, key risks facing the site. Each risk is assessed, rated and the Board considers the measures to be utilised to mitigate, appropriate mitigation actions developed. Leading KPIs are transfer or avoid such risks. Risk appetite across the range of tracked for each risk and site management teams review on strategic objectives of the Group is also reviewed by the Board. a monthly basis both the risk profile, progress on mitigation In addition to strategic and operational risks, we are also exposed actions and KPIs to ensure appropriate actions are taken. to a number of financial market risks including credit risk, liquidity Site level risk profiles will be formally uploaded to the Group risk, counter party risk and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, intranet every six months and biannually, these will be interest rates and commodity prices. A description of these risks consolidated into divisional risk registers and a Group risk and our centralised approach to managing them is set out in register. By the end of March 2015 all key sites will have section 4.4 to the financial statements. conducted an initial risk profile which will be routinely reviewed and updated. This will supersede the current process where During 2015 we will be further enhancing our risk management risks were considered primarily at divisional and Group levels. process in line with the recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code and associated best practice guidance. Each Divisional Managing Director has appointed a risk champion with responsibility for embedding the Group risk The key strategic and operational risks facing the Group are assessment process within their business. The businesses’ shown in the table on pages 31 to 33. This table includes a risk reports, including mitigation action plans for significant risks, description of the risk and the potential impact on the Group, are reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant a summary of the mitigation actions, the risk movement and business. These are then reviewed by the Executive Committee, the main changes during 2014. which in turn submits a full half yearly risk assessment to the Board. The Board explicitly considers the risks associated with the Group’s strategic objectives. The Executive Committee also reports to the Board on major business and other risks involved in specific investment decisions including acquisitions and divestments. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Introduction RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION REGULATORY BREACH We have set ourselves very high standards • Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in FAILURE TOCOMPLY WITH in our approach to ethics and rejection of The IMI Way LEGISLATION OR A BREACH OF corruption in business. We need to ensure, • Further enhancement of the internal controls declaration process and OUR OWN HIGH STANDARDS as we expand our operations to achieve our continued rigorous nancial audits by our Group Assurance team OF ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR. desired growth, that we maintain these high • The annual IMI Way Day was held in June across the Group and standards. We face legislation around antiincluded face-to-face training for all employees bribery, fraud and competition law and need RISK • Policies, manuals, training and guidelines are available to all employees to ensure compliance otherwise we face both Strategic Review MOVEMENT under the legal & compliance and nancial sections of the IMI global nancial and reputational damage intranet, which was launched in 2014 • Group, divisional and speci c territory resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance • Training of employees focusing on how to apply The IMI Way in everyday situations and key risk areas such as competition law, fraud and anti-bribery and corruption • Availability and promotion of the whistle blowing policy and the con dential IMI hotline to report concerns • Group standard operating procedures updated with increased rigour around core legal and compliance processes • We have introduced standard agency agreements and terminated non-compliant agents CHANGES DURING2014 Whilst the external regulatory environment is increasingly more onerous, our processes and procedures are now more embedded throughout the business. Access to the procedures is available world-wide on the Group intranet Performance Review MAJOR PROJECT EXECUTION We will need to undertake a number of major • Further upgrade of resources and talent in project management, WE FAIL TODELIVER MAJOR change projects in line with our strategic in particular around introduction of new Group-wide core processes TRANSFORMATIONAL PROJECTS objectives including business reorganisations • Regular review of project progression by the Executive Committee ON TIME AND ON BUDGET. and implementation of IT systems. If we fail to • Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action deliver the desired objectives it could have an plans for all major change projects RISK adverse nancial impact on the Group • Group Assurance reviews of major new projects MOVEMENT CHANGES DURING2014 The number of major change projects started in 2014 has increased signi cantly, particularly around IT projects, business organisation and implementation on new Group-wide processes. As a result we have introduced bi-weekly process meetings, overseen by the Executive, to ensure key improvement projects are on track, adequately resourced and monitored so that resources are not overstretched HEALTH, SAFETY & We recognise that we have a duty of care to • Introduction of lean manufacturing as one of IMI’s core processes Corporate Governance ENVIRONMENTAL (HS&E) our employees. Though we have made great including 5S (housekeeping methodology for manufacturing areas) CONTROLS progress in recent years we understand the and Gemba walks (management walks in manufacturing areas) FAILURE OF OUR HEALTH, impact on our employees from the failure • Enhancement of standard work processes, new lifting and slinging SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL of this obligation and therefore still consider procedures and improved planning around plant layout (HS&E) CONTROLS RESULTING this a key risk. Failure of controls could result IN HARM TOEMPLOYEES OR • Established global process in place to ensure that health, safety in injury, death and environmental damage OTHER STAKEHOLDERS and environmental matters are appropriately addressed and any with the consequential impact of reputational such risks are minimised including monthly reporting to, and review RISK damage and risk of regulator action at the Executive Committee MOVEMENT • Group and divisional level HS&E resource to proactively manage and audit HS&E performance and to provide guidance and support to site management CHANGES DURING2014 We measure our progress in this area by tracking our lost time accidents (LTAs) per 100,000 hours worked. In 2014, the >1 day rate improved by 15% relative to 2013. HS&E best practice sharing has been a source of this improvement and has included a standardised process for near-miss and hazard reporting called SAFER (See and Fix Error Report) as well as the 5-Why Root Cause Analysis, and investment in pressure testing safety systems and machine guarding Financial Statements PRODUCT FAILURE We pride ourselves on the innovative • Continued focus on quality and safety, including audits to appropriate PRODUCT FAILURE LEADINGTO engineering solutions we provide for our quality standards WARRANTY ISSUES, RECALL, customers. The quality and safety of our • Processes to mitigate the reputational and legal implications of any failure INJURY, DAMAGE OR DISRUPTION products is of the highest importance and if TOCUSTOMER’S BUSINESS • Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality and we fail to deliver quality and safe products or product development advanced technical solutions, then we face the nancial and reputational impact • Contract management resources for both sales and purchases RISK MOVEMENT • Development of Group-wide standard for advanced product quality planning (APQP), which is being launched across the Group in 2015 CHANGES DURING2014 Customers are increasingly insisting on more onerous contractual terms relating to product quality and performance. We are implementing a new APQP process, standard work instructions and lean manufacturing tools such as poka-yoke (quality system with the goal of achieving zero defects), which will reduce the likelihood of issues arising and have taken increased insurance cover in one higher risk area to reduce possible impact 32 IMI plc Principal Risks and Uncertainties (cont’d) RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION LOSS OF KEY FACILITY A temporary or permanent loss of a key • Introduction of lean in all key manufacturing sites with focus on 5S, INTERRUPTION TOBUSINESS manufacturing site or warehouse as a result Gemba walks and Total Productive Maintenance (holistic approach AS A RESULT OF A LOSS OF A of a natural catastrophe or any other reason to preventative maintenance involving all employees to maximise KEY FACILITY would have a material adverse impact on our operational time of equipment) ability to meet our customers’ needs • Site level risk pro ling which identi es the key operating risks, tracks RISK key leading KPI’s and identi es mitigation actions MOVEMENT • Maintenance and regular testing of robust business continuity plans • Risk control surveys undertaken annually at all key sites to ensure compliance with best practice in property risk management CHANGES DURING2014 Introduction of lean including 5S, Gemba walks and Total Productive Maintenance at site level has created a cultural change in management’s risk behaviour. Enhancement of site level risk pro ling, particularly around key operating risks, is leading to a greater focus on those risks that could impact the continuity of the business NEW PRODUCT INTRODUCTION Our strategy of doubling operating pro t • Continued investment in research and development, working with our FAILURE TODEVELOP A PIPELINE in the next ve years is underpinned by key account management teams to ensure we meet our customer needs OF NEW PRODUCTS organic growth, which will be achieved in • Centres of design and technological excellence established in a number part by delivering a stream of innovative of locations new products for our customers. Failure to RISK • Presented 2015 strategy with substantially increased spend in respect of MOVEMENT maintain new product momentum will impact our ability to grow new products and capital equipment CHANGES DURING2014 New product introductions have become an increasingly important part of our strategic growth agenda. Best practice within IMI is in our Hydronic Engineering division which has brought 14 new products to the market in 2014 and we are now sharing processes and learnings across the other two divisions ACQUISITION RISK An important part of our growth agenda • Resourced central M&A function working with our divisions to identify FAILURE TOGROW THE BUSINESS is to make acquisitions which complement acquisition opportunities BY MAKINGTHE RIGHT or extend our product portfolio. Failure • Robust due diligence with Executive stewardship ACQUISITIONS AND INTEGRATING to make the right acquisitions that deliver THEM SUCCESSFULLY synergies would restrict our ability to meet • Standardised integration process growth targets • Introduction of bi-weekly business development matrix meetings RISK to monitor and manage acquisitions and disposals MOVEMENT CHANGES DURING2014 To achieve our strategic objective of doubling operating pro t over ve years, a number of value enhancing acquisitions will need to be made. To support this we have introduced bi-weekly process meetings attended by the Executive to increase rigour and visibility. A standard integration process has been introduced to acquisitions to ensure ef ciency synergies are maximised PEOPLE CAPABILITY Our success as a business will depend • Appropriate reward programmes to ensure people are motivated to deliver FAILURE TOATTRACT AND on ensuring we get the right people in key our Group objectives RETAIN TALENT positions in the organisation. If we fail to • Rigorous appraisal and succession plans in place, which are reviewed acquire, retain and develop talent leading to twice yearly a failure to effectively succession plan, this RISK will result in the loss of knowledge, intellectual • Group-wide training and development programmes being established for MOVEMENT implementation in 2015 property and performance CHANGES DURING 2014 During 2014 we introduced a new Group-wide performance management and talent review/succession planning process. A new leadership development programme is being established and the graduate development scheme is planned to double the number of graduates when compared with 2014 intake SUPPLY CHAIN We have a signi cant number of contracts • Monitoring of risks and development of contingency plans to mitigate FAILURE TOMANAGE THE with a broad base of suppliers. If we fail to the impact of a supplier failure or increased prices SUPPLY CHAIN meet our customers’ requirements in respect • Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers of quality or delivery, it could have a material impact on the Group’s results • Dual supply on all critical components RISK MOVEMENT CHANGES DURING 2014 Introduction of standard processes to obtain intimate knowledge of key suppliers to ensure that all are robust and capable. Increased collaboration across divisions to share knowledge of suppliers and use of standardised scorecards to monitor trends in key supplier performance Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Introduction RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION IT RESILIENCE We utilise a signi cant number of IT • Development and regular testing of business continuity plans A MAJOR DISRUPTION TOIT systems to support the Group’s production, • Introduce strategy to upgrade or replace key systems SYSTEMS technology, marketing, sales and nancial functions. Failure of any of the systems or • Detailed and improved plans to implement new ERP platforms RISK corruption or loss of data could have a major in each of three operating divisions MOVEMENT impact on operations Strategic Review CHANGES DURING2014 Major Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) implementation has begun in all three divisions during 2014. Each ERP project has fortnightly Executive overview, including management of risk. The new Group intranet has added substantial capability, which replaces a number of legacy systems CYBER SECURITY Breach of our IT systems by third parties • Increased monitoring of IT systems UNWANTED EXTERNAL could result in loss of intellectual property, • Disaster recovery plans reviewed and tested ACCESS TOOUR IT SYSTEMS theft of nancial assets and a reduction in the integrity of our systems. For customer facing • New Group IT Director joined the Company in 2014 RISK systems there could be business interruption • New Group IT Security Director joined the Company in 2014 MOVEMENT NEW and reputational damage • Increased IT security resources and establishment of an IT security steering group comprising representatives for all divisions and corporate of ces • Investment in three-year plan to signi cantly improve infrastructure and standards Performance Review CHANGES DURING2014 The nature and number of security threats has increased during 2014 but the Group has recruited a number of IT security specialists to better understand the threat landscape and develop appropriate responses to increase resilience MACRO-ECONOMIC INSTABILITY We operate in global markets and demand for • Our divisional management are close to key customers and quickly GLOBAL ECONOMIC/POLITICAL our products is dependent on customer and pick up and feedback change in customer sentiment INSTABILITY IMPACTINGUPON market con dence. A downturn in a regional • Our new core forecasting process utilises early indications of reduced OUR ABILITY TOACHIEVE THE economy, a change in oil price, movements demand and the operational output can be right sized appropriately DESIRED ORGANIC GROWTH in exchange rates or a political event could impact end market demand and result in a • The Group operates in all main regional markets and our strategy is to RISK reduction in both sales and pro t ensure that we have a balanced portfolio of markets to ensure we are MOVEMENT NEW not too dependent on any one region or market CHANGES DURING2014 As we have progressed through 2014, European markets have become challenging due to slower growth. Growth in Asia Paci c is strong but increasing at a slower rate than in 2013. The con icts in areas such as Ukraine and the Levant with Corporate Governance associated sanctions are concerning and impact our Critical Engineering business COMPETITIVE MARKETS Increased volatility and slowdown in major • Review of capacity utilisation at sites as part of the lean benchmarking INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE economies would result in increased process and business improvement plans to obtain better utilisation MARKETS LEADINGTOPRICING competition. This could lead to loss of and improved productivity PRESSURES OR LOSS OF customers and/or pricing pressures leading • Review of standard costings to ensure thorough understanding of CUSTOMERS to lost sales and reduced pro ts product cost RISK • Monitoring of market to ensure right balance between cost MOVEMENT NEW competitiveness and quality solutions CHANGES DURING2014 Heightened macro-economic issues will inevitably increase both competitive and pricing risks and will become a more important factor during 2015. As a result this has been included as a principal risk Financial Statements Risk Appetite The Board has considered the Group’s risk appetite and it is considered appropriate to achieve our strategic objectives. Risk appetite is higher for new product introduction, acquisitions and major change projects in keeping with our growth strategy but lower for health, safety and environmental controls, regulatory compliance, cyber security and IT resilience. Our risk appetite has been communicated to the Executive Management to ensure their decision making behaviour is consistent with the risk appetite set by the board. 34 IMI plc Performance review In this section we pr ovide a commenta r y on IMI’s per for ma nce by division in 20 14 including a summa r y of key a chievements, a ma r ket r eview a nd outlook. Refer ences to or ga nic gr owth a r e on a consta nt cur r ency ba sis a nd exclude the r esults of disposa ls a nd a cquisitions for the per iod for which ther e is no compa r a tor . An a na lysis by division of or ga nic gr owth, for eign excha nge movements a nd the impa ct of a cquisitions a nd disposa ls is set out in note 2.1.1 on pa ge 94. IMI Critical Engineering In early 2015 we were pleased to welcome Bopp & Reuther, the power generation valve specialist, to the division. 36 IMI Precision Engineering The division focused on a number of strategic activities during the second half. 38 IMI Hydronic Engineering During the year we continued to invest in new product development and successfully launched 14 new products. 40 Ma in photo: Two IMI H ydr onic Engineer s focus on con tinued wor ld-cla ss in nova tion a t our Engineer ing Cen tr e of Excellen ce in Sloven ia Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 35 Engineering Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GREATt he IMI Way 36 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Critical Engineering Revenue IMI Cr itica l Engineer ing is a wor ld-lea ding pr ovider of flow contr ol solutions tha t ena ble vita l ener gy a nd pr ocess industr ies £692m Down 3% to oper a te sa fely, clea nly, r elia bly a nd mor e efficiently. We oper a te a globa l ser vice networ k, with ma nufa ctur ing Operating profit fa cilities in 12 countr ies a nd employ over 4,30 0 ta lented people a cr oss a r a nge of disciplines, a ll committed to pr oviding excellent £119.8m Up 3% ser vice to our customer s. We design, ma nufa ctur e a nd insta ll customised, highly engineer ed solutions for new pla nt builds a nd a lso pr ovide complete pla nt Engineering lifecycle ser vice suppor t. This ensur es tha t our customer s benefit GREATSolutions fr om efficient m a intena nce, speedy issue r esolution a nd pla nt optimisa tion a t a ll times. Our pr oducts a r e a t the hea r t of complex ener gy a nd pr oduction pr ocesses. They contr ol the flow of stea m, ga s a nd liquids in ha r sh envir onments – they a r e designed to withsta nd temper a tur e, a nd pr essur e extr emes, a s well a s intensely a br a sive or cor r osive cyclica l oper a tions. Our engineer ing exper tise sets us a pa r t. We combine technica l knowledge, engineer ing design ca pa bility, a pplica tion exper ience a nd innova tive custom-designed pr oducts to deliver sa fe, r elia ble a nd dur a ble solutions. Performance Full year order intake at £686m (2013: £742m) was flat on an organic basis (after adjusting for disposals and exchange rate movements). In the second half order intake increased 16% on an organic basis. The Oil & Gas sector, where we have a significant position in the LNG market, continued to be strong with orders up 3% despite order intake in the prior year including a £40m contract for a high integrity pressure protection system (HIPPS). Despite slower new order activity in China, Fossil Power orders were up 4% on the prior year. In the Petrochemical sector, orders were down 12% mainly due to lower project activity in China. As anticipated, Nuclear orders were down 27% reflecting ongoing weakness in the market post-Fukushima. As previously announced, as a result of a material drop in demand in the nuclear fuel enrichment market, we took the decision to close the IMI Components manufacturing site in Birmingham, UK which supplied non-valve components. Oil & Gas Petrochemical Power – Fossil & Nuclear IMI Critical Engineering is the global market leader IMI Critical Engineering is the global leader in the design IMI Critical Engineering supplies the critical, customised in the supply of anti-surge valve and actuator and manufacture of integrated flow control systems for turbine by-pass valves to the world’s most efficient systems to the world’s largest LNG compression critical applications in Fluid Catalytic Cracking (FCC). power stations. Our valves control high pressure superfacilities, including Gorgon in Australia. Our systems We also supply bespoke valves into the ethylene and heated steam at temperatures up to 650°C, protecting operate below -160°C, with ultra-fast response to polypropylene production processes, as well as for the turbine and optimising power yield. Globally, we maximise liquid natural gas production while delayed coking at temperatures up to 1,600°C. have an installed base of over one hundred thousand protecting the compressor. valves and are a leader in the combined cycle gas sector. We also supply both products for new nuclear reactors and upgrades to existing facilities to improve safety levels. To date we have supplied products to over half the world’s reactor fleet. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Introduction “Bopp & Reuther r epr esents a n im por ta nt a nd entir ely a ligned a ddition to Cr itica l Engineer ing’s por tfolio of oper a tions. Its pr oducts, ma r kets a nd custom er s a r e well under stood a cr oss IMI CCI a nd the incr ea sed geogr a phic sa les distr ibution a nd pr oductivity benefits we br ing will help a cceler a te Bopp & Reuther ’s gr owth a m bitions.” Roy Twite Divisional Managing Director Aftermarket orders were up 9% compared to 2013 and Market Review excluding the nuclear aftermarket were up 16%. The recent oil price declines are causing uncertainty in the After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate industry and investment is being postponed in the regions movements of £37m and for disposals, revenues increased 2% where the cost of oil and gas production is high. In the short on an organic basis. Revenues of £692m (2013: £716m) were to medium term, the Nuclear market is expected to continue Strategic Review down 3% on a reported basis. Segmental operating profit of to be subdued post-Fukushima, but longer term prospects £120m (2013: £117m) grew 3% on a reported basis and 10% remain good. In the Fossil Power sector new build activity on an organic basis while margins increased to 17.3% from remains concentrated in the emerging markets with the 16.3% in 2013. This growth in profitability and margins reflects slowdown in China likely to continue. the benefits of ongoing improvements in project execution. Outlook During the second half the division made good progress on a Based on the current order book, on an organic basis, number of its growth initiatives including the acquisition of Bopp revenues are expected to be broadly flat for the full year 2015 & Reuther, the division wide adoption of lean manufacturing and but slightly down in the first half. While the division will continue the start of a project to introduce a new ERP system across the to improve its project execution capabilities, operating margins IMI CCI business. are expected to be lower, impacted by the acquisition of the lower margin Bopp & Reuther business, the disposal of the Key Achievements higher margin, but non-core, Eley businesses and the ongoing Performance Review investment in the division’s strategic growth initiatives. First • Delivered the HIPPS solution to the Middle East customer, half margins will be impacted further by the mix of product the largest single order in IMI Critical Engineering’s history shipments, but this will correct itself in the full year. • Increased Oil & Gas orders by 3% and Power orders by 4% • Increased Aftermarket orders by 9% • Improved the operational effectiveness of our factories through the initial phase of lean implementation • Relocated IMI Z&J’s US business into new expanded facilities in Houston • Relocated and expanded IMI CCI facility in South Korea • Relocated the IMI STI actuator business into larger premises Corporate Governance in Northern Italy • Opened two new service centres in Beijing and Shanghai • Significantly enhanced the division’s growth prospects in the power sector through the acquisition in January 2015 of Bopp & Reuther CASE STUDY High Integrity Pressure Protection System (HIPPS) Financial Statements With growing demand for oil & gas globally and because the costs of exploration and production from new fields is often high, increasing utilisation levels to extract more from existing fields is becoming ever more important. However increasing the yield from older and more difficult fields often involves significant levels of H2S (sour gas) and creates significant safety issues. Sour gas is extremely dangerous and it is vital that field owners and operators ensure the safety of the field and the equipment from over pressure that could lead to controlled releasing of sour gas, for example gas to flare. As a result, investment in HIPPS is becoming a key application. Leveraging a long history of experience, IMI CCI in Italy Case studies online www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action designs control and hardware for the system. 38 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Precision Engineering Revenue IMI Pr ecision Engineer ing is a wor ld lea der in motion a nd fluid contr ol technologies wher ever pr ecision, speed a nd r elia bility £710m Down 2% a r e essentia l. We deliver integr a ted solutions which impr ove the pr oductivity a nd efficiency of customer s’ equipment. Operating profit We oper a te sa les a nd ser vice networ ks in 75 countr ies a nd ha ve m a nufa ctur ing fa cilities in the US, Ger ma ny, China , UK, £126.4m Down 10% Switzer la nd, Czech Republic, Mexico a nd Br a zil. Pr oduct suppor t is pr ovided thr ough globa l centr es of technica l excellence, a nd fa cilities for computa tiona l fluid dyna mics (CFD) design a nd r esea r ch & developm ent testing. We a lso employ a dedica ted tea m Engineering of field engineer s, sector specia lists a nd key a ccount ma na ger s – a ll committed to pr oviding excellent ser vice to customer s. GREATSolutions Performance After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £40m and for acquisitions and disposals, revenues increased 4% on an organic basis. Revenues of £710m (2013: £723m) were down 2% on a reported basis. Industrial automation revenues were up 5% on an organic basis, driven by increased activity levels in North America (up 4%) and the Asia Pacific region (up 22%) but partially offset by weaker second half European markets, most notably in Germany. Commercial vehicles sales increased 4% in the year with 17% growth in Europe and a strong North American market which was impacted to some degree by the conclusion of a large contract during 2013 and lower truck production in Brazil. On an organic basis, Food & Beverage was up 5%, Rail was up 28%, while Oil & Gas reduced 6% and Life Sciences was down 1%. Segmental operating profit at £126m (2013: £141m) was 10% lower on a reported basis and, after adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £8m, 3% lower on an organic basis. Operating margins improved in the second half (H1 2014: 17.7% v H2 2014: 17.9%) while in the full year operating margins at 17.8% were lower reflecting an adverse sales mix and the increased investment to support long-term growth. Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences Delivering benefits to global customers An extensive range of cab, chassis IMI Precision Engineering’s extensive IMI Precision Engineering has a – including auto in-plant, machine tools and powertrain solutions deliver range of products and expertise is proven track-record of supporting the and general industry – IMI Precision fuel efficiency, emissions reduction acknowledged widely throughout development of advances in medical Engineering’s high performance and faster assembly times for the the Oil & Gas industry. In addition to devices, diagnostic equipment and products include valves, valve islands, world’s leading commercial vehicle IMI’s customised solutions, Precision biotech and analytical instruments. proportional and pressure monitoring manufacturers. Acknowledged for their Engineering produce a comprehensive In particular, the division’s products controls and air preparation products, safe and reliable operation, Precision range of certified, world-class products and expertise have helped reduce the as well as a comprehensive selection Engineering’s products have been which deliver precision control in even size of equipment, while enhancing of pneumatic actuators – rodless, proven in the harshest environments the harshest environments, including accuracy, throughput and fluid control compact, roundline and rotary. These and over millions of miles of reliable stainless steel valves and regulators, performance. The division is recognised are quickly and easily selected and service. We understand the market nuclear class valves and emergency for products which manage the precise ordered via our Norgren Express trends, environmental challenges, shutdown controls. control, repeatability and safety needs activities globally and supported with emissions standards and specifications of the industry. Our solutions are found high quality technical advice. that matter to truck manufacturers and in equipment for anaesthetics and Tier 1 suppliers. patient therapy through to molecular diagnostics and pathogen detection. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Introduction “Dur ing the second ha lf of the yea r we ma de good pr ogr ess on a num ber of str a tegic initia tives including simplifying the or ga nisa tion str uctur e in Eur ope, impr oving oper a tiona l per for m a nce thr ough the a pplica tion of lea n, a ddr essing supply cha in complexities a nd im plem enting a new system of costing wor ld-wide.” Mark Selway Chief Executive and Interim Divisional Managing Director The division focused on a number of strategic activities during Market Review the second half including simplifying the organisational The global economic outlook for 2015 remains mixed with structure, improving operational performance through the lead market indicators including the Purchasing Managers application of lean manufacturing, upgrading IT systems, Index (PMI) weakening in the second half of 2014 most addressing supply chain complexities, introducing standard notably in Europe. While the division expects the general costing and increasing investment in new product development. Strategic Review industrial markets in the US and Asia Pacific to remain Our review of the Industrial Automation market confirmed that positive, European markets are expected to remain we have excellent market positions, with a valuable installed challenging. In the truck sector we expect the European base and access to a high margin aftermarket. We are now market to remain stable while North America is forecast to developing detailed product roadmaps in each of the key deliver further growth which will more than offset continued geographies which will underpin our plans for growth. sluggish market conditions in Brazil. Key Achievements Outlook • Good growth in the European truck business following the Based on the current market environment and lead indicators, introduction of new Euro VI engines we expect modest organic revenue growth with operating margins at similar levels to 2014. The benefits of stronger • Introduced standard costing and disciplined profit and market conditions in North America combined with an product analysis tools across all operations to improve improved performance in Europe is expected to fund the Performance Review competitiveness and profit visibility division’s 2015 investments, most notably in Asia, to support • Introduced lean manufacturing techniques and operational the long-term development of the business. excellence initiatives across the global manufacturing footprint • Restructured and simplified the IMI Norgren European organisation Corporate Governance Overmoulded CASE STUDY N esign f IMI Precision show Engineering GREAT w ith a cost and s space saving solution Problem: CAMC a manufacturer and supplier of heavy duty trucks in China needed to replace solenoid valves critical to the functions within the vehicle’s lift axle and braking systems. The valves being used were leaking and were not energy efficient. Financial Statements Solution: Precision Engineering supplied a customised valve package that provided enhanced reliability at a lower cost than alternative systems available in the market. The solution reduced potential leak paths and is able to withstand high levels of vibration and extreme environmental conditions. It is also lighter and smaller duces pot ent ial which reduces costs and increases space savings. CAMC is ak pat hs incorporating this valve package within all their trucks for both their domestic and export market. New manifold valve with quick ‘tw ist lock’ assembly connection Case studies online www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action 40 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Hydronic Engineering Revenue IMI Hydr onic Engineer ing is the lea ding globa l pr ovider a nd r ecognised exper t in hydr onic distr ibution systems a nd r oom £284m Down 7% tem per a tur e contr ol, with exper ience in mor e tha n 10 0 ,0 0 0 constr uction pr ojects wor ld-wide. Operating profit We help clients optimise their hea ting, ventila tion a nd a ir conditioning (HVAC) systems by pr oviding pr oducts a nd £51.9m Down 19% knowledge to deliver per fect indoor clima te a t minimum ener gy use a nd a t the r ight ener gy cost. Our tea m of just under 2,0 0 0 people oper a te a r ound the wor ld, a nd we ha ve design a nd ma nufa ctur ing fa cilities in six countr ies. Engineering GREATSolutions Performance After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £19m, revenues were 1% lower on an organic basis. Revenues on a reported basis of £284m (2013: £305m) were down 7%. Second half activity in many of our core European markets was impacted by abnormally high autumn temperatures and weak construction activity. Following our decision in early 2014 to scale back our interests in less profitable countries and focus on those offering the best growth prospects, we delivered good growth in the emerging markets which were up 10%. Our North American business was down 4% reflecting a poor, weather related, first half performance. Segmental operating profit at £52m (2013: £64m) was 19% lower on a reported basis and, after adjusting for £3m of exchange rate impact, 15% lower on an organic basis. This reflected the additional investment in new product development and the costs associated with the withdrawal from a number of less profitable emerging markets. While operating margins showed their normal second half seasonal improvement to 19.7% (2014 H1: 16.8%), full year margins at 18.3% were lower compared to last year (2013: 21.1%). Balancing and Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water quality Hydronic balancing is about controlling With an unparalleled history of success Changes in temperature result in Our wide range of separators and water flow, which ensures that a waterowing to our dedication to precision changing water volume, which have degassers protect the installation based heating or cooling system and control, IMI Hydronic Engineering’s to be dealt with immediately to avoid and maintain system performance by performs to its full potential. Today thermostatic control systems guarantee damage and system breakdown. Our keeping water free of micro-bubbles and unbalanced systems are the cause of reliability in room temperature reliable pressure control systems with sludge in heating, solar and chilled water two thirds of all indoor climate problems. control. All our thermostatic control compressors or pumps, together with systems. Our latest cyclonic technology As the balancing experts IMI Hydronic bodies and housings are made from our robust range of static expansion has been proven to be up to 9 times Engineering enable customers to gunmetal. Resistant to corrosion and vessels and water-make up devices, more efficient at removing dirt from HVAC maintain comfort at the right level and dezincification, this tough material is make sure there is the right amount of systems ensuring a longer life of the increase HVAC efficiency by up to 30%. shaped using our own casting process. water, at the right pressure in the system installation, lower maintenance costs Our expertise covers all types of The result is unmatched temperature at all times. as well as lower energy costs. hydronic systems – constant flow control and thermostatic valve quality. and variable flow, static balancing and dynamic balancing. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Introduction “20 14 r epr esented a yea r of significa nt developm ent for the Hydr onic division. We put in pla ce a new ma na gem ent str uctur e, la unched a num ber of gr ea t new pr oducts a nd intr oduced oper a tiona l impr ovem ents. All of these initia tives will dr ive significa nt futur e gr owth.” Peter Spencer Divisional Managing Director During the year we continued to invest in new product While building construction in our core European markets has development and successfully launched 14 new products remained subdued in 2014, the global ambition to improve which delivered annualised revenues of around £13m. A good energy efficiency will continue to drive demand for the division’s pipeline of additional launches is scheduled for 2015 and is new and world leading products. expected to underpin our growth ambitions for the division. During the second half of the year good progress was also Outlook Strategic Review made on a number of other key strategic initiatives including While European construction markets are expected to remain the implementation of lean and the commencement of a at the subdued levels experienced in the second half of 2014, project to replace the ERP systems within the division. the new products which were launched in 2014 are expected to compensate and result in organic revenues being broadly Key Achievements flat in the first half on a constant currency basis. In the second • Launched 14 new products including the TA Compact, half we expect to deliver good organic revenue growth as we a pressure independent balancing and control valve range benefit from a number of exciting new products which will be launched at the ISH trade show in Germany at the end • Completed withdrawal from 20 low margin emerging markets of March. Operating margins, while expected to show their to focus on those offering stronger growth prospects normal seasonal improvement in the second half, are likely • Good progress on lean implementation resulting in an to be slightly below last year reflecting the ongoing investment improved lean assessment score of 59%, a 10% reduction in additional new products for long-term growth. Performance Review in inventory levels and over 90% on time deliveries. Market Review Improving energy efficiency in buildings is an on-going global trend and in November 2014, the US and China announced an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency over the next 20 years. This agreement builds on similar international initiatives, such as the Kyoto protocol, and will be a key driver for IMI Hydronic Engineering. Corporate Governance Aut omat ic Preset t ing hydronic balancing CASE STUDY direct ly A-exact the latest product with Automatic Flow Control (AFC) at t he valve technology has been independently tested and proven to save energy. Time saving The challenge: The new A-exact which provides energy savings in mount ing in heating systems was put to the test on a housing complex in the and balancing Netherlands where the homes were heated using geothermal energy. Financial Statements Geothermal energy requires a low return water temperature in order to be efficient. Solution: The results of the test were two fold. Firstly no complex measurements were required before installing the new valves making the balancing of the installation easier and quicker. Secondly the return water temperature was controlled very effectively and generated up to 50% savings on pump energy. A-exact: Thermostatic radiator valve with automatic ow limitation Opt imal f or renovat ion Case studies online www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action 42 IMI plc Corporate Governance Her e we outline infor ma tion on how the Compa ny is gover ned a nd the a ctivities of the Boa r d a nd its Committees. Corporate Governance Report Ma in photo: Pr ecise pr essur e settin g ensur es pr oof testing of our va lves a t IMI CCI Br n o to exa ctin g customer specifica tion s in wor ldcla ss high pr essur e test enclosur es. ew Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 44 IMI plc Board of Directors Roberto Quarta Mark Selw ay Douglas Hurt Roy Tw ite Daniel Shook Chairman (65) Chief Executive (55) Finance Director (58) Executive Director (47) Finance Director (47) to 28 February 2015 from 1 March 2015 Nationality American Italian Australian British British American British Committee membership Nominations Committee – Chair Executive Committee Douglas will be retiring from Executive Committee Executive Committee Remuneration Committee the Company and the Board on 7 May 2015 Date of appointment Joined the IMI Board in 2011. 2013 2006 2007 2015 Expertise Signi cant UK and international Experienced and proven Chief Experienced nance leader, Proven operational and 20 years nancial management board experience Executive having held senior nance roles engineering expertise experience Extensive knowledge of both Solid track record running in global businesses Management capability having Extensive knowledge engineering and manufacturing international engineering General management run all of IMI’s divisions of complex process Strong track record in private businesses experience gained in UK and Extensive knowledge of end manufacturing across a range equity, mergers and acquisitions In-depth knowledge of relevant Europe markets and customer base of industrial sectors end markets including oil & gas, Specialist in mergers and Strong international energy and automotive acquisitions, tax and pensions perspective, having worked in a number of key geographies during his time with two leading global businesses Key external appointments Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc Non-executive director of Tate Non-executive director of & Lyle PLC Halma plc Non-executive director of WPP plc Partner and Chairman Europe of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Non-executive director of Spie SA Board experience International business responsibility 10 0 % Manufacturing 10 0 % Public company board 90 % Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Introduction Anita Frew Bob Stack Carl-Peter Forster Birgit Nørgaard Ross McInnes Senior independent Non-executive director (64) Non-executive director (60) Non-executive director (56) Non-executive director (61) non-executive director (57) Strategic Review Nationality British American German Danish French Australian Committee membership Audit Committee Nominations Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee – Chair Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee – Chair Remuneration Committee Performance Review Date of appointment 2006 2008 2012 2012 2014 Expertise Experienced non-executive Experienced non-executive Experienced business leader Experienced non-executive Considerable nancial expertise Extensive business experience Signi cant international In-depth knowledge of the Held senior executive positions in Signi cant knowledge and including 15 years on industrial business experience automotive sector engineering consultancy experience of working in large boards Specialist capability in human Expert in operational excellence Wide ranging sectoral experience international companies that In-depth knowledge of resources, organisation change and lean manufacturing including energy, water, operate in global markets investment and asset and corporate affairs Signi cant experience in infrastructure and building management sectors technology management industries Extensive experience in strategy as well as nance and accounting Key external appointments Corporate Governance Non-executive director and Non-executive of Earthwatch Chairman of ZMDi AG Non-executive director of DSV Deputy Chief Executive Of cer Deputy Chairman of Lloyds International A/S and Kvaerner ASA of Safran SA Banking Group plc (LBG) Non-executive director of Geely Non-executive director of Automobile Holdings, Hong Kong Non-executive director of WSP Non-executive director Signet Jewellers Ltd Global Inc. and Chairman of and Chairman of the Audit Non-executive director of Volvo the Governance, Ethics and Committee at Faurecia SA Cars Corporation, Gothenburg, Compliance Committee Sweden Non-executive director Non-executive director of and Chairman of the Audit Non-executive director of Cobham plc Committee at Eutelsat Rexam PLC Communications SA Finance 80% Financial Statements Regulatory 60 % Mergers & acquisitions 70 % Find out more about the Board online www.imiplc.com/about-imi/leadership-and-governance/board 46 IMI plc Corporate Governance introduction Chairman’s Governance letter Dear Shareholder Looking ahead to 2015, I see the key objectives for the Board to be: My focus during 2014 has been on embedding the new • continuing to develop our Board strategy process with executive leadership and ensuring good process around a longer term perspective; the formulation of strategic objectives and business plans • updating our risk management process and governance in for the next phase of IMI’s development and growth. I believe line with the recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance the transition to our new Chief Executive, Mark Selway, has Code and associated best practice guidance; and been successfully completed and that he has had an excellent first year. We have also developed and started to implement • ensuring continuity and a smooth transition for my successor a robust strategic plan to drive growth and build long-term as Chairman and in relation to the key finance roles as shareholder value. While it is still early days a number of our we change Finance Director and Chairman of the Audit strategic initiatives are beginning to deliver real benefits. Committee early in 2015. As ever, I am keen to engage with shareholders and during the last year have met with a significant number of IMI’s larger institutional investors. I look forward to meeting individual shareholders again at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Following the announcement of my appointment to the board of WPP plc it was announced in December 2014 that I will step down as Chairman of IMI. I have greatly enjoyed my time with IMI since joining in June 2011 and I will continue in my current role until my successor is appointed and there has been a suitable transition period. Anita Frew, our senior independent director, is leading the search for your new chairman. Yours faithfully Roberto Quarta Chairman 26 February 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Introduction The Board’s Corporate Governance Report Set out below is the Boa r d’s for ma l r epor t on Cor por a te Gover na nce a nd sepa r a te r epor ts fr om the Audit, Nomina tions a nd Remuner a tion Committees. Strategic Review UK Corporate Governance Code Board gender (at the year end) Board balance (at the year end) Compliance statement The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Men (8) 3 corporate governance and confirms that throughout the Women (2) 1 year ending 31 December 2014 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and complied 6 with its best practice provisions as set out below, and in the 1 Chairman Directors’ Report and other cross-referenced sections of this 3 executive directors Annual Report. 6 non-executive directors Performance Review We welcome the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) in September 2014, which is applicable to IMI from January 2015. We have also started to take account of the associated Independence of non-executive directors new FRC guidance on risk management, internal control The five current non-executive directors are all free from any and related financial and business reporting, also published business or other relationship which could materially interfere last September. A description of the main features of the with the exercise of their independent judgement. All nonCompany’s internal control system and other regulatory executive directors meet the criteria for independence under matters can be found on pages 143 and 144 of the Directors’ the Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of Report. Risk management systems and principal risks and executive management. The Chairman, Roberto Quarta, was uncertainties are summarised on pages 30 to 33. Information also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment on corporate responsibility can be found on pages 26 to 27. to the Board. The non-executive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and Corporate Corporate Governance Governance The Board experience of senior management in commerce and industry in various parts of the world. Composition At the end of the year the Board comprised ten directors: the Dates of appointment Chairman; the Chief Executive; six independent non-executive Name Date of appointment Date of current letter Anticipated expiry of directors; the Finance Director and one operational executive of appointment current term director. Currently the Board comprises ten directors: the Phil Bentley 1 October 2012 16 June 2014 31 December 2014 Chairman; the Chief Executive; five independent non-executive Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 16 June 2014 30 September 2015 directors; the Finance Director and the Finance Director Anita Frew 2 March 2006 26 February 2015 7 May 2015 designate; and one operational executive director. Ross McInnes 1 October 2014 14 October 2014 30 September 2017 Birgit Nørgaard 6 November 2012 16 June 2014 5 November 2015 Ross McInnes joined as a non-executive director on 1 October Roberto Quarta 1 June 2011 25 June 2014 1 November 2017 2014. Daniel Shook was appointed as an executive director from 1 January 2015 and will become Finance Director on Bob Stack 13 June 2008 26 February 2015 12 June 2016 Financial Statements 1 March 2015. Martin Lamb retired as a director at the 2014 Annual General Meetings and use of Board time Meeting. Phil Bentley retired as a non-executive director The Board met on nine occasions during the year including on 31 December 2014. four quarterly reviews, strategy discussions and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose. In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meetings. Anita Frew and Douglas Hurt will retire at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. Following the retirement of Anita Frew at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Bob Stack will become the senior independent director. 48 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report (cont’d) Key Board activities in 2014 Board and Committee attendance 2014 As the year opened, IMI became a more focused specialist flow Director Board Audit Nominations Remuneration control business with the completion of the $1,100m (£690m) Meetings Committee Committee Committee disposal of the Retail Dispense divisions. The Board undertook Meetings Meetings Meetings a thorough process of mapping out the next stage of the 9 4 5 4 Group’s development under the new executive leadership team. Roberto Quarta 9 5 4 As a result, the latest strategic thinking was set out in the interim Phil Bentley 7 4 results announcement in August 2014 and is now reflected in Carl-Peter Forster 9 4 4 this Annual Report. Anita Frew 9 4 5 4 (i) Ross McInnes 4 1 Highlights of other Board activity in 2014 included: Birgit Nørgaard (ii) 9 3 4 • Progress with Board succession Bob Stack 9 5 4 New Finance Director appointed Mark Selway 9 5 Douglas Hurt 9 New non-executive with a strong financial background (iii) Martin Lamb 0 appointed to take up the chair of the Audit Committee Roy Twite 9 Search for a new Chairman commenced (i) • Organisation Full attendance from appointment in October 2014 (ii) Full attendance as joined the Audit Committee in March 2014 New management and organisation structures established (iii) Retired as a director in May 2014 for the three divisions and corporate centre New role and composition for the Executive Committee approved Induction and continuing development programme • Brand exercise A formal induction process for new directors has been well established for several years and is the responsibility of the Rebranding of the businesses and refresh of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive and Company corporate branding Secretary. This process was refreshed in the year to reflect • Growth and process investments changes in Group businesses and management structure. Growth investments made in new products and business Business familiarisation is at the core of induction and continuing IT systems development for non-executive directors at IMI is based around New core process disciplines introduced across a broad gaining an understanding of the business and getting to know spectrum including for lean, project management, internal the wider management team. There is also a committee controls, legal & compliance and human resources induction process designed to brief new committee members on the relevant committee’s activity and the issues it faces. Announcement of the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther During and after induction, directors are required to visit to complement our control valve businesses in our business units around the Group and, most importantly, Critical Engineering division to meet face-to-face with senior operating management and key corporate staff. Non-executive directors continue to become familiar with the businesses during and after induction and there The Board’s time is regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits, formal meetings and events. Corporate Governance Appropriate coaching and access to training and other 5% Operational performance continuing professional development is available to all directors and plans Risk, Legal and Compliance 30% and all directors participated in appropriate updates during the 10% year at Board and committee meetings. Major investments 15% Strategy Board evaluation 25% Financial In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman 15% should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process, normally at least once every three years. In 2013 such a process was postponed due to the Chief Executive transition and a full, externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise was conducted in 2014. The evaluation was facilitated by Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Introduction Independent Board Evaluation, a specialist consultancy that Standing committees of the Board has no other business relationship with IMI. A comprehensive The standing committees of the Board are shown below and brief was given to the assessment team by the Chairman, include the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee Roberto Quarta, and the Chief Executive, Mark Selway, and the Remuneration Committee. Each of these committees in September 2014. The evaluation also observed Board operates under written terms of reference which clearly and committee meetings in October 2014. Strategic Review set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities. The full terms of reference of these committees In October and November 2014, detailed interviews were were updated in the year and are part of the Corporate conducted with every director. In addition, representatives Governance Framework which appears on the IMI website. of Independent Board Evaluation interviewed members of the The committees report to the Board on their work, normally senior management team and advisers. All participants were through their respective chairman, quarterly or more frequently interviewed according to a set agenda, tailored for the IMI as appropriate. Board. Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chairman and subsequently reviewed with the whole Board at its Separate reports from the following committees appear as meeting in December 2014 with the lead evaluator present. follows: Audit Committee on pages 52 to 54; Nominations Following the Board meeting the evaluation team gave Committee on pages 55 and 56 and Remuneration feedback to committee chairmen on the performance of each Committee on pages 57 to 79. committee. Anita Frew as the senior independent director received the report on the Chairman which she discussed Performance Review with him, and Roberto Quarta received a report with feedback on individual directors which was discussed with them. The Chairmen of the three non-executive Committees each received a report from the external evaluation exercise and reviewed that with their Committee. Following a period of considerable change, the appetite among Board members is for selective continuous improvement rather than major change. Board members noted some areas for development over the coming year and the report contained recommendations to address those areas, including monitoring the change-programme within the businesses; increasing the amount of UK plc experience on the Board without diluting its highly-valued international Corporate Governance diversity; and strengthening the Nominations Committee-led areas of succession-planning for the Board itself and talentmanagement throughout the Group. Specific actions were then agreed to address development areas, including: • introducing governance support/training for all first-time UK plc board members, tailored to the individual’s needs; • reviewing the Board education programme to develop board members’ knowledge; • establishing a Board skills matrix, agreed by the Nominations Committee; and • considering ways of strengthening Board contact with Financial Statements senior management. The Board received the findings of the evaluation in December 2014 and after review the directors confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately and that the Board and its committees were effective and that each continuing director demonstrated a valuable contribution. 50 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report (cont’d) Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Ross McInnes Roberto Qu Bob Stack Chairman Chairman Chairman Membership: Membership: Membership: • Anita Frew • Anita Frew • Anita Frew • Birgit Nørgaard • Bob Stack • Roberto Quarta • Carl-Peter Forster • Birgit Nørgaard • Carl-Peter Forster Four meetings Five meetings Four meetings Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Financial reporting • Board and committee composition • Define and recommend the remuneration policy • Oversight role in relation to financial statements • Succession plans for Board and senior for approval by shareholders • Reviewing significant areas of judgment and management and corporate roles • Determine the individual remuneration packages accounting policies • Search for and recommendation for the most senior executives within the policy of candidates for appointment as non-executive to be put to shareholders for approval • Advising the Board on whether the draft Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable directors, Chief Executive and other executive • Set annual and long-term incentive metrics and director positions awards and determine the outcomes with support • Monitoring announcements in respect of financial • Diversity policy and monitoring of progress from the Company’s auditor and Audit Committee performance • Review and recommendation of proposals for • Report on remuneration matters and constructively Financial controls and risk the assignment of major executive responsibilities engage with shareholders • Monitoring the effectiveness of internal and appointment and removal of divisional • Assess risk in respect of remuneration and financial controls business leaders incentive structures in particular • Reviewing financial risk including fraud risk • Oversight of internal audit • Managing the external audit process, its objectivity, effectiveness and cost • Reviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing and the reports received Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Introduction Executive Committee In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues The Executive Committee is the primary management preliminary results and interim results announcements, as Committee. well as two interim management statements between results announcements. The IMI website includes recordings of The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive certain key presentations made by senior management, and consists of the Finance Director, the Divisional Managing recent Annual and Interim Reports, interim management Strategic Review Directors, the Group Business Development Director, Paul statements, other corporate announcements and links to Roberts, the Group Human Resources Director, Geoff Tranfield the websites of the Group’s businesses. The Company has and the Legal & Compliance Director and Company Secretary, arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders John O’Shea. Senior executives and line managers from with Equiniti (details are shown on page 156). A sponsored around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been of the Executive Committee. The Committee meets monthly established for which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary and more often as may be required, and all members attended (details can be found on page 156). all but one or two meetings during their tenure in the year. The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced The Executive Committee is the senior management body understanding of the issues and concerns of major and as part of its broad remit set by the Chief Executive it shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their monitors and manages performance, reviews progress against investments. Dialogue is maintained with shareholders strategic objectives, considers business management issues and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional and formulates budgets and proposals on strategy, policy Performance Review investors. The Chairman routinely meets with investors and and resource allocation for consideration by the Board. the senior independent director is also in communication with The Committee is not a committee of the Board. shareholders. The Chief Executive and Finance Director have The Executive Committee plays a key part in the risk primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and assessment, risk management and monitoring processes report to the Board on shareholder issues at least quarterly. and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance They are supported by the Investor Relations Director. and legal and corporate affairs. The main annual risk review Financial analysts’ notes are circulated to the directors and meeting of the Committee was attended by Roberto Quarta, regular feedback reports for the Board from the Company’s the Chairman, and it had further risk updates in the year with brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys detailed follow up reports to the Board. of major investors’ views, the most recent of which was in 2013. The Chairman, senior independent director and other Investor relations non-executives meet with major shareholders upon request The Annual General Meeting is regarded by the Board as and several meetings of this type took place during the year. Corporate Governance an important opportunity to meet and communicate with There were also consultations with the larger shareholders shareholders, particularly private investors. The 2014 Annual and institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect General Meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended of remuneration matters and new incentive plans to be put by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and forward for shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual all of the other directors. The Chairman encouraged debate General Meeting. and questions at the formal meeting and informally during Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, refreshments afterwards. voting and other rights of shareholders, directors’ Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2014 Annual appointments, removal and powers is set out in the General Meeting as an individual motion and the meeting Directors’ Report on pages 141 to 144. was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the Directors’ Report for 2013. Separate resolutions for By order of the Board the approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Directors’ Remuneration Policy were also put to the meeting. John O’Shea Financial Statements Notice of the 2014 Annual General Meeting was issued more Company Secretary than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy 26 February 2015 votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the IMI website. The Board values its good relations with shareholders and all resolutions proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting received strong support with all votes well above 90% in favour in each case. 52 IMI plc Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder in respect of the Annual Report. We continued to improve the Annual Report and, in particular, to ensure a clearer link from our strategy through to KPIs and Principal Risks and I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman of the Audit Uncertainties. Other work undertaken in connection with this Committee and would like to thank Phil Bentley for his excellent included a benchmarking review of how IMI addressed the stewardship of the Committee and his kind support during our new requirements and associated best practice guidance, handover period. the advance submission of draft Annual Report content to the Committee in December 2014, followed by a draft submission Composition of the Audit Committee three weeks before becoming final to allow ample time for I chair the Audit Committee. I am a career Finance Director comments and improvements. and have significant recent and relevant financial experience Financial controls continued to be a key focus area for the including as chair of the Audit Committee at Faurecia SA and Committee and during the year management made further Eutelsat Communications. Anita Frew and Carl-Peter Forster significant progress in strengthening controls and addressing were members of the Audit Committee throughout the year. action points raised by the external auditor and internal assurance Birgit Nørgaard joined on 1 March 2014. Phil Bentley was processes. A new internal control declaration process was a member and Chairman of the Committee until 31 December introduced, which requires six monthly sign-off on core areas 2014, at which time he retired. I joined the Committee on 1 of financial control and compliance by the managers of each October 2014 and became its Chairman on 1 January 2015. business unit. The Committee was pleased to see the new All of the Committee members are regarded by the Board as Executive management continuing to drive the improvements independent non-executive directors. in controls across the business. Ernst & Young agreed with The Committee generally asks the Chairman, the Chief management’s assessment that the level of control effectiveness Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller across the Group remains high at 95% and has improved and the Group Assurance Director to attend its meetings but compared to 2013. Separately, Ernst & Young reported that a holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with further five businesses achieved 100% effectiveness for a sample the external auditor and with the Group Assurance Director. of controls tested. Furthermore, Group Assurance validated The Committee has the powers to call on any employees to management’s assessment as part of their financial control audits. come before it. The Secretary to the Committee is also the A new Chief Risk Officer, reporting to the Chief Executive, joined Director of Legal and Compliance. IMI in February 2015 and will assume functional responsibility for internal audit. Main areas of activity in 2014 The Audit Committee met four times in 2014. Significant Oversight of financial reporting accounting issues reflected in the 2014 financial statements The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the Annual include accounting for several businesses disposed of in 2014, Report and announcements with financial content that are exceptional restructuring costs, impairment of goodwill and prepared by executive management. The Committee received intangible assets arising from acquisitions, revenue recognition, reports on the annual and interim financial statements from the provisioning for taxation, pensions accounting and inventory external auditor who attended its meetings. The Committee’s valuation. The matters of judgement involved in these issues work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting are described in more overleaf. policies, significant issues of judgement and, as described The Committee remit calls upon it to advise the Board in below under the section headed ‘Internal Audit’, looking at relation to the fair, balanced and understandable requirements the effectiveness of internal financial controls and assurances. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Introduction Significant judgements related to the arose as a result of this arrangement and confirmation that financial statements this arrangement and the appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions used and agreed with management’s assessment. Accounting for businesses disposed of As discussed on page 4, the Group disposed of the Retail Inventory valuation Dispense businesses on 1 January 2014, the Eley business The Committee reviewed the judgments applied to standard Strategic Review on 4 October 2014 and AFP on 23 October 2014. Each costing valuations and provisions against excess and obsolete disposal resulted in a gain, which the Committee reviewed inventory and concurred with management’s assessment. and were comfortable with management’s calculation. External audit independence and performance review Exceptional restructuring costs The Committee approved the proposed external audit Following guidance issued by the Financial Reporting approach and its scope based on the size and level of risk Council, the Committee challenged management on the of the entities concerned. The Committee also approved the appropriateness of the classification of certain items as internal audit programme. The Committee takes a risk based exceptional, notably restructuring costs. The Committee and approach to audit and other assurance activity. management agreed that for the 2014 results, only individually significant restructuring projects would be disclosed as The Committee considered the independence and objectivity exceptional. As a result, only the costs associated with the of the external auditor. In assessing auditor independence the closure of IMI Components and IMI Norgren UK’s factory move Committee had regard to best practice guidance for Audit are disclosed as exceptional. The Committee also debated the Committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics Performance Review appropriateness of the other items disclosed as exceptional in and independence policies complied with the requirements of the 2014 results and agreed with management’s assessment. the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is Impairment of goodw ill and intangibles arising established and monitored by the Committee and requires from acquisitions approval by the Chairman of the Committee for any nonThe Committee reviewed the assumptions and calculations audit engagement where fees exceed £150,000. The policy used in the assessment of any impairment of goodwill and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could intangibles assets and was comfortable with them. In particular, compromise auditor independence, such as, functioning in the Committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and the role of management or auditing its own work. Non-audit other intangibles relating to IMI Remosa. The Committee fees paid to the auditor were £0.3m (2013: £0.2m), which agreed with management’s assessment that the projected represents 11% of the audit fee and demonstrated the tight future cash flows for IMI Remosa did not support the carrying control which is maintained in this area. We are of the view that value of the goodwill, that the full carrying value would be the level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise unlikely to be realised on the open market and therefore an Corporate Governance the independence of the external auditor. impairment charge of £27m was appropriate. Benchmarking of the audit fees was conducted to ensure that Revenue recognition these are appropriate and competitive and the Committee The Committee discussed the timing of revenue recognition on approved the proposed audit fees payable to Ernst & Young. some of the Group’s larger contracts. In addition, this is an area We formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit of audit focus and accordingly Ernst & Young reported on this process. The Committee adopted a formal framework by way matter to the Committee. of a questionnaire to review the effectiveness of the external Provisioning for taxation auditor. The framework is completed annually by each member The Group pays taxes in various countries which requires of the Committee and by the Finance Director. Feedback was the interpretation of complex tax laws in these jurisdictions. also received from the Chief Executive, the Group Financial Accordingly, both the amounts expected to be payable and the Controller, Group and Divisional Management. The feedback period in which settlement is likely to be made are reassessed from this process was considered by the Committee and was from time to time. The Committee received reports from provided to the external auditor. As a result of this exercise the Financial Statements management outlining the rationale for the provisions held Committee believes the performance has been satisfactory for taxation. In addition, this is an area where Ernst & Young and the external auditor is considered to be effective. In engage their tax experts to review the appropriateness of these particular the quality of the audit work continues to improve. provisions, and provides reports to the Committee. Further improvement actions were identified and plans have been put in place to address these, including the continuity Pensions accounting of audit team members and continuing to shorten the lines As detailed on page 125, during the year the Group split its of communication between the auditor’s Group team, the existing UK Pension Fund into two newly formed pension component audit teams and the Group’s local operations. schemes. The Committee reviewed reports from management to determine the appropriateness of the accounting that 54 IMI plc Audit Committee Report (cont’d) Auditor choice, tenure and tendering Compliance hotline The Committee recommended and the Board approved the The Committee also reviews the operation of the independent proposal to re-appoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor compliance hotline for reporting concerns, oversees the more at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Ernst & Young significant reports received and how these are investigated was first appointed as auditor in 2009 following a competitive and followed up. We believe that the hotline process and tendering process after which it replaced the previous auditor, investigations are effective and proportionate action is taken KPMG. The term of appointment is annual and there are no in response. contractual restrictions on the Committee’s choice of auditor. To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external Independent Committee evaluation audit partner responsible for the Group is rotated within Ernst The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of & Young at least every five years and the current Senior reference and received positive feedback from the externally Statutory Auditor has been in place for two years and will facilitated evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the Board change following completion of the 2017 audit. Succession and each of its standing committees. planning includes having a second partner in place on the audit team. New regulations for audit tendering and rotation of audit The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work. firms have been introduced which require mandatory tendering after ten years (i.e. by 31 December 2019) and a change of Yours faithfully audit firm by 31 December 2029, assuming in each case that Ernst & Young remains in place as auditor until 2019 and 2029 Ross McInnes respectively. The Committee reserves the right to run a tender Chairman of the Audit Committee for the audit role at any time but, if not conducted earlier, it will 26 February 2015 be undertaken in advance of the regulatory deadline at the end of 2019. Currently, the Committee intends to run the audit tender in 2017, to coincide with the current lead audit partner’s rotation and in advance of the regulatory deadline at the end of 2019. We will of course keep the matter under regular review. Internal audit The Committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance. The appointment of a new Chief Risk Officer, reporting to the Chief Executive, is intended to accelerate the extension of internal audit into compliance and other areas of non-financial audit activity. The separation of internal audit from the finance function is also seen as a positive move and it now reports through the Director of Risk to the Chief Executive instead of to the Finance Director. Group Assurance will retain its reporting line to the Committee. Assurance work is primarily directed towards financial control audits but has broadened into other areas including major business change project planning and implementation. The principal projects reviewed in 2014 were major computer systems implementations in Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering, manufacturing rationalisation exercises in Germany and significant capital projects in the US and Italy. Group Assurance reviewed project management, governance and the ability to achieve the business objectives. These reviews have identified opportunities for process and project management improvements, and will help to facilitate sharing of best practice for future projects. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Introduction Nominations Committee Report Strategic Review Dear Shareholder Review of time commitments and contributions Appointments of non-executive directors are made on the basis Main areas of activity in 2014 of a standard form letter of appointment. Each non-executive In 2014, the Committee spent a substantial part of its time director and I, as Chairman, were appointed on the basis of Performance Review on executive talent development and succession planning. a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the A confidential global search process was commissioned by Committee. The Committee considers that the time given by the Committee to find a new Finance Director. Russell Reynolds each non-executive was sufficient. Anita Frew took the lead in was engaged to assist with this process and also with the reviewing the governance and other implications for IMI of my search for a non-executive director as a successor to the proposal to become Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc from outgoing chair of the Audit Committee. Russell Reynolds also April 2014, which was then approved by the Board. I have provided services in respect of recruitment for certain senior since stepped down from the boards of Foster Wheeler AG executive positions below Board level. Committee members and Rexel SA. interviewed a range of candidates for both roles and the Committee made recommendations to the Board for the Succession planning appointments of Daniel Shook, as Finance Director, and Ross As a Committee we are keen to develop more formal skills McInnes, as a non-executive director and Chairman designate mapping and to put in place a structured, medium term plan for of the Audit Committee. Board succession. This activity will be progressed in due course Corporate Governance by the Committee under the new Chairman. We reviewed talent The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board development and succession planning for the top 250 roles in and its committees. It recommended changes in executive the Group with the support of the Group Human Resources responsibilities, endorsed the change in Divisional Managing Director and we were encouraged to see the progress that has Director for Precision Engineering and supported the changes been made given the strong emphasis on good process and to the composition of the Executive Committee. The Board cultivating a pipeline of high calibre talent. approved all of the recommendations made by the Committee for the appointment of directors. Diversity Following the announcement in December 2014 that I would The Board recognises the benefits a diverse pool of talent can be stepping down as Chairman, with Board endorsement Anita bring to a boardroom and remains committed to increasing Frew has been leading the process for the selection of my diversity in the businesses by voluntary measures. We will successor supported by Bob Stack, non-executive director, continue to review the composition of our management teams and Mark Selway. I am not involved in the process for selecting and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and or appointing my successor. experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution Financial Statements capabilities. At Board level, there are seven nationalities, two of Members the non-executive directors are female and there is a broad mix Anita Frew, Bob Stack, Mark Selway and I are members of of backgrounds and experience. the Nominations Committee and all of us were members In 2014 the Board approved a diversity and inclusion policy throughout the year. Mark Selway stepped down from the which applies to all IMI employees, contractors and agency Committee on 26 February 2015 as he felt that it would reflect workers, both direct and indirect via third parties. emerging best practice if he did not continue as a member of the Committee. 56 IMI plc Nominations Committee Report (cont’d) The policy is designed to take a broad approach to diversity and inclusion in order to reflect the UK legislative framework of the Equality Act 2010. IMI is committed to being compliant with the local legal and best practice frameworks in the countries in which it operates and therefore the application of the Diversity and Inclusion Policy will reflect the legal context in the jurisdictions in which it is applied. We are committed to ensuring that all employees and workers are treated fairly in an environment which is free from any form of discrimination with regard to the nine protected characteristics outlined in the Equality Act 2010, which are age, religion, race, sex, disability, gender reassignment, marriage/civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity and sexual orientation. Our policy is to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities and to reflect the diverse nature of the global footprint of the business, reflecting the location of our customers and markets. We will continue to seek a diverse pool of the best quality candidates to draw from, both internally and when recruiting externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness of the Company. In line with our recruitment practices, the Group produces diverse shortlists for internal and external vacancies and specifically requests this of external providers, with the aim of encouraging and promoting diversity. At the same time, the Committee has agreed to measure progress on diversity metrics including gender and nationality mix although specific targets have not been set. In 2014 the mix of male and female employees across the Group was as follows: All Managers Senior Board Employees Managers Directors Female 3,308 222 99 2 Female % 26 19 16 20 Male 9,221 963 504 8 Male % 74 81 84 80 As part of the Performance Management process in 2015, each Divisional Managing Director will agree objectives aimed at improving diversity in their area and our Executive Committee will undertake a training session on diversity and inclusion. The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and received positive feedback from the externally facilitated evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the Board and each of its committees. The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work. Yours faithfully Roberto Quarta Chairman of the Nominations Committee 26 February 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Introduction Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Committee “It ha s been a busy yea r for the Remuner a tion Comm ittee. In this r epor t we pr opose cha nges to IMI’s executive r emuner a tion a r r a ngements Strategic Review to a lign with our new business str a tegy to dr ive gr owth a nd build long-ter m sha r eholder va lue. We will be seeking your a ppr ova l for these cha nges a t our upcoming Annua l Gener a l Meeting.” Dear Shareholder Douglas will be succeeded by Daniel Shook, who joined IMI in January as Finance Director Designate. Daniel will take over as During 2014 the Committee completed a review of IMI’s Finance Director on 1 March 2015 and Douglas will step down executive remuneration practices, with the simple objective from the Board at the AGM. Performance Review of ensuring IMI’s remuneration arrangements are aligned with For Douglas, with respect to compensation, the overriding our new robust strategic growth plan. Following this review principle was that we should treat him fairly and honour any we are proposing a number of changes to the existing executive contractual commitments. I can confirm that we did not use remuneration arrangements and we will be seeking your approval any discretion to pay him more than he was entitled to under of a new remuneration policy at the upcoming Annual General his service contract or the share plan rules. We determined Meeting. This review, coupled with Douglas Hurt’s retirement that it was critical for Douglas to remain focused on the longand Daniel Shook’s appointment, made for a busy year. term success of IMI and in ensuring a smooth handover to Daniel, so we used our power under the share plan rules What did the Committee focus on during the year? to defer vesting of all share-based awards to the third It was an exciting year in IMI’s history with Mark Selway taking anniversary of their grant, rather than the earlier date of over from Martin Lamb following his retirement. With this Douglas’ retirement. Awards will be pro-rated to May 2015 change came the opportunity to take a fresh perspective and corporate performance will be measured over the full on our strategy, and as discussed by Mark and Roberto, three-year performance period, thus ensuring that Douglas Corporate Corporate Governance Governance significant opportunities have been identified to accelerate is rewarded according to IMI’s performance after he has growth and build long-term shareholder value. The Committee passed the baton on to Daniel. considered the remuneration arrangements, not just for the executive directors but also for the senior leadership group How w ere pay outcomes linked to performance? and broader employee population, all of whom are critical 2014 was another year of good progress for IMI. Organic to the successful delivery of our strategic ambitions. revenue increased by 2% to £1,686m and adjusted basic EPS Clearly, it is important for the Committee to take account of increased by 7%. Shareholders have also benefitted from a 7% feedback from our shareholders when considering any change. increase in the total dividend for the year and the £620m return Following a formal consultation, which we undertook in autumn of cash occurring in the first half of 2014 as a result of the sale 2014, the majority of our shareholders were fully supportive of of the Retail Dispense divisions. the changes put forward. The 2014 annual bonus will be paid against a pre-set range The primary change we are proposing to make to the of targets for profit before tax, adjusted EPS, organic revenue growth, cash conversion and health, safety and Financial Statements remuneration arrangements is the removal of the Share Matching Plan (SMP) in favour of a simpler model with a single environment measures. An overall Group-level bonus score performance share plan in response to both shareholder of 37%1 was recorded. feedback and market developments. At the same time we The 2012 matching share award and performance award have significantly increased our share ownership guidelines vested at 70% and 0% respectively. Further details on the to reinforce shareholder alignment. The changes have been levels of performance are set out on pages 73 to 75. calibrated to ensure consistency of new total remuneration levels against both previous levels and market norms, while 1 Assumes maximum achievement of the personal objective component reducing overall leverage in our incentive plans. During the year, Douglas Hurt decided to retire having played a key role in IMI’s development over the last eight years. 58 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) What did the non-executive directors get paid in 2014? What about staff pay? The Chairman was paid a fee of £300,000. Roberto Quarta In 2014 our average staff salary increase was 3.2%. has elected to receive 25% of his fee in shares although that Approximately one million options vested in 2014 under the is not a Company requirement and may or may not apply to Share Option Plan (these were granted in 2011 to our managers) a new Chairman. Each non-executive director received an and the gain per share option on vesting was £4.66 each. annualised base fee of £60,000. I received an additional We continue to offer UK SAYE, UK Share Incentive Plan £15,000 for chairing the Remuneration Committee, with Phil and Global Employee Share Purchase Plans in USA. We are Bentley and Anita Frew receiving additional fees of £15,000 particularly proud of the level of uptake in our all-employee plans. and £10,000 respectively for their duties in chairing the Audit Committee and serving as the senior independent director. Committee review We welcomed Ross McInnes to the board as a non-executive The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of director in October 2014 and he received a fee of £15,000 reference and received positive feedback from the externally for his time in the role during the year. In January 2015, Ross facilitated evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the succeeded Phil as Chairman of the Audit Committee when Board and each of its standing committee. Phil stepped down from the Board at the end of last year to focus on his new executive appointment elsewhere, and I Looking forw ard will replace Anita Frew as senior independent director. The Committee has devoted a considerable amount of time in reviewing the executive remuneration framework over the year. What is changing for 2015? Subject to your approval, it is our intention that this policy will As indicated above, 2015 will see the launch of the IMI Incentive operate for at least the next three years, as the Executive team Plan (IIP) awards, subject to shareholder approval. As part of the focuses on delivering long-term value. I would like to personally remuneration review we also updated the 2015 performance thank those investors that took the time to participate in our measures under our short and long-term incentive schemes. consultation exercise and I hope all of our shareholders are able Health and safety will now serve as an underpin in the annual to support our decisions and recommendations at the upcoming plan reflecting its overall importance, with the removal of EPS Annual General Meeting. to place greater emphasis on Group PBT growth, organic revenue growth, cash conversion and strategic performance. Bob Stack When compared to the previous long-term arrangements, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board. EPS growth and organic revenue growth have been replaced by Group PBT growth and ROCE to better measure sustainable 26 February 2015 and efficient long-term profitable growth. EVA has been removed entirely as we believe the new measures are more effective in measuring performance while being significantly more transparent to shareholders. We have retained TSR to maintain the direct link with our shareholders’ experience, although we have taken the opportunity to refresh the peer group to better reflect our portfolio of businesses following the divestments of our Retail Dispense divisions. The targets for the long-term plan have been set with a view to them being enduring standards and to that end the Committee is of the view that they are not commercially sensitive. The targets for each measure are as follows: ROCE Relative TSR PBT Level of Growth vesting Threshold 40% Median 2.5% 25% Maximum 50% Upper quartile 7.5% 100% As part of the annual review, salaries have been increased for Mark Selway and Roy Twite by 2.7% and 3.5% respectively in line with the approach we have taken across the whole Group. In addition, Roy’s bonus opportunity has increased slightly to 150% of salary to mitigate the decrease in overall compensation opportunity brought about by the new remuneration structure. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Introduction Directors’ Remuneration Report Directors’ Remuneration Policy Introduction The Committee believes it is important to The Remuneration Committee presents the maintain the flexibility to respond to individual Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report, which circumstances. However, its normal approach Strategic Review will be put to shareholders for a binding vote has been to pay salaries within appropriate at the Annual General Meeting to be held on market competitive ranges, combined with 7 May 2015. Subject to shareholder approval, realistic potential for above-market total the effective date of this policy will be 8 May compensation if performance is outstanding. 2015. The intention of the Committee is that The policy of the Committee is to set performance the policy will remain in place for three years. conditions for incentives which are both stretching The remuneration policy comprises a number but also reasonably attainable in the environment of sections: in which the Company is then operating. • an illustration of the sensitivity of pay outcomes Changes in the remuneration policy relative to IMI’s performance; In submitting a revised policy to shareholders Performance Review • a future policy table for executive directors, the only substantive changes, are as follows: which sets out the components of annual • the Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’) and remuneration; Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) will not be • policies relating to other elements of executive operating again and will be allowed to expire director remuneration, including recruitment, without renewal, which was due in May 2015; service contracts, appointments and • the introduction of performance share awards terminations; under a new plan, the IMI Incentive Plan (‘IIP’), • remuneration policies that relate solely to the subject to approval at the 2015 AGM; Chairman and non-executive directors; and • adopting performance measures designed • the contextual information considered by the to align with our strategy; and Corporate Governance Committee when making decisions on • increases to the Share Ownership Guidelines executive directors’ remuneration. from 125% to 150% 250% of salary and mandated investment of 50% of net bonus IMI’s remuneration philosophy into shares and retention of half of vested The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration share awards until share ownership guidelines generally, and incentives in particular, provide have been met. strong alignment between individual performance, business performance and shareholder interests. Details of decisions implemented in line with The remuneration policy also recognises that IMI both the 2014 and 2015 Remuneration Policies, operates in global and highly competitive markets such as salary increases and changes to bonus with the vast majority of its activities outside the UK. opportunity and the incentive plan performance Financial Statements The policy is to provide competitive remuneration measures, are included in the Directors’ packages to attract, motivate, reward and Remuneration Report. retain executives of the calibre required, and to align their interests with those of shareholders by relating a significant component of the remuneration package to performance. 60 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Illustrations of the application of M W Selway IMI’s remuneration policy Long-term incentives To illustrate the opportunity available to our executive directors, Bonus Fixed pay and the sensitivity of pay to performance, the adjacent graphs set out pay outcomes for three performance scenarios: £000 5,000 4,511 • minimum, where pay is limited to fixed, non-performance related components (based on 2015 salaries and the 4,000 corresponding pension and benefits as disclosed in 2014); 43% • ‘on-target’, where bonus vests at target levels for each 3,000 2,297 executive, and long-term incentives vest at threshold 21% (assuming targets are calibrated such that the lower end 2,000 34% 34% of the vesting schedule is representative of ‘on-target’); and 1,046 1,000 • maximum, where all variable pay components vest in full. 100% 45% 23% The charts are based on proposed IIP awards for 2015 in Minimum On-target Maximum accordance with the policy subject to approval. No share price growth or dividend assumptions are made and all-employee Salary 770 770 770 share plans are excluded. Pension 30% 30% 30% Benefits 45 45 45 Annual Incentive Bonus 0% 100% 200% IIP 0% 62.5% 250% D J Shook R M Twite Long-term incentives Long-term incentives Bonus Bonus Fixed pay Fixed pay £000 £000 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 2,177 2,000 2,000 1,580 41% 1,500 1,500 38% 1,176 880 19% 31% 1,000 1,000 17% 32% 620 28% 480 28% 500 500 100% 55% 30% 100% 53% 28% Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Salary 400 400 400 Salary 445 445 445 Pension 20% 20% 20% Pension 35% 35% 35% Benefits* Benefits 19 19 19 Annual Incentive Bonus 0% 62.5% 125% Annual Incentive Bonus 0% 75% 150% IIP 0% 37.5% 150% IIP 0% 50% 200% * D J Shook did not receive any benefits in 2014 Percentages in the above tables are percentages of salary. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Introduction Future policy table – executive directors Component & purpose Operation Annual opportunity Fixed elements of executive remuneration Strategic Review Salary Reviewed annually with change normally effective from January. Normally any salary increase for an executive director will Re ects individual be in line with those of the wider workforce. Increases When setting salary, the Committee takes into account the level performance and beyond this may be awarded in certain circumstances, of increase for a reference group of comparable employees in the personal contribution such as a change in responsibility after taking into account leadership group, market data, business performance, external to delivering the Group the factors noted. economic factors, the complexity of the business and the role, strategy. They are set cost, and the incumbent’s experience and performance. in the context of total pay levels. Pension A cash allowance in lieu of pension is paid monthly. To the extent Up to 30% of salary Provides for retirement required by law, part of this allowance will be paid into a de ned Legacy obligations of 35% of salary for appointments to the and supports succession contribution pension arrangement. With the Committee’s approval Board before October 2013 will continue to be honoured. planning. the executive directors may redirect all or part of the balance of this allowance into a de ned contribution pension arrangement. Bene ts The policy provides a normal range of bene ts to executive The values of bene ts vary signi cantly year-on-year directors. These include but are not limited to: depending on the age and health of the individual, the cost Performance Review Protects the wellbeing of executives of providing them and the geography in which the executive Non-cash: private healthcare for themselves and their family, and to provide fair and is based. However, the range of the bene ts is not expected life insurance, and other minor ancillary bene ts. reasonable market to change from year to year. competitive bene ts. Cash and taxable allowances: car and fuel allowance, personal tax Should it be appropriate to relocate an executive director advice and two annual round trips for the Chief Executive and his or to recruit an executive director from overseas, exibility spouse between work and home locations. is reserved to provide bene ts that ensure that the individual Where it is in IMI’s interests to request that executives work in a and IMI can both achieve this commercial purpose. different country or region then we will pay relocation and provide bene ts and allowances in line with IMI’s Global Mobility Policy. Expenses that are incurred by an executive director in undertaking their role are reimbursed. All-employee share plans (all-employee share plans do not have an associated performance framework) All-Employee UK Plans Share Plans UK SAYE: an HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option In line with the statutorily de ned limits with respect Corporate Governance Encourages share Scheme which is open to all of the Group’s UK employees, including to investments, awards and discounts on the price of ownership amongst the UK-based executive directors. share options. the broader employee population and Employee Share Ownership Plan: an HMRC approved Share aligns interests of IMI Incentive Plan which is open to all of the Group’s UK employees, employees with those of including the UK-based executive directors. shareholders. In addition provides a tax ef cient Global Plans: All-employee share purchase plans operate in Eligible employees (including executives) can invest subject investment vehicle for geographies outside the UK. The vehicle and manner of award to the plan limits that apply to all participants, which vary by employees. varies by geography depending on local market restrictions and local market and plan. the plan operated in the region. Financial Statements 62 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Future policy table – executive directors (cont’d) Component Purpose Operation Variable components of executive remuneration Annual Incentive Bonus Drives and rewards performance against annual nancial, strategic Payment of awards is determined by the Committee based on and operational goals, which are consistent with the medium to annual performance relative to set targets which are reviewed long-term strategic goals of IMI, also taking into account individual at the end of the year. behaviours and contributions. If the executive has not achieved their share ownership guideline, up to half of any bonus is mandated to be invested into IMI shares for at least three years. Otherwise, the executive can elect whether to receive their bonus in cash and/or shares. Dividends (or equivalent value payments) accrue and are payable in cash or shares when shares are released. Malus and clawback are included in the plan rules. IMI Incentive Plan (‘IIP’) Incentivises long-term value creation, aligning the interests of The Committee can make annual share-based awards. executives and shareholders through the delivery of awards in Dividends (or equivalent value payments) accrue and are shares. The selected performance metrics support the long-term payable in cash or shares in respect of vested awards. strategy of IMI and the plan and time horizon serves as a retention Malus and clawback are included in the plan rules. tool for key executives. Additional notes to the future policy table Recovery provisions The Committee has the power to operate malus and/or clawback provisions in Legacy plans the event that the Company misstated nancial results and if there was an error Awards made under the SMP and PSP prior to the approval of this Remuneration or miscalculation in determining the size of the award and/or gross misconduct. Policy will be permitted to vest in accordance with the terms approved in the prior The provisions enable the Committee to reduce future annual bonus payments, Remuneration Policy. The final awards under these plans were made in 2014. reduce the number of shares under any form of share award, and/or require an individual to make a payment to the Company on terms deemed to be fair and Setting of performance measures and targets reasonable by the Committee. The Committee reviews and selects performance measures annually, taking Differences in the remuneration policy for executives relative to the broader account of the economic conditions and IMI’s priorities at the time. In particular, employee population the Committee considers the strategic plan and the key performance indicators The remuneration framework in place for the executive directors is informed by the associated with it. Details of the performance measures are included in the structure that sits beneath it for the broader employee population. While absolute Annual Report each year. At the time of selecting performance measures, the levels and the provision of certain components, bene ts and allowances vary by Committee determines the performance targets that will apply in respect of each geography and level, the overarching themes are: measure. Factors that the Committee may consider include the strategic plan, the annual budget, analysts’ forecasts, economic conditions, individuals’ areas • salaries are reviewed annually with any increases made on a discretionary basis of responsibilities and the Committee’s expectations over the relevant period. and informed by factors such as those set out in the policy table; Depending on the nature of the measure e.g. health and safety, the Committee may exercise judgement in assessing performance and determining the level of vesting. • consistent with executive directors, the leadership group participates in annual bonus plans with measures linked to corporate, divisional and/or local performance depending on their level; Principles for the impact of corporate transactions The Committee has established principles that determine the way in which • the leadership group can be considered for awards under the IIP. At lower corporate transactions will impact remuneration. It is clear that any corporate levels, employees can also be considered for discretionary share awards with transaction, which is in the best interests of IMI and its shareholders, should not a pre-grant performance test. IMI’s share plans are intended to encourage share have an adverse impact on remuneration. The principles include the need for ownership at all levels of the Group. The all-employee plans described in the management to be treated in a manner consistent with shareholders in respect to policy table are offered on consistent terms to all employees in the geographies the rights to equity, that performance should be measured on a like-for-like basis, where the plans operate; and that there should be no compensation for adverse or favourable tax consequences • eligibility for and provision of bene ts and allowances varies by level and local and that any changes to performance computations will be reviewed by the market practice. For senior managers, it is standard to receive a company car Company’s auditors. allowance. Pension contributions below the Board are set at a lower rate, and can take the form of a cash allowance. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Introduction Annual opportunity Performance Strategic Review Up to a maximum of 200% of salary. In 2015 the performance measures will be Group PBT (40%), Group organic revenue growth (20%), cash conversion (20%), strategic and As a percentage of maximum the following amounts are potentially personal objectives (20%) and a health and safety underpin. Divisional payable for the corresponding levels of performance (straight-line operating pro t and organic revenue growth will replace Group organic between points): revenue for Divisional roles with weightings adjusted accordingly. Threshold (minimum): 0% Payment depends on performance relative to pre-determined measures and targets over the course of a nancial year. Target: 50% The Committee determines the measures and targets annually to Maximum: 100% ensure alignment with strategy. Normally these will be a combination of measures linked to the nancial and nonnancial performance of IMI. Normal award: Up to 250% of salary In 2015 the performance measures will be Group PBT growth (50%), ROCE (25%) and relative TSR (25%). Maximum award: 400% of salary (to be used in exceptional circumstances only e.g. upon recruitment) The release of shares will depend on performance relative to pre-determined measures and targets over three consecutive If an award above the normal maximum is made, full details will be provided Performance Review nancial years. in the following year’s Annual Remuneration Report. The Committee will determine targets and ranges in respect of As a percentage of the award the following amounts are payable for the each award when made. corresponding levels of performance (straight-line between points): Threshold (minimum): 25% Maximum: 100% Corporate Governance Financial Statements 64 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Other executive director remuneration policies Service contract policy Share ow nership guideline From September 2013 Executive directors are subject to guidelines which require them Notice period 12 months’ notice each way to build a shareholding in IMI worth at least 250% of salary for Payment in lieu As determined by the Committee, but restricted to salary, the Chief Executive, 150% of salary for the Finance Director and of notice benefits and pension. Directors have a duty to mitigate 200% of salary for Roy Twite. When assessing compliance with Change of No incremental payments or protection this guideline the Committee reviews both the level of beneficial control share ownership and vested but unexercised share incentive Entitlements on No entitlement if leaving as a ‘bad leaver’ as set out in awards on a post-tax basis. termination the contract Salary, contractual benefits and pension allowance as per To the extent an individual does not meet their share ownership notice period guideline, up to half of any annual bonus is automatically Committee power to make phased payments that would be payable in shares and 50% of share awards must be retained. reduced or stopped if alternative employment is taken up Appointments to the board Prior to September 2013 (Roy Twite) Base salary will be set taking into account factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost. Notice period 12 months’ notice each way The Committee may determine that an initial positioning Payment in lieu At the Committee’s discretion below market is appropriate and; in those circumstances, of notice realign base salary in the years following appointment, which Change of Bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken place may result in an exceptional rate of increase in the short-term. control within the 24 months prior to termination Any reliance on this principle will be noted at the time of Entitlements on No entitlement if dismissed for cause or resignation appointment. The theoretical maximum variable pay opportunity termination that can be awarded in one year will be 600% of salary: up to 200% in annual bonus and up to 400% in an IIP award. As part of the appointments policy the Committee may also: • continue with the provision of existing remuneration components relating to pension, benefits and allowances for internal appointments; • provide benefits, allowances and/or payments related to relocation; and/or • make a long-term incentive award on appointment, outside of the annual cycle, under existing shareholder approved share plans and/or an individual award agreement to provide an immediate interest in company performance. The Committee will determine the level of any award, performance conditions and time horizon informed by the business circumstances at the time. The maximum value of such an award will be 400% of salary. Service contracts will be entered into on terms summarised in the service contract policy (see below). As noted above, the Committee would authorise the payment of a relocation allowance as well as other associated international mobility terms in line with IMI’s Global Mobility Policy. The Committee may consider ‘buying–out’ incentive awards that an individual forfeits in accepting the appointment up to an equivalent value. To achieve this, the Committee’s preference has been to use the existing shareholder approved plans. When making their decision, the Committee will be informed by the time horizons, value and performance targets associated with any forfeited awards. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Introduction Termination and loss of office The primary principle underpinning the determination of any payments on loss of office is that payments for failure will not be made. Service contracts and plan rules have been drafted in such a way that the Committee has the necessary powers to ensure this. On departure, the Committee will take into account factors including the reason for the executive leaving, performance during the time served in the year and contractual obligations when approving any payments. When an executive is terminated Strategic Review for cause there is no entitlement to salary, pension, benefits or an annual bonus and unvested share awards lapse. The following table provides a summary of the treatment of each component of pay applicable for the current executive directors. It should be noted that the Committee applies judgement in determining whether an individual is classed as a good leaver or otherwise under the share plans and is authorised to reach compromise agreements with departing executives. Agreed departure can include death, ill health, redundancy or retirement. Payment Agreed departure Differences in a change in control situation Salary, pension The Committee may make payment in lieu of notice. None. and bene ts Annual bonus Individuals can be considered for a bonus; factors such as time Performance to the date of the event taking place will be considered in served during the performance period and performance can be determining whether any bonus should be payable, subject to the overall Performance Review taken into account. maximum applicable to the relevant individual. Deferred bonuses vest. For directors appointed prior to September 2013, there remains a bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken place within the 24 months prior to termination. In this scenario, the director is entitled to bonus, or compensation in lieu of bonus, in respect of the relevant calendar year. IIP Performance measured at the end of the performance period, Similar to agreed departure. performance or at the date of cessation of employment. A reduction in the exercise period for vested but unexercised awards. share awards Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be and legacy PSP Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the considered by the Committee. Committee may enable awards to vest in full. The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for In certain situations (as de ned in the plan rules) rollover awards of unvested and vested but unexercised awards (legacy PSP only). a broadly equivalent nature can be offered. Legacy Share Invested shares are transferred back on cessation or at the end Similar to agreed departure. Matching Plan of the investment period. A reduction in the exercise period for vested but unexercised awards. Corporate Governance (no awards Matching shares: Performance measured at the end of the from 2015) Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the performance period, or at the date of cessation of employment. Committee may enable awards to vest in full. Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be In certain situations (as de ned in the plan rules) rollover awards can considered by the Committee. be offered, taking into account performance and time elapsed, although The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for these can be disapplied by the grantor. unvested and vested but unexercised awards. Other The Committee may approve other limited payments which may Similar to agreed departure. include legal fees connected to the departure, untaken holiday, out-placement and repatriation. Financial Statements 66 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Considerations taken into account w hen setting our Letters of appointment executive directors’ remuneration policy The letters of appointment set out key duties, including appropriate time commitments, provisions for induction Employment conditions at IMI and familiarisation with the businesses and wider senior When setting the salaries for executive directors the Committee management team and require approval for other directorships takes into account a number of factors (as noted in the future and potential conflicts of interest. policy table on pages 61 to 63) and these include the broader employment conditions within IMI. More specifically: There are no provisions for the Company to give notice, but the Chairman is required to give three months’ notice to the • the Committee reviews budgeted salary increases across the Company and non-executives one month. Subject to annual Group on a country-by-country basis when assessing the election at the AGM, the initial period to first renewal is three appropriateness of any increases for the Directors; and years. After six years, renewal is considered on an annual basis. • in making decisions the Committee also takes account of the The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the internal relativities against the reference group and within the AGM and the Company’s registered office. Details of the dates wider leadership group and general employee population. of appointments and unexpired terms are included in the Corporate Governance Report on page 47. Details of these comparison metrics will be included every year in the Annual Remuneration Report. Appointments to the Board Any contractual terms will be consistent with those currently The Committee did not consult with employees when preparing adopted for existing non-executive directors. The Chairman and the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for this Report. non-executive directors are not eligible to receive any variable Shareholder views pay. On appointment, fees for non-executive directors will be consistent with the policy in place at the time of appointment. The Committee has a standard annual agenda item whereby If necessary, to secure the appointment of a new Chairman who the feedback from shareholders and investor advisory bodies is not based in the UK, payments relating to relocation and/or is presented and discussed following the AGM. This feedback housing may be provided. is sought and collated by the Company Secretary. The feedback that the Committee receives then informs discussions for the formulation of future policy and subsequent remuneration decisions. A formal shareholder consultation process was undertaken in the Autumn of 2014 to gather investor feedback on the revised remuneration policy, with the majority of shareholders supportive. Exceptional circumstances The Committee retains the authority to make payments outside those set out elsewhere in this Policy to the extent they are needed in truly exceptional circumstances and were genuinely unforeseen and thus are of an emergency nature. This discretion will not be used in any recruitment of an executive director, the policy and limits of which we have described on pages 61 to 63 and if it is used to grant a variable or performance-related award, the terms of that award will be made within the limits of the stated policy on incentive awards. Any such payments will be disclosed on a timely basis. Chairman and non-executive directors The table on page 67 summarises the policy with respect to the remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors. No component of remuneration is linked to performance, there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payments and there are no provisions for the Company to pay compensation on early termination. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Introduction Future policy table Component Purpose Operation Annual opportunity Base fees To attract and retain high-calibre Fees are reviewed annually (or less frequently where As of 1 January 2014, the Chairman’s fee was individuals by offering marketnoted) and can be paid in cash and/or shares. xed at £300,000 and no increase for 2015 Strategic Review competitive fees, commensurate is proposed. Roberto Quarta has elected to Benchmarked against companies of a similar size to the time commitment and receive 25% of his fees in IMI shares1 although and complexity. experience that is required. that is not a Company requirement and may When setting fees, factors considered include the level or may not apply to a new Chairman. of increase for employees more generally, market data, At 31 December 2014 base fees for the business performance, external economic factors, non-executive directors were £60,000, and no the skills required, time requirements and cost. increase for 2015 was awarded in the review In respect of the Chairman, IMI also consider the at the end of 2014. individual’s pro le and experience. Additional To re ect the additional time Fees are reviewed annually and can be paid in cash Fee levels in place at 31 December 2014 and fees required when an individual chairs and/or shares. subject to review in 2015: a committee or is appointed as The Chairman is not eligible to receive additional fees. Committee Chairman: £15,000 senior independent director. Fees are benchmarked and set in a manner Senior independent director: £10,000 consistent with base fees (see above). Performance Review Bene ts To reimburse reasonable business Reimbursement in cash on production of receipts or Expenses incurred by the Chairman and expenses. other proof of payment of business expense. non-executive directors in undertaking their role are reimbursed as a business expense and are not a personal bene t in kind. Typically these might include business travel, meals and entertainment. 1 25% of the Chairman’s after tax fee was used to purchase shares in the market. These shares were then transferred to the Chairman. All dealing charges were paid for by the Chairman. Corporate Governance Financial Statements 68 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Remuneration Report Introduction The Committee presents the Annual Remuneration Report, which will be put to shareholders for an advisory (non-binding) vote at the AGM to be held on 7 May 2015. The report includes details of the Committee, the pay received by our executive directors during the year in accordance with our prior remuneration policy (approved on 8 May 2014) and comparative internal and external data. The Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) Watson are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct in the UK and the terms of engagement with Towers Composition Watson are available on request from the Company Secretary. The members of the Committee during the year were Bob An additional adviser was appointed and retained by the Stack (Chairman), Carl-Peter Forster, Anita Frew, Birgit Committee during the year. The Committee was satisfied that Nørgaard and Roberto Quarta. In accordance with the UK all advice was objective and independent based on the terms Corporate Governance Code, all of the non-executive directors of engagement. The additional adviser was: were regarded by the Board as independent and Roberto Quarta was considered independent on his appointment • Kepler Associates completed an incentives review and their as Chairman of the Company. fees totalled £145,987 in 2014. Kepler Associates were appointed by management to provide support on aspects Responsibility of the communication of the new arrangements. The Committee determines the remuneration policy and rewards for the executive directors and, in his absence the Chairman. A summary of the Committee activities during 2014 The Committee also reviews the remuneration packages of The Committee had four formal meetings during the year and those at the next most senior level of management and has one workshop. The principal agenda items were as follows: regard to levels of pay across the Group. A copy of the terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, is included in the • a review of total compensation packages of the executive IMI Corporate Governance Framework and available in the directors and the most senior management of the Company corporate governance section of the IMI website. to ensure alignment with IMI’s new strategic growth plan; • approval of achievements and outcomes under the Internal advisors to the Committee incentive plans; During the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive, regarding the remuneration policy and the packages of the other • consideration of the Chairman’s fees; executive directors and senior managers. It also received the • setting the framework and target levels for the 2014 advice and services of the Finance Director, the Group Human incentive cycle; Resources Director, the Head of Group Reward and the Company Secretary, who is also secretary to the Committee. None of these • review of the long-term incentive arrangements for 2015; individuals was involved in determining their own remuneration. • approval of the granting of share awards to other levels of management; External advisers to the Committee • a review of the UK corporate governance environment relative Independent remuneration consultant, Towers Watson, is to remuneration; formally appointed by the Committee and provided advice on directors’ remuneration to the Committee in 2014. Towers • a risk review of the remuneration framework; Watson notified the Committee that the firm are actuaries and • review of the engagement of independent remuneration administrators for the two IMI Pension Funds1. The Committee consultants and other advisers to the Committee; is comfortable that this does not represent a conflict of interest and that objective and independent advice continues to be • a review of the Committee’s own performance, constitution received by the Committee from Towers Watson. and terms of reference; and During 2014, Towers Watson has also supported management • review and approval of the retirement terms for Douglas Hurt on some broader reward and human resource matters. and the recruitment terms for Daniel Shook. The fees charged by Towers Watson in respect of advice and services to the Committee totalled £108,000 and for support to management totalled £48,853 in 2014. Towers 1 During the year the IMI Pension Fund commenced winding up procedures and has been replaced by two new funds, IMI 2014 Deferred Fund and IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund (together ‘the Funds’). Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Introduction Voting outcome at the 2014 Annual General Meeting Directors’ Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes withheld Remuneration (abstentions) Report The following table summarises the details of votes cast in respect of the remuneration resolutions along with the number Directors’ 177,728,610 7,626,905 185,355,515 184,135 Remuneration (95.89%) (68.30% of ISC) of votes cast as a percentage of the Issued Share Capital Policy (‘ISC’). The Committee was pleased with the level of support Strategic Review Annual 168,107,992 1,864,870 169,972,862 15,570,312 shown by shareholders and will continue to consider the Remuneration (98.90%) (62.63% of ISC) Policy views of, and feedback from, shareholders when setting and reporting on remuneration arrangements. Details of the voting on all resolutions at the 2015 AGM will be announced via the RNS and made available on the IMI website following the AGM. Executive single figure table (audited) Annual variable Other items in the nature Fixed pay pay Long-term variable pay of remuneration (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) Share Subtotal Annual Matching Performance long-term AllDividend Taxable incentive Plan Share variable Employee equivalent Total Performance Review Director Base salary Pension bene ts bonus (SMP) Plan (PSP) pay Share Plans Payments (£000) Pages Pages Pages Pages See Page Page 71 71 to 72 Page 72 72 to 73 73 to 74 74 to 75 Page 75 Page 76 2014 750 225 45 545 2 1,567 M W Selway 1 2013 188 56 109 237 590 2014 430 151 21 191 1,214 1,214 4 148 2,159 D M Hurt 2013 417 146 20 323 1,543 540 2,083 3 180 3,172 2014 430 151 19 197 1,117 1,117 3 46 1,963 R M Twite 2013 417 146 19 299 1,341 510 1,851 3 55 2,790 2014 271 95 11 140 2,656 2,656 3 3,176 M J Lamb 2 Corporate Governance 2013 765 386 27 711 3,374 985 4,359 5 329 6,582 D M Hurt and R M Twite served on the Boards of Tate & Lyle PLC and Halma plc respectively during the year. Fees of £62,512.50 and £20,923.08 were received in respect of these appointments. These figures have been calculated as follows: months of 2014 (1,204.86 pence) is used to estimate the value of shares on vesting. For shares vested in Base salary: the actual salary receivable for the year. 2014, relating to performance in the three years to Pension: the cash allowance paid in lieu of pension. 31 December 2013, previously reported figures3 are updated to reflect the actual share price on the date of Taxable benefits: the gross value of all taxable benefits (or benefits that vesting (1,453.00 pence for the Share Matching Plan would be taxable in the UK) received in the year. and 1,450.00 pence for the Performance Share Plan). Annual incentive bonus: the value of the annual incentive payable for All-employee share plans: the value of free shares and dividends (SIP) at award performance in respect of the relevant financial year made in the relevant financial year and the intrinsic (half of this is automatically delivered in shares when value of share options on the date of grant (SAYE) in the executive does not meet the share ownership the relevant financial year (applying a 10% discount). Financial Statements requirement). Dividend equivalent Share Matching Plan: the value on vesting of the matching shares that were payments: the value of dividend equivalent shares on vested but subject to performance over the three-year period unexercised awards under the share plans, valued at ending on 31 December in the relevant financial year. the price on the dividend payment date. (See share price assumptions below). Performance Share Plan: the value on vesting of shares that were subject to 1 performance over the three-year period ending on Mark Selway was appointed on 1 October 2013 and the table reflects 31 December in the relevant financial year. payments from this date. 2 (See share price assumptions below). Martin Lamb retired from the Board on 8 May 2014 and the table reflects Share price assumptions: For shares vesting in 2015, that related to payments to this date. 3 performance in the three years to 31 December The average share price over the final three months of 2013 (1,487.41 pence) 2014, the average share price over the final three was used. 70 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Comparative data Historical performance and remuneration The following information is intended to provide additional context In addition to considering executive remuneration in the context regarding the total remuneration for executive directors. of internal comparisons, the Committee reviews annually historical outcomes under the variable pay plans. Relative importance of pay spend The following graph compares IMI’s TSR to the FTSE100 over 2014 2013 Change the last six years. We compare performance to the FTSE100 £m £m as it represents the broad market index within which IMI shares Acquisitions 7.8 -100% are traded. TSR measures the returns that a company has Dividends 97.3 106.2 -8% provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends (source: DataStream), Return of Cash 620.3 with data averaged over the final 30 days of each financial year. Purchase of own shares 40.0 195.7 -80% As the graph below illustrates, IMI’s absolute and relative TSR Total employment costs for Group* 535.5 630.1 -15% performance has been strong over the last six years. This is (see Section 2.1.3 on page 97) reflected in the outcomes under our variable pay plans, which are largely driven by the financial performance of the Group In 2014, the total dividend for the year of 37.6 pence represented and IMI’s share price. an increase of 7% over last year’s 35.3 pence. As a result of the sale of the Retail Dispense divisions an additional special return Total return from a hypothetical £100 investment of £620m was made to shareholders in 2014 and there was a consolidation of the Group’s equity with the issue of seven new £ shares for every eight held. During the same period the total 800 pay spend decreased by 15% reflecting the sale of the Retail Dispense divisions. 700 600 £580 Relative percentage change in remuneration for Chief Executive 500 Mark Selway was appointed Chief Executive designate in 400 October 2013 and was not considered for an increase in base 300 salary for 2014. As such, his appointment as Chief Executive £195 200 during the year under review means that it is not possible to provide a comparison this year. We will revert to normal practice 100 next year when comparable data is available. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The Committee actively considers any increases in base pay for the Chief Executive relative to the broader employee IMI population. However, benefits and bonus payments are not FTSE100 typically compared given they are driven by a far broader range of factors, such as local practices, eligibility, individual circumstances and role. * As per Companies Act requirements, the total employment costs for the Group reported in 2013 included the Retail Dispense divisions. The total employment cost in 2013 excluding Retail Dispense was £505.2m. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Introduction The following table summarises the total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the last six years, and the outcomes of short and long-term incentive plans as a % of maximum. Financial Year ended 31 December 20091 20101 20111 20121 20131 20142 Strategic Review Total remuneration 2,547 4,439 12,289 7,954 6,688 1,567 (single gure, £000) Annual variable pay 91% 95% 85% 47% 62% 36% (% of maximum) Long-term variable pay 64% 97% 95% 100% 100% (% of maximum) Share Matching Plan Long-term variable pay 45% 100% 100% 100% 82.6% (% of maximum) Performance Share Plan Three-year increase in share price (Based on 2% 140% 180% 112% 61% 68% the relevant date) Performance Review 1 Represents remuneration for Martin Lamb. 2 Represents remuneration for Mark Selway who was appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2014. No payments under long-term incentive plans will be made until 2016. Executive remuneration received in respect of 2014 The key elements of the benefits in the Fund are summarised below: Base salary • the normal retirement age under the Fund is 62 for Roy Twite. Salaries effective from January 2014 were agreed taking into Roy Twite may retire from employment with IMI any time after account a range of factors, including the performance of the age 60 without actuarial discount. Group, comparative market data and salary increases for other employees. The average increase for employees of the Group • on death after retirement, a dependant’s pension is provided was 3.2%, compared to 3.1% for the executive directors. Mark equal to two-thirds of the member’s pension for Martin Lamb Selway’s and Martin Lamb’s salaries were not subject to review and 50% of the member’s pension for Roy Twite. Corporate Governance in 2014; the salaries for Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite increased by 3.1% to £430,000. • should Martin Lamb die within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum is also paid equal to the balance of Pension five years’ pension payments. For Roy Twite the dependant’s pension is increased to 100% of the member’s pension for Executive directors are entitled to receive a taxable cash the remainder of the five year period. allowance instead of pension benefits. With the Committee’s approval the executive directors may, at their discretion, • pensions in payment, in excess of any guaranteed minimum redirect part or all of their allowance into any defined pension, are increased each year in line with price inflation up contribution pension arrangement in the country in which they to a maximum of 5% in respect of pension built up before are contracted. Mark Selway receives a cash allowance of 1 January 2006, and 2.5% in respect of pension built up 30% of salary and the other executive directors were eligible after 1 January 2006. for a cash allowance of 35% of salary. Until Martin Lamb retired on 27 September 2014 his past Financial Statements Pension benefits for past service pension benefits continued to be linked to final salary inflation Martin Lamb and Roy Twite were previously active members (averaged over the past three years) and equivalent benefits of the defined benefit IMI Pension Fund (‘the Fund’). Martin to those provided for under the Fund rules immediately prior to Lamb opted out with effect from 6 April 2006 and Roy Twite closure were preserved in relation to ill-health retirement, death with effect from 1 February 2007. As a result they retain past in service and early retirement at the Company’s instance. pensionable service up to these dates. With the consent of the Company, Martin Lamb became a pensioner in the Fund upon his retirement on 27 September 2014. 72 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) The difference between those benefits and those automatically Benefits provided under the Fund, the enhanced protection member During the year the executive directors received a number of (EPM) benefits, is assessed as at 31 December each year to benefits. These are summarised below. Amounts less than determine if it was necessary to make a payment to the Fund £10,000 pa are combined. (to augment Fund benefits) or to make a payment in lieu of that to Martin Lamb. EPM benefits were payable as at 31 December M W Selway D M Hurt R M Twite M J Lamb 1 2013 and Martin Lamb received an additional Fund pension of 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 £2,694 per annum in respect of these benefits. No EPM benefits Non-cash bene ts (£000) were payable as at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011. Total 1 1 1 2 2 1 3 EPM benefits were also payable at the date Martin Lamb retired on 27 September 2014 and he received an additional Fund Cash bene ts and taxable allowances (£000) pension of £3,558 per annum in respect of these benefits. Company 19 2 17 17 17 17 7 20 car and fuel The Company and the Trustee of the Fund agreed to defer Martin allowance Lamb’s pension in the Fund so that payment commences on 7 January 2015 (the date he attains age 55) rather than on 27 Relocation 100 September 2014. Other 25 7 3 2 3 4 Total 45 109 21 20 19 19 11 27 Accrued pension in Accrued pension in the Fund as at 31 the Fund as at 31 December 2014 December 2013 1 Benefits pro-rated to retirement from the Board on 8 May 2014. £000pa £000pa In addition to the above benefits and allowances that are included M J Lamb 334 331 in the single figure (refer to table on page 69), the executive R M Twite 67 65 directors are also beneficiaries of company policies that have no taxable value, including directors’ insurance, death in service cover, travel insurance, the use of a company driver and personal accident cover. Annual incentive bonus • Group adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 7% The 2014 bonus plan focused on the financial performance compared to 2013; of IMI during the year considering Group profit before tax and • organic revenue growth was 2% in 2014, an improvement exceptional items (‘Group PBT’) (35%); Group adjusted earnings on the 1% delivered in 2013; and per share (‘EPS’) (15%); organic revenue growth (15%); cash conversion (15%); health, safety and environment (5%); and • very strong performance again for Health and Safety. personal non-financial objectives (15%). It is the opinion of the Committee that detailed disclosure, Progress was made on a number of fronts and we continued either on a forward looking or retrospective basis of financial to deliver positive results for our shareholders. In particular: and operational bonus targets is commercially sensitive. This position will be kept under review. However, to give shareholders • the total dividend for the year increased by 6.5% compared a sense of delivered performance in the context of the ranges to 2013; set at the start of the financial year, the following graph illustrates actual outcomes relative to the ranges set: Bonus Earned Below Above Weighting 1 Threshold Target Maximum (% of bonus Threshold Maximum opportunity) Pro t before tax 35% 4.7% Earnings per share 15% 5.7% Organic revenue growth 15% 0.0% Cash conversion 15% 6.2% Health & Safety 5% 5.0% 1 Total is out of 100%. Note that personal objectives account for 15%. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Introduction In addition to these quantifiable financial and non-financial their remit. These personal objectives and the Committee’s measures, each executive director has a number of personal assessment of individuals’ performance against them is objectives, some of which are linked to The IMI Way. Objectives described below, to the extent the Committee does not believe are agreed and communicated to the individual during the first the information to be commercially sensitive. quarter of the financial year, and pertain to areas directly within Strategic Review Measures and Committee’s assessment of performance Level of award (% of salary) MW The performance measures fell into six key areas, which included strategy, leadership development and IMI 30% Selway Way. The key achievements identi ed by the Committee included assessing our markets and drivers for growth; benchmarking performance and agreeing a plan for improvement. D M Hurt The performance measures fell into eight key areas including strategy, nancial controls, major projects, pensions 17% and tax. The key achievements identi ed by the Committee included successful management of the £620 million return of cash to shareholders in conjunction with the share consolidation and supporting the Chief Executive. R M Twite The performance measures fell into eight key areas, which included people development, major projects and 19% strategy. The key achievements identified by the Committee included delivering improved bookings and margins. M J Lamb In light of Martin Lamb’s short time on the Board during 2014, the Committee determined that Martin’s personal 23% contribution to the business over the period would be an assessment by the Committee and the Chairman. The Performance Review Committee reviewed his last few months and agreed that their expectations had been met in full. In aggregate this resulted in the following short-term incentive outcomes: 2014 Maximum Total bonus Total bonus Achievement of share Bonus delivered Bonus delivered bonus opportunity awarded (£000) awarded ownership guidelines in form of cash in form of shares (% of salary) (% of salary) at 31 Dec 2014 (£000) (£000) M W Selway1 200% 545 72.7% 11% 273 272 D M Hurt 125% 191 44.4% 929% 191 R M Twite 125% 197 45.8% 421% 197 M J Lamb 1 150% 140 51.7% n/a 140 Corporate Governance 1 Bonus pro-rated to retirement from the Board on 8 May 2014. Awards vesting under the Share Matching Plan The performance measure considered compound annual growth in EVA over the three financial years from 2012 to 2014 In May 2012, awards were made to the executive directors compared to EVA in the preceding three financial years. Awards under the Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’). At the date of awards, lapse for negative compound growth. However for positive all executives exceeded their individual share ownership growth between 0% and 6%, 10% to 25% of matching shares requirement and as such were invited to invest up to the vested; and for growth between 6% and 17%, 25% to 100% maximum permitted. The 2012 SMP award will vest at 70%. of matching shares vested. Within each range, vesting is Vesting was subject to the achievement of an Economic Value calculated on a straight-line basis. Added (‘EVA’) performance condition (see page 89 for definition), measured over the three years ending 31 December 2014. The calculation of EVA is based on segmental operating profit after Financial Statements tax with appropriate adjustments, less a capital charge on the invested capital in the business reflecting IMI’s cost of capital. 74 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Over the period IMI delivered compound annual EVA growth of 12.6% based on three-year EVA from 2012 to 2014 of £593.6m compared to three-year EVA from 2009 to 2011 of £415.8m. The total awards vesting in March 2015 will be: Shares Initial Value on date Number of Additional Total matching Value of matching invested by the matching of award 1 matching shares dividend shares vesting shares on vesting2 executive4 award (£000) vesting equivalent (£000) shares D M Hurt 27,827 132,512 1,222 92,758 8,022 100,780 1,214 R M Twite 25,600 121,908 1,124 85,335 7,380 92,715 1,117 M J Lamb 3 60,868 289,850 2,672 202,895 17,548 220,443 2,656 1 3 The mid-market price on the date of award was 922.00 pence. Under the terms of Martin Lamb’s retirement his 2012 award of 289,850 shares 2 was not time pro-rated. Awards will vest on 10 May 2015. The value of shares on vesting is estimated 4 using the average price over the last quarter of 2014 (1,204.86 pence). Awards Adjusted for the February 2014 share consolidation. take the form of nil-cost options and can be exercised over a period of up to seven years following vesting, unless reduced under the terms of an individual’s departure. Awards vesting under the Performance Share Plan The 2012 peer group comprised the following companies, adjusted to take account of merger and acquisition activity In May 2012, awards were also made to executive directors during the performance period in line with the Committee’s under the Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’). The vesting of the established guidelines: awards was subject to the achievement of three independent performance conditions, measured over the three-years ending UK USA 31 December 2014. The 2012 PSP award will vest at 0%. BBA Aviation Borgwarner • EPS growth Bodycote Eaton Half of each award was subject to the achievement of an EPS Cobham Emerson Electric growth performance measure. Under the PSP, EPS is defined as adjusted basic earnings per share before the post-tax GKN Flowserve Corp impact of any reported exceptional items, which may include Halma Honeywell impairment losses, profit/ loss on disposal of a subsidiary, Johnson Matthey IDEX rationalisation costs, acquired intangible amortisation and IAS39 charges or credits for changes in the fair value of financial Meggitt Illinois Tool Works instruments. EPS was chosen as an appropriate measure Rotork Ingersoll-Rand because it rewards absolute growth in underlying earnings Spectris Manitowoc and because the Committee believed it worked well in combination with TSR which is an external, relative Spirax-Sarco Engineering Parker-Hanni n measure of performance. Vesuvius Pentair Growth of 6% per annum would trigger the minimum level of Weir Group Tyco International vesting (25% of the EPS element), increasing on a straight-line basis such that awards were eligible to vest in full for EPS growth of 15% per annum. Over the period IMI delivered EPS growth of Japan Continental Europe 2.7% per annum, increasing EPS from 64.5 pence in 2011 to Amada Atlas Copco a comparable 69.8 pence at the end of 2014. Fanuc Heidelberg Druckmaschinen • Relative TSR NSK Metso Corporation 25% of each award was subject to the achievement of a SMC Sandvik relative TSR performance measure. TSR is defined as the movement in share price during the performance period, THK SKF B measured in local currency, with adjustments to take account of Yaskawa Electric Sulzer AG changes in capital structure and dividends, which are assumed to be reinvested in shares on the ex-dividend date. TSR was chosen as a measure as it is an external, relative benchmark for At the end of the three-year performance period, the Company performance that aligns executives’ rewards with the creation of ranked 21 in the peer group. The Committee was in agreement shareholder value. that the outcome under the TSR measure was reflective of the general underlying financial performance of the Company. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Introduction • Organic revenue growth Organic revenue growth of 2.7% per annum would trigger the 25% of each award was subject to the achievement of an minimum level of vesting (25% of the organic revenue element) organic revenue growth measure, calculated as an average increasing on a straight-line basis such that awards were annual growth rate, to encourage continued focus on organic eligible to vest in full for growth of 8% per annum. Over the growth. Revenue is defined as segmental revenues before period IMI delivered growth of 2.2%. Strategic Review exceptional items adjusted, at the Committee’s discretion, In aggregate, none of the initial number of shares awarded were to exclude the impact of material acquisitions and disposals released to the executives and other participants. by the Company completed during the performance period and to remove the impact of exchange rate movements. Initial award Value on date of Number of initial Additional dividend Total shares Value of shares on award 1 shares vesting equivalent shares vesting vesting (£000) (£000) D M Hurt 41,250 392 R M Twite 41,250 392 M J Lamb 2 75,450 716 1 The mid-market price on the date of award was 949.50 pence. Performance Review 2 Under the terms of Martin Lamb’s retirement, his 2012 award of 75,450 shares was not time pro-rated. All-employee share plans Executive directors are entitled to participate in the all-employee share plans on the same terms as other eligible employees at IMI. In 2014, Mark Selway, Douglas Hurt, Roy Twite and Martin Lamb all received free share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan. Mark Selway and Douglas Hurt received SAYE awards in 2014 of 650 shares each. Share Incentive Plan SAYE Total value under Number of shares Value of free Number of options Value of SAYE Dividends the all-employee (£000) Corporate Governance awarded share award1 awarded options2 share plans (£000) (£000) (£000) 2014 73 1 650 1 2 M W Selway 2013 2014 196 3 650 1 4 D M Hurt 2013 240 3 3 2014 196 3 3 R M Twite 2013 240 3 3 2014 196 3 3 M J Lamb 2013 240 3 2 5 Financial Statements 1 In 2014 free shares were awarded at a share price of 1,526.00 pence (1,249.33 pence in 2013). 2 In 2014 SAYE awards were made at a 10% discount and the value shown is the intrinsic gain at the date of grant, calculated in accordance with the single figure requirements (on page 69). 76 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Dividend payments Share interests granted to executive directors during Under the SMP and PSP, dividend equivalent payments are 2014 (audited) made on vested but unexercised share awards, which take the Grants made under the Share Matching Plan form of nil-cost options. Dividend equivalents, while notionally Grants under the SMP were made on 1 April 2014 in the tracked by IMI from grant to exercise, are not paid or transferred form of nil-cost options. The Committee invited those eligible to the participant until the point of exercise. These have been to participate at the maximum level permitted in respect of included in the single figure (the table on page 69) based on 2014 and the size of the award reflects an individual’s bonus the number of dividend equivalents notionally accrued in the opportunity and the extent to which they had achieved the financial year, valued at the price on the dividend payment date. share ownership guideline. Any residual cash is rolled over and applied to the subsequent dividend equivalent purchase. Achievement of Initial Value on Award as a Martin Lamb’s Retirement Arrangements Share Ownership matching date of percentage Guideline as at award award 1 of salary During 2013 Martin Lamb announced his retirement as a director 31 Dec 2013 (£000) of IMI. Martin stepped down as the Chief Executive at the end of M W Selway No 26,146 383 51% the 2013 financial year, and retired as a director from the Board at the AGM on 8 May 2014. His employment formally ceased at D M Hurt Yes 71,188 1,043 243% the end of his 12 month notice period in September 2014. R M Twite Yes 65,494 959 223% Payments made in accordance with Martin Lamb’s retirement relate to the payment of salary, contractual benefits and pension 1 The price used to purchase shares on the date of award was 1,464.87p. allowance from 8 May 2014 to the end of his notice period in September 2014. Under the terms of the plan rules, the Awards will vest subject to the achievement of an EVA Committee has pro-rated the outstanding 2013 share awards performance condition over the three financial years ending under both the SMP and PSP on a financial year basis to 31 31 December 2016. The definition of EVA is unchanged from December 2014. Performance will be measured and applied in that used in previous years. the normal manner to determine vesting, with the shares released Grants made under the Performance Share Plan on the normal vesting date for each award. The pension payable from the IMI Pension Funds (‘the Funds’) is reduced for early Grants under the PSP were made on 11 March 2014 in the payment, in accordance with the Fund rules, as Martin Lamb is form of nil-cost options. Awards will vest subject to the retiring prior to age 55. However, the Company asked the Trustee achievement of EPS growth, relative TSR and organic revenue to defer pension payments until Martin Lamb reaches age 55 in growth over the three financial years ending 31 December 2016. January 2015 and to increase the pension that would otherwise The measures are defined consistently with previous years. have been payable from that date to reflect this period of deferral. The net effect of this deferral is cost neutral. Payments to past directors (audited) It is the Committee’s intention to disclose any payments to past directors, including the vesting of share-based awards post departure on a basis consistent with the executive directors. In particular, the Committee can confirm that under the terms of his departure, Sean Toomes’ 2011 PSP and SMP awards were pro-rated to the date of his departure (30 June 2013) and vested, subject to the performance conditions, on 10 March 2014 and 28 March 2014 respectively. A total of 14,282 shares vested under the PSP (13,071 award shares and 1,211 dividend shares) which equated to a value on the vesting date of £207,089 and a total of 28,772 shares vested under the SMP (26,332 award shares and 2,440 dividend shares) which equated to a value on the vesting date of £418,057. Payments made to Martin Lamb during his period as a past director were consistent with the disclosures contained on page 79 of the 2013 Remuneration Report. Dividend equivalent payments for vested but unexercised nil-cost option awards will continue to be made to past directors under the terms of the original grant. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 Introduction All of the performance measures are defined in such a manner to allow the Committee discretion to make further adjustments to the definitions as it determines is fair and reasonable. The performance targets that apply to the 2014 PSP awards are as follows: EPS growth Relative TSR Organic revenue Level of vesting growth Strategic Review Threshold 6% p.a. Median 2.7% 25% Maximum 15% p.a. Upper quartile 8% 100% Weighting 50% 25% 25% The following grants were approved and made in 2014: PSP shares awarded Value on date of award 1 Award as a percentage (£000) of salary M W Selway2 75,950 1,114 149% D M Hurt 29,300 430 100% Performance Review R M Twite 29,300 430 100% 1 The three day average mid-market price on the date of award was 1,467.00 pence. 2 As part of Mark Selway’s appointment the Committee agreed to make an aggregate longterm incentive award in 2014 worth 200% of salary. As such, he received a PSP award worth 149% of salary and an SMP award worth 51% of salary. Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ single figure table (audited) The following table summarises the total fees and benefits paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors in respect of the financial years ending 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013. Corporate Governance Director 2014 (£000) 2013 (£000) Base Fees Additional Fees Total Base Fees Additional Fees Total R Quarta 300 300 250 250 P Bentley1 60 15 75 55 10 65 C P Forster 60 60 55 55 A M Frew 2 60 10 70 55 3 58 B Nørgaard 60 60 55 55 R J Stack 60 15 75 55 15 70 R McInnes3 15 15 1 Appointed Audit Committee Chairman May 2013 (stood down 31 December 2014) Financial Statements 2 Appointed senior independent director May 2013 (standing down at conclusion of 2015 AGM) 3 Appointed 1 October 2014 and became Audit Committee Chair on 1 January 2015 78 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Directors’ shareholdings and achievement of share ow nership guidelines (audited) The following table summarises the share interests of any director who served during the year as at 31 December 2014 or at the date of retirement from the Board. Director Total Bene cial Scheme interests interests interests With performance Nil-cost options All-employee conditions share plans2 With performance conditions Unvested Vested but unexercised M W Selway 214,831 8,739 205,927 205,927 165 D M Hurt 1,021,393 184,421 832,410 413,879 418,531 4,562 R M Twite 637,357 111,410 520,070 389,398 130,672 5,877 M J Lamb 1 1,487,537 103,973 1,377,965 636,762 741,203 5,599 R Quarta 6,195 6,195 P Bentley 7,000 7,000 C-P Forster 2,625 2,625 A M Frew 6,562 6,562 B Nørgaard 2,625 2,625 R J Stack 13,125 13,125 R McInnes 1 Share interests as at 8 May 2014. Douglas Hurt’s retirement arrangements 2 During the period 31 December 2014 to 26 February 2015 there were no changes As previously announced, Douglas Hurt notified the Board in in the interests of any current director from those shown save for purchases within the IMI All Employee Share Ownership Plan on 13 January 2015 of 10 shares on September 2014 of his intention to retire. It was agreed that behalf of M W Selway, and 11 shares on behalf of each of R M Twite and D M Hurt Douglas would remain as a director until the 2015 AGM, at at 1210p per share and 10 February 2015 of 9 shares on behalf of each of M W which point he will step down as a director and retire. Selway, D M Hurt and R M Twite at 1377p per share. In line with his contractual rights, the Committee has approved From 2015, the Committee requires Mark Selway to build up and agreed the following terms and payments which will be fully a shareholding of at least 250% of salary, 200% of salary in disclosed in next year’s single figure table: the case of Roy Twite and 150% of salary for Daniel Shook, • Payment of salary (frozen at £430,000), contractual benefits to mirror the IMI Incentive Plan Award. At the end of the year and pension allowance until cessation of employment; Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite significantly exceeded the share ownership guideline and Mark Selway, who was appointed on • Eligible for pro-rata annual bonus in respect of the time 1 October 2013, made progress towards his guideline through served as a director in 2015, payable at the usual time direct market purchase of shares and the full deferral of his around March 2016; 2013 annual bonus. • Under the terms of the plan rules, the Committee has prorated the outstanding 2013 and 2014 share awards under Application of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2014 both the Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan Daniel Shook’s appointment as Finance Director to 7 May 2015. Performance will be measured and applied in the normal manner to determine vesting, with the shares The details of Daniel Shook’s remuneration were agreed by released on the normal vesting date for each award; the Committee in accordance with the remuneration policy approved on 8 May 2014. In summary Daniel has been • No participation in the IMI Incentive Scheme (‘IIP’) for 2015; appointed on a salary of £400,000 from 1 January 2015. and His pension allowance is worth 20% of salary and he will • Pension benefits are being provided as described elsewhere participate in the standard benefits offered to executives. in this Report, on the basis of service up to the date of His bonus opportunity will be 125% of salary and he will be retirement. The exact sums will be disclosed in an appropriate eligible for an annual award under the IMI Incentive Plan worth manner when they are known. 150% of salary. In accordance with his relocation to the UK, the Committee has agreed to reimburse expenses up to £75,000. No other payments or awards were made or promised. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Introduction Executive director fixed pay IMI Incentive Plan (‘IIP’) Salaries effective January 2015 were agreed taking into In accordance with the changes to the remuneration policy, the account a range of factors including the prevailing economic IIP will be operated as follows in 2015: conditions, the financial performance of the Group and salary • 2015 awards are set at 250% of salary for the Chief increases for other employees. Executive, 200% for Roy Twite and 150% for Daniel Shook. Strategic Review The average increase for employees was 2.9%, compared Douglas Hurt will not participate in the IMI Incentive Plan. to 2.2% for the executive directors. Mark Selway’s and Roy • Awards will vest subject to performance in three core areas Twite’s salaries increased by 2.7% and 3.5% to £770,000 aligned to our longer-term strategic priorities: return on and £445,000 respectively. Douglas Hurt was not considered capital employed (25%), relative Total Shareholder Return for an increase in light of his retirement from the Board at the (25%) and Group Profit Before Tax growth (50%). This means 2015 AGM. that EVA, EPS growth and organic revenue growth will no Other elements of fixed pay (benefits and pension) will longer be directly reflected in our basket of measures. be unchanged. Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors Incentive pay The Chairman and non-executive directors’ remuneration is As set out in the Annual Statement from the Chairman of the unchanged for 2015. A review of the non-executive directors’ Committee, changes are proposed to the incentive plans base fees, Committee Chairman and senior independent Performance Review for 2015. Shareholders are being asked to approve the director fees will be carried out in 2015. IMI Incentive Plan which will facilitate awards under these arrangements, as well as a revised Directors’ Remuneration Share ownership for the Chairman and non-executive directors Policy. Additional information can be found in the Annual The Chairman and non-executive directors are expected to Statement from the Chairman of the Committee on pages 57 to hold some shares in IMI within a reasonable period after 58 and the Directors’ Remuneration Policy on pages 59 to 67. their appointment. Annual bonus In accordance with the changes to the remuneration policy, the annual bonus plan will be operated as follows in 2015: • 2015 bonus opportunity is set at 200% of salary for the Chief Executive, 150% for Roy Twite and 125% for Daniel Shook. Corporate Governance • Bonus will be paid subject to performance in Group PBT (40%), organic revenue growth (20%), cash conversion (20%) and strategic and personal objectives (20%). Health and safety will serve as an underpin to ensure bonuses are only paid out when minimum standards are achieved. • The Committee has determined that the targets associated with the performance measures are commercially sensitive and therefore is not disclosing them on a prospective basis. This position will be reviewed at the end of the financial year to determine whether any information will be disclosed at that time. Financial Statements 80 IMI plc Financial Statements In this section we set out our fina ncia l sta tem ents for the yea r ended 31 Decem ber 20 14 in com plia nce with Inter na tiona l Fina ncia l Repor ting Sta nda r ds. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Engineering Introduction GREATt he IMI Way Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Ma in photo: Edwa r d Qia o a n d Ca r olin e Zhu, fr om our IMI Hydr on ic Engineer ing China tea m sta nd in fr ont of the Sha n gha i Tower – a r ecently r ea lised pr oject with STAF ba la n cing va lves a n d KTM pr essur e independent contr ol va lves 82 IMI plc Financial statements FINANCE DIRECTOR’S INTRODUCTION Introduction from Douglas Hurt Introduction from Daniel Shook Dear Shareholder Dear Shareholder Welcome to the financial statements section of our Annual I am extremely pleased to be joining IMI. Report, which will be my last as Finance Director of IMI plc ahead Since joining it has been great to see how committed and of my retirement and following the announcement of Daniel Shook passionate people are about the Group and its future. I have as my successor. I have thoroughly enjoyed my nine years with visited as much of the organisation as possible during my first the Group and I am proud of the progress that the Group has two months. made over this time. I wish Daniel every success in the future. It is clear that we really have a great foundation with which to My financial review commentary is set out in this section grow and I look forward to working with everyone to achieve the alongside the primary statements. These financial statements longer term strategy that the Board, Mark and the Executive are presented with the primary statements first, followed by five team have set out. sections: ‘Basis of Preparation’, ‘Results for the Year’, ‘Operating Assets and Liabilities’, ‘Capital Structure and Financing Costs’ I would personally like to thank Douglas both for his support and ‘Other Notes’. during the initial months and for handing me such a strong and dedicated organisation, a good set of results and strong balance As previously reported, the Retail Dispense businesses were sheet to build from. disposed of on 1 January 2014 and consequently their comparative results are shown as discontinued operations I look forward to meeting many of you at the AGM in May 2015. in the income statement, while their comparative assets and liabilities are presented as held for sale in the balance sheet. Daniel Shook Following our Strategic Review the Eley Group and AFP were Finance Director Designate both disposed of in the year. In addition, the Group acquired Bopp & Reuther for an enterprise value of €153m (£118m) on 2 January 2015. Douglas Hurt Finance Director Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Financial statements INTRODUCTION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS Primary statements Notes to the financial statements provide additional information Consolidated income statement and commentary thereon ........... 84 required by statute, accounting standards or the Listing Rules to explain a particular feature of the financial statements. The Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, notes that follow will also provide explanations and additional consolidated statement of changes in equity and disclosure to assist readers’ understanding and interpretation commentary thereon .................................................................. 86 of the Annual Report and the financial statements. Consolidated balance sheet and commentary thereon .................................................................. 88 Consolidated statement of cash ows and commentary thereon .................................................................. 90 Section 1 – Basis of preparation ............................................ 92 Section 2 – Results for the year 2.1 Segmental information .......................................................... 93 2.2 Exceptional items ................................................................. 98 2.3 Earnings per share ............................................................... 99 2.4 Taxation ............................................................................. 100 2.5 Discontinued operations ..................................................... 103 Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities 3.1 Working capital .................................................................. 104 3.2 Intangible assets ................................................................ 105 3.3 Property, plant and equipment ............................................ 107 3.4 Acquisitions ....................................................................... 108 3.5 Disposals ........................................................................... 108 3.6 Provisions .......................................................................... 110 Section 4 – Capital structure and nancing costs 4.1 Net debt ............................................................................ 111 4.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings ................................. 112 4.3 Net nancing costs ............................................................. 113 4.4 Financial risk management .................................................. 114 4.5 Retirement bene ts ............................................................ 123 4.6 Share capital ...................................................................... 129 4.7 Share-based payments ...................................................... 131 4.8 Non-controlling interests ..................................................... 134 Section 5 – Other notes 5.1 Contingent liabilities ............................................................ 135 5.2 Related party transactions .................................................. 135 5.3 Subsequent events ............................................................ 135 5.4 Signi cant accounting policies ............................................. 135 Directors’ Report .................................................................. 141 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities .............................. 145 Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of IMI plc .............................................................. 146 IMI plc Company nancial statements ............................... 149 Subsidiary undertakings ....................................................... 153 Five year summary ................................................................ 154 Shareholder and general information ................................... 156 84 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 2.1.1 1,686 6 1,692 1,744 (1) 1,743 Segmental operating profit 2.1 298.1 298.1 321.6 321.6 Reversal of net economic hedge contract losses/(gains) 2.2.1 3.9 3.9 (5.1) (5.1) Restructuring costs 2.2.2 (2.6) (8.6) (11.2) (14.2) (14.2) Gains on special pension events 2.2.3 7.0 7.0 Impairment losses 2.2.4 (40.8) (40.8) Acquired intangible amortisation 2.2.4 (19.6) (19.6) (21.9) (21.9) Gains on disposal of subsidiaries 2.2.5 34.2 34.2 Acquisition and disposal costs 2.2.6 (1.8) (1.8) (9.9) (9.9) Operating profit 295.5 (25.7) 269.8 321.6 (51.1) 270.5 Financial income 4.3 1.1 15.1 16.2 4.2 20.2 24.4 Financial expense 4.3 (15.4) (21.8) (37.2) (20.2) (17.5) (37.7) Net finance charge relating to defined benefit pension schemes 4.5.3.3 (3.1) (3.1) (7.9) (7.9) Net financial (expense)/income (17.4) (6.7) (24.1) (23.9) 2.7 (21.2) Profit before tax 278.1 (32.4) 245.7 297.7 (48.4) 249.3 Taxation 2.4.5 (61.2) 8.3 (52.9) (65.5) 9.8 (55.7) Profit from continuing operations after tax 216.9 (24.1) 192.8 232.2 (38.6) 193.6 Profit from discontinued operations after tax 2.5 478.5 478.5 33.4 33.4 Total profit for the year 216.9 454.4 671.3 232.2 (5.2) 227.0 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 668.5 223.9 Non-controlling interests 4.8 2.8 3.1 Profit for the year 671.3 227.0 Earnings per share 2.3 Basic from profit for the year 243.4p 71.0p Diluted from profit for the year 241.3p 70.1p Basic from continuing operations 69.2p 60.4p Diluted from continuing operations 68.6p 59.6p Basic from adjusted profit for the year 78.0p 72.6p Diluted from adjusted profit for the year 77.3p 71.7p Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Results summary (on continuing operations and before exceptional items) Financing costs Revenue decreased by 3% to £1,686m (2013: £1,744m). After adjusting for an A net charge arose on the revaluation of financial instruments and derivatives adverse exchange rate impact of £96m and the contribution from acquisitions under IAS39 of £7m (2013: credit of £3m) principally reflecting movements and disposals, the organic revenue increase was 2% despite more difficult in exchange rates during the year on forward foreign exchange contracts. market conditions. Taxation Segmental operating profit was £298m, compared to £322m in 2013. At An exceptional tax credit of £8m (2013: £10m) arose in connection with constant exchange rates and excluding acquisitions and disposals, segmental business restructuring and other exceptional costs. operating profit fell by 1%. The segmental operating margin was 17.7% (2013: 18.4%). Restructuring costs of £3m that arose from normal recurring cost Profit from continuing operations after tax and exceptionals reduction exercises have not been treated as exceptional. Profit after taxation and exceptional items was £193m (2013: £194m). Continuing net interest costs on net borrowings were £14m (2013: £16m). Disposal of Retail Dispense businesses and discontinued operations These were covered 27 times (2013: 21 times) by continuing earnings before As previously reported, on 1 January 2014 our Retail Dispense businesses interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of £371m (2013: £332m), see the were sold to the Marmon Group, a Berkshire Hathaway company, for cash cash flow commentary on page 91 for further details of the EBITDA calculation. consideration of £691m resulting in a gain on disposal of £478m. Detail of The net pension financing charge under IAS19 was £3m (2013: £8m). discontinued operations is given in section 2.5 on page 103. The disposal Profit before taxation and exceptional items was £278m (2013: £298m) a decrease proceeds were used to return £620m of cash to shareholders and invest on the previous year of 7%. This measure will be used as a metric for the 2015 £70m into the UK Pension Fund. IMI Incentive Plan as discussed on page 63 of the Remuneration Report. Earnings per share (‘EPS’) The effective tax rate for the Group before exceptional items remained at 22% Basic EPS was up 243% to 243.4p (2013: 71.0p) and diluted EPS was 241.3p (2013: 22%). The total tax charge for the year on continuing operations was (2013: 70.1p), both increasing as a result of the profit on disposal of the Retail £61m (2013: £66m) and continuing profit after tax was £217m (2013: £232m). Dispense businesses of £478m. The Board considers that a more meaningful The Group seeks to manage its tax affairs within its core tax principles of indication of the underlying performance of the Group is provided by earnings compliance, fairness, value and transparency, in accordance with The IMI Way, before exceptional items after tax. Details of this calculation are given in section which is explained further in section 2.4 on page 100. 2.3 to the Group financial statements on page 99. On this basis the adjusted EPS from continuing operations was 78.0p, an increase of 7% over last year’s Exceptional items 72.6p. The increase is as a result of the 7 for 8 share consolidation, which Operating profit was £270m (2013: £271m) after the deduction of exceptional occurred on 17 February 2014. items which are discussed below: Reversal of net economic hedge contract losses/(gains) Corporate costs In 2014 and prior years corporate costs have been allocated to each of the For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, together with the divisions to arrive at segmental operating profit. For our 2015 reporting and gains and losses on their settlements, are included in the segmental revenues onwards we intend to separately disclose our corporate costs in our segmental and operating profit of the relevant business segment. The exceptional item at the information. This change will give greater transparency of the underlying operating level reverses this treatment and the loss of £4m (2013: gain of £5m). segmental operating profits for each division. In section 2.1.1 we have included an analysis to show how the Group’s 2014 segmental information would be Restructuring costs presented on this new basis. Exceptional restructuring costs in the year were £9m (2013: £14m). The 2014 costs comprises £4m for the closure of IMI Components, announced in August Exchange rates 2014 and £5m on completion of IMI Norgren UK’s factory move. The most important foreign currencies for the Group remain the Euro and the Pensions US Dollar and the relevant average rates of exchange for the consolidated During the year the UK Fund was split into two newly formed schemes, one income statement were: for pensioners and one for deferred members resulting in a one-off settlement gain of £4m. In addition, the insurance buy-out of one of our Swedish schemes 2014 2013 resulted in a further settlement gain of £3m. Euro 1.24 1.18 Impairment and acquired intangible amortisation US dollar 1.65 1.56 The Group recorded exceptional impairment charges of £41m of which £27m is against Remosa and £1m is against IMI Components in Critical Engineering, The movement in average exchange rates between 2013 and 2014 resulted £11m is against Analytical Flow Products (‘AFP’) in Precision Engineering, in our reported 2014 segmental revenue and segmental operating profit each and £2m is for the impairment of legacy IT software as our Hydronic being 6% lower as the average Euro and US Dollar rates against Sterling were Engineering division implements a fully integrated ERP system. Acquired 5% and 6% weaker, respectively. intangible amortisation decreased to £20m (2013: £22m). If the exchange rates as at 16 February 2015 of US$1.54 and €1.35 were Disposal of non-core businesses projected for the full year and applied to our 2014 results, it is estimated During the year, the Group disposed of a number of subsidiaries which were that segmental revenue and segmental operating profit would have been considered to be non-core to the Group’s strategy. On 4 October 2014 the Group 3% lower and 1% lower respectively. In addition, we estimate that the recent disposed of Eley Limited, Eley Americas Inc and Accles & Shelvoke Limited strengthening of the Swiss Franc against the Euro if sustained would result in (together ‘Eley’) for a cash consideration of £42m, resulting in a gain on disposal a further transactional foreign exchange headwind on operating profits in 2015 of £33m. The Group also disposed of its investment in AFP resulting in a gain on of around £6m, meaning that the total impact on operating profits is currently disposal of £1m. Neither of these businesses were considered to be a major class estimated to be around 3%. of business and therefore their results for the year and gains on disposal have been classified within continuing operations. Dividend The Board has recommended a final dividend in respect of 2014 of 24.0p Acquisitions (2013: 22.5p) per share, an increase of 6.7% over the 2013 final dividend. On 2 January 2015 the Group announced the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther for This makes the total dividend for 2014 37.6p (2013: 35.3p). The cost of the €153m (£118m). Bopp & Reuther is a good strategic fit and it will significantly final dividend is expected to be £65m (2013: £61m), leading to a total dividend enhance IMI’s presence in the growing power sector. Bopp & Reuther is cost of £102m (2013: £101m) in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014. very closely aligned with IMI Critical Engineering’s existing large control valve Dividend cover based on adjusted earnings for the continuing businesses is business (‘CCI’) and therefore we expect to deliver strong synergies from the 2.1 times (2013: 2.1 times). combination of the companies. Acquisition and disposal costs were £2m (2013: £10m) and primarily comprise £2m of fees associated with this acquisition. 86 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 £m £m £m £m Profit for the year 671.3 227.0 Items reclassified to profit and loss in the year Foreign exchange gain reclassified to income statement on disposal of operations (3.9) Realised gain on settlement of deal-contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds reclassified to income statement (11.2) Related tax effect on items reclassified to profit and loss 2.4 (12.7) Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss Change in fair value of effective net investment hedge derivatives 3.6 3.4 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of hedge settlements and funding revaluations (14.7) (16.9) Change in fair value on deal-contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds (3.0) 14.2 Fair value gain/(loss) on available for sale financial assets 1.1 (0.5) Related tax effect on items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit and loss 1.0 (2.5) (12.0) (2.3) Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit and loss Re-measurement gain on defined benefit plans 16.6 41.4 Related taxation effect in current year (2.2) (11.4) Taxation in relation to restructure of UK Pension Fund (6.6) Effect of taxation rate change on previously recognised items (9.9) 7.8 20.1 Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year, net of taxation (16.9) 17.8 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation 654.4 244.8 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 651.6 241.7 Non-controlling interests 2.8 3.1 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation 654.4 244.8 COMMENTARY ON THECONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOMEAND THECONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Movements in shareholders’ equity When the Group makes unrealised gains or losses on assets and liabilities, Shareholders’ equity at the end of 2014 was £509m (2013: £601m). instead of being recorded in the income statement, they are credited or Movements in shareholders’ equity can be split into three categories: charged to reserves and recorded in the statement of comprehensive income. • the profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of £669m (2013: In accordance with the amendment to IAS1, these items are allocated between £224m). This is discussed on the page opposite the income statement. those items that have been recycled to the income statement, those that may be recycled to the income statement and those items that may not be recycled to • other comprehensive income movements in the year reduced shareholders’ the income statement. equity by £17m (2013: increased £18m). These are discussed below. • movements taken directly to equity in the year reduced shareholders’ equity Any net investment hedge derivatives which have not settled by the year-end by £743m (2013: reduced £227m). These are discussed overleaf. are marked to market on the balance sheet at the year-end and the movements are recorded in the hedging reserve. This movement is also included in other Other comprehensive income comprehensive income and in 2014, amounted to income of £4m (2013: £3m) When the Group makes unrealised gains or losses on assets and liabilities, including the related taxation effect. upon disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses £4m of foreign exchange The Group’s foreign denominated net assets are translated into sterling using gains were recycled to the income statement. exchange rates prevailing at the year-end. To the extent that these differ from the The deal-contingent forward used to hedge the proceeds of the Retail Dispense rates used at the previous year-end to translate net assets at that date and from disposal was revalued on 1 January 2014 which resulted in a reduction in the fair the average exchange rate used to translate foreign denominated income during value of the derivative by £3m. Following the receipt of the proceeds a gain of the year, a difference on reserves arises. This is included in other comprehensive £11m was realised in the income statement. The tax effect on items reclassified income, along with the settlement of net investment hedge derivatives and to profit and loss amounted to £2m. revaluations of foreign debt, which are used to protect the Group from this exposure. These items (including the related taxation effect) amounted to a loss of £13m in 2014 (2013: loss of £16m). Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2014 Share Capital Total NonShare premium redemption Hedging Translation Retained parent controlling Total capital account reserve reserve reserve earnings equity interests equity £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m As at 1 January 2013 85.2 170.3 7.9 5.1 32.6 334.4 635.5 48.0 683.5 Profit for the year 223.9 223.9 3.1 227.0 Other comprehensive income/(expense) 13.9 (15.9) 19.8 17.8 17.8 Total comprehensive income/(expense) 13.9 (15.9) 243.7 241.7 3.1 244.8 Issue of share capital 0.1 1.5 1.6 1.6 Dividends paid (106.2) (106.2) (0.1) (106.3) Share-based payments (net of tax) 16.8 16.8 16.8 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust (24.2) (24.2) (24.2) share buyback programme (164.3) (164.3) (164.3) Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) As at 31 December 2013 85.3 171.8 7.9 19.0 16.7 300.2 600.9 46.6 647.5 Changes in equity in 2014 Profit for the year 668.5 668.5 2.8 671.3 Other comprehensive income/(expense) (8.3) (17.1) 8.5 (16.9) (16.9) Total comprehensive income/(expense) (8.3) (17.1) 677.0 651.6 2.8 654.4 Issue of share capital 0.1 1.8 1.9 1.9 Issue of ‘B’ shares capital option 151.9 (151.9) Issue of ‘C’ shares income option 10.9 (10.9) Redemption of ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares (162.8) 162.8 (162.8) (162.8) (162.8) Cancellation of treasury shares (3.7) 3.7 Dividends paid on ‘C’ shares (457.5) (457.5) (457.5) Dividends paid (97.3) (97.3) (0.2) (97.5) Share-based payments (net of tax) 3.2 3.2 3.2 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust (30.7) (30.7) (30.7) Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) As at 31 December 2014 81.7 10.8 174.4 10.7 (0.4) 232.1 509.3 44.8 554.1 Movements in available-for-sale assets, which are principally used to fund defined Effect of the return of cash on shareholders’ equity benefit obligations in the US, are also recorded in other comprehensive income The B and C Share Scheme was accompanied by a share consolidation, which and amounted to a gain of £1m (2013: nil) including the related taxation effect. is a commonly used arrangement to ensure that the Group’s share price after the return of capital is broadly equivalent to the share price prior to the return of Actuarial movements in the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations are also capital, which ensures that targets and prices in the Group’s various share-based recorded in other comprehensive income. These movements are explained in remuneration schemes remain appropriate. The costs of the interim dividend, detail in section 4.5 on page 123. Together with the taxation effect, the gain final dividend and dividend cover have therefore been calculated on the number in the year was £14m (2013: gain of £20m). A deferred taxation asset of £7m of shares held on the record date, on a post-consolidation basis. The return of was reversed in relation to the Group’s restructure of the UK Pension Fund. cash resulted in a reduction in retained earnings of £620m. Items recognised directly in equity The credit for share-based payments, which reverses the amount charged Movements in reserves which represent transactions with the shareholders of the through the income statement in the year, thereby deferring the reduction in Group are recognised directly in equity rather than in the income statement or reserves until such time as the options are exercised, is also recognised here, through other comprehensive income. which together with its tax credit, amounted to £3m (2013: £17m). 0.4m (2013: 0.3m) shares were issued during the year, realising £2m (2013: £2m) The charge to reserves relating to the purchase of shares by the employee trust in the share capital and share premium account. to satisfy share options, net of amounts received from employees representing The 2013 final dividend of 22.5p (2013: 20.7p) per share and the 2014 interim the price on exercise for those options was £31m (2013: £24m), refer to section dividend of 13.6p (2013: 12.8p) per share were paid during the year, which 4.6 for more information. reduced equity by £97m (2013: £106m). 88 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Notes £m £m Assets Intangible assets 3.2 367.7 430.3 Property, plant and equipment 3.3 226.5 222.8 Employee benefit assets 4.5 60.2 0.3 Deferred tax assets 2.4.7 21.3 43.9 Other receivables 6.0 6.3 Other financial assets 4.4.6 0.2 Total non-current assets 681.7 703.8 Inventories 3.1.2 226.3 245.5 Trade and other receivables 3.1.1 368.9 345.3 Other current financial assets 4.4.6 10.5 22.2 Current tax 14.9 3.4 Investments 4.4.6 26.9 20.2 Cash and cash equivalents 4.1 43.8 71.7 Total current assets 691.3 708.3 Assets in disposal group held for sale 289.4 Total assets 1,373.0 1,701.5 Liabilities Bank overdraft 4.1 (23.0) (7.9) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4.2 (2.0) (80.8) Provisions 3.6 (22.7) (20.1) Current tax (42.6) (52.9) Trade and other payables 3.1.3 (333.9) (355.6) Other current financial liabilities 4.4.6 (9.2) (3.1) Total current liabilities (433.4) (520.4) Liabilities associated with disposal group held for sale (77.3) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4.2 (218.8) (208.9) Employee benefit obligations 4.5 (94.9) (158.2) Provisions 3.6 (16.4) (18.8) Deferred tax liabilities 2.4.7 (27.2) (34.3) Other payables (28.2) (36.1) Total non-current liabilities (385.5) (456.3) Total liabilities (818.9) (1,054.0) Net assets 554.1 647.5 Equity Share capital 4.6.1 81.7 85.3 Share premium 10.8 171.8 Other reserves 184.7 43.6 Retained earnings 232.1 300.2 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 509.3 600.9 Non-controlling interests 4.8 44.8 46.6 Total equity 554.1 647.5 Approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Roberto Quarta Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Net debt Foreign exchange and interest rate risk Net debt at the year-end was £200m compared to £199m at the end of the Further information on how the Group manages its exposure to these financial previous year (including net cash of £27m shown as held for sale in 2013). risks is shown in section 4.4 of the financial statements on page 114. The most The net debt is composed of a cash balance of £44m (2013: £100m), a bank important foreign currencies for the Group remain the euro and the US dollar overdraft of £23m (2013: £9m) and interest-bearing loans and borrowings of and the relevant closing rates of exchange for the balance sheet were: £221m (2013: £290m). The year-end net debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.5 times (2013: 0.5 times) based on continuing net debt and EBITDA and was 0.6 times As at 31 December excluding disposal gains and one-off pension gains from the continuing EBITDA. 2014 2013 Following the repayment of US$30m during the year, at the end of 2014 the US loan notes totalled £218m (2013: £225m), with a weighted average maturity Euro 1.29 1.20 of 3.4 years (2013: 4.1 years) and other loans including bank overdrafts totalled US dollar 1.56 1.65 £26m (2013: £74m). Total committed bank loan facilities available to the Group at the year-end were £272m (2013: £275m), of which £nil (2013: £60m) was drawn. Economic value added Economic value added (‘EVA’) is defined as segmental operating profit (before Intangible assets exceptional items) after tax less a capital charge. The capital charge is arrived The value of the Group’s intangible assets decreased to £368m at 31 December at by applying the after-tax weighted average cost of capital to the average 2014 (2013: £430m). Additions to intangible assets were £18m (2013: £8m), invested capital. Invested capital is defined as net assets plus net debt, including £10m of IT related capital expenditure which partly offset the continuing accumulated acquired intangible amortisation previously written off, the IAS19 amortisation charge, foreign exchange movements and disposals. The impairment pension deficit (net of deferred tax) and exceptional items in the balance sheet charge for the year was £43m. (being restructuring provisions and net derivative liabilities). Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) For 2014 the segmental operating profit was £298m (2013: £322m), and after The net book value of the Group’s PPE at 31 December 2014 was £227m applying the effective tax rate on pre-exceptional profits of 22% (2013: 22%) the (2013: £223m). Capital expenditure on PPE amounted to £53m (2013: £42m), net operating profit after tax (‘NOPAT’) was therefore £233m (2013: £251m). with significant capital expenditure on our new sites in Korea and Houston in the Critical Engineering division. Including capitalised intangible assets, total capital The Group’s invested capital at the end of 2014 was £1,268m (2013: £1,271m) expenditure was £71m (2013: £53m) and was 1.9 times (2013: 1.2 times) the comprising £577m (2013: £574m) of adjusted net assets, £491m (2013: depreciation and amortisation charge (excluding acquired intangible amortisation) £471m) of acquired intangible amortisation and goodwill previously written off for the year of £38m (2013: £44m). to reserves and £200m (2013: £226m) net debt. The average invested capital was £1,269m (2013: £1,276m). Applying the 2014 WACC of 9.0% (2013: Working capital 8.0%) to the average invested capital gives a charge of £114m (2013: £102m). The working capital movements during the year are discussed in the narrative The economic value added in 2014 was therefore £118m (2013: £149m) a opposite the consolidated cash flow statement, where the cash movements in reduction of 21%. these balances are shown, including movements on the components of working capital included in assets and liabilities held for sale. Return on invested capital Post tax return on invested capital (‘ROIC’) from continuing operations was Pensions 18.3% compared to 19.7% in 2013. The Group has 64 (2013: 74) defined benefit obligations in existence as at 31 December 2014. The main cause of the movement in the year is the ten schemes Share price and shareholder return divested with the Retail Dispense businesses on 1 January 2014. The Group The share price at 31 December 2014 was £12.63 (2013: £15.25) and the recognises there is a funding and investment risk inherent within defined benefit average for the year was £14.02 (2013: £13.47) representing a decrease of arrangements and seeks to continue its programme of closing overseas defined 17% and an increase of 4% respectively. Based on the 2014 average share benefit plans where they are neither mandatory nor an operational necessity and price, the proposed total dividend of 37.6p represents a yield of 2.7%. providing in their place appropriate defined contribution arrangements. The net liability for defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2014 was £35m (2013: £158m). The UK surplus was £60m as at 31 December 2014 (2013: deficit of £63m) and constituted 84% (2013: 83%) of the total defined benefit liabilities and 90% (2013: 89%) of the total defined benefit assets. The improvement in the UK Funds in 2014 principally arose from additional cash contributions of £70m, actuarial gains of £50m and a one-off reduction in the defined benefit obligation as a result of splitting the scheme. The deficit in the overseas funds as at 31 December 2014 was unchanged at £95m (2013: £95m). Details of movements in actuarial assumptions are discussed in section 4.5. 90 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 £m £m Cash flows from operating activities Operating profit for the year from continuing operations 269.8 270.5 Operating profit for the year from discontinued operations 1.0 73.0 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 57.6 66.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 43.5 1.3 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries (34.2) Gain on special pension events (7.0) Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1.2 0.8 Equity-settled share-based payment expense 4.4 11.2 Decrease in inventories 5.8 1.4 Increase in trade and other receivables (37.7) (10.0) Decrease in trade and other payables (18.9) (17.0) Decrease in provisions and employee benefits (13.7) (1.2) Cash generated from the operations 271.8 396.3 Income taxes paid (67.2) (41.7) Cash generated from the operations after tax 204.6 354.6 Additional pension scheme funding UK and overseas (87.0) (35.3) Net cash from operating activities 117.6 319.3 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 1.1 4.4 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.1 2.3 Purchase of investments (3.6) (0.3) Settlement of transactional derivatives (0.2) 3.8 Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 36.7 (6.0) Acquisitions of controlling interests (7.8) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment and non-acquired intangibles (70.8) (53.4) Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries net of cash 696.3 Net cash from investing activities 660.6 (57.0) Cash flows from financing activities Interest paid (15.4) (20.4) Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) (4.4) Shares acquired for employee share scheme trust (30.7) (24.2) Share buyback programme including acquisition expenses (164.3) Proceeds from the issue of share capital for employee share schemes 1.9 1.6 Net (repayment)/drawdown of borrowings (80.7) 51.0 Dividends paid to equity shareholders and non-controlling interest (97.5) (106.3) Return of cash to equity shareholders (620.3) Net cash from financing activities (847.1) (267.0) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (68.9) (4.7) Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 90.3 96.5 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (0.6) (1.5) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year* 20.8 90.3 * Net of bank overdrafts of £23.0m (2013: £9.6m). Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2013 includes £28.7m of cash and £1.7m of overdrafts in respect of assets and liabilities held for sale. Notes to the cash flow appear in section 4.1. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT Reconciliation of EBITDA to movement in net debt Closing net debt The Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows is shown on the opposite The opening net debt was £199m (2013: £144m). There were exchange page, which reconciles the operating profit for the year to the change in cash rate losses of £12m (2013: £3m gains), principally on US dollar-denominated and overdrafts in the balance sheet as required for financial reporting purposes. borrowings. After the net cash inflow in the year of £41m (2013: £56m outflow) and cash disposed of £29m closing net debt was £200m (2013: £199m). However, because the Group’s debt financing also includes other interestbearing liabilities, it is more insightful to consider the effect of the transactions in the year on the net debt in the balance sheet. Accordingly, a reconciliation 2014 2013 between EBITDA and net debt is shown in the column opposite, upon which Movement in Net Debt £m £m this section provides commentary. EBITDA* from continuing operations 370.9 331.5 Working capital movements (50.8) (16.5) Operating cash flow Capital and development expenditure (70.8) (45.0) The operating cash flow for continuing operations was £205m (2013: £283m). Gain on disposal of subsidiaries (34.2) This represents a conversion rate of total Group segmental operating profit after restructuring costs of £287m into operating cash flow of 71% (2013: 92%). Gain on special pension events (7.0) Other (3.0) 13.0 Net working capital balances increased by £51m (2013: £26m) during the year. Operating cash ow from continuing operations 205.1 283.0 Payables decreased by £19m (2013: £17m) due to the timing of payments to suppliers, receivables increased by £38m (2013: £10m) and inventories EBITDA from discontinued operations 1.0 79.6 decreased by £6m (2013: £1m) as the benefits of lean activities start to Working capital movements (9.1) accrue in the business. Capital and development expenditure (8.4) Cash spent on property, plant and equipment and other non-acquired Other (7.6) (0.2) intangibles in the year was £71m (2013: £53m) which was equivalent to Operating cash ow from 1.9 times (2013: 1.2 times) depreciation and amortisation thereon. discontinued operations (6.6) 61.9 Operating cash ow** 198.5 344.9 Continuing research and development spend including capitalised intangible development costs of £6m (2013: £3m) totalled £52m (2013: £53m). Tax paid (67.2) (41.7) Interest/derivatives 22.2 (18.2) In 2014 the Group paid tax of £67m (2013: £42m) which was 109% Operating cash ow after interest and tax 153.5 285.0 (2013: 64%) of the underlying tax charge for the year. This reflects the timing of estimated tax payments on account. In addition, there was a £37m cash Additional pension scheme funding UK (70.0) (33.6) inflow (2013: outflow £6m) following the settlement of currency derivatives Additional pension scheme funding overseas (17.0) (1.7) hedging the balance sheet. Free cash ow before corporate activity 66.5 249.7 After payment of interest and tax, the free cash flow generated from operations Acquisitions (7.8) was £154m (2013: £285m). Dividends paid to equity shareholders and non-controlling interest (97.5) (106.3) Free cash flow before corporate activity Return of cash (620.3) As noted in the balance sheet commentary, £70m of pension contributions Disposal of subsidiaries 725.3 were made into the UK Pension Funds and a further £17m payment was Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) (4.4) also made in Sweden. Free cash flow before corporate activity was £67m (2013: £250m). Share buyback programme (164.3) Net purchase of own shares (28.8) (22.6) Net cash outflow (excluding debt movements) Net cash ow (excluding debt movements) 40.8 (55.7) Dividends paid to shareholders totalled £98m (2013: £106m) and there was a cash outflow of £29m (2013: £23m) for net share purchases to satisfy employee Opening net debt (199.4) (143.8) share options. Disposal of subsidiaries resulted in cash inflows of £725m which Net cash disposed (29.0) were primarily used to fund the return of cash of £620m and the £70m UK Debt acquired (2.5) pension contribution. Foreign exchange translation (12.4) 2.6 The total net cash inflow (excluding debt movements) was £41m Closing net debt (200.0) (199.4) (2013: outflow of £56m). * Earnings before interest (£24m), tax (£53m), depreciation (£33m), amortisation (£25m) and impairment (£44m). ** Operating cash flow is the cash generated from the operations shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows less cash spent acquiring property, plant and equipment, other non-acquired intangible assets and investments; plus cash received from the sale of property, plant and equipment and the sale of investments. 92 IMI plc SECTION 1 – BASIS OF PREPARATION 1.1 Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amounts and their fair values less costs to sell. Introduction The policies described in this section and in the accompanying sections have IMI plc (the ‘Company’) is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these consolidated nancial statements of the Company comprise the Company and consolidated nancial statements except as discussed below. Refer to section its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The Company nancial 5.4 for the Group’s signi cant accounting policies. statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group. The consolidated nancial statements have been i) New or amended EU Endorsed Accounting Standards adopted prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as by the Group during 2014 adopted by the EU and applicable law (‘IFRSs’). The Company has elected to The following amended standards were adopted in these nancial statements prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP during 2014, none of which had any impact: and these are presented on pages 149 to 152. The nancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015. • IAS36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ • IAS32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ 1.2 • IAS39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ • IFRIC21 ‘Levies’ Restatements and changes in accounting estimates ii) Issued Accounting Standards which are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2014 and are not yet endorsed by the EU Restatement in respect of other payables The IASB and IFRIC have issued a number of new accounting standards and The Group pays taxes in various countries which requires the interpretation amendments with an effective date after the date of these nancial statements. of complex tax laws in these jurisdictions. Accordingly, both the amounts The following new standards in particular are expected to have an impact on expected to be payable and the period in which settlement is likely to be made the Group although the Group is yet to assess the full impact. are reassessed from time to time. During the current year, the Group performed a review of its disclosure of the related tax liabilities, including when payment • IFRS9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (2014) was due, and has determined that amounts previously classi ed within other A nalised version of IFRS9 was issued in July 2014, incorporating requirements payables non-current liabilities of £35m at 31 December 2013 would be more for classi cation and measurement, impairment, general hedge accounting appropriately included in current tax. Comparatives have been reclassi ed to and de-recognition. The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS9. re ect this change in presentation. The standard will be adopted from 1 January 2018. • IFRS15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ (2017) 1.3 IFRS15 provides a single, principles based ve-step model to be applied to all Basis of accounting contracts with customers. Guidance is provided on topics such as the point The nancial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (which is the at which revenue is recognised, accounting for variable consideration, costs of Company’s functional currency), rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, ful lling and obtaining a contract and various related matters. New disclosures except revenues, which are rounded to the nearest whole million. They are about revenue are also introduced. The Group is yet to assess IFRS15’s full prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and impact. The standard will be adopted from 1 January 2017. liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative nancial instruments; availablefor-sale nancial assets; nancial assets and liabilities identi ed as hedged items; and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR What you will nd in this section This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group. On the follow ing pages you w ill nd disclosures explaining the Group’s results for the year, including segmental information, exceptional items, taxation and earnings per share. 2.1 Segmental operating pro t Organic revenue growth and operating pro t are the two short-term key performance indicators or measures that re ect the way the performance of the Group is managed and monitored by the Executive Committee. In this section the key constituents of these two KPI’s, being the Group’s revenues and segmental operating pro ts, are analysed by reference to the performance and activities of the Group’s segments and their operating costs. Organic revenue growth is the growth in segmental revenues on a like-for-like basis excluding the effects of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate movements. 2.1.1 Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated nancial statements for each of the Group’s operating segments. The operating segment reporting format re ects the Group’s management and internal reporting structures and represents the information that was presented to the chief operating decision-maker, being the Executive Committee. Inter-segment revenue is insigni cant. The Group did comprise the following ve operating segments and activities, but as discussed earlier in these nancial statements, the Retail Dispense businesses were disposed of on 1 January 2014 and consequently their comparative results are shown as discontinued operations in the income statement, while their comparative assets and liabilities are presented as held for sale in the balance sheet. Continuing operations Retail Dispense – discontinued operations IMI Critical Engineering Beverage Dispense IMI Critical Engineering provides ow control solutions that enable vital energy Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense and process industries to operate safely, cleanly, reliably and more ef ciently. systems and associated merchandising equipment for brand owners Our products control the ow of steam, gas and liquids in harsh environments and retailers. and are designed to withstand temperature, and pressure extremes, as well Merchandising as intensely abrasive or corrosive cyclical operations. Design, manufacture and supply of permanent point of purchase display IMI Precision Engineering systems for brand owners and retailers. IMI Precision Engineering specialises in the design and manufacture of motion Performance is measured based on segmental operating pro t which is the and uid control technologies wherever precision, speed and reliability are pro t reported by the business, stated before exceptional items and other essential to the processes in which they are involved. restructuring costs (see section 2.2). IMI Hydronic Engineering Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide IMI Hydronic Engineering is a leading provider of technologies that deliver economic hedges against the impact on pro tability of swings in rates and operational and energy ef cient water-based heating and cooling systems for values in accordance with the Group’s policy to minimise the risk of volatility the residential and commercial building sectors. in revenues, costs and margins. Segmental operating pro ts are therefore charged/credited with the impact of these contracts. In accordance with IAS39, these contracts do not meet the technical provisions required for hedge accounting and gains and losses are reversed out of segmental revenue and pro t and are recorded in net nancial income and expense for the purposes of the consolidated income statement. Corporate costs In 2014 and prior years corporate costs have been allocated to each of the divisions to arrive at segmental operating pro t. Whilst our corporate costs do not meet the de nition of an operating segment under IFRS8 ‘Operating Segments’, for 2015 reporting and onwards we will separately disclose corporate costs before arriving at segmental operating pro t so that reporting is consistent with the format that will be used for review by the chief operating decision-maker from 1 January 2015. A table to illustrate how the Group’s 2014 segmental operating pro t would have been presented on the new basis has been included on the next page. 94 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued The following table illustrates how the results for the segments reconcile to the overall results reported in the income statement. Revenue Operating profit Operating margin 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 £m £m £m £m % % Continuing operations IMI Critical Engineering 692 716 119.8 116.8 17.3% 16.3% IMI Precision Engineering 710 723 126.4 140.5 17.8% 19.4% IMI Hydronic Engineering 284 305 51.9 64.3 18.3% 21.1% Total continuing segmental revenue/operating profit/operating margin 1,686 1,744 298.1 321.6 17.7% 18.4% Restructuring costs (non-exceptional) (2.6) Total segmental revenue/operating profit/operating margin after non-exceptional restructuring 1,686 1,744 295.5 321.6 17.5% 18.4% Reversal of net economic hedge contract losses/(gains) 6 (1) 3.9 (5.1) Restructuring costs (exceptional) (8.6) (14.2) Gains on special pension events 7.0 Impairment losses (40.8) Acquired intangible amortisation (19.6) (21.9) Gains on disposal of subsidiaries 34.2 Acquisition and disposal costs (1.8) (9.9) Total revenue/operating profit reported 1,692 1,743 269.8 270.5 Net financial expense (24.1) (21.2) Profit before tax from continuing operations 245.7 249.3 Retail Dispense discontinued operations Beverage Dispense 337 51.2 15.2% Merchandising 174 29.8 17.1% Discontinued segmental revenue/operating profit 511 81.0 15.9% Total Group revenue/operating profit 1,686 2,255 298.1 402.6 17.7% 17.9% As explained on the previous page, the following table illustrates how the Group’s 2014 segmental reporting would be presented on the new basis to be used for our 2015 reporting. Revenue Operating profit Operating margin 2014 2014 2014 First half Second half Total First half Second half Total First half Second half Total £m £m £m £m £m £m % % % Continuing operations IMI Critical Engineering 315 377 692 56.1 75.3 131.4 17.8% 20.0% 19.0% IMI Precision Engineering 355 355 710 69.4 69.1 138.5 19.5% 19.5% 19.5% IMI Hydronic Engineering 139 145 284 25.8 31.0 56.8 18.6% 21.4% 20.0% Corporate Costs (14.1) (14.5) (28.6) Total continuing segmental revenue/ operating profit/ operating margin 809 877 1,686 137.2 160.9 298.1 17.0% 18.3% 17.7% The following table illustrates how revenue and operating pro t have been impacted by movements in foreign exchange, acquisitions and disposals. Revenue Operating profit IMI Critical IMI Precision IMI Hydronic IMI Critical IMI Precision IMI Hydronic Engineering Engineering Engineering Total Engineering Engineering Engineering Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 31 December 2013 716 723 305 1,744 116.8 140.5 64.3 321.6 Organic growth 16 25 (2) 39 10.6 (3.8) (9.1) (2.3) Movement in foreign exchange (37) (40) (19) (96) (6.9) (7.6) (3.3) (17.8) Impact of acquisitions and disposals (3) 2 (1) (0.7) (2.7) (3.4) 31 December 2014 692 710 284 1,686 119.8 126.4 51.9 298.1 Organic growth % 2% 4% -1% 2% 10% -3% -15% -1% Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 The following table illustrates how the segmental assets and liabilities reconcile to the overall total assets and liabilities reported in the balance sheet. Assets Liabilities 2014 2013 2014 2013 £m £m £m £m Continuing operations 1,170.5 1,239.4 321.3 342.7 IMI Critical Engineering 590.2 642.4 183.6 187.3 IMI Precision Engineering 430.6 434.6 91.9 102.9 IMI Hydronic Engineering 149.7 162.4 45.8 52.5 Retail Dispense (Classified as held for sale in 2013) 257.1 61.6 Beverage Dispense 158.4 37.3 Merchandising 98.7 24.3 Total segmental assets/liabilities 1,170.5 1,496.5 321.3 404.3 Corporate items 17.4 32.4 71.4 79.8 Employee benefits 60.2 0.3 94.9 159.0 Investments 26.9 20.3 Net debt items 43.8 99.9 243.8 299.3 Net taxation and others 54.2 52.1 87.5 111.6 Total assets and liabilities in Group balance sheet 1,373.0 1,701.5 818.9 1,054.0 The table above includes the following assets and liabilities classified as held for sale: Assets Liabilities 2014 2013 2014 2013 £m £m £m £m Total segmental assets/liabilities held for sale 257.1 61.6 Employee benefits 0.8 Investments 0.1 Net taxation and others 32.2 14.9 Total assets/liabilities held for sale (section 2.5) 289.4 77.3 The following table includes other information to show how certain elements of cost reported in the income statement are allocated between the segments of the Group. The comparative restructuring costs, depreciation and amortisation for the Retail Dispense businesses were reported in discontinued operations and the capital expenditure for these businesses was included in assets held for sale at 31 December 2013. Restructuring Capital costs* Expenditure Amortisation** Depreciation 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Continuing operations 11.2 14.2 65.3 44.8 24.6 27.1 32.5 33.5 IMI Critical Engineering 5.1 2.1 27.0 14.9 18.8 20.4 10.6 10.8 IMI Precision Engineering 5.8 8.8 25.6 22.9 4.3 5.2 15.3 15.8 IMI Hydronic Engineering 0.3 3.3 12.7 7.0 1.5 1.5 6.6 6.9 Retail Dispense discontinued operations 3.0 8.4 1.3 3.9 Beverage Dispense 1.7 6.7 1.3 3.4 Merchandising 1.3 1.7 0.5 Subtotal 11.2 17.2 65.3 53.2 24.6 28.4 32.5 37.4 Corporate 5.5 0.2 0.5 0.5 Total 11.2 17.2 70.8 53.4 24.6 28.4 33.0 37.9 * Restructuring costs in 2014 include both exceptional and non-exceptional. ** The amortisation figures above include the amortisation of acquired intangibles. £17.2m (2013: £18.9m) is included in respect of Critical Engineering, £2.1m (2013: £2.7m) is included in respect of Precision Engineering and £0.3m (2013: £0.3m) is included in respect of Hydronic Engineering. 96 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued The following table shows a geographical analysis of how the Group’s revenue is derived by destination. Continuing Continuing Segmental Segmental Discontinued Revenue Revenue Operations Total 2014 2013 2013 2013 £m £m £m £m UK 98 104 38 142 Germany 235 247 23 270 Other Western Europe 409 439 30 469 Western Europe 644 686 53 739 USA 300 314 346 660 Canada 18 24 7 31 North America 318 338 353 691 Emerging Markets 544 504 60 564 Rest of World 82 112 7 119 Total segmental revenue 1,686 1,744 511 2,255 Reversal of economic hedge contract losses/(gains) 6 (1) (1) Total 1,692 1,743 511 2,254 Continuing revenue by destination (2014) Continuing revenue by destination (2013) Rest of the UK Rest of the UK World 6% World 6% 5% 6% Emerging Western Europe Emerging Western Europe Markets 38% Markets 40% 32% 29% North America North America 19% 19% The following table shows a geographical analysis of the location of the Group’s property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (‘PPE&IA’) and assets held for sale (‘AHFS’). Total PPE&IA AHFS Total 2014 2013 2013 2013 £m £m £m £m UK 77.0 69.7 41.9 111.6 Germany 130.9 147.0 3.3 150.3 Rest of Europe 208.2 254.1 1.0 255.1 USA 123.6 114.2 89.3 203.5 Asia Pacific 35.4 32.4 3.2 35.6 Rest of World 19.1 35.9 0.5 36.4 Total 594.2 653.3 139.2 792.5 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 2.1.2 The aggregate employment cost charged to operating pro t for the year was: Operating costs by function 2014 2013 £m £m The following table is included to show how much of the operating costs Wages and salaries* 436.7 514.8 deducted from revenue to arrive at the Group’s post-exceptional operating Share based payments 4.4 11.2 pro t, relate to cost of sales, selling and distribution costs, administrative expenses and exceptional items. Social security costs 84.3 88.0 Pension costs** 10.1 16.1 Total 535.5 630.1 2014 2013 £m £m * Wages and salaries include £nil (2013: £1.0m) for contingent consideration Segmental revenue 1,686.0 1,744.0 payments to the vendors of AFP and NPSL. Cost of sales (919.6) (948.8) ** In 2014, pension costs above include the £3.5m gain on settlement of one of Segmental gross pro t 766.4 795.2 our Swedish pension schemes but exclude the gain of £3.5m arising from the Selling and distribution costs (211.5) (220.0) split of the UK Pension Fund as this amount is in respect of former employees. Administrative expenses (256.8) (253.6) Both items were disclosed as exceptional items, see section 2.2.3. Restructuring costs (2.6) The aggregate gains made by directors on the exercise of share options was Operating pro t before exceptional items 295.5 321.6 £10.6m (2013: £13.4m). The remuneration, as de ned in the Companies Act Exceptional items* (25.7) (51.1) 2006 Schedule 5, for the executive directors’ comprises xed and annual Operating pro t 269.8 270.5 variable pay as set out in the table on page 69 of the Remuneration Report. For details of the non-executive directors’ remuneration please refer to page 77 of the Remuneration Report. * The exceptional costs are analysed in detail in section 2.2. 2.1.3.2 Operating lease charges and operating lease commitments 2.1.3 The Group enters into leases for property, plant and equipment assets when Speci c elements of operating costs doing so represents a more cost-effective or lower risk option than purchasing them. This leads to an income statement charge for the year and future commitments for the Group in respect of these leases. Certain speci c items of operating expenses are disclosed to provide the reader of nancial statements with more information regarding these costs. This section provides this analysis. Continuing operating costs include a charge of £14.4m (2013: £14.3m) relating to the lease of properties and a charge of £7.8m (2013: £7.1m) relating to the lease of plant and machinery. The continuing commitments in respect 2.1.3.1 Employee information of non-cancellable operating leases in place are shown in the following table The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: by time period: 2014 2013 2014 2013 IMI Critical Engineering 3,971 3,845 Land and Land and IMI Precision Engineering 5,748 5,760 buildings Others buildings Others IMI Hydronic Engineering 1,878 1,926 £m £m £m £m Corporate 151 176 Within one year 13.4 7.5 14.3 6.7 Total continuing 11,748 11,707 In the second to fifth year 41.3 10.8 41.6 11.1 Retail Dispense 2,759 After five years 35.0 1.5 34.0 2.0 Total Group 11,748 14,466 89.7 19.8 89.9 19.8 The comparative disclosures above exclude commitments for the Retail Dispense businesses, which the Group disposed of on 1 January 2014. 2.1.3.3 Research and development expenditure The continuing cost of research and development expenditure charged directly to the income statement was £45.4m (2013: £50.0m). In addition, amortisation of capitalised intangible development costs amounted to £2.3m (2013: £2.1m) and across the Group a further £6.4m (2013: £3.3m) was capitalised. 2.1.3.4 Exchange gains on operating activities net of hedging arrangements The transactional foreign exchange losses in the Group were £1.8m (2013: gains of £0.6m). 98 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued 2.1.3.5 Audit Fees The Group engages its auditor, EY, to perform assignments in addition to their statutory audit duties where their expertise, experience and knowledge of the Group should enable them to perform these assignments more ef ciently than other similar service providers. The Group’s policy on such assignments is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 53. Fees earned by EY and its associates during the year are set out below: 2014 2013 Continuing Continuing Discontinued Business Business Business Total £m £m £m £m Fees earned by the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2 0.2 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2.5 2.6 0.5 3.1 Tax compliance services 0.3 0.1 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total 3.0 3.0 0.5 3.5 2.2 Exceptional items 2.2.4 Impairment losses and acquired intangible amortisation The Group uses the exceptional items category in the income statement to classify separately items of both income and expense which are suf ciently As reported at the half-year and prior to its disposal in October 2014 (see 3.5), large, volatile or one-off in nature to assist the reader of the nancial statements due to reduced expectations for the future performance of AFP, the Group to gain a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. carried out a review of the recoverable amount of the business. Alongside this, we also reassessed the amounts to be paid based on the business’s performance in the three to ve years following the acquisition. This review The following items are considered to be exceptional in these led to the recognition of an exceptional net impairment loss of £10.8m, nancial statements. partially offset by a deferred tax credit of £3.8m. As reported on page 106, following completion of the Group’s annual 2.2.1 Reversal of net economic hedge impairment review an exceptional impairment loss has been recorded for £26.9m re ecting a deterioration in the current trading base of Remosa. contract losses/gains Additional exceptional impairment losses were recognised of £1.1m on For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic announcement of the proposed closure of IMI Components and £2.0m for hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, together the impairment of legacy IT software as Hydronic Engineering implements with the gains and losses on their settlement, are included in the segmental a new ERP system. revenues and operating pro t of the relevant business segment. The exceptional An analysis by segment of acquired intangible amortisation is included in items at the operating level reverse this treatment. The nancing exceptional section 2.1.1. items re ect the change in value or settlement of these contracts with the nancial institutions with whom they were transacted. The former comprised a reversal of a loss of £3.9m (2013: reversal of gain of £5.1m) and the latter 2.2.5 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries amounted to a loss of £6.7m (2013: gain of £2.7m). Gains on the disposals of Eley and AFP are discussed in section 3.5. 2.2.2 Restructuring costs 2.2.6 Acquisition and disposal costs The restructuring costs treated as exceptional of £8.6m (2013: £14.2m) include £4.2m costs for the closure of IMI Components, announced in August 2014 Acquisition and disposal costs comprise £2.2m of fees associated with the and £4.4m on the completion of the IMI Norgren UK factory move. Other acquisition of Bopp & Reuther which were incurred in the year and a net release restructuring costs of £2.6m have been charged below segmental operating of £0.4m relating to deferred remuneration included within the post-employment pro t and included in the underlying operating pro t as, based on their contracts of the vendors for the AFP and NPSL acquisitions (2013: charge of £1.9m). quantum, they do not meet our de nition of exceptional items. Preparatory costs for the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses in the prior year amounted to £8.0m and principally represented costs payable to the legal and nancial advisors assisting with the origination and completion of the transaction, 2.2.3 Gains on special pension events in addition to the advisory costs borne in 2013 relating to the return of cash. As described on page 125, the UK Fund was split into two newly formed schemes one for pensioners and one for deferred members resulting in a 2.2.7 Taxation one-off settlement gain of £3.5m. In addition, the insurance buy-out of one of our Swedish schemes resulted in a further settlement gain of £3.5m. The tax effects of the above items are included in the exceptional column Both of these gains have been treated as exceptional items. of the income statement. In addition, during the year the Group incurred a one-off charge of £2.8m in respect of a prior year tax audit. In 2013, exceptional tax charges of £14.7m were incurred in association with the pre-sale restructuring of certain of the Retail Dispense businesses and were included in discontinued operations. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 2.3 Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per share (‘EPS’) is the amount of post-tax pro t attributable to each share (excluding those held in the Employee Bene t Trust or by the Company). Basic EPS measures are calculated as the Group pro t for the year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of all outstanding share options priced below the market price, in arriving at the number of shares used in its calculation. Both of these measures are also presented on an adjusted basis, to remove the effects of exceptional items, being items of both income and expense which are suf ciently large, volatile or one-off in nature to assist the reader of the nancial statements to get a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. The note below demonstrates how this calculation has been performed. 2014 2013 Key million million Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share A 274.6 315.5 Dilutive effect of employee share options 2.4 4.0 Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share B 277.0 319.5 Key £m £m Profit for the year 671.3 227.0 Non-controlling interests (2.8) (3.1) Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent C 668.5 223.9 Profits from discontinued operations, net of tax (478.5) (33.4) Continuing profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent D 190.0 190.5 Total exceptional charges included in profit before tax 32.4 48.4 Total exceptional credits included in taxation (8.3) (9.8) Earnings for adjusted EPS E 214.1 229.1 Key 2014 2013 EPS measures Basic EPS C/A 243.4p 71.0p Diluted EPS C/B 241.3p 70.1p Basic continuing EPS D/A 69.2p 60.4p Diluted continuing EPS D/B 68.6p 59.6p Adjusted EPS measures Adjusted basic continuing EPS E/A 78.0p 72.6p Adjusted diluted continuing EPS E/B 77.3p 71.7p The reduction in the weighted average number of shares is primarily as a result of the 7 for 8 share consolidation on 17 February 2014. For more detail refer to section 4.6.1 on page 129. Discontinued earnings per share Basic discontinued earnings per share were 174.2p (2013: 10.6p). Diluted discontinued earnings per share were 172.7p (2013: 10.5p). 100 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued 2.4 2.4.3 Taxation Tax payments During the year, the Group made payments of corporate income tax of £67.2m IMI operates through subsidiary companies all around the world that pay many (2013: £41.7m), principally arising in the USA, UK, Italy, Switzerland, Sweden, different taxes such as corporate income taxes, VAT, payroll withholdings, social Japan and Germany. There is normally an element of volatility in the annual security contributions, customs import and excise duties. This note aggregates payments of corporate income taxes due to the timing of assessments, only those corporate income taxes that are or will be levied on the individual acquisitions and disposals, exceptional items and payments on account pro ts of IMI plc and its subsidiary companies for periods leading up to and in the many countries in which the Group operates. In addition, the Group including the accounting date. The pro ts of each company are subject to makes substantial other tax payments relating to employment, consumption, certain tax adjustments as speci ed by applicable tax laws in each country to procurement and investment to local authorities around the world. arrive at the tax liability that is expected to result on their tax returns. Where these tax adjustments cause future tax differences then deferred taxes may also be recorded. 2.4.4 Recognised in the income statement 2.4.1 This section sets out the current and deferred tax charges, which together comprise the total tax charge in the income statement. Governance and strategy IMI seeks to effectively manage its taxation obligations worldwide in compliance with all applicable tax laws and regulations. Therefore, the Group monitors 2014 2013 the tax contribution by the individual businesses to ensure it meets local tax £m £m requirements, that available global tax incentives and allowances are recognised, Current tax charge and any material tax risks are properly and promptly addressed, as well as Current tax charge 46.3 98.4 appropriately provided and disclosed in the Group’s accounts and tax returns. Adjustments in respect of prior years (3.4) (1.4) IMI aims to build positive working relationships with tax authorities around the 42.9 97.0 world by fully co-operating in an open, constructive and timely manner. As tax Deferred taxation laws are often complex and sometimes ambiguous, tax outcomes are inherently Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12.5 (2.3) uncertain. Accordingly, it is recognised that there will be areas of differing legal interpretation with tax authorities and where this occurs IMI will engage Total income tax charge 55.4 94.7 in proactive discussion to obtain early resolution and seek to remove uncertainty and controversy. The above income tax charge is apportioned between continuing and discontinued operations in the income statement as follows: IMI Tax Policy requires compliance, fairness, value and transparency in the management of the Company’s tax affairs, in accordance with the principles of The IMI Way. This approach has been approved by the Board, fully 2014 2013 communicated to subsidiary businesses and is regularly reviewed to £m £m ensure responsible business practices across the Group are maintained. Current tax charge Continuing operations 39.9 59.6 2.4.2 Discontinued operations 3.0 37.4 UK corporation tax 42.9 97.0 Deferred tax charge/(credit) The average weighted rate of corporation tax in the UK for the 2014 calendar Continuing operations 13.0 (3.9) year was 21.5% (2013: 23.25%). Changes enacted in previous Finance Acts revise the main rate of UK corporation tax to 20% from 1 April 2015. UK Discontinued operations (0.5) 1.6 deferred tax assets and liabilities have therefore been calculated using a rate 12.5 (2.3) of 20% (2013: 20%). The current tax charge for UK companies was £2.0m (2013: £7.1m). During the year the Company made signi cant additional payments to its UK de ned bene t pension schemes, which has had the effect of reducing the Group’s UK corporation tax liability for the year. 2014 2013 £m £m Total income tax charge Continuing operations 52.9 55.7 Discontinued operations 2.5 39.0 55.4 94.7 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 2.4.5 Reconciliation of effective tax rate As IMI’s head of ce and parent company is domiciled in the UK, the Group references its effective tax rate to the UK corporation tax rate, despite only a small proportion of the Group’s business being in the UK. Therefore, the following tax reconciliation applies the UK corporation tax rate for the year to pro t before tax, both before and after exceptional items. This resulting tax charge is reconciled to the actual tax charge for the Group, by taking account of speci c tax adjustments as follows: 2014 2013 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptionals items Total exceptionals items Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Profit before tax from continuing operations 278.1 (32.4) 245.7 297.7 (48.4) 249.3 Profit before tax from discontinued operations (section 2.5) 481.0 481.0 80.4 (8.0) 72.4 Profit before tax 278.1 448.6 726.7 378.1 (56.4) 321.7 Income tax using the Company’s domestic rate of tax of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 59.8 96.4 156.2 87.9 (13.1) 74.8 Effects of: Non-deductible items 2.9 4.7 7.6 4.3 2.1 6.4 Exceptional tax charge on restructuring 17.1 17.1 Non-taxable profit on disposal of businesses (108.0) (108.0) Utilisation of tax losses (1.4) (1.4) Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3 Differing tax rates 0.8 (1.7) (0.9) (0.1) (2.1) (2.2) Over/(under) provided in prior years (3.6) 2.8 (0.8) (1.3) (1.3) Total tax in income statement (section 2.4) 61.2 (5.8) 55.4 90.7 4.0 94.7 Income tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement 61.2 (8.3) 52.9 65.5 (9.8) 55.7 Effective rate of tax: 22.0% 21.5% 22.0% 22.3% Income tax attributable to discontinued operations (section 2.5) 2.5 2.5 25.2 13.8 39.0 Effective rate of tax: 0.5% 31.3% 53.9% Total tax in income statement (section 2.4) 61.2 (5.8) 55.4 90.7 4.0 94.7 Effective rate of tax: 22.0% 7.6% 24.0% 29.4% 2.4.6 Recognised outside of the income statement In addition to amounts charged to the income statement, some current tax and deferred tax is charged/(credited) directly to equity or through other comprehensive income, which can be analysed as follows: 2014 2013 £m £m Deferred tax: On equity-settled transactions 5.2 (0.3) On change in value of effective net investment hedge derivatives 0.7 0.7 On available for sale financial assets 0.4 (0.2) On fair value gain on deal-contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds (3.0) 3.0 On re-measurement gains and on defined benefit plans 2.2 21.3 On pension restructuring (3.0) On foreign currency translation differences (1.0) 2.5 23.5 Current tax: On pension restructuring 9.6 On foreign currency translation differences (1.5) On equity-settled transactions (4.0) (5.3) 6.6 18.2 Of which the following amounts are charged/(credited): to the statement of comprehensive income 5.4 23.8 to the statement of changes in equity 1.2 (5.6) 6.6 18.2 102 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued 2.4.7 Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred taxes record the tax consequences of temporary differences between the accounting and taxation recognition of certain items, as explained below: Assets Liabilities Net 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets 3.7 6.1 (40.8) (59.6) (37.1) (53.5) Inventories 3.5 5.6 (4.1) (5.5) (0.6) 0.1 On revaluation of derivatives 1.9 0.5 (2.4) (2.3) (0.5) (1.8) Employee benefits and provisions 35.2 58.9 (5.4) (4.3) 29.8 54.6 Other tax assets 2.5 4.0 2.5 4.0 46.8 75.1 (52.7) (71.7) (5.9) 3.4 Set off of tax (25.5) (27.4) 25.5 27.4 Total deferred tax assets and liabilities 21.3 47.7 (27.2) (44.3) (5.9) 3.4 Reflected in the balance sheet as follows: Deferred taxation asset/(liability) 21.3 43.9 (27.2) (34.3) (5.9) 9.6 Asset/(liability) held for sale (Section 2.5) 3.8 (10.0) (6.2) Total deferred tax assets and liabilities 21.3 47.7 (27.2) (44.3) (5.9) 3.4 The movement in the net deferred tax balances has been recognised in the financial statements as analysed below: Recognised Recognised in the outside the Balance at income income Balance at 1 Jan 14 statement statement Exchange Acquisitions 31 Dec 14 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (53.5) 7.1 (0.2) 9.5 (37.1) Inventories 0.1 (2.4) (0.2) 1.9 (0.6) On revaluation of derivatives (1.8) (0.9) 2.3 (0.1) (0.5) Employee benefits and provisions 54.6 (15.8) (4.8) (4.2) 29.8 Other tax assets 4.0 (0.5) (0.3) (0.7) 2.5 Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 3.4 (12.5) (2.5) (0.8) 6.5 (5.9) Recognised Recognised in the outside the Balance at income income Balance at 1 Jan 13 statement statement Exchange Acquisitiions 31 Dec 13 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (55.4) 6.3 1.0 (5.4) (53.5) Inventories (0.8) 1.0 (0.1) 0.1 On revaluation of derivatives 0.2 0.8 (2.7) (0.1) (1.8) Employee benefits and provisions 80.5 (5.3) (20.8) 0.2 54.6 Other tax assets 4.4 (0.5) 0.1 4.0 Net deferred tax asset 28.9 2.3 (23.5) 1.1 (5.4) 3.4 All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve. 2.4.8 Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets of £39.8m (2013: £29.0m) have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of £16.1m (2013: £12.4m), interest of £40.4m (2013: £30.6m) and capital losses of £113.3m (2013: £83.2m). The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date. No deferred tax asset has been recognised for these temporary differences due to uncertainty over their offset against future taxable pro ts and therefore their recoverability. It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption. However £81.7m (2013: £78.0m) of those earnings may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed £8.1m (2013: £7.9m), of which only £2.0m (2013: £1.5m) has been provided as the Group is able to control the timing of the dividends. It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 2.5 The major classes of assets and liabilities of the Retail Dispense businesses classi ed as held for sale were as follows: Discontinued operations and non-current assets and liabilities held for sale 2014 2013 £m £m When the Group has assets and liabilities that are likely to be sold rather than Segmental assets being held for continuing use and when accounting standards require, these Intangible assets 114.1 assets and liabilities are included in current assets and liabilities and denoted Property, plant and equipment 25.1 ‘held for sale’ rather than in their usual categories. Inventories 50.8 If they represent a signi cant enough proportion of the Group, they are also Trade and other receivables 67.1 treated as discontinued operations. This means that their trading performance, Total segmental assets 257.1 i.e. their revenues, costs and other items of income and expense, are no longer reported within the headline gures in the income statement and are instead Non-segmental assets reported in a separate line, net of tax, called ‘discontinued operations’. These Current tax 0.2 amounts no longer form part of continuing earnings per share. Comparative Deferred tax 3.8 gures are restated to be shown on the same basis. Cash and cash equivalents 28.2 Investments 0.1 This enables the income statement for the current and prior year to be presented on a consistent basis and to convey a more forward-looking Total assets classified as held for sale 289.4 version of the results for the year. Segmental liabilities Trade and other payables (56.2) On 15 October 2013, the Board approved the sale of the Retail Dispense Provisions (5.4) businesses, which subsequently completed on 1 January 2014. The disposal Total segmental liabilities (61.6) group represented a major class of business as de ned by IFRS5 ‘Non-current Non-segmental liabilities assets held for sale and discontinued operations’ and it was determined that this disposal group met the criteria to be disclosed as a discontinued operation in Current tax (3.2) the income statement. The Retail Dispense businesses were therefore classi ed Deferred tax (10.0) as held for sale following the agreement for the sale of these businesses to the Bank overdraft (1.7) Marmon Group, a Berkshire Hathaway Company. Employee benefit obligations (0.8) Total liabilities associated with assets classified The disposal proceeds were used to return £620.3m of cash to shareholders and as held for sale (77.3) invest £70.0m into the UK Pension Fund. Net assets directly associated with disposal group 212.1 2014 2013 Net cash ows from discontinued operations £m £m Revenue 511 2014 2013 Depreciation (3.9) £m £m Amortisation (1.3) Other operating expenses (424.8) Operating (6.6) 53.8 Segmental operating profit 81.0 Investing 661.6 (8.1) Restructuring costs (3.0) Financing (0.4) Gain on disposal of operations (see Section 3.5) 480.0 Net cash inflow 655.0 45.3 Operating profit 480.0 78.0 Financial income 0.2 The prior year discontinued cash ows relating to nancing activities reported Financial expense (0.4) above exclude any allocation of items relating to the entire Group such as Net finance expense related to pension schemes (0.4) external dividends paid, share buybacks and drawdown of borrowings, Profit before tax 480.0 77.4 which has the net effect of signi cantly reducing the out ows reported for the discontinued activities in comparison to the Group as a whole. Taxation (2.5) (39.0) Profit after tax 477.5 38.4 The disposals of Eley and AFP are not considered to be a major class of business for the Group. As a result they are not classi ed as discontinued The results of the Retail Dispense businesses and the associated pro t on operations under IFRS5. Details of all disposals are included within Section 3.5. disposal are presented above, in addition to which, a pre-tax and post-tax gain of £1.0m (2013: loss of £5.0m) relating to other discontinued operations have also been included in this line in the income statement. 104 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATINGASSETS AND LIABILITIES What you will nd in this section This section show s the assets used to generate the Group’s trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result. Liabilities relating to the Group’s nancing activities are addressed in Section 4. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are show n in Section 2.4.7. On the follow ing pages there are sections covering w orking capital, non-current assets, acquisitions, other payables due after more than one year, provisions and pensions. 3.1 3.1.2 Working capital Inventories Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates 2014 2013 through its trading activities. The Group therefore de nes working capital £m £m as trade and other receivables, inventory and trade and other payables. Raw materials and consumables 87.0 85.3 Working capital is managed very carefully to ensure that the Group can Work in progress 71.9 86.4 meet its trading and nancing obligations within its ordinary operating cycle. Finished goods 67.4 73.8 To provide the Executive Committee with insight into the management 226.3 245.5 of working capital, an important measure monitored is cash conversion. Cash conversion is de ned as the operating cash ow (as de ned in the In 2014 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within segmental commentary on the cash ow statement) divided by the segmental operating cost of sales amounted to £919.9m (2013: £948.8m). In 2014 the write-down pro t which therefore represents the proportion of segmental operating pro t of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £7.9m (2013: £7.1m). generated during the year that has been converted into cash. The reversal of write-downs amounted to £3.9m (2013: £2.1m). Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to on-going assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale values across 3.1.1 all of the Group’s businesses. Trade and other receivables 3.1.3 2014 £m 2013 £m Trade and other payables Current 2014 2013 Trade receivables 318.0 293.5 £m £m Other receivables 34.8 33.0 Current Prepayments and accrued income 16.1 18.8 Trade payables 164.4 187.5 368.9 345.3 Social security and other taxation 26.1 23.1 Receivables are stated after: Other payables 7.5 7.9 Allowance for impairment 7.1 8.1 Accruals and deferred income 135.9 137.1 333.9 355.6 The Group’s exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in section 4.4. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 3.2 Intangible assets The following section shows the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and pro ts. These assets include goodwill, customer relationships, order books, patents, development costs and software development costs. The cost of these assets is the amount that the Group has paid for them or, when they have arisen due to a business combination, the fair value of the speci c intangible assets that could be sold separately or which arise from legal rights. In the case of goodwill, its cost is the amount the Group has paid in acquiring a business over and above the fair value of the individual assets net of the liabilities acquired. The value of the goodwill can arise from a number of sources, but in relation to our more recent acquisitions, it has been represented by post-acquisition synergies and the skills and knowledge of the workforce. The value of the Group’s intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, reduces over the number of years over which the Group expects to use the asset, the useful life, via an annual amortisation charge to the income statement. The Group splits its intangible assets between those arising on acquisitions and those which do not arise on acquisitions, because the amortisation of acquired intangibles meets the de nition of an exceptional item as described in section 2.2. Where there are indications that the value of intangible assets is no longer representative of their value to the Group, for example where there is a customer relationship recognised but revenues from that customer are reducing, or where goodwill was recognised on an acquisition but the performance of the business acquired is below expectations, the Directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their amortised values. If this has happened, a one-off impairment charge is made against pro t. This section explains the overall carrying values of the intangible assets within the Group and the speci c judgements and estimates made by the Directors in arriving at these values. 3.2.1 Analysis of intangible assets Non-Acquired Acquired Other Total Other nonintangibles customer acquired acquired acquired under Goodwill relationships intangibles intangibles intangibles construction* Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost As at 1 January 2013 440.4 136.8 65.2 642.4 65.2 707.6 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.4 (1.1) (0.4) (0.4) Acquisitions 2.9 21.3 24.2 24.2 Transfers to assets held for sale (113.6) (113.6) (23.9) (137.5) Additions 8.0 8.0 Disposals (1.1) (1.1) As at 31 December 2013 330.0 137.2 85.4 552.6 48.2 600.8 Exchange adjustments (9.3) (6.0) (3.3) (18.6) (2.5) (21.1) Additions 7.3 10.9 18.2 Transfers from assets in the course of construction 0.2 (0.2) Disposals (0.6) (0.6) As at 31 December 2014 320.7 131.2 82.1 534.0 52.6 10.7 597.3 Amortisation As at 1 January 2013 59.8 60.8 120.6 42.5 163.1 Exchange adjustments (0.4) (0.1) (0.5) (0.5) Transfers to assets held for sale (20.0) (20.0) Disposals (0.9) (0.9) Impairment 0.4 0.4 Amortisation for year 19.8 2.1 21.9 6.5 28.4 As at 31 December 2013 79.2 62.8 142.0 28.5 170.5 Exchange adjustments (3.2) (2.8) (6.0) (1.8) (7.8) Disposals (0.5) (0.5) Impairment 27.8 12.9 40.7 2.1 42.8 Amortisation for year 16.9 2.7 19.6 5.0 24.6 As at 31 December 2014 27.8 92.9 75.6 196.3 33.3 229.6 Net book value at 31 December 2013 330.0 58.0 22.6 410.6 19.7 430.3 Net book value at 31 December 2014 292.9 38.3 6.5 337.7 19.3 10.7 367.7 * During the year the Group has made significant investment in IT software and new product development, which are currently in construction and not being amortised. These assets have been separately disclosed in the table above. In the prior year these assets were not material and were included within other non-acquired intangibles. 106 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATINGASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.2.2 Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is not subject to an annual amortisation charge, instead, its carrying value is assessed annually by comparison to the future cash ows of the business to which it relates (the cash generating unit, or CGU). These cash ows are discounted to re ect the time value of money and this discount rate, together with the growth rates assumed in the cash ow forecasts, are the key assumptions in this impairment testing process. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘CGUs’) based on the synergies 2014 2013 expected to be derived from the acquisition upon which the goodwill arose. % % The Group has 24 cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated. Where our businesses operate closely with each other we will continue Pre-tax discount rate 9.8 16.4 10.6 14.6 to review whether they should be treated as a single or combined CGU. Long-term growth rate 1.0 3.8 1.6 3.6 Goodwill is tested annually for impairment as part of the overall assessment of Following our impairment review, the goodwill associated with the Remosa assets against their recoverable amounts. The recoverable amount of a CGU is CGU, within the IMI Critical Engineering division was considered to be impaired. the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Value in use is This impairment has arisen due to a deterioration in the current trading base determined using cash ow projections from nancial budgets, forecasts and of Remosa. A value in use calculation was used to determine the £48.4m plans approved by the Board covering a ve-year period. The projected cash recoverable amount of the Remosa CGU, which used a discount rate of ows re ect the latest expectation of demand for products and services. 13.8%. As a result the Group has recognised an exceptional impairment loss of £26.9m. The key assumptions in these calculations are the long-term growth rates and the discount rates applied to forecast cash ows in addition to the achievement As reported at the half-year and prior to disposal in October 2014, the Group of the forecasts themselves. Long-term growth rates are based on long-term carried out a review of the recoverable amount of the AFP business due economic forecasts for growth in the manufacturing sector in the geographical to reduced expectations. This included a reassessment of the business’s regions in which the cash generating unit operates. Pre-tax discount rates performance in the three to ve years following the acquisition. This review speci c to each cash generating unit are calculated by adjusting the Group led to the recognition of an exceptional impairment loss of £10.8m, of which post-tax weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) of 9% for the tax rate £0.9m was against goodwill, partially offset by a deferred tax credit of £3.8m. relevant to the jurisdiction before adding risk premia for the size of the unit, the characteristics of the segment in which it resides, and the geographical No amounts of goodwill that are signi cant in the context of the Group’s regions from which the cash ows are derived. total goodwill balance used the same key assumptions for the purposes of impairment testing in either this year or the last. For the purpose of assessing This exercise resulted in the use of the following ranges of values for the the signi cance in this context, the Group uses a threshold of 20% of the total key assumptions: goodwill balance. The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 which had been deducted from the pro t and loss reserves and incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, amounted to £364m. The cumulative impairment recognised in relation to goodwill is £34m (2013: £6m). The cumulative acquired intangible amortisation is £149.6m (2013: £136.0m). Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 3.3 Property, plant and equipment The following section concerns the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and pro ts. These assets include manufacturing, distribution and of ce sites, as well as equipment used in the manufacture of the Group’s products. The cost of these assets represents the amount initially paid for them. With the exception of the Group’s land and assets under construction which have not yet been brought into use, a depreciation expense is charged to the income statement to re ect the annual wear and tear and the reduction in the value of the asset over time. Depreciation is calculated by reference to the assets’ useful lives, by estimating the number of years over which the Group expects the asset to be used. As we do for our intangible assets (see Section 3.2), if there has been a technological change or decline in business performance the directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their depreciated value. If an asset’s value falls below its depreciated value a one-off impairment charge is made against pro t. Assets in the Land & Plant & course of buildings equipment construction Total Cost As at 1 January 2013 197.2 662.1 12.0 871.3 Exchange adjustments (1.0) (1.7) (0.3) (3.0) Acquisitions 0.2 0.2 0.4 Additions 2.1 20.2 19.7 42.0 Transfers to assets held for sale (22.0) (99.4) (3.2) (124.6) Transfers from assets in the course of construction 0.5 10.4 (10.9) Disposals (3.4) (22.9) (0.1) (26.4) As at 31 December 2013 173.6 568.9 17.2 759.7 Exchange adjustments (8.7) (25.2) (0.6) (34.5) Disposals of subsidiaries (2.9) (6.1) (0.3) (9.3) Additions 1.0 26.9 24.7 52.6 Transfers from assets in the course of construction 1.2 19.8 (21.0) Disposals (0.8) (50.5) (51.3) As at 31 December 2014 163.4 533.8 20.0 717.2 Depreciation As at 1 January 2013 93.1 532.9 626.0 Exchange adjustments (0.2) (0.5) (0.7) Disposals (2.1) (22.6) (24.7) Transfers to assets held for sale (14.4) (86.7) (101.1) Impairment reversal (0.5) (0.5) Depreciation 4.3 33.6 37.9 As at 31 December 2013 80.7 456.2 536.9 Exchange adjustments (4.3) (20.2) (24.5) Disposals of subsidiaries (1.6) (4.7) (6.3) Disposals (0.6) (48.5) (49.1) Impairment charge 0.7 0.7 Depreciation 3.5 29.5 33.0 As at 31 December 2014 77.7 413.0 490.7 NBV at 31 December 2013 92.9 112.7 17.2 222.8 NBV at 31 December 2014 85.7 120.8 20.0 226.5 A net impairment charge of £0.7m relating to continuing operations occurred during the year (2013: £0.5m reversal). Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date relating to the continuing business amounted to £7.6m (2013: £3.3m). Included in the total net book value of plant and equipment is £1.0m (2013: £1.2m) in respect of assets acquired under finance leases. Depreciation for the year on these assets was £0.3m (2013: £0.3m). 108 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATINGASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.4 3.5 Acquisitions Disposals The Group disposed of the Retail Dispense businesses on 1 January 2014, Eley The following section discusses businesses acquired by the Group, which Limited, Accles and Shelvoke Limited and Eley Americas Inc (together ‘Eley’) have given rise to the additions to the acquired intangible assets (including on 4 October 2014 and Mecanique Analytique Inc (trade name ‘AFP’) on 23 goodwill) reported in section 3.2 and which contributed to the Group’s pro ts, October 2014. working capital and other balance sheet asset and liabilities. This section also discusses acquisitions in the prior year and subsequent to the year-end. Retail Dispense The disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses are discussed further in the section 2.5. 3.4.1 Acquisitions subsequent to year-end Eley The Group disposed of Eley on 4 October 2014 for proceeds of £41.6m On 2 January 2015, the Group acquired the entire share capital of B&R Holding resulting in an exceptional pro t on disposal for the Group of £33.1m after GmbH (‘Bopp & Reuther’) for an enterprise value of approximately £118m disposing of £6.5m of net assets and incurring £2.0m of associated disposal (€153m) including the assumption of debt of approximately £15m. costs. As discussed on page 37, the business was considered to be non-core to IMI Critical Engineering’s operations. Bopp & Reuther is a leading manufacturer of safety, control and shut-off valve technology for process industries as well as conventional fossil and nuclear The gain on disposal is presented in the income statement as an exceptional power plants worldwide. Its head of ce and manufacturing plant is located in item but it is not disclosed as a discontinued item because it did not represent Mannheim, Germany and it has service centres in Germany, Austria, Romania a separate major line of business. and China. The senior management and all of its 419 employees transferred upon completion of the acquisition by the Group. AFP Bopp & Reuther joins the IMI Critical Engineering division and is very closely Following the impairment loss of £10.8m recorded in the rst half of the year, aligned with IMI Critical Engineering’s existing large control valve business the results of AFP continued to be disappointing. As a result, on 23 October (‘CCI’). For more information on Bopp & Reuther, see page 23. 2014 the Group disposed of AFP. A payment was agreed of CAD$4.5m (£2.5m) with the previous vendors to compensate them for the waiver of their earnGiven the close proximity of this acquisition to the date of approval of these out arrangement, which resulted in settlement of the estimated contingent nancial statements, the initial acquisition accounting is not yet complete. consideration owed. The resulting gain on disposal was £1.1m. The completion accounts process and conversion of amounts from German GAAP to IFRS has not yet been nalised. Consequently, disclosures regarding The gain on disposal is presented in the income statement as an exceptional the revenue and pro ts of Bopp & Reuther for 2014, the fair value of the assets item but it is not disclosed as a discontinued item because it did not represent and liabilities acquired, the fair value of the consideration and amounts allocated a separate major line of business. to goodwill and intangible assets have not been given and will be included in the Group’s 2015 Interim announcement. 3.4.2 Acquisitions in the previous period Analytical Flow Products (‘AFP’) Following the acquisition of AFP on 21 August 2013, at 31 December 2013 the contingent consideration, identi able net assets and resulting goodwill were considered provisional. At 30 June 2014 these acquisition balances were considered to be nal. As discussed in section 3.5, the Group disposed of AFP on 23 October 2014. Nano-Porous Solutions Limited (‘NPSL’) On 29 October 2013 the Group acquired NPSL for a total purchase consideration of £6.1m. Total identi able net assets were £4.2m, resulting in goodwill of £1.9m. These amounts were deemed provisional at 31 December 2013. As of 30 June 2014, these provisional amounts were nalised with no adjustment to the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 Details of the disposals are as follow s: Retail Dispense Eley AFP 1 January 4 October 23 October Total 2014 2014 2014 2014 £m £m £m £m Sale consideration* 691.2 41.6 3.4 736.2 Net assets disposed (205.0) (6.5) (1.3) (212.8) Intercompany loans settled following completion 3.8 3.8 Costs of disposal (13.9) (2.0) (1.0) (16.9) Foreign exchange gain transferred on disposal of operations 3.9 3.9 Taxation (2.5) (2.5) Gain on disposal 477.5 33.1 1.1 511.7 Segmental assets Intangible assets 114.1 0.1 114.2 Property, plant and equipment 25.1 2.8 0.2 28.1 Inventories 50.8 2.1 0.5 53.4 Trade and other receivables 67.1 1.6 0.4 69.1 Total segmental assets 257.1 6.5 1.2 264.8 Non-segmental assets Current tax 0.2 0.3 0.5 Deferred tax 3.8 3.8 Cash and cash equivalents 28.2 2.3 0.2 30.7 Investments 0.1 0.1 Total assets 289.4 8.8 1.7 299.9 Segmental liabilities Trade and other payables (56.2) (2.0) (0.4) (58.6) Provisions (5.4) (5.4) Total segmental liabilities (61.6) (2.0) (0.4) (64.0) Non-segmental liabilities Current tax (3.2) (0.3) (3.5) Deferred tax (10.0) (10.0) Bank overdraft (1.7) (1.7) Employee benefit obligations (7.9) (7.9) Total liabilities (84.4) (2.3) (0.4) (87.1) Net assets disposed 205.0 6.5 1.3 212.8 Movements between the net assets held for sale at 31 December 2013 for the Retail Dispense businesses and the eventual assets disposed principally represent a minor change in the completion mechanism relating to the disposal of the employee benefit obligations, which increased by £7.1m to £7.9m. This resulted in a gain of £2.8m, which is included within the gain on disposal. * Sale consideration for AFP consists of a cash payment of £2.5m to the vendors offset by the settlement of a £5.9m contingent consideration creditor. £m £m £m £m Net cash flow arising on disposal Cash consideration/(settlement) at spot rate 680.0 41.6 (2.5) 719.1 Settlement of deal-contingent forward** 11.2 11.2 Sale consideration 691.2 41.6 (2.5) 730.3 Cost of deal-contingent forward** (3.0) (3.0) Cash costs of disposal (3.9) (1.5) (0.4) (5.8) Intercompany loans settled following completion 3.8 3.8 Net cash flow arising on disposal of operations 688.1 40.1 (2.9) 725.3 Net cash disposed on disposal of operations (26.5) (2.3) (0.2) (29.0) ** As at 31 December 2013 the deal-contingent forward used to manage the sterling-US dollar exposure on the consideration was valued at £11.2m. The net gain on settlement of this contract was £8.2m which is net of the £3.0m option premium. 110 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATINGASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.6 Provisions A provision is recorded instead of a payable (see Section 3.1.3) when there is less certainty over how much cash will be paid and when the payment might be made. When the Group has an obligation relating to previous events and when it is probable that cash will be paid to settle it, a provision rather than a payable is recorded. In this situation, an estimate is required. The principal estimates made in respect of the Group’s provisions concern the timing and amount of payments required to: • cover the costs of known restructuring projects; • reimburse customers for potential product warranty claims; • ensure that current and former manufacturing sites meet relevant environmental standards; • re ect the estimated outcome of ongoing legal disputes; and • provide against indemnities following the disposal of subsidiaries. Analysis of the Group’s provisions: Environmental, Trade legal & Restructuring warranties indemnity Total £m £m £m £m Current 8.3 8.7 3.1 20.1 Non-current 7.2 11.6 18.8 At 1 January 2014 8.3 15.9 14.7 38.9 Arising during the year 12.6 0.7 8.8 22.1 Utilised during the year (15.1) (1.7) (5.1) (21.9) Exchange adjustment (0.2) (0.6) 0.8 At 31 December 2014 5.6 14.3 19.2 39.1 Current 4.4 6.9 11.4 22.7 Non-current 1.2 7.4 7.8 16.4 5.6 14.3 19.2 39.1 The restructuring provision reflects residual amounts committed but not spent in relation to a number of specific projects. Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically one to two years, with the expected amounts falling due in less than and greater than one year separately analysed above. Amounts set aside represent the directors’ best estimate regarding the amount of the settlements and the timing of resolution with customers. Environmental and legal provisions recognise the Group’s obligation to remediate contaminated land at a number of current and former sites, together with current legal cases for which a settlement is considered probable. Because of the long-term nature of the liabilities, the timescales are uncertain and the provisions represent the directors’ best estimates of these costs. Provisions for indemnities included in the agreed terms of disposals of subsidiaries are provided for based on the expected probability of indemnified losses that may be suffered by the purchaser. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS What you will nd in this section This section outlines how the Group manages its capital and related nancing costs. The directors determine the appropriate capital structure for the Group, speci cally, how much cash is raised from shareholders (equity) and how much is borrow ed from nancial institutions (debt) in order to nance the Group’s activities both now and in the future. The directors consider the Group’s capital structure and dividend policy at least tw ice a year ahead of announcing results in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business plan. The Board is mindful that equity capital cannot be easily exed and in particular raising new equity w ould normally be likely only in the context of an acquisition. Debt can be issued and repurchased more easily but frequent adjustments lead to high transaction costs and debt holders are under no obligation to accept repurchase offers. 4.1 Net debt Net cash/(debt) is the Group’s key measure used to evaluate total outstanding debt, net of the current cash resources. Some of the Group’s borrowings (and cash) is held in foreign currencies. Movements in foreign exchange rates affect the sterling value of the net debt. a) Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents in current assets 43.8 71.7 Bank overdraft in current liabilities (23.0) (7.9) Cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale 28.2 Bank overdraft in liabilities held for sale (1.7) Cash and cash equivalents 20.8 90.3 b) Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings 2014 2013 £m £m Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents excluding foreign exchange and net cash disposed/debt acquired (39.9) (4.7) Net repayment/(drawdown) of borrowings 80.7 (51.0) Increase in net debt before acquisitions and foreign exchange 40.8 (55.7) Net cash disposed (29.0) Debt acquired (2.5) Currency translation differences (12.4) 2.6 Movement in net borrowings in the year (0.6) (55.6) Net borrowings at the start of the year (199.4) (143.8) Net borrowings at the end of the year (200.0) (199.4) 112 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued c) Analysis of net debt Borrowings and finance leases due Cash and cash within after more Total equivalents one year than one year net debt £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2014 90.3 (80.8) (208.9) (199.4) Net cash and cash equivalents disposed of (29.0) (29.0) Cash flow excluding settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet and net cash disposed of (76.6) 78.7 2.0 4.1 Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 36.7 36.7 Currency translation differences (0.6) 0.1 (11.9) (12.4) At 31 December 2014 20.8 (2.0) (218.8) (200.0) 4.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Group borrows money from nancial institutions in the form of bonds and other nancial instruments. These generally have xed interest rates and are for a xed term or are drawn from committed borrowing facilities that generally have oating interest rates. This section provides information about the terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see section 4.4.3. 2014 2013 £m £m Current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 1.3 80.0 Current portion of finance lease liabilities 0.7 0.8 2.0 80.8 Non-current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 218.2 208.1 Finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.8 218.8 208.9 The reduction in unsecured notes and other loans is primarily due to the settlement of £79.0m of loans in the year. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113 4.3 Net nancing costs This section details the income generated on the Group’s nancial assets and the expense incurred on borrowings and other nancial assets and liabilities. The nance income and expense taken into account in arriving at adjusted earnings only includes the income and expense arising on cash balances, borrowings and retirement bene t obligations. The nance income or expense on mark-to-market movements on interest and foreign exchange derivatives and other nancing costs are excluded from adjusted earnings per share. Recognised in the income statement 2014 2013 Financial Financial Interest instruments Total Interest instruments Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Interest income on bank deposits 1.1 1.1 4.2 4.2 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 0.8 0.8 1.3 1.3 Other economic hedges current year trading 7.1 7.1 12.9 12.9 future year transactions 7.2 7.2 6.0 6.0 Financial income 1.1 15.1 16.2 4.2 20.2 24.4 Interest expense on interest-bearing loans and borrowings (15.4) (15.4) (20.2) (20.2) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges (0.8) (0.8) (1.3) (1.3) Other economic hedges current year trading (7.2) (7.2) (9.4) (9.4) future year transactions (13.8) (13.8) (6.8) (6.8) Financial expense (15.4) (21.8) (37.2) (20.2) (17.5) (37.7) Net finance charge relating to defined benefit pension schemes (3.1) (3.1) (7.9) (7.9) Net financial (expense)/income (17.4) (6.7) (24.1) (23.9) 2.7 (21.2) Included in nancial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for management reporting purposes are included in segmental revenue and operating pro t (see section 2.1). For statutory purposes these are required to be shown within net nancial income and expense above. Gains or losses for future year transactions are in respect of nancial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash ows. Recognised in other comprehensive income 2014 2013 £m £m Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges 3.6 3.4 Foreign currency translation differences (14.7) (16.9) Settlement of/change in fair value of deal contingent forward (14.2) 14.2 Change in fair value of other financial assets 1.1 (0.5) Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income 3.4 (2.5) Total items recognised in other comprehensive income (net of tax) (20.8) (2.3) Recognised in: Hedging reserve (8.3) 13.9 Translation reserve (13.2) (15.9) Retained earnings 0.7 (0.3) (20.8) (2.3) 114 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued 4.4 4.4.2.2 Financial risk management Exposure to credit risk in respect of nancial assets The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of nancial risks: interest rate; foreign exchange and; base metal price movements in addition to funding and The maximum exposure to credit risk for nancial assets is represented by their liquidity risks. The nancial instruments used to manage the underlying risks carrying value and is analysed below: themselves introduce exposure to credit risk, market risk and, liquidity risk. This section presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of Carrying amount these risks; the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring 2014 2013 and managing risks, including each of the above risks; and the Group’s £m £m management of capital. Cash and cash equivalents* 43.8 99.9 Investments 26.9 20.2 4.4.1 Interest rate swaps 0.8 Forward exchange contracts 10.5 21.6 Overview 81.2 142.5 The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. As described in the Corporate * Including £28.2m classi ed as held for sale in 2013. Governance Report on page 47 the Executive Committee monitors risk and internal controls and the Audit Committee monitors nancial risk, while the other Board committees also play a part in contributing to the oversight of risk. 4.4.2.3 The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with Exposure to credit risk in respect the Group’s nancial risk management policies and procedures and reviews of trade receivables the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the nancial risks faced by the Group. The Group Assurance Department undertakes both regular and ad-hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, Carrying amount the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. 2014 2013 £m £m The following sections discuss the management of speci c nancial risk factors in detail, including credit risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, UK 23.7 18.8 commodity risk and liquidity risk. Germany 23.5 26.2 Rest of Europe 89.3 105.2 4.4.2 USA 51.2 44.5 Asia Pacific 90.9 65.5 Credit risk Rest of World 39.4 33.3 318.0 293.5 Credit risk is the risk of nancial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a nancial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, In 2013 there were a further £60.5m trade receivables, predominantly relating and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers, cash to US customers, included in assets held for sale. and cash equivalents held by the Group’s banks and other nancial assets. At the end of 2014 these totalled £423.2m (2013: £496.5m). The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by segment was as follows: 4.4.2.1 Carrying amount Managing credit risk arising 2014 2013 from customers £m £m IMI Critical Engineering 170.7 151.2 The Group’s exposure to credit risk is in uenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer IMI Precision Engineering 111.2 103.0 base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers IMI Hydronic Engineering 36.1 39.3 operate, have less of an in uence on credit risk. Our largest single customer 318.0 293.5 accounted for 3% of our 2014 revenues (2013: 4%). Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk. The Group’s In 2013 there were a further £60.5m trade receivables, relating to the contract approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at Retail Dispense businesses, included in assets held for sale. executive director level at which time the risk pro le of the contract, including potential credit and foreign exchange risks, is reviewed. Credit risk is minimised through due diligence on potential customers, appropriate credit limits, cash ow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 115 4.4.2.4 4.4.3.1 Impairment provisions for trade receivables Foreign exchange risk The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: The Group publishes consolidated accounts in Sterling but conducts much of its global business in other currencies. As a result it is subject to the risks 2014 2013 associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs (‘transactional risk’), translation of foreign pro ts (‘pro t translation risk’) Gross Impairment Gross Impairment and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign operations £m £m £m £m (‘asset translation risk’). Not past due 273.1 (0.5) 251.4 (0.2) Past due 1-30 days 26.8 (0.6) 24.5 (0.1) a) Management of transactional risk Past due 31-90 days 13.8 (0.6) 12.6 (0.1) Past due over 90 days 11.4 (5.4) 13.1 (7.7) The Group’s wide geographical spread both in terms of cost base and customer locations helps to reduce the impact on pro tability of swings in exchange Total 325.1 (7.1) 301.6 (8.1) rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures. It is the Group’s policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and The net movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade purchases by economically hedging or netting currency exposures at the time receivables during the year was as follows: of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using currency instruments (primarily forward exchange contracts). A proportion of forecast exposures are hedged depending on the level of con dence and hedging 2014 2013 is topped up following regular reviews. On this basis up to 50% of the Group’s £m £m annual exposures are likely to be hedged at any point in time and the Group’s Net balance at 1 January 8.1 11.4 net transactional exposure to different currencies varies from time to time. Utilised during the year (1.5) (1.5) As discussed in the commentary on the consolidated statement of Charged to the income statement 2.3 2.4 comprehensive income the Group used a deal-contingent forward to hedge Released (1.1) (3.3) the foreign exchange exposure on the US denominated proceeds for the Transfer to assets held for sale (1.1) Retail Dispense businesses resulting in a net pre-tax gain of £8.2m. Exchange (0.7) 0.2 Net balance at 31 December 7.1 8.1 b) Management of pro t translation risk The Group is exposed to the translation of pro ts denominated in foreign currencies into the Sterling-based income statement. The interest cost related The net impairment charge recognised of £1.2m (2013: gain of £0.9m) relates to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this to the movement in the Group’s assessment of the risk of non-recovery from exposure. Short-term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited a range of customers across all of its businesses. protection against Sterling strength on an opportunistic basis. The translation of US Dollar and Euro-based pro ts represent the most signi cant translation exposures for the Group. 4.4.2.5 Managing credit risk arising c) Management of asset translation risk from counterparties The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way of external currency loans and forward currency contracts. The intention is to A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services, manage the Group’s exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution. Financial derivatives from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates. are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign to these instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is the counterparties. At the end of 2014 credit exposure including cash recognised directly in reserves. Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately deposited did not exceed £7.5m with any single institution (2013: £13.0m). in the income statement. 4.4.3 Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices will affect the Group’s income and cash ows or the value of its nancial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters. Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters into derivatives in the ordinary course of business and also manages nancial liabilities in order to mitigate market risks. All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board and are undertaken only if they relate to underlying exposures. 116 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued d) Currency pro le of assets and liabilities Net assets/ excluding Exchange cash & debt Cash* Debt contracts Net assets Net assets 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m Sterling 83 (23) 366 426 474 US Dollar 138 (218) 106 26 11 Euro 287 6 (1) (302) (10) 10 Other 246 38 (2) (170) 112 153 Total 754 21 (221) 554 648 * Cash is stated net of overdrafts. Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are financial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets. 4.4.3.2 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to a number of global interest rates through assets and liabilities denominated in jurisdictions to which these rates are applied, most notably US, Eurozone and UK rates. The Group is exposed to these because market movements in these rates will increase or decrease the interest charge recognised in the Group income statement. a) Management of interest rate risk The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at xed interest rates and reviewing the balance of the oating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise globally the effect on the Group’s income statement is manageable. Interest rates are managed using xed and oating rate debt and nancial instruments including interest rate swaps. Floating rate liabilities comprise short-term debt which bears interest at short-term bank rates and the liability side of exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter-bank rates. The Group has raised US Dollar debt through the issuance of medium to long-term xed rate loan notes. In 1999 US$30m of this xed rate exposure was hedged back to oating rates through the use of interest rate swaps covering loan notes which matured and were repaid in 2014. The interest component of the fair value of this portion of the loan notes was designated as a hedged item and was revalued accordingly in the accounts. The fair value of these interest rate swaps, which were settled in the year, was included in the 2013 balance sheet at £0.8m with a corresponding uplift in the value of the debt (the hedged item). All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are treated as oating rate investments. Non-interest bearing nancial assets and liabilities including short-term trade receivables and payables have been excluded from the following analysis. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117 b) Interest rate risk pro le The following table shows how much of our cash, interest-bearing liabilities and exchange contracts attract both xed and oating rate interest charges, and how this is analysed between currencies: Weighted Debt and Cash and Weighted average exchange exchange Floating Fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate fixed for which 2014 2014 2014 2014 interest rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m % years Sterling 343 343 US Dollar (218) 106 106 (218) 6.8 3.4 Euro (303) 6 (297) Other (172) 38 (134) Total (693) 493 18 (218) Weighted Debt and Cash and Weighted average exchange exchange Floating Fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate fixed for which 2013 2013 2013 2013 interest rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m % years Sterling (60) 515 455 US Dollar (243) 3 (34) (206) 6.8 4.4 Euro (327) 16 (311) Other (164) 61 (103) Total (794) 595 7 (206) 4.4.3.3 Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a core group of banks, and a series Commodity risk of US loan note issues. The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions The commodity inputs to the Group’s production process typically consist and corporate activity, including acquisitions, organic growth plans and share of base metals. Commodity risk for the Group is the risk that the prices of buybacks. In addition, we undertake rigorous and regular covenant compliance these inputs could rise, thus reducing Group pro ts. reviews to ensure that we remain fully within those covenant limits. At the end of 2014 the Group had undrawn committed facilities totalling £272m (2013: a) Overview £215m) and was holding cash and cash equivalents of £44m (2013: £100m). There are no signi cant seasonal funding requirements or capital intensive Including the discontinued businesses, the Group’s operating companies investment areas for the Group. purchase metal and metal components with an annual base metal material value of approximately £31m (2013: £35m). 4.4.4 b) Management of commodity risk Capital management The Group manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging copper, zinc and aluminium using a combination of nancial contracts and local supply agreements designed to minimise the volatility of short-term margins. Capital management concerns the decision as to how the Group’s activities are nanced and speci cally, how much of the Group capital is provided by borrowings (or debt) and how much of it is nanced with equity raised from 4.4.3.4 the issue of share capital. Liquidity risk The Board’s policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital base and the strength to sustain the future development of the business Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its nancial including acquisitions. This section discusses how the Board views the obligations as they fall due. capital base of the Group and the impact on leverage, distribution policy and investment policy. a) Management of liquidity risk The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when they fall due, with suf cient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions. This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis. 118 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued 4.4.4.1 4.4.4.4 Overview Dividend policy and share buybacks The Board monitors the geographical spread of its shareholders and As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company. The underlying reserves are available in IMI plc in order to meet proposed shareholder capital base of the Group includes total equity and reserves and net debt. dividends, the purchase of shares for employee share scheme incentives Employee bene t obligations net of deferred tax form part of the extended and any on-market share buyback programme. capital base. Management of this element of the capital base is discussed The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend further in section 4.5 of the nancial statements. Undrawn committed funding should be covered by at least two times underlying earnings. In the event that facilities are maintained as described in section 4.4.5.1 to provide additional the Board cannot identify suf cient investment opportunities through capital capital for growth (including acquisitions and organic investments) and liquidity expenditure, organic growth initiatives and acquisitions, the return of funds to requirements as discussed above. shareholders through share buybacks or special dividends will be considered. It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly bought in the market 4.4.4.2 by an employee bene t trust in order to hedge the exposure under certain Capital base management incentive plans. Details of these purchases are shown in section 4.6.2 to the nancial statements. 2014 2013 4.4.4.5 £m £m Weighted average cost of capital Total equity 554 648 Gross debt including overdrafts 244 299 The Group currently uses a post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital Gross cash (44) (100) (‘WACC’) of 9% (2013: 8%) as a benchmark for investment returns. This is Capital base 754 847 reviewed regularly in the light of changes in market rates. The Board tracks Employee benefits and deferred tax assets 13 131 the Group’s return on invested capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently Extended capital base 767 978 delivers returns in excess of the WACC. Consistent with this objective the growth in Economic Value Added (EVA) was used as a metric in the Group’s Undrawn funding facilities 272 215 long-term incentive programmes. Available capital base 1,039 1,193 Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base 4.4.5 of the assets being funded as described in the asset translation risk section. Debt and credit facilities 4.4.4.3 This section provides details regarding the speci c borrowings that the Debt or equity Group has in place to satisfy the debt elements of the capital management policy discussed above. The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the Company is considered regularly by the Board in the light of market conditions, business forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. Funding covenants currently limit net debt to a maximum of three times EBITDA. The 4.4.5.1 net debt to EBITDA ratio at the end of 2014 was 0.5 times (2013: 0.5 times) Undrawn committed facilities and was 0.6 times excluding disposal gains and one-off pension gains from the continuing EBITDA. Through the life of our ve year plan, the Board would The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities. The facilities consider appropriate acquisitions which might take net debt to EBITDA to available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had an internal limit of up to two and half times EBITDA on acquisition, with an been met were as follows: expectation to fall to no more than two times EBITDA within two years of the acquisition, as long as prevailing market conditions and the outlook for our 2014 2013 existing businesses supported such a move. It is expected that at these levels £m £m our debt would still be perceived as investment grade. The potential bene ts to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and the cost Expiring within one year 48 140 and availability of funding. The Board will consider raising additional equity in Expiring between one and two years 24 50 the event that it is required to support the capital base of the Group. Expiring after more than two years 200 25 272 215 The weighted average life of these facilities is 2.9 years (2013: 1.1 years). Annual Report and Accounts 2014 119 4.4.5.2 Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of cash and cash equivalents and outstanding loans were as follows: Effective Carrying Contractual 0 to 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to 5 years interest rate value cash flows <1 year <2 years <3 years <4 years <5 years and over % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 2014 Cash and cash equivalents Floating 43.8 43.8 43.8 US loan notes 2022 7.17% (9.6) (15.1) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (11.6) US loan notes 2016 7.26% (48.1) (53.6) (3.5) (50.1) US loan notes 2018 5.98% (96.2) (114.4) (5.8) (5.8) (5.8) (97.0) US loan notes 2019 7.61% (64.1) (86.5) (4.9) (4.9) (4.9) (4.9) (66.9) Finance leases Various (1.3) (1.3) (0.6) (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) Bank overdrafts Floating (23.0) (23.0) (23.0) Unsecured bank loans Floating (1.5) (1.8) (1.4) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) Total (200.0) (251.9) 3.9 (62.1) (11.7) (102.8) (67.6) (11.6) 2013 Cash and cash equivalents Floating 99.9 99.9 99.9 US loan notes 2022 7.17% (9.1) (14.9) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (11.4) US loan notes 2014 Floating (19.0) (19.1) (19.1) US loan notes 2016 7.26% (45.5) (54.0) (3.3) (3.3) (47.4) US loan notes 2018 5.98% (90.9) (113.4) (5.4) (5.4) (5.4) (5.4) (91.8) US loan notes 2019 7.61% (60.6) (86.3) (4.6) (4.6) (4.6) (4.6) (4.6) (63.3) Finance leases Various (1.6) (1.9) (0.8) (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) Bank overdrafts Floating (9.6) (9.6) (9.6) Unsecured bank loans Floating (63.0) (63.2) (61.0) (1.0) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) Total (199.4) (262.5) (4.6) (15.6) (58.7) (11.2) (97.4) (75.0) Contractual cash flows include undiscounted committed interest cash flows and, where the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined by reference to the conditions existing at the reporting date. 120 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued 4.4.6 Fair value Financial instruments included in financial statements are measured at either fair value or amortised cost. The measurement of this fair value can in some cases be subjective, and can depend on the inputs used in the calculations. The Group generally calculates its own fair values using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using the respective and relevant market data for the instrument being valued. 4.4.6.1 Total nancial assets and liabilities The table below sets out the Group’s accounting classi cation of each class of nancial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013. Under IAS39, all derivative nancial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classi ed as derivatives at fair value through the income statement. The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties. All transactions in derivative nancial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities. Other Available for At Total Designated derivatives sale assets amortised carrying Fair value at fair value at fair value at fair value cost value if different £m £m £m £m £m £m 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 43.8 Bank overdrafts (23.0) (23.0) Borrowings due within one year (2.0) (2.0) Borrowings due after one year (218.8) (218.8) (248.7) Trade and other payables* (361.4) (361.4) Trade receivables 318.0 318.0 Investments 19.0 7.9 26.9 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets** 8.1 2.4 10.5 Derivative liabilities*** (9.2) (9.2) Total 8.1 (6.8) 62.8 (279.3) (215.2) 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 99.9 99.9 Bank overdrafts (9.6) (9.6) Borrowings due within one year (19.0) (61.8) (80.8) (80.4) Borrowings due after one year (208.9) (208.9) (238.3) Trade and other payables* (353.6) (353.6) Trade receivables 293.6 293.6 Investments 20.2 20.2 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets** 16.5 5.9 22.4 Derivative liabilities*** (3.1) (3.1) Total (2.5) 2.8 120.1 (340.3) (219.9) * Trade and other payables exclude corporation tax and other tax liabilities and include liabilities of £15.4m (2013: £24.2m) falling due after more than one year; £10.2m in 1-2 years, £2.0m in 2-3 years, £2.0m in 3-4 years, £1.2m in 4-5 years (2013: £10.1m in 1-2 years, £2.8m in 2-3 years, £2.0m in 3-4 years, £9.3m in 4-5 years) ** Includes £nil (2013: £0.2m) falling due after more than one year. *** Derivative liabilities include liabilities of £0.4m (2013: £0.3m) falling due after more than one year: £nil in 1-2 years and £nil in 2-3 years (2013: £nil in 1-2 yrs and £0.3m in 2-3 yrs). Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives. The increase in value of net investment hedge derivatives in the year of £3.6m (2013: £3.4m) is shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. There are no other financial liabilities included within payables disclosed above and finance leases disclosed in section 4.4.5.2. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 121 The following table shows the Group’s nancial instruments held at fair value. Quoted prices in active markets Significant for identical other assets and observable Unobservable liabilities inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total £m £m £m £m As at 31 December 2014 Financial assets measured at fair value Equity instruments* 19.0 19.0 Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 43.8 Foreign currency forward contracts 10.5 10.5 62.8 10.5 73.3 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Foreign currency forward contracts (9.2) (9.2) (9.2) (9.2) As at 31 December 2013 Financial assets measured at fair value Equity instruments* 17.8 17.8 Cash and cash equivalents 99.9 99.9 Interest rate swaps 0.8 0.8 Foreign currency forward contracts 21.6 21.6 117.7 22.4 140.1 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Debt instruments (19.0) (19.0) Foreign currency forward contracts (3.1) (3.1) Deferred consideration (9.6) (9.6) (22.1) (9.6) (31.7) * Equity instruments relate to investments in funds in order to satisfy long-term benefit arrangements. Valuation techniques for level 2 inputs Derivative assets and liabilities of £10.5m and £9.2m respectively are valued by level 2 techniques. The valuations are derived from discounted contractual cash flows using observable, and directly relevant, market interest rates and foreign exchange rates from market data providers. Valuation techniques for level 3 inputs Deferred consideration, being contingent consideration of £nil (2013: £8.7m) and amounts payable to employees of £nil (2013: £0.9m) were previously measured at fair value using significant unobservable (level 3) inputs. Deferred consideration reconciliation £m As at 1 January 2014 9.6 Arising in the year (9.3) Exchange adjustment (0.3) As at 31 December 2014 122 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued 4.4.6.2 Valuation methodology Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, trade payables and trade receivables are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the short-term nature of the instruments. Long-term and short-term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is the intention that they will not be repaid prior to maturity, where this option exists. The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads. Long-term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value the relevant hedged cash ows. Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal hedges, are valued using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities. Investments are primarily in publically-quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas pension liabilities. The fair value is based on the price quotation at the reporting date. 4.4.6.3 Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of nancial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a signi cant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly. Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a signi cant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. 4.4.7 Market risk sensitivity analysis on nancial instruments This section shows how the fair value of nancial instruments presented can change for a given change in market rates. The values shown in the table below are estimates of the impact on nancial instruments only. The underlying risks that these nancial instruments have been acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction. 4.4.7.1 Overview In estimating the sensitivity of the nancial instruments all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on pro t before tax and equity. The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and further developments in global nancial markets. As such this table should not be considered as a projection of likely future gains and losses in these nancial instruments. 4.4.7.2 Financial derivatives sensitivity table The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the speci ed changes occur only to the nancial derivatives and do not re ect the opposite movement from the impact of the speci c change on the underlying business that they are designed to hedge. 1% 1% 10% 10% decrease increase 10% 10% decrease in increase in in interest in interest weakening strengthening base metal base metal rates rates in Sterling in Sterling costs costs £m £m £m £m £m £m At 31 December 2014 Impact on income statement (loss)/gain (1.4) 1.4 (0.1) 0.1 Impact on equity (loss)/gain (52.1) 52.1 At 31 December 2013 Impact on income statement (loss)/gain (2.8) 2.8 (0.1) 0.1 Impact on equity (loss)/gain (63.5) 63.5 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 123 4.5 Retirement bene ts IMI offers a number of de ned bene t arrangements to employees that will not be paid until more than a year after the period in which they are earned, for example pension bene ts, jubilee plans, post-employment and other long-term employee bene t arrangements. There is a signi cant degree of estimation involved in predicting the ultimate bene ts payable under these de ned bene t arrangements in respect of which the Group holds net liabilities on its balance sheet. This section explains how the value of these bene ts payable and any assets funding the arrangements are accounted for in the Group nancial statements and gives details of the key assumptions upon which the estimations are based. Assets and liabilities for de ned contribution arrangements are minimal as they relate solely to short-term timing differences between the period during which bene ts have accrued and when contributions are paid into schemes. De ned Contribution (‘DC’): Arrangements where the employer pays xed contributions into an external fund on behalf of the employee (who is responsible for making the investment decision and therefore assumes the risks and rewards of fund performance). Contributions to these arrangements are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred. De ned Bene t: A de ned bene t pension plan is a pension arrangement in which the employer promises a speci ed annual bene t on retirement that is predetermined by a formula based on the employee’s earnings history, tenure of service and age, rather than depending directly on individual investment returns. In some cases, this bene t is paid as a lump sum on leaving the Company or while in the service of the Company rather than as a pension. The Group underwrites one or more risks in meeting these obligations and therefore any net liability or surplus in these arrangements in shown on the Group balance sheet. 4.5.1 Summary information Net pension deficit: £34.7m (2013: £157.9m) The net pension deficit or ‘net liability for defined benefit obligations’ (‘DBO’) at 31 December 2014 was £34.7m (2013: £157.9m). A further £nil (2013: £0.8m) was recognised in liabilities held for sale. The assets and liabilities of the schemes are aggregated, recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and shown within non-current liabilities or in non-current assets if a scheme is in surplus and it is recoverable. Number of Defined Benefit arrangements: 64 (2013: 74) Ten schemes were divested on 1 January 2014, as part of the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses. A further scheme in Sweden had its liabilities bought-out on 1 September 2014 via an insurance contract. In the UK, the IMI Pension Fund commenced winding-up procedures and has been replaced by two new Schemes (‘the UK Funds’). The Group provides pension benefits through a mixture of funded and unfunded defined benefit and defined contribution (‘DC’) arrangements, although its strategy is to move away from defined benefit arrangements towards defined contribution arrangements wherever possible to minimise the liability of the Group. Assessments of the obligations of the defined benefit plans are carried out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit credit method. An historical split of the types of defined benefit schemes in operation is as follows: Defined * Final Salary scheme: The pension available to a member in a final salary % benefit % arrangement will be a proportion of the member’s salary at or around their Qty Assets of total obligation of total retirement date. This proportion will be determined by the member’s length of Type of scheme No. £m assets £m liabilities pensionable service, their accrual rate and any particular circumstances under 2014 which the member retires (for example early ill-health retirement). Final salary* 23 1,369.8 93% (1,362.7) 90% ** Cash Balance: A cash balance scheme is a form of defined benefit pension Cash balance** 12 101.0 7% (127.4) 9% under which the member has the right to a defined lump sum on retirement Jubilee*** 11 0% (2.0) 0% rather than a defined amount of pension receivable. For example a cash Other 18 5.0 0% (18.3) 1% balance plan may have minimum or guaranteed rates of return on pension Total 64 1,475.8 100% (1,510.4) 100% contributions. The amount of pension to which that lump sum may be converted Asset ceiling (0.1) is determined by the annuity rates prevailing at the time of conversion. Revised assets 1,475.7 *** Jubilee: Jubilee plans provide for cash award payments which are based on 2013 completed lengths of service. These payments are often made on cessation of service with the Company, subject to a minimum period of service. Final salary* 28 1,189.1 92% (1,321.2) 91% Cash balance** 13 99.4 8% (112.1) 8% Jubilee*** 13 0% (2.1) 0% Other 20 5.1 0% (16.6) 1% Total 74 1,293.6 100% (1,452.0) 100% Asset Ceiling (0.3) Revised assets 1,293.3 124 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued The table below reconciles the movement in the UK and overseas de ned Unfunded: Plans that are not funded are those that are not backed by bene t obligation between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014. segregated assets. These include some pension plans but also a number of other long-term arrangements for the bene t of our employees, with bene ts payable while they are employed by the Group but more than 12 months after the related UK Overseas Total service is rendered. Actuarial gains and losses on other long-term arrangements £m £m £m are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Net Defined Benefit Obligation at 1 January 2014 (63.1) (94.8) (157.9) Regional split of de ned bene t obligation Movement recognised in: The following charts show the geographical pro le of the total de ned Income statement 3.4 (4.3) (0.9) bene t obligations: Other comprehensive income 49.8 (29.4) 20.4 UK pension assets & liabilities Cash flow statement 70.0 26.6 96.6 Disposals 7.1 7.1 UK Surplus £60.1m Net Defined Benefit Surplus/ £1,400.0 (Obligation) at 31 December 2014 60.1 (94.8) (34.7) £1,200.0 £1,000.0 Asset pro le of schemes £800.0 UK £1,323.8m UK £1,263.7m The following table sets out the pro le of the overall assets of the schemes £600.0 (to give an indication of their risk pro le), the comparative amounts of the funded £400.0 and unfunded DBO and a split of the balance sheet impact between schemes with a net pension surplus and a net pension de cit. As noted later in this section, £200.0 further de-risking was undertaken in January 2014, following the payment into the Assets Liabilities UK Funds from the proceeds of the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses. Overseas pension assets & liabilities 2014 2013 £m £m Other Deficit £0.7m Other £0.7m Quoted equities 22.9 32.0 £250.0 Quoted bonds 703.1 558.4 Eurozone Deficit £46.4m Eurozone £51.4m Total quoted assets 726.0 590.4 £200.0 Eurozone £5.0m Private equities 85.0 69.8 USA Deficit £24.5m Insurance policies 287.9 286.6 USA £70.5m IMI Scottish Limited Partnership 15.1 13.0 £150.0 USA £46.0m Hedge Funds 185.4 169.0 Property 34.8 40.1 Sw itzerland Deficit £23.2m Private finance initiatives 76.8 71.7 £100.0 Other* 64.8 53.0 Switzerland £124.2m Total unquoted assets 749.8 703.2 Switzerland £101.0m £50.0 Fair value of assets 1,475.8 1,293.6 Restriction due to asset ceiling (0.1) (0.3) DBOs for funded schemes (1,445.0) (1,373.0) Assets Liabilities DBOs for unfunded schemes (65.4) (79.0) Included in liabilities held for sale 0.8 The USA de cit above excludes £18.9m of assets relating to unquali ed plans Net liability for DBOs (34.7) (157.9) classi ed as investments (see section 4.4.6). Schemes in net pension deficit (94.9) (158.2) Schemes in net pension surplus 60.2 0.3 Average Duration by geography The following table shows the weighted average number of years (or duration) over which pension bene ts are expected to be paid: * ‘Other’ assets include the market value of interest, in ation, equity and currency swaps relating to UK scheme assets and liabilities. Location Years The overseas assets of £152.1m (2013: £147.1m) comprise equities of UK 15.7 £22.9m (2013: £32.0m), bonds of £88.7m (2013: £70.3m), property of Switzerland 14.4 £9.5m (2013: £9.4m) and other assets of £31.0m (2013: £35.4m). USA 14.1 Funded: The majority of the Group de ned bene t and other post-employment Eurozone 15.4 bene t arrangements are funded, which means they are linked to speci c plan assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 125 4.5.2 The following chart shows the projected liability cash ows by year of the Group’s UK de ned bene t liabilities: The IMI Pension Funds (now ‘The UK Funds’) Split by membership type The United Kingdom constitutes 84% of Group de ned bene t liabilities and 90% of Group de ned bene t assets. Historically ‘the UK Funds’ offered nal £ millions Current preserved employed members salary bene ts to UK employees until it closed to new entrants in 2005 and to future accrual on 31 December 2010. The UK Trustee Board and the Company 70 Current deferred pensioners Current pensioners have continued a gradual programme of de-risking activities. Recently this 60 Current dependents has included: 50 In 2013 the Group increased its in ation hedging and reduced the investment 40 in higher risk assets to reduce the funding volatility. In 2014 £70m cash was 30 injected following the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses, £53.2m of which was paid in January 2014 which enabled the Trustee to remove 20 all exposure to public equities: 10 In December 2014, winding-up procedures commenced, with over 2,500 1 APR 2014 MAY 2014 JUN 2014 JUL 2014 AUG 2014 SEP 2014 OCT 2014 NOV 2014 DEC 2014 JAN 2015 FEB 2015 MAR 2015 31 MAR 2015 members accepting either trivial commutation payments or winding-up lump sums as full settlement of their Fund pension. The total of the lump sum payments was £25.2m and led to a £3.5m settlement gain. Those members Year who were not eligible or did not take up the offer of a single cash lump sum transferred to one of two new Funds (IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund or the IMI 2014 Deferred Fund). Both Funds will continue to be run by the same Trustee Board 4.5.3 as the IMI Pension Fund with assets held via the IMI Common Investment Fund. Speci c effect on nancial statements The UK Trustee has determined an investment objective to achieve, over time, a position of self-suf ciency, de ned using a discount rate of gilts + 0.25%. The corresponding entries for increases and decreases in the net pension The last full actuarial valuation was undertaken as at 31 March 2014 and the six de cit reported in the balance sheet are re ected as follows: year recovery plan agreed with the Company as a result of the 2011 Valuation • Cash ow statement: When the Group makes cash contributions to was re-rati ed, with payments of £16.8m being paid each July until 2016. fund the de cit they are re ected in the cash ow statement and reduce Contributions paid or to be paid into the Group’s UK Funds since 2011, the net de cit. are shown in the table below, split between the six year recovery plan and additional contributions. • Other comprehensive income (‘OCI’): Movements in the overall net pension de cit are recognised through OCI when they relate to changes in actuarial assumptions or the difference (‘experience gain or loss’) between Recovery Additional previous assumptions and actual results. plan amounts Total • Income statement: Movements in the overall net pension de cit are £m £m £m recognised in the income statement when they relate to changes in the 2011 16.8 36.1 52.9 overall pension promise, due to either an additional period of service (known 2012 16.8 16.8 as ‘current service cost’), changes to pension terms in the scheme rules (known as ‘past service cost’), or closure of all or part of a scheme (known as 2013 16.8 16.8 33.6 settlements and curtailments). The interest charge/income on the net de cit/ 2014 16.8 53.2 70.0 surplus position is also recognised in the income statement. 2015 16.8 16.8 The following chart shows how the movements in the total net de ned bene t 2016 16.8 16.8 obligation in the balance sheet in the year were re ected in the nancial Total 100.8 106.1 206.9 statements. As discussed earlier in this report, the comparative assets and liabilities associated with the Retail Dispense businesses were separately The two new UK Funds will have actuarial valuations as at 31 March 2015 reported as assets or liabilities held for sale. which, on completion, will lead to two new recovery plans (if required). As at 31 December 2014 the two UK Funds were, in total, 64% (2013: 54%) hedged Net IAS19 Pension De cit £m against interest rates and 70% (2013: 48%) hedged against UK in ation on the Trustee’s self-suf ciency basis. As at 01.1.14 157.9 Service Cost & Interest 0.9 Contributions 96.6 OCI Assumptions 130.0 OCI Asset Returns 146.6 Other movements 10.9 As at 31.12.14 34.7 0.0 50.0 100.0 150.0 200.0 250.0 126 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued 4.5.3.1 Cash ow impacts 2014 2013 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Amounts from employees 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.2 Amounts from employers 70.0 4.4 74.4 33.6 7.6 41.2 Benefits and settlements paid directly by the Group 22.2 22.2 7.7 7.7 Total 70.0 29.7 99.7 33.6 18.5 52.1 The expected contributions to de ned bene t arrangements in 2015 are as follows: UK Overseas Total £m £m £m Employer contributions 16.8 4.2 21.0 Employee contributions 2.8 2.8 Total 16.8 7.0 23.8 4.5.3.2 Other comprehensive income Movements in pension assets and liabilities that arise during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions, or because actual experience is different from the underlying actuarial assumptions, are recognised in equity via other comprehensive income. These movements are analysed below: 2014 2013 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post UK employment employment Total UK employment employment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Change in discount rate (170.1) (41.3) (211.4) 39.4 13.7 53.1 Change in inflation 64.5 0.5 65.0 (75.9) (75.9) Change in other assumptions 6.4 (3.1) 3.3 0.4 0.4 Actuarial experience 12.1 1.0 13.1 5.6 3.0 8.6 Asset experience 136.9 9.5 146.4 49.1 6.2 55.3 Actuarial gains/(losses) in the year 49.8 (33.4) 16.4 18.2 23.3 41.5 Change in the asset ceiling 0.2 0.2 (0.1) (0.1) Exchange gains/(losses) 3.9 (0.1) 3.8 (1.6) 0.1 (1.5) Gains/(losses) recognised through equity 49.8 (29.3) (0.1) 20.4 18.2 21.6 0.1 39.9 IMI takes advice from independent actuaries regarding the appropriateness of the assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligations. These assumptions include the discount rate applied to the assets and liabilities, the life expectancy of the members, their expected salary and pension increases and inflation. The assumptions used for this purpose in these financial statements are summarised below: Weighted Averages 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Inflation RPI 3.1 n/a 3.5 n/a 3.0 n/a Inflation CPI 2.1 1.7 2.5 1.8 2.0 1.9 Discount Rate 3.6 2.1 4.5 3.3 4.3 2.8 Expected salary increases n/a 2.2 n/a 2.3 n/a 2.8 Rate of pension increases 3.1 0.3 3.5 0.5 3.0 0.5 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 127 2014 Years 2013 Years 2012 Years Life expectancy at age 65 (UK Funds only) Current male pensioners 21.2 21.0 20.9 Current female pensioners 24.0 23.9 23.8 Future male pensioners 23.0 22.8 22.7 Future female pensioners 26.0 25.9 25.8 The mortality assumptions used for the UK Funds above reflect its experience, together with an allowance for improvements over time. The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2014, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 reflect the results of this review. The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates from 2014 is in line with the CMI’s (a research body funded by the actuarial profession to collect and analyse UK mortality rates) 2013 Core Projection model, with a long-term improvement rate of 1.5% pa. The table below left illustrates how the UK Funds’ net pension surplus would decrease (excluding the impact of inflation rate and interest rate hedging), as at 31 December 2014, in the event of the following reasonable changes in the key assumptions above. The table below right shows how the net pension deficit for IMI’s non-UK plans would increase, in the event of the following reasonable changes in the key assumptions above. UK Overseas Discount rate 0.1% pa lower £17m Discount rate 0.1% pa lower £4m Inflation-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher* £11m Salary increases 0.1% higher £1m Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65 £41m Increase of one year in life expectancy at age 65 £7m 10% fall in non-bond-like assets** £42m In each case all other assumptions are unchanged. * This is an in-payment pension increase sensitivity ** Fund assets excluding cash, bonds, insurance policies and the Funds’ interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership. 4.5.3.3 Income statement In accordance with IAS19, pension costs recorded through the income statement primarily represent the increase in the defined benefit obligation based on employee service during the year and the interest on the net liability or surplus for defined benefit obligations in respect of employee service in previous years. The table below shows the total cost reported in the income statement in respect of pension obligations and therefore also includes the cost of DC schemes. 2014 2013 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post UK employment employment Total UK employment employment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Current service cost 4.1 0.8 4.9 5.4 0.7 6.1 Past service (credit)/cost (0.1) (0.1) 0.7 0.7 Settlement/curtailment (3.5) (4.5) (8.0) (0.1) (0.1) Recognition of losses 1.0 1.0 0.3 0.3 DC employer contributions 3.4 5.4 8.8 3.5 5.6 9.1 Pension expense operating costs (0.1) 4.9 1.8 6.6 3.5 11.6 1.0 16.1 Interest on DBO 52.5 6.7 0.5 59.7 49.0 6.9 0.5 56.4 Interest on Assets (52.4) (4.2) (56.6) (44.7) (3.4) (48.1) Interest expense financing costs 0.1 2.5 0.5 3.1 4.3 3.5 0.5 8.3 The settlement gain in relation to the UK Funds arose following the splitting of the UK fund into two newly formed schemes. The £4.5m overseas settlement gain relates to the buy-out of our Swedish scheme, a further £1.0m of payroll taxes were incurred as a result of this, resulting in a net settlement gain of £3.5m. Both settlement gains have been treated as exceptional items in the income statement, see section 2.2.3. The income statement charges and credits in the above table are presented on a total Group basis (i.e. including both continuing and discontinued operations). The charges relating to discontinued operations contributed £nil (2013: £0.4m) to the current service cost, £nil (2013: £2.1m) to the DC employer contributions and £nil (2013: £0.4m) to the net finance expense. 128 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued 4.5.4 Overall reconciliation of changes in the net liability for de ned bene t obligations 2014 2013 Net defined Net defined Defined benefit Defined benefit benefit Asset asset/ benefit Asset asset/ obligation Assets Ceiling (liability) obligation Assets Ceiling (liability) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Brought forward at start of year (1,450.2) 1,292.6 (0.3) (157.9) (1,442.5) 1,210.5 (0.2) (232.2) Current service cost (4.9) (4.9) (6.1) (6.1) Past service cost plan amendments 0.1 0.1 (0.7) (0.7) Past service cost curtailment 0.1 0.1 Settlement 33.0 (25.0) 8.0 Net Interest (Cost)/Income on Net Defined Benefit (Liability)/Asset (59.7) 56.6 (3.1) (56.4) 48.1 (8.3) Immediate Recognition of losses Other Long-Term Benefits (1.0) (1.0) (0.3) (0.3) Total (charged)/credited to income statement (32.5) 31.6 (0.9) (63.4) 48.1 (15.3) Actuarial Gain due to Experience 13.1 13.1 8.6 8.6 Actuarial Loss due to Financial Assumption Changes (146.4) (146.4) (22.8) (22.8) Actuarial Gain due to Demographic Assumption Changes 3.3 3.3 0.4 0.4 Return on Plan Assets* Greater than Discount Rate 146.4 146.4 55.3 55.3 Change in Effect of Asset Ceiling 0.2 0.2 (0.1) (0.1) Total remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income (130.0) 146.4 0.2 16.6 (13.8) 55.3 (0.1) 41.4 Employer contributions 74.4 74.4 41.2 41.2 Employee contributions (3.1) 3.1 (3.2) 3.2 Benefits and settlements paid directly by the Company 22.2 22.2 7.7 7.7 Benefits paid from plan assets 65.0 (65.0) 65.4 (65.4) Net cash outflow/(inflow) 84.1 12.5 96.6 69.9 (21.0) 48.9 Disposals 11.0 (3.9) 7.1 Transfer to liabilities held for sale 1.8 (1.0) 0.8 Changes in exchange rates 7.2 (3.4) 3.8 (2.2) 0.7 (1.5) Total other movements 18.2 (7.3) 10.9 (0.4) (0.3) (0.7) Carried forward at end of year (1,510.4) 1,475.8 (0.1) (34.7) (1,450.2) 1,292.6 (0.3) (157.9) * Net of asset management costs Annual Report and Accounts 2014 129 4.6 Share capital The ordinary shareholders of the Group own the Company. This section shows how the total number of ordinary shares in issue has changed during the year and how many of these ordinary shares are held as Treasury shares or in Employee Bene t Trusts, to be used to satisfy share options and awards to Directors and employees of the Company, as part of employee share ownership programmes. This section also sets out the dividends paid or proposed to be paid to shareholders. 4.6.1 Number and value of shares 2014 2013 Ordinary Ordinary Deferred Shares Shares ‘B’ Shares ‘C’ Shares shares 25p per 28 4/7p per 200p per 0.001p per 0.001p per share share share share share Ordinary shares of 25p each Number (m) Number (m) Number (m) Number (m) Number (m) Value (£m) Number (m) Value (£m) In issue at the start of the year 341.0 85.3 340.7 85.3 Share cancellations (14.6) (3.7) Share consolidation (326.4) 285.6 Issued to satisfy employee share schemes 0.4 0.1 0.3 Issue of ‘B’ shares Immediate Capital Option 75.9 151.9 Issue of ‘B’ shares Deferred Capital Option 5.5 10.9 Redemption of ‘B’ shares at nominal value (81.4) (162.8) Issue of ‘C’ shares Income Option 228.7 Dividend paid on ‘C’ shares (228.7) 228.7 Cancellation of deferred shares (228.7) In issue at the end of the year 286.0 81.7 341.0 85.3 Share consolidation The B and C Share Scheme was accompanied by a share consolidation, which is a commonly used arrangement to ensure that the Group’s share price after the return of capital is broadly equivalent to the share price prior to the return of capital, which ensures that targets and prices in the Group’s various share-based remuneration schemes remain appropriate. On 16 January 2014 the Company cancelled 14,598,706 ordinary shares that had been held as treasury shares. On 13 February 2014 the Company cancelled a further 5 ordinary shares that had been held as treasury shares. On 17 February 2014, the Group effected the return of cash to shareholders. 75,928,619 ‘B’ shares of 200 pence each were issued under the Immediate Capital Option; 5,475,074 ‘B’ shares of 200 pence each were issued under the Deferred Capital Option; and 228,744,051 ‘C’ shares of 0.001 pence each were issued under the Income Option. ‘B’ shares for both the Immediate Capital Option and Deferred Capital Option were redeemed at their nominal value of 200 pence per share on 17 February 2014 and 6 April 2014, respectively. A dividend of 200 pence per share was declared on the ‘C’ shares, which was paid on 4 March 2014. Following declaration of the dividend the ‘C’ shares became deferred shares. On 17 February 2014, a share consolidation was performed whereby the existing ordinary shares of 25 pence per share were replaced by new ordinary shares of 28 4/7 pence per share at a ratio of 7 new shares for 8 existing shares. On 26 February 2014 the deferred shares were cancelled. 130 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued 4.6.2 Share movements in the year Movements in shares due to share issues and purchases during the year were as follows: Number of ordinary shares of 25p / 28 4/7p each (million) Employee Benefit Trust Treasury Other Total 25 pence shares in issue at 31 December 2013 1.8 30.9 308.3 341.0 Shares allocated under employee share schemes (0.3) 0.3 Share cancellations (14.6) (14.6) Share consolidation (0.2) (2.0) (38.6) (40.8) 28 4/7 pence shares in issue at 17 February 2014 1.3 14.3 270.0 285.6 New issues to satisfy employee share scheme awards 0.4 0.4 Market purchases 2.9 (2.9) Shares allocated under employee share schemes (2.5) 2.5 At 31 December 2014 1.7 14.3 270.0 286.0 During the year 0.4m (2013: 0.3m) shares were issued under employee share schemes realising £1.8m (2013: £1.6m). Employee Benefit Trust The Employee Benefit Trust made market purchases of a total of 2.9m (2013: 2.4m) shares with an aggregate market value of £40.0m (2013: £31.3m) and a nominal value of £0.8m (2013: £0.6m). Associated transaction costs amounted to £nil (2013: £0.1m). Share options exercised in 2014 were settled using the shares in the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust. In 2014 2.8m (2013: 2.8m) shares were issued for cash of £9.3m (2013: £7.2m). Of the 16.0m (2013: 32.7m) shares held within retained earnings, 1.7m (2013: 1.8m) shares with an aggregate market value of £21.5m (2013: £27.5m) are held in trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting. Treasury shares In 2013, on-market purchases of 11.8m shares were conducted relating to the share buyback programme. The aggregate market value of these shares at the dates of purchase was £163.2m. Dealing costs relating to these purchases were £1.1m. There were no such transactions in 2014. 4.6.3 Dividends After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. 2014 2013 £m £m Current year final dividend 24.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2013: 22.5p) 64.8 60.7 The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year: 2014 2013 £m £m Prior year final dividend paid 22.5p per qualifying ordinary share (2013: 20.7p) 60.6 66.0 Current year interim dividend paid 13.6p per qualifying ordinary share (2013: 12.8p) 36.7 40.2 97.3 106.2 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 131 4.7 Share options The Group uses share option schemes to reward and retain its employees. The estimated cost of awarding these share options is charged to the income statement over the period that the Group bene ts from the employees’ services. This cost is then added back to retained earnings, to re ect that there is no overall impact on the Group’s balance sheet until the shares are issued to the employees when the options are exercised. The individual share option schemes, the number of options outstanding under each of them, the estimated cost of these options recognised in the income statement and the assumptions used in arriving at this estimated cost are described in this section. 4.7.1 Outstanding share options At 31 December 2014, options to purchase ordinary shares had been granted to, but not yet exercised by, participants of IMI share option schemes as follows: Date of Number grant of shares Price Dates from which exercisable IMI Sharesave Scheme 09.04.09 20,517 201.36p 01.08.14 to 31.01.15 06.04.10 41,262 510.92p 01.08.15 06.04.11 26,556 849.02p 01.08.14 or 01.08.16 10.04.12 105,603 890.01p 01.08.15 or 01.08.17 05.04.13 70,012 1196.50p 01.08.16 or 01.08.18 06.05.14 97,909 1384.02p 01.08.17 or 01.08.19 361,859 Global Employee Share Purchase Plans 19.12.11 32,706 849.02p 01.08.14 or 01.08.16 10.04.12 1,807 868.05p 01.08.14 to 31.01.15 10.04.12 5,884 890.01p 01.08.15 or 01.08.17 20.08.13 30,712 1287.60p 01.08.15 26.08.14 30,784 1225.00p 01.08.16 101,893 Executive Share Option Scheme 23.03.05 7,960 420.50p 23.03.08 to 23.03.15 7,960 IMI Share Option Plan 03.09.09 17,898 440.93p 03.09.12 to 03.09.19 22.03.10 28,500 645.00p 22.03.13 to 22.03.20 23.03.11 282,000 971.83p 23.03.14 to 23.03.21 04.05.12 740,265 980.67p 04.05.15 to 04.05.22 27.11.12 17,950 1007.33p 27.11.15 to 27.11.22 23.03.13 518,806 1322.70p 23.03.16 to 23.03.23 10.05.13 10,000 1294.33p 10.05.16 to 10.05.23 22.10.13 74,000 1518.33p 22.10.16 to 22.10.23 11.03.14 540,983 1467.00p 11.03.17 to 11.03.24 2,230,402 IMI 2005 Long-term Incentive Plan (also known as Performance Share Plan) 03.04.06 4,908 03.04.09 to 03.04.16 05.04.07 2,794 29.03.10 to 05.04.17 04.04.08 8,500 04.04.11 to 04.04.18 10.03.09 124,380 10.03.12 to 10.03.19 10.03.11 32,214 10.03.14 to 10.03.21 04.05.12 185,826 04.05.15 to 04.05.22 12.03.13 109,233 12.03.16 to 12.03.23 22.10.13 98,792 22.10.16 to 22.10.23 11.03.14 162,850 11.03.17 to 11.03.24 729,497 Share Matching Plan 22.03.10 142,081 22.03.13 to 22.03.20 28.03.11 193,365 28.03.14 to 28.03.21 10.05.12 895,039 10.05.15 to 10.05.22 12.03.13 503,396 12.03.16 to 12.03.23 01.04.14 392,954 01.04.17 to 01.04.24 2,126,835 Total 5,558,446 132 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued 4.7.2 4.7.3 Schemes under which options Other share-based payment arrangements are outstanding The Group also operates the following employee share plans: The options in the above table relate to the following share-based Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’) payment schemes: The delivery of the executive directors’ and selected senior managers’ annual IMI Sharesave Scheme (‘SAYE’) bonuses is governed by the individual’s achievement of a Share Ownership Guideline (‘SOG’). The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary This scheme has now expired but options are still outstanding under it. This as IMI shares and, if achieved, any bonus is paid in cash. The SMP has been scheme was open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including the operated on the basis that if the SOG is not achieved a proportion of any annual executive directors, and allowed the grant of options to all participants at a bonus will be mandatorily deferred for three years and delivered in IMI shares discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject under the SMP. This mandated investment (if the SOG is not achieved) has to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to been matched from 75% up to a maximum of 200%. These matching shares use their own money to purchase IMI shares. SAYE options may be exercised can be earned if performance conditions over the three-year vesting period within six months of the date they rst become exercisable. Shareholder are met. approval will be sought for a new sharesave scheme to enable IMI to continue to grant sharesave options on the same basis. Qualifying employees have also been able to elect voluntarily to defer all or part of the remainder of their bonus, and invest personal funds, up to a maximum Global Employee Share Purchase Plans (‘GESPP’) of 100% of their annual bonus opportunity. Additional shares, in the form These plans were introduced in 2011 for the USA and Germany. The German of a matching award, may be earned (to a maximum of 200% of the ‘gross and USA GESPP’s offer the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a xed price at equivalent’ number of shares invested in the SMP) if performance conditions a future date. The German GESPP mirrors the UK Sharesave scheme, with a over the three-year vesting period are met. minimum/maximum savings limit per month and contract duration of three to The performance measures for SMP matching awards differ depending upon ve years. The USA GESPP also operates in a similar way to the UK Sharesave the year in which the award was granted. No further awards will be granted Scheme, with a minimum/maximum savings limit per month, but the contract under the SMP. Refer to the Remuneration Report for information on the duration is for a xed period of two years and different taxation conditions proposed new schemes. apply for the exercise period. Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) Executive Share Option Scheme The SIP is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including This scheme is no longer operated, but options are still outstanding under it. the executive directors. This scheme covers two separate opportunities for Executive share options were last awarded to executive directors in 2004 and employees to share in IMI’s success as follows: to certain other employees in 2005. All outstanding options granted under this scheme were granted subject to stretching tiered performance conditions • Partnership shares – allow employees to invest up to the statutory maximum related to growth in EPS above in ation over a xed period of three nancial from pre-tax pay, which is used to buy IMI shares. years. Executive share options expire if not exercised or lapsed within the • Free shares – allows a grant of shares to employees each year, up to the periods shown in section 4.7.1. statutory maximum. IMI 2005 Long-term Incentive Plan (also known as Performance Shares acquired or awarded under the SIP are not subject to performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)) conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to build up their shareholdings with the Company. The PSP is open to the Company’s executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group. Awards are granted subject to stretching performance targets the nature of which differ depending upon the year in which the award was granted. IMI Share Option Plan (‘SOP’) Awards have been granted to the Company’s executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group. Awards have been granted subject to stretching performance targets the nature of which differs depending upon the year in which the award was granted. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 133 4.7.4 Options granted during the year Number of Weighted Number of options average Normal options Normal granted option exercisable granted exercisable (thousand) price date (thousand) date IMI Sharesave Scheme Performance Share Plan 2013 103 1196p 2016-2018 2013 227 2016 2014 103 1384p 2017-2019 2014 163 2017 Global Employee Share Share Matching Purchase Plans Plan 2013 46 1288p 2015 2013 694 2016 2014 33 1225p 2016 2014 396 2017 IMI Share Option Plan 2013 961 1345p 2016 2014 594 1467p 2017 4.7.5 Movement in outstanding options in the year Options granted at Options not granted at £nil cost (1) £nil cost (2) Total Number of Weighted Number of Number of options Range of average options options (thousand) option prices option price (thousand) (thousand) Outstanding at 1 January 2013 5,130 201-1007p 771p 5,011 10,141 Exercisable at 1 January 2013 182 201-890p 404p 2,254 2,436 Granted 1,109 1196-1518p 1329p 921 2,030 Exercised 1,465 201-890p 591p 1,477 2,942 Lapsed 508 201-1323p 871p 298 806 Outstanding at 31 December 2013 4,266 201-1518p 966p 4,157 8,423 Exercisable at 31 December 2013 259 358-645p 499p 1,255 1,514 Granted 730 1225-1467p 1444p 559 1,289 Exercised 1,440 201-1384p 780p 1,553 2,993 Lapsed 854 201-1518p 1087p 306 1,160 Outstanding at 31 December 2014 2,702 201-1518p 1157p 2,857 5,559 Exercisable at 31 December 2014 368 201-972p 862p 508 876 (1) Options not granted at nil cost include options granted under the following schemes: IMI Sharesave Scheme, Global Employee Share Purchase Plans, IMI Share Option Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme. (2) Options granted with nil cost are those granted under the Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan. 134 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCINGCOSTS Continued 4.7.6 4.8 Share-based payment charge for the year Non-controlling interests The total expense recognised for the year arising from share-based payments was £4.4m (2013: £8.5m) which comprises a charge of £14.4m (2013: £9.8m) Non-controlling interests are recorded as reductions from the income and for the year offset by a credit of £10.0m (2013: £1.3m) in respect of lapses. equity recorded in the Group’s nancial statements. In accordance with IFRS, these arise because if the Group controls an operation, it accounts for that £4.9m (2013: £6.1m) of the total charge and £3.3m (2013: £0.4m) of the total operation as if the Group were the only party holding an interest in it, but in credit is in respect of options granted to directors. spite of this control, when other parties have an interest in the operation, that interest should be re ected. 4.7.7 The deduction from income and equity therefore re ects the reduction in Share-based payment valuation the Group’s interest resulting from the third party’s interest. methodology The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are Shanghai measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted, based on a CCI SLP Total Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used for grants in 2014 £m £m £m included a dividend yield of 2.8% (2013: 2.1%), expected share price volatility Non-controlling interests as at of 31% (2013: 38%), a weighted average expected life of 3.5 years (2013: 1 January 2014 2.7 43.9 46.6 3.5 years) and a weighted average interest rate of 1.1% (2013: 0.5%). The expected volatility is wholly based on the historical volatility (calculated based Profit for the year attributable to on the weighted average remaining life of the share options), adjusted for any non-controlling interests 2.8 2.8 expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information. Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (0.2) (0.2) Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) 4.7.8 Other share-based payment disclosures 2014 movement in non-controlling interest (0.2) (1.6) (1.8) The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options Non-controlling interest as outstanding as at 31 December 2014 is 7.24 years (2013: 7.15 years) at 31 December 2014 2.5 42.3 44.8 and the weighted average fair value of share options granted in the year at their grant date was £8.03 (2013: £7.56). The non-controlling interest denoted Shanghai CCI in the above table represents the 30% ownership interest in the ordinary shares of Shanghai The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share CCI Power Control Equipment Co Limited held by Shanghai Power Station options exercised during the year was £14.68 (2013: £13.12). Auxiliary Equipment Works Co Limited. The non-controlling interest denoted SLP relates to an interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership which was owned by the IMI Pension Fund (‘The Fund’), which provided the Fund with a conditional entitlement to receive income of £4.4m per annum unless the Group has not paid a dividend in the prior year or the Fund was fully funded. As referred to in section 4.5.2, during the year the IMI Pension Fund commenced winding up procedures and the relevant liabilities were transferred to one of two new funds, IMI 2014 Deferred Fund and IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund (together ‘The Funds’). The interest in the SLP is now held jointly by the Funds and will continue to provide income of £4.4m per annum unless the Group has not paid a dividend in the prior year or the Funds are fully funded. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 135 SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES 5.1 5.4 Contingent liabilities Signi cant accounting policies A contingent liability is a liability that is not suf ciently certain to qualify for A. Subsidiaries and Non-controlling interests recognition as a provision because signi cant subjectivity exists regarding The Group nancial statements consolidate the nancial statements of IMI plc its outcome. and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) for the year to 31 December. The Group has no signi cant interests which are accounted for as Associates or Joint Ventures as at 31 December 2014. In our 2012 and 2013 accounts, we made reference to companies belonging to the British builders’ merchant serving damages claims against IMI plc and Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date others relating to alleged nancial losses incurred in the UK as a result of on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the anti-competitive behaviour undertaken by a number of manufacturers of date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the copper plumbing tubes and copper plumbing ttings. This matter was nancial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain bene t from settled during the year. its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of contractual agreement. The nancial statements of subsidiaries used in the business and other items amounted to £144m (2013: £114m). preparation of the consolidated nancial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting 5.2 policies. All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised pro ts arising from them, are eliminated in full. Related party transactions A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a Related parties are solely the key management personnel. The Board is subsidiary, it: considered to be the key management personnel of the Group. • derecognises the assets (including any goodwill relating to the subsidiary) and liabilities of the subsidiary; • derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; 2014 2013 £m £m • derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity; Short-term employee benefits* 5.1 6.5 • recognises the fair value of the consideration received; Termination Benefits 0.5 • recognises the fair value of any investment retained; Share-based payments 1.6 5.7 • recognises any surplus or de cit in pro t or loss; and Total 6.7 12.7 • reclassi es the Parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to pro t or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate. * Short-term employee bene ts comprise salary, including employers’ social Taxation on the above accounting entries would also be recognised contributions, bene ts earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year. where applicable. There are no other related party transactions. Non-controlling interests include the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and the IMI Pension Fund’s interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (‘the Partnership’). Non-controlling interests are 5.3 presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity Subsequent events attributable to owners of the parent. Losses within a subsidiary are proportionally attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a de cit balance. Events that occur in the period between 31 December and the date of B. Use of judgements and estimates approval of the Annual Report can be categorised as adjusting or nonadjusting depending on whether the condition existed at 31 December. If The preparation of nancial statements requires management to make the event is an adjusting event, then an adjustment to the results is made. judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of If a non-adjusting event after the year end is material, non-disclosure could accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, in uence decisions that readers of the nancial statements make. Accordingly, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. for each material non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose i. Judgement the nature of the event and an estimate of its nancial effect, or a statement Consolidation of the Scottish Limited Partnership (‘SLP’) and inclusion that such an estimate cannot be made. of the UK Pension Funds’ interests in this special purpose entity as a non-controlling interest. The acquisition of Bopp & Reuther completed on 2 January 2015. This is In June 2010, the Group made a special contribution to the IMI Pension Fund categorised as a non-adjusting event and is discussed further in section 3.4.1. of £48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (‘SLP’) , an entity controlled by the Group, which conferred upon the Fund conditional rights to receive income of £4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded. One of the judgements involved in this issue was whether this entity quali ed as a Special Purpose Entity as de ned by SIC 12: Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities, and whether, in applying this interpretation, the entity should be consolidated. It was determined that the entity meets the de nition of a Special Purpose Entity under IFRS10 and furthermore, upon consideration of the criteria in this interpretation, it was determined that 136 IMI plc SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES Continued consolidation was appropriate. As referred to in Section 4.5.2, during the year the provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous tax IMI Pension Fund commenced winding up procedures and the relevant liabilities audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and were transferred to one of two new funds, IMI 2014 Deferred Fund and IMI 2014 the responsible tax authority. Such differences of interpretation may arise on a Pensioner Fund (together ‘the Funds’). The interest in the SLP is now held jointly wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective by the Funds. domicile of the Group companies. There are certain conditions under which the Group can defer the amounts Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it payable to the Funds, in particular, the Partnership Agreement includes a clause is probable that taxable pro t will be available against which the losses can be under which the payments in the year are deferred in the event that the Group utilised. Signi cant management judgement is required to determine the amount has not paid a dividend in the preceding year. Because the Group has the of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and ability to defer such payments inde nitely and is in control of the circumstances the level of future taxable pro ts. under which the arrangement can be terminated, the payments envisaged by the agreement are discretionary and therefore do not constitute a liability under Trading provisions IAS32. As such the Funds’ interests in this SLP have been recorded as The Group sells a wide range of highly technical products and whilst its non-controlling interests, as a component of equity. products are designed and engineered to a high degree of precision and to customer speci cations, there will always be a risk of products requiring ii. Estimates and assumptions modi cation, which can lead to warranty claims as well as excess or obsolete The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation inventory, collection risk regarding receivables and other trading provisions. uncertainty at the reporting date that have a signi cant risk of causing a material Provisions are held against these risks, which are estimated based on past adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next experience of claims and by measuring the likely use of inventory in the future nancial year are described below. The Group bases its assumptions and against past usage. The degree of dependence on future events makes these estimates on information available when the consolidated nancial statements estimates inherently subjective. are prepared. Market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Group are re ected in the assumptions when they occur. Revisions to Employee bene ts accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is The present value of the Group’s de ned bene t pension plans and other revised and in any future periods affected. post-employment bene ts are determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from Impairment of nonnancial assets actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit discount rate, in ation, future salary increases, mortality rates and future exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs pension increases. These assumptions, accompanied by sensitivity analysis to sell and its value in use. The value in use is based on a discounted cash ow thereon, are included in Section 4.5. Due to the complexity of the valuation model. Cash ows are derived from the Group’s long-term forecasts for the and its long-term nature, a de ned bene t obligation is highly sensitive to next three to ve years. The principal assumptions in these calculations are the changes in these assumptions. long-term growth rates and the discount rate applied to forecast cash ows in addition to the achievement of the forecasts themselves. Further information In particular, although only constituting a minor proportion of the assets, on this process and the assets affected is included in Section 3.2. the valuation of the UK Funds’ interests in the Scottish Limited Partnership is a highly subjective area because their valuation depends on an actuarial Disposed businesses assessment of the amount a third party might be willing to pay for the asset, taking into account the risk that the associated income stream could either The Group has over the years disposed of a number of businesses. The sale cease in the event that the two UK Pension Funds both became fully funded or agreements contained various warranties and indemnities. In some cases, become deferred in any year in which no dividend was paid to the shareholders. the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, sometimes contingent on future events. At the time of disposal, the accounts Development costs re ect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements. These estimates are then regularly reviewed and provisions are recognised Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the criteria set out where necessary. in IAS38: ‘Intangible Assets’. Initial capitalisation of costs is based on management’s judgement regarding the technological and commercial feasibility Share-based payments of the asset, and only when a product development project has reached a point where such determinations can be made. In testing these assets for The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by impairment, management makes assumptions regarding the expected future reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are cash generation of the project, discount rates to be applied and the expected granted. Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires period of bene ts. Further detail is provided in Section 3.2. determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination C. Revenue recognition of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and related assumptions. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic These assumptions and the models used for estimating fair value for sharebene ts will ow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured. based payment transactions are disclosed in Section 4.7. The nature of the equipment, valve and other contracts into which the Group enters means that: Taxes • the contracts usually contain discrete elements, each of which transfers risks Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations, and rewards to the customer. Where such discrete elements are present, changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of future taxable income. revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term the sale of goods. nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising • the service element of the contract is usually insigni cant in relation to the between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to total contract value and is often provided on a short-term or one-off basis. such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to the tax income Where this is the case, revenue is recognised when the service is complete. and expense already recorded. The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax As a result of the above, the signi cant majority of the Group’s revenue is authorities of the respective countries in which it operates. The amount of such recognised on a sale of goods basis. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 137 The speci c methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue earned The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional by the Group are set out below: in these nancial statements: i. Sale of goods • gains and losses (including fair value adjustments) on derivative nancial instruments; Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the signi cant risks • restructuring costs, which comprise signi cant costs associated with the and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable closure of activities or factories and the cost of signi cant reductions in measurement is possible. No revenue is recognised where recovery of the workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities. Nonconsideration is not probable or there are signi cant uncertainties regarding signi cant restructuring costs are not disclosed as exceptional items; associated costs, or the possible return of goods. • special pension events, which comprise settlement gains relating to the Group’s de ned bene t schemes; Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale. Sales made under • impairment losses recorded against goodwill, intangible assets and other internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as operating assets; revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer • the amortisation of acquired intangible xed assets; risks as de ned by the International Chamber of Commerce Of cial Rules for • gains on disposals of subsidiaries; and the Interpretation of Trade Terms. Sales made outside Incoterms 2010 are generally recognised on delivery to the customer. • costs associated with acquisitions and disposals, which principally represent: costs payable to the legal and nancial advisors assisting with the origination ii. Rendering of services and completion of the transactions; As noted above, because revenue from the rendering of services is usually contingent consideration payments which (because they might be forfeited insigni cant in relation to the total contract value and is generally provided in some of the instances in which the vendors’ post-acquisition employment on a short-term or one-off basis, revenue is usually recognised when the contracts may be terminated) are required by IFRS3 (revised) to be treated service is complete. as remuneration. Where this is not the case, revenue from services rendered is recognised in The tax impact of the above items is also shown within exceptional items. proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date. The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement E. Financial income and expense with each separate customer and the costs incurred on the contract to date Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract. Revenue recognition from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the commences only when the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured. income statement. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it Installation fees are similarly recognised by reference to the stage of completion accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset. Dividend income is on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared. case they are recognised when the goods are sold. Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a the effective interest rate method, the interest related element of derivatives and signi cant service, revenue from the provision of the service is recognised losses on nancial instruments that are recognised in the income statement. separately from the revenue from the sale of goods by reference to the stage The interest expense component of nance lease payments is recognised in of completion of the service unless the service is essential to the functionality the income statement using the effective interest rate method. of the goods supplied, in which case the whole transaction is treated as a construction contract. Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply of Net nance expense relating to de ned bene t pension schemes represents goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods. the assumed interest on the difference between employee bene t plan liabilities and the employee bene t plan assets. iii. Construction contracts Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or As noted above, customer contracts usually contain discrete elements production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer. However, where get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the such discrete elements are not in place, revenue from signi cant contracts is respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs to the speci c contract terms and the costs incurred on the contract to date in in connection with the borrowing of funds. comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract. F. Income tax Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in revenue from construction contracts when certain criteria are met. Variations Current tax payable/receivable represents the expected tax payable/receivable are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively liability for the variation in principle. Claims are included when negotiations enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer is in respect of prior years. certain to accept the claim. Incentive payments are included when a contract Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary is suf ciently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for nancial triggering the incentive will be achieved. reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is Pro t attributable to contract activity is recognised if the nal outcome of such not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of contracts can be reliably assessed. On all contracts, full provision is made for goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a any losses in the year in which they are rst foreseen. business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing D. Exceptional items of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the Exceptional items are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is measured and added back in arriving at adjusted earnings, where the quantum, the at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively one-off nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying trading performance. enacted by the balance sheet date. 138 IMI plc SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES Continued A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable • trade payables are stated at cost. pro t will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. • nancial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. G. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations • available for sale nancial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses Where applicable, on initial classi cation as ‘held for sale’, non-current disposal being recognised in equity, except for impairment losses which are recognised groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs in the income statement. to sell. Impairment losses on the initial classi cation of assets as held for sale are included in pro t or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are J. Other hedging impairment losses on subsequent remeasurement and any reversal thereof. Once classi ed as held for sale, assets are no longer depreciated or amortised. i. Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, nancial commitments or forecast transactions A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that Where a derivative nancial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale. asset or liability, nancial commitment or forecast transaction, but does not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting under IAS39 no hedge accounting is H. Foreign currencies applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging i. Foreign currency transactions instrument is recognised in net nancial income or expense. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been Where such a derivative is a formally designated hedge of a forecast transaction translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet for accounting purposes, such as the forward component of the deal-contingent date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at forward contract entered into to hedge foreign exchange movements relating the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are re ected in the income to the US dollar proceeds of the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses, movements statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical in the value of the derivative are recognised directly in other comprehensive income cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date to the extent the hedge is effective. The Company assesses the effectiveness of of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign the hedge based on the expected fair value of the amount to be received and the currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Sterling at foreign movement in the fair value of the derivative designated as the hedge. exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges ii. Foreign operations that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, together with The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the segmental revenues the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to and operating pro t of the relevant business segment. year end rates is taken directly to reserves. ii. Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value Where a foreign currency liability or derivative nancial instrument is a formally adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly the fair value of the nancial instrument are recognised directly in equity via as a separate component of equity. Since 1 January 2004, the Group’s date other comprehensive income to the extent the hedge is effective. The Group of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant changes of its net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign amount in the translation reserve is transferred to pro t or loss. currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the debt designated as a hedge and the relevant nancial instrument. I. Financial instruments and fair value hedging K. Business combinations and goodwill Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs unless the instrument is a derivative not designated as a Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. hedge (see below). Subsequent measurement depends on the designation The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39: transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The choice of measurement of non• xed deposits, principally comprising funds held with banks and other nancial controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the institutions are classi ed as ‘available for sale assets’ under IAS39, and held acquiree’s identi able net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction at fair value. Short-term borrowings and overdrafts are classi ed basis. Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed and included in as nancial liabilities at amortised cost. administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or volatility meets • derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts the de nition of an exceptional item as set out in accounting policy D. and options, metals futures contracts and any embedded derivatives, are classi ed as ‘fair value through pro t or loss’ under IAS39, unless designated When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the nancial assets and as hedges. Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at liabilities assumed for appropriate classi cation and designation in accordance fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in pro t or loss when with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in derivatives in contracts held by the acquiree. net nancial income or expense. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be • long-term loans and other interest bearing borrowings are generally held at recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Where the long-term fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be a liability loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in pro t or loss or in other as effective, the carrying value of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classi ed as equity, fair value of the hedge. it is not remeasured until it is nally settled within equity. • trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate impairment allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 139 Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the amortisation (see below) and accumulated impairment losses (see accounting acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount policy ‘Impairment’) and are included in the other acquired or other nonrecognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination acquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin. is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identi able amounts of the assets iii. Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business combination. Assets acquired Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such the Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration calculated by reference to the net present value of future bene ts accruing to arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs. Identi able intangible assets are rate. Expenditure on other internally generated intangible assets is recognised recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent liabilities representing a present in the income statement as an expense as incurred. obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be reliably measured. iv. Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business (other than for customer relationships and order book, which are charged combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s on a sum of digits basis) over the estimated useful lives of the intangible previously held equity interest in the acquiree) is lower than the fair value of the assets. Amortisation commences from the date the intangible asset becomes assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing available for use. The estimated useful lives for: interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in pro t and loss. • capitalised development costs are the life of the intangible asset (usually a After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated maximum of 10 years) impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a • software development costs are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that are expected to • customer relationships are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) bene t from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of • other intangible assets are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) the acquiree are assigned to those units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which M. Property, plant and equipment the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. than an operating segment before aggregation. Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation ‘Impairment’). disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. property, plant and equipment. Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group for clearly identi able new products are capitalised net of any contribution L. Intangible assets received from customers and are included in plant and equipment. Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts between Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (unless acquired intangible assets and non-acquired intangible assets. Amortisation such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated bene t) so as to write down the of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as described in cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful lives accounting policy D of these accounting policies, because of its inherent volatility. within the following ranges: The accounting policy for goodwill is described in accounting policy K. • freehold buildings 25 to 50 years i. Research and development • plant and equipment 3 to 20 years Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining N. Leased assets new scienti c or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classi ed as nance leases. Expenditure on development activities, whereby research ndings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products Plant and equipment acquired by way of nance lease is stated at an amount and processes, is capitalised provided bene ts are probable, cost can be equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see above) commercially feasible and the Group has suf cient resources and intention and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’). to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads. Other development on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy period of the lease unless a different systematic method is more appropriate ‘Impairment’) and is included in the other acquired or other non-acquired under the terms of the lease. The majority of leasing transactions entered into category of intangible assets depending on its origin. by the Group are operating leases. ii. Software development costs O. Inventories Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Because computer equipment are capitalised on initial recognition as intangible assets of the varying nature of the Group’s operations, both rst in, rst out (‘FIFO’) at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price plus external costs incurred on and weighted average methodologies are employed. In respect of work in development of the asset to bring it into use. Following initial recognition, progress and nished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production software development costs are carried at cost less any accumulated and the appropriate proportion of production overheads. 140 IMI plc SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES Continued P. Cash and cash equivalents ii. De ned bene t pension plans Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. The Group’s net obligation in respect of de ned bene t pension plans is Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future bene t that the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash ows. that bene t is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. Past service costs are recognised in pro t or loss on Q. Impairment the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that The carrying values of the Group’s nonnancial assets other than inventories the Group recognises restructuring-related costs. The discount rate is the yield (see accounting policy ‘Inventories’) and deferred tax assets (see accounting at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds of the appropriate policy ‘Income tax’), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine currency that have durations approximating those of the Group’s obligations. whether there is any indication of impairment. The calculation is performed by a quali ed actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service within its cash-generating unit is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its in future contributions to the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling. recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Any deduction made by the tax authorities in the event of a refund of a surplus For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable would be regarded by the Group as an income tax. amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date. When the bene ts of a plan are improved, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement. Re-measurement gains and losses i. Calculation of recoverable amount are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of The recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables other than nancial assets comprehensive income. held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset. iii. Long-term service and other post-employment bene ts Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted. The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service and other postemployment bene ts, other than pension plans, is the amount of future bene t The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use an individual periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method assessment is made of the estimated future cash ows generated for each cash and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets generating unit (based upon the latest Group forecast and extrapolated using is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high an appropriate long-term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating consistent with an estimate of the relevant geographic long-term GDP growth). those of the Group’s obligations. These are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks iv. Equity and equity-related compensation bene ts speci c to the asset. Management believe that this approach, including the use The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation bene ts of the inde nite cash ow projection, is appropriate based upon both historical as set out in Section 4.7. The fair value of the employee services received in experience and because it is one of the bases management utilise to evaluate exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year. the fair value of investment opportunities. For an asset that does not generate The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by largely independent cash in ows, the recoverable amount is determined for the reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any smallest cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. non-market vesting conditions (for example, pro tability and sales growth targets). ii. Reversals of impairment Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options is As required by IAS36: ‘Impairment of Assets’, any impairment of goodwill or determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. available for sale nancial assets is non-reversible. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. original estimates, if any, in the income statement. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount For newly issued shares, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. premium when the options are exercised. R. Dividends T. Provisions Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability at the date at which they are Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive approved by the Company’s shareholders or by the subsidiary’s shareholders in obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an out ow of resources respect of dividends to non-controlling interests. Interim dividends payable are will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably recognised on the date they are declared. estimated. Provisions are valued at management’s best estimate of the amount required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date. S. Employee bene ts A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved i. De ned contribution pension plans a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either Contributions to de ned contribution pension plans are recognised as an commenced or has been announced publicly. expense in the income statement as incurred. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 141 DIRECTORS’ REPORT The directors present their report, together w ith the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2014. The Strategic Report is on pages 6 to 23. Results and dividend There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 84. Segmental other than: operating profit amounted to £298m (2013: £322m) and profit before taxation • certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and and discontinued operations amounted to £246m (2013: £249m). regulations (for example insider trading laws); and The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.0p per share (2013: 22.5p per • pursuant to the Company’s share dealing code whereby the directors share) on the ordinary share capital payable, subject to shareholder approval, and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2015 to shareholders on Company’s shares. the register at the close of business on 10 April 2015. Together with the interim The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that dividend of 13.6p per share paid on 19 September 2014, this final dividend will may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights. bring the total distribution for the year to 37.6p per share (2013: 35.3p per share). None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company. The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the Research and development ordinary shares held in treasury. Electronic and paper proxy appointments and The continuing cost of research and development expenditure charged directly voting instructions must be received by the Company’s registrars not later than to the income statement was £45m (2013: £50m). In addition, amortisation of 48 hours (excluding any non-working days) before a general meeting, or (subject capitalised intangible development costs amounted to £2m (2013: £2m) and to the Company’s articles of association) any adjournment thereof. across the Group a further £6m (2013: £3m) was capitalised. Return of cash and share capital consolidation Shareholders’ funds On 21 January 2014, the Company announced the terms of a return of cash to Shareholders’ funds decreased from £601m at the end of 2013 to £509m at shareholders of 200p per existing ordinary share of 25p each and a share capital 31 December 2014. consolidation of every 8 existing ordinary shares of 25p each into 7 new ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. Share capital The return of cash was structured as a ‘B and C share’ scheme. Under its As at 31 December 2014, the Company’s share capital comprised a single terms, shareholders (subject to restrictions in respect of US shareholders and class of share capital which was divided into ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. certain other overseas shareholders), were able to elect whether to receive their Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in section 4.6 to the cash proceeds as: (i) an immediate income payment (the ‘Income Option’); (ii) financial statements on pages 129 and 130. The Company’s ordinary shares an immediate capital payment (the ‘Immediate Capital Option’); (iii) a capital are listed on the London Stock Exchange. payment deferred until after 6 April 2014 (the ‘Deferred Capital Option’); or (iv) The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) programme any combination of the above. for which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary. The ADRs are traded on the US The resolutions required for the return of cash and share capital consolidation over-the-counter market under the symbol IMIAY, where each ADR represents (including to amend the articles of association of the Company) were approved two ordinary shares. by shareholders at a general meeting of the Company held on 13 February 2014. As at 31 December 2014, 1,725,101 shares were held in an employee trust for The new ordinary shares of 28 4/7p were admitted to the Official List and to use in relation to certain executive incentive plans representing 0.6% of the issued trading on the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed securities on share capital (excluding treasury shares) at that time. The independent trustee 17 February 2014. of the trust has the same rights as any other shareholder. Participants in option On 17 February 2014, the Company issued a total of: (i) 228,744,051 C shares schemes do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise. to satisfy elections (or deemed elections) for the Income Option; (ii) 75,928,619 During the year, 463,694 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share redeemable B shares to satisfy elections for the Immediate Capital Option; and schemes: 416,194 under save as you earn plans and 47,500 under executive (iii) 5,475,074 redeemable B shares to satisfy elections for the Deferred Capital share plans. Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank Option. On 18 February 2014, a dividend of 200p was declared on each C share equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights. issued to satisfy an election (or deemed election) for the Income Option and all such shares were then automatically reclassified as deferred shares (which were The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares are set later purchased by the Company, for an aggregate consideration of 1p). On the out in the Company’s articles of association, copies of which can be obtained same date, each B share issued to satisfy an election for the Immediate Capital from Companies House in the UK, from the Company’s website or by writing Option was redeemed by the Company for 200p per share. Each B share issued to the Company Secretary. Changes to the articles of association must be to satisfy an election for the Deferred Capital election were redeemed for 200p approved by a special resolution of the shareholders (75% majority required) per share between 7 and 14 April 2014. in accordance with the legislation in force at the time. Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company Further details can be found in the circular dated 21 January 2014, available on may by ordinary resolution decide or (if there is no such resolution or so far as the Company’s website. it does not make specific provision) as the Board may decide. Own shares acquired by the Company Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s report and In 2014 the Company did not make market purchases of its own ordinary shares. accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights. Holders of ordinary shares may The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting held on 8 receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company. May 2014 to purchase up to 40,708,000 of its ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition to be held on 7 May 2015 where shareholders will be asked to give a similar a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Annual General authority, details of which are contained in the separate Notice of Annual Meetings. Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and the General Meeting. treasury shares carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions of assets. 142 IMI plc As at 31 December 2014, 14,248,836 ordinary shares (nominal value Our policy on employee diversity and inclusion is to comply with relevant £4,071,096) were held in treasury representing 5.24% of the issued share capital legislation in the countries in which we operate and to actively promote our (excluding treasury shares) at that time. The maximum number of shares held diversity goal to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities in treasury during the year ended 31 December 2014 was 30,883,095. On 16 and to reflect the diverse nature of our global business. Further details of our January 2014, the Company cancelled 14,598,706 ordinary shares of 25p each approach to diversity and inclusion are set out in pages 26 and 27 and are held in treasury and on 13 February 2014 the Company cancelled 5 ordinary incorporated into this report by reference. shares of 25p each held in treasury. At all levels we are focused on increasing our diversity as reflected in the Substantial shareholdings composition of our Board; further details of the Board composition along with biographies are set out in pages 44 and 45. Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service and on the Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled Company’s website. As at 31 December 2014, the following voting interests in employees are fully and fairly considered and that disabled employees have the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and equal opportunity in training, succession planning and promotion. Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company: Health, safety and the environment % Held 1 It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working conditions and to operate Standard Life Investments Limited 7.01% in a responsible manner with regard to the environment. Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5.01% The key statistics for our carbon reporting indicate that our recent performance in gross tonnes of CO2e has been: 2012-71,000, 2013-69,000, 2014-62,500 BlackRock Inc 5.01% We previously reported CO2e intensity by normalising against hours worked. Legal & General Group plc 3.03% However, in light of other production efficiency measures, this is no longer 1 As of the date in the notification to the Company considered to be the most appropriate measure. Therefore, we are now reporting CO2e intensity relative to £million sales. Subsequent to 31 December 2014 and up to the date of this Report, the These carbon intensity figures (tonnes/£m sales) have improved equally well: Company was notified that the interests of Standard Life Investments Limited 2012-41.9, 2013-39.6, 2014-37.4 were 8.00%. Our 2014 performance is 11% better than 2012. As our 2015 year-end target is As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with substantial holdings 7.5% below 2012, we plan to ensure that our 2014 performance is maintained in the Company other than those noted above. for 2015. Statement on corporate governance Our CO2e accounting methodology follows DEFRA guidelines and includes all material emissions across IMI. The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 51 and are incorporated into this report by reference. Further information is also available on our website www.imiplc.com. Employment policies Donations The Group continues to support employee involvement at all levels in the No political donations were made during the year. organisation and strongly encourages each of its businesses to keep its employees informed on Group and individual business developments and Directors to make its employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are given the performance of the business in which they work, using their own on pages 44 and 45 and are incorporated into this report by reference. Douglas consultation and communication methods. During the year, we put in place Hurt and Anita Frew will retire from the Board at the end of the Annual General a global intranet that all employees are able to access. We also introduced a Meeting to be held on 7 May 2015. Daniel Shook became Finance Director cross-divisional newsletter that is produced bi-anually and features success Designate on 1 January 2015 and becomes Finance Director from 1 March 2015. stories and news from around the globe. A European Works Council has Phil Bentley stepped down as chair of the Audit Committee and retired from the been in operation since 2003 and meets at least once a year to exchange Board on 31 December 2014. Ross McInnes was appointed to the Board on views on pan-European issues facing the Group. At the date of this Annual 1 October 2014 and assumed the chair of the Audit Committee from 1 January Report, there are 17 members of the European Works Council comprising 15 2015. Both Daniel Shook and Ross McInnes will seek election to the Board for employee representatives nominated from among employees from each of our the first time at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2015. European businesses, covering 11 countries, with the balance being Company appointees. The Group’s financial results and important initiatives such as The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in health and safety, training and development, and employee engagement are the Company’s articles of association. Each new appointee to the Board is communicated through a number of mechanisms including the Works Council, required to stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting following their newsletters and intranets for the individual businesses and the Company’s appointment. In addition, the Company’s articles of association require each website and ‘town hall’ meetings. director to stand for re-election at least once every three years. However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), all directors Share schemes are a long established and successful part of our total reward wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual package, encouraging and supporting employee share ownership. Further details General Meeting and are recommended for re-election. of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 75 and in section 4.7 of the financial statements on pages 131 to 133. The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third party indemnity provisions A number of people recruitment and development initiatives are co-ordinated which were in place during the financial year. At the date of this Annual Report across the Group. These initiatives and the Company’s approach to employee there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the costs investment, talent recruitment and development are explained on pages 26 of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against them, and 27. in their capacity as a director, where not covered by insurance and subject always to the limitations set by the Companies Act 2006. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 143 Role of the Directors Chief Executive: The role of the Board is: • leadership of the executive management team • to promote the success of the Company; • formulating strategy, business plans and budgets • be guardians of stakeholders’ interests; • ensuring the highest compliance and internal control standards are maintained • to set/monitor leadership behaviour and culture; • developing organisation structure • to select and appoint the executive management team; • resourcing, talent development and succession plans • to provide supportive challenge to the executive management team; Directors’ powers • to approve business plans and strategy; The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the articles • to oversee governance, risk and the control environment; and of association of the Company in force from time to time. The directors were • to monitor and oversee the businesses and management. authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Company’s ordinary shares by resolutions of the Company passed at its The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and general meeting held on 13 February 2014. These authorities were replaced oversees business and management performance. The Board has adopted a at the Annual General Meeting held on 8 May 2014 by the passing of new corporate governance framework which defines Board roles and includes the list resolutions, in respect of the new ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. The current of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to and the executive management. Board reserved matters include strategy and be held on 7 May 2015, at which new authorities will be sought. key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group. Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the separate Notice of the Annual In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly defined in General Meeting. writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for Directors’ interests the Chief Executive. The Group has a clear organisational structure and wellestablished reporting and control disciplines. Managers of operating units The interests of the persons (including the interests of any connected persons) assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running who were directors at the end of the year, in the share capital of the Company, day-to-day trading activities. They do this within a framework of clear rules, and their interests under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of pages 73 to 79. proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject Management of conflicts of interest to regular senior management reviews of performance. The Company’s articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the The Group has a clear organisational structure and well-established reporting activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the IMI website. and control disciplines. Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities. They do of potential conflicts of interest. These procedures apply, inter alia, to external this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities regarding directorships and it is the Board’s view that they operated effectively during 2014. business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject to regular senior management reviews of performance. Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which they have or may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly Division of responsibilities amongst Directors may conflict with the interests of the Company. This duty is in addition to the Chairman: duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any interest in any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company. If any director • building a well-balanced Board becomes aware of any situation which may give rise to a conflict of interest, that • chairing meetings, setting the agenda and ensuring the best use of time director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then permitted under the • ensuring effectiveness of the Board including the quality of debate and decisions articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict. The information is recorded in the Company’s register of conflicts and a conflicts authorisation • promoting the right environment and relations for effective engagement and letter is issued to the relevant director. challenge around the boardroom table • setting the tone and high standards of governance practice Change of control • getting the right executive leadership and succession plans in place The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the arrangements on a change of There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts Executive, which is reflected in the written corporate governance framework and employee share plans. Other than as referred to in the next paragraph, none approved by the Board. In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the of these is considered by the Company to be significant in terms of its likely leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive impact on the Group as a whole. powers or responsibilities. The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in running the businesses and implementing operational and strategic plans In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Group’s main funding under authority delegated by the Board. agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities. The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration. He is supported by the would provide compensation for loss of office or employment specifically Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in resulting from a takeover, although the provisions of the Company’s share accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors and regulatory requirements. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the employees under such schemes to vest in those circumstances. standing committees of the Board. The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor. 144 IMI plc DIRECTORS’ REPORT Continued Information included in the Strategic Report Going concern Important events since the year-end are described on page 23 of the Strategic The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future Report. All disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions (as required to development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report be disclosed by the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ on pages 6 to 41. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity Report) Regulations 2013) are contained on the previous page. Likely future position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial statements. In developments are also covered in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 41. addition, section 4.4 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management Internal control objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Group’s system of internal exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. Section 4.5 to the financial statements control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the addresses the management of the funding risks of the Group’s employee Code and relevant best practice guidance including the Financial Reporting benefit obligations. Council’s publication, ‘Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing Combined Code.’ relationships with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in different geographic areas and industries. The Group’s forecasts and projections, detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board. taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show Performance against forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings that the Group is able to operate within the level of facilities either in place on of the Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board. Minimum 31 December 2014, or renewed since, without the need to renew any further standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and facilities before 26 February 2016. As a consequence, the directors believe that monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group. Certified bi-annual reports the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance uncertainties inherent in the current economic outlook. with Group financial reporting requirements. The internal audit function, Group After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Assurance, operates a rolling programme of internal assurance on site reviews Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational at selected operating units. Additionally, visits to operations are carried out existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the by senior Group finance personnel. These internal assurance processes going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements. are co-ordinated with the activity of the Company’s external auditor. Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, Disclosure of information to the auditor authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and each director materiality, to the Board. In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls including those himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the relating to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental Company’s auditor is aware of that information. issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions. Compliance and internal Audit Reports are made to the Board, the Audit Annual General Meeting Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole developments to be monitored. Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on Thursday 7 May 2015 at 10am. Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made Notice of the meeting will be published on the Company’s website. to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal control Auditor system. In the year we made further improvements to our control environment Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the including the introduction of a new internal controls declaration process with Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will appropriate assurance and follow up action plans. We are committed to further be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting. strengthen the key financial control processes. More information in relation to risk is given on page 30 under the heading ‘Principal Risks and Uncertainties’. By order of the Board Through the procedures outlined here, the Board has considered the John O’Shea effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2014 and up Company Secretary to the date of this Annual Report. The Board believes that the Group’s system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides 26 February 2015 reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275 Financial reporting processes The use of the Group’s accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Group’s accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process. The use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 145 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and the financial statements. and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial the Directors’ Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Statement, and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Directors’ responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent Company Each of the directors listed on pages 44 and 45 confirms that: financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those • the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this Annual Report, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with Union. Under company law the directors must not approve the Group financial the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing • the Annual Report (which includes the Directors’ Report and the Strategic those Group financial statements, the directors are required to: Report) includes a fair review of the development and performance of the • select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8 ‘Accounting business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ and then apply them together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that consistently; they face. • make judgements and estimates that are reasonable; The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in accordance • present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides with applicable laws and regulations. Having taken advice from the Audit relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; Committee, the Board considers the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information • provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular model and strategy. transactions, other events and conditions on the Group’s financial position and financial performance; and • state that the Company has complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European By order of the Board Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements. John O’Shea Company Secretary The directors have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 26 February 2015 (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors must not approve the Parent Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; • make judgements and estimates that are reasonable; • state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and • prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that the Group and Parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 146 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TOTHE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC 1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 4. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the nancial statements of IMI plc for the year ended We identi ed the following risks to have the greatest effect on the overall audit 31 December 2014 set out on pages 84 to 152. In our opinion: strategy; the allocation of audit resources; and on directing the efforts of the • the nancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the audit engagement team. In addressing these risks we have performed the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014; detailed procedures below which were designed in the context of the nancial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on • the nancial statements give a true and fair view of the Group pro t for these individual areas. the year ended 31 December 2014; • the Group nancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Area of focus with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Revenue and profit recognition European Union; Refer to page 53 of the Audit Committee report. • the Parent Company nancial statements have been properly prepared The completeness, occurrence and measurement of revenue and recognition of in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and pro t is considered to be a signi cant risk across the Group. The cyclical nature of • the nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the deliveries within the Critical Engineering division’s results in signi cant shipments requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group near the December period end which increases the risk of a cut-off error. nancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. How our audit work addressed the area of focus 2. What we have audited To address this risk the following audit procedures have been undertaken: We audited the Group nancial statements of IMI plc for the year-ended • we carried out testing of controls over revenue recognition with a focus on 31 December 2014 which comprise: those related to the timing of revenue recognition; Group Company • we performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with expectations from past experience, management’s forecasts and, where The Group income statement The Company balance sheet; possible, external market data; The Group statement of comprehensive income The related notes C1 to C10. • we obtained support for individually unusual and/or material revenue journals; The Group balance sheet • we performed tests of detail for a sample of revenue transactions to ensure The Group cash flow statement the transactions had been appropriately recorded in the income statement. The Group statement of changes in equity We veri ed that the risks and rewards of ownership of the products had been The related sections 1 to 5. transferred to the customer by analysing the contract and terms of the sale to ensure the Group had ful lled the requirements of the contract, con rming revenue could be reliably measured by reference to underlying documentation, The nancial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the ensuring collectability of the revenue was reasonably assured by agreeing to Group nancial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting collection history and ensuring that the costs of the transactions could be Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The nancial reporting traced and supported to bills of materials and expenses incurred; framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company nancial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards • we performed cut-off testing on third party delivery note documentation (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). and customer acceptance around the period end; and • in respect of the Critical Engineering division we audited management’s This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance assessment of forecast costs to complete, corroborating the underlying with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been assumptions against historic experience and future production plans to undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters ensure any contract losses are appropriately recognised. we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Area of focus to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, Inventory valuation for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Refer to page 53 of the Audit Committee report. 3. Overview The valuation of inventory across the Group is dependent on establishing Materiality Overall Group materiality of £12.4 million which appropriate valuation controls and physical counting procedures. This includes represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax reliance on manual processes. Management judgement is applied to formulaic calculations for standard costing and excess and obsolete inventory provisions. Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial If these judgements are not appropriate then this increases the risk that information of 13 entities and audit procedures on inventory is inappropriately stated. specific balances for a further 31 entities The 44 reporting components where we performed How our audit work addressed the area of focus audit procedures accounted for 65% of the Group’s To address this risk the following audit procedures have been undertaken: revenue, 87% of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax and 82% of the Group’s total assets • we carried out testing on controls over inventory valuation to verify the Group values inventory appropriately; Areas of focus Revenue and profit recognition • we tested the accumulation of cost within inventory, ensuring the valuation Inventory valuation re ected the physical inventory counts and the products’ stage of completion Valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities including agreement to the physical inventory counts we attended; The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets • we tested the appropriateness of overhead absorption in the inventory valuation by analysing the nature of costs being absorbed, verifying the level of costs to be absorbed based on production data; and • we audited the adequacy of excess and/or obsolete provisions held against inventory by verifying future demand data, historical usage, historical accuracy of provisioning and future plans of management to utilise the inventory. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 147 Area of focus • we assessed the appropriateness of the amortisation rates and useful Valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities economic lives of intangible assets allocated to CGUs on acquisition to ensure the lives were consistent with their usage and future economic in ows, for Refer to page 53 of the Audit Committee report. customer relationships and order books that the values corresponded with The actuarial assumptions used to value the UK and overseas pension scheme the expected underlying economic substance of future transactions and that liabilities are judgemental and sensitive. Due to the signi cance of the value of the performance of CGUs with signi cant intangible asset values remained the pension obligation, a small change in assumptions may result in a material consistent with the original business plans upon acquisition of the CGUs; difference to amounts reported. • we performed sensitivity analysis on management’s cash ow forecasts to How our audit work addressed the area of focus gain comfort over the level of headroom in the impairment models; and To address this risk the following audit procedures have been undertaken: • through completion of the above procedures we assessed the appropriateness of the impairment charge recorded by the Group • we understood and walked through management’s controls in respect of in respect of the Remosa CGU of £26.9m. the selection of key assumptions related to valuation of actuarial liabilities. • using external data we veri ed the appropriateness of the key actuarial The above risk areas are consistent with those in the prior year with the assumptions, as detailed in section 4.5.3.2 of the consolidated nancial exception of the valuation of the Scottish Limited Partnership and the statements, used by management, in determining the pension obligation accounting treatment for the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses which under IAS19(R) to ensure their assumptions were appropriate, met the were considered to be areas of focus for the 2013 audit. See Section 4.5 requirements of IFRS and were in line with market practice. for details regarding the Scottish Limited Partnership asset. However, as the valuation principles are now con rmed, auditing this asset no longer constitutes • this included a comparison of life expectancy with relevant mortality a signi cant proportion of audit effort or audit strategy. While the gain on tables, benchmarking in ation and discount rates against external market disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses is realised in the 2014 Annual Report data, considering changes in historical assumptions and evaluating the and Accounts, the key judgements and assumptions underpinning the gain independence, quali cations and results of work performed by management’s on the disposal were audited in the prior year as disclosed in our 2013 Audit experts involved in the valuation process. Report. See section 2.5 for details of the disposal. • we used our pension specialists to assist us with these procedures. 5. Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Area of focus As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired on page 145, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group intangible assets nancial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view. Refer to page 53 of the Audit Committee report. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group nancial As a consequence of the Group’s growth strategy a signi cant value of statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards goodwill and intangible assets has arisen from acquisitions. There is a risk on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the that cash generating units (‘CGUs’) may not achieve the anticipated business Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. performance to support the carrying value of these assets leading to an impairment charge that has not been recognised by management. Signi cant 6. Scope of the audit of the financial statements judgement is required in assessing the future cash ows of the CGU, together An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the with the rate at which they are discounted. nancial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the nancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or How our audit work addressed the area of focus error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are To address this risk the following audit procedures have been undertaken: appropriate to the Group’s and Parent Company’s circumstances and have • we walked through management’s controls in respect of their assessment of been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness the valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets and ensured these are of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall designed and implemented effectively; presentation of the nancial statements. In addition, we read all the nancial • we examined management’s methodology, as detailed in section 3.2.2 of the and nonnancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify consolidated nancial statements, and models for assessing the valuation of material inconsistencies with the audited nancial statements and to identify signi cant goodwill balances to con rm the composition of management’s any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially future cash ow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing up including timely oversight and challenge by the Directors and that the the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or underlying cash ows were consistent with the Board approved budgets; inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. • in accordance with the requirements of IAS36: ‘Impairment of Assets’, 7. Our application of materiality management performed an impairment test on all CGUs that have goodwill We determined planning materiality for the Group to be £12.4 million (2013: allocated. In respect of the CGUs identi ed as having impairment indicators £16.1 million), which is 5% (2013: 5%) of adjusted pro t before tax. We believe or low levels of head room we performed detailed testing to critically assess that pro t before tax, adjusted for the items described below, provides us with a and corroborate the key inputs of the forecast cash ows including: consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant Corroborating the discount rate used through analysing the cost of capital performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity. The reduction from for the Group and comparable organisations; the prior year predominantly re ects the disposal of the Beverage Dispense Validating the growth rate assumed by comparing them to economic and and Merchandising divisions which occurred on 1 January 2014. In calculating industry forecasts; materiality, we excluded the effects of certain non-recurring items from pro t Analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results ensuring before tax. For 2014, these related to the impairment losses of £40.8 million, the forecast cash ows are reliable based on past experience. the gain on disposals of subsidiaries of £34.2 million, pension settlement gains of £7.0 million and acquisition costs of £1.8 million as highlighted on page 84 • for the CGUs where indicators of impairment existed we calculated the of the nancial statements. Our materiality provided a basis for determining degree to which the key assumptions would need to move before an the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and impairment conclusion was triggered; assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures. 148 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TOTHE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Continued On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the • the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on Group’s overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance pages 42 to 51 of the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk materiality (i.e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or management systems in relation to nancial reporting processes and about balance) for the Group should be 50% (2013: 50%) of planning materiality, share capital structures is consistent with the nancial statements. namely £6.2 million (2013: £8 million). Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed 10. Matters on which we are required to report by exception our planning materiality level. We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Audit work at individual entities is undertaken based on a percentage of Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our our total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each opinion, information in the Annual Report is: component is based on the relative size of the entity and our view of the risk • materially inconsistent with the information in the audited nancial statements; of misstatement at that entity. In the current year the range of performance or materiality allocated to entities was £0.7 million to £1.8 million. • apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or all audit differences in excess of £0.6 million (2013: £0.8 million), as well as • is otherwise misleading. differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report and Accounts qualitative considerations. appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 8. An overview of the scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, nancial statements, we selected 44 (2013: 45*) entities which represent in our opinion: the principal business units within the Group’s three reportable segments. • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, 13 of these entities (2013: 16*) were subject to a full audit and 31 entities or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not (2013: 29*) were subject to a partial scope audit where the extent of audit work visited by us; or was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement outlined • the Parent Company nancial statements and the part of the Directors’ above and the materiality of the entities’ business operations relative to the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting Group. Partial scope entity testing of signi cant risks is primarily focused on records and returns; or revenue recognition and inventory valuation as the assessment of the carrying • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speci ed by law are not made; value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets and pension scheme liabilities or are audited centrally. • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our In total the audit of these entities provides coverage of 65% (2013: 68%) of the audit; or Group’s revenue, 87% (2013: 78%) of the Group’s pro t before tax and 82% • a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company. (2013: 71%) of the Group’s assets. Full scope entity audits provides coverage of 38% (2013: 48%) of the Group’s revenue, 25% (2013: 40%) of the Group’s Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: pro t before tax and 56% (2013: 49%) of the Group’s assets. Partial scope • the directors’ statement, set out on page 145, in relation to going concern; and entity audits provide coverage of 27% (2013: 20%) of the Group’s revenue, 62% (2013: 39%) of the Group’s pro t before tax and 26% (2013: 22%) of the • the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s Group’s assets, although for entities where a partial scope audit was performed, compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code not all balances that comprise these coverage percentages have been audited. speci ed for our review. The audit work at the 44 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which was lower than Group audit materiality. Andrew Walton (Senior statutory auditor) The Group’s remaining 96 trading locations have an average revenue of £6 for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor million and average pro t before tax of £0.3 million. In addition, these locations Birmingham do not have common systems and controls. As a consequence, we consider 26 February 2015 the likelihood of any systematic error arising within this population to be low. Notwithstanding this, for the remaining 96 locations we undertook analytical 1. The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility and enquiry procedures to address the residual risk of material misstatement. of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve The Group audit team focused its involvement in higher risk areas through consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no regular conference calls with entity teams (including discussion of the work responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the nancial performed in relation to the signi cant risks) and review of key working papers. statements since they were initially presented on the web site. In addition, the Group team follows a programme of site visits to higher risk 2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and locations. During 2014 the Group team visited 17 of the full and speci c dissemination of nancial statements may differ from legislation in scope entities within the Group. other jurisdictions. 9. Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 * Comparative amounts exclude entities audited in 2013 that were part of the Retail Dispense businesses which the Group sold on 1 January 2014. In our opinion: • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; • the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the nancial year for which the nancial statements are prepared is consistent with the nancial statements; and Annual Report and Accounts 2014 149 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Note £m £m Fixed Assets Investments C5 507.5 573.4 Current assets Debtors falling due within one year C6 46.5 88.0 Cash at bank and in hand 3.4 49.9 88.0 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Bank overdraft (2.5) Borrowings C8 (19.0) Other creditors C7 (41.2) (41.0) Net current assets 8.7 25.5 Total assets less current liabilities 516.2 598.9 Net assets 516.2 598.9 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C9 81.7 85.3 Share premium account C9 10.8 171.8 Capital redemption reserve C9 174.4 7.9 Profit and loss account C9 249.3 333.9 Equity shareholders’ funds 516.2 598.9 Approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Roberto Quarta Chairman 150 IMI plc COMPANY NOTES TOTHE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C1. Signi cant accounting policies Equity and equity-related compensation bene ts The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation with items considered material in relation to the nancial statements, except bene ts as set out in Section 4.7 to the Group nancial statements. The fair where otherwise noted below: value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recharged to the principal employing company. Basis of accounting When a parent grants share-based payments to employees of a subsidiary, The nancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost UITF41 ‘Scope of FRS20’ and UITF44 ‘Group and Treasury Share Transactions’ convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards except states that the parent receives services from the employees indirectly through for certain nancial instruments as de ned by FRS26 ‘Financial Instruments: its subsidiary which should be accounted for as an increase in the investment Measurement’ which are stated at fair value. in the subsidiary by the parent. The Company has not presented a separate pro t and loss account as Amounts recharged to subsidiaries are recognised as a reduction in the cost of permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. investment in the subsidiary as this recharge is considered to form part of the Under FRS1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’, the Company is exempt from the determination of the net capital contribution from the parent in respect of the requirement to prepare a cash ow statement on the grounds that the Company share-based payment arrangement. Accordingly, there is no overall increase in is included in its own published consolidated nancial statements. the investment in subsidiaries recorded in the Company’s nancial statements. The recharged amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions contained in FRS8 one year. ‘Related party disclosures’ and has not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly owned entities which form part of the Group. Related party The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference transactions with the Company’s key management personnel are disclosed in to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market the Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 79 and in Section 5.2 on page 135 of vesting conditions (for example, pro tability and sales growth targets). Nonthe Group nancial statements. The Company has adopted the requirements market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of of FRS29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ and has taken the exemption options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options at under that standard from disclosure on the grounds that the Group nancial the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. statements contain disclosures in compliance with IFRS7. At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number The Company intends to adopt FRS101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’, which is of options that are expected to vest. effective for accounting periods commencing on 1 January 2015. The comparatives It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the for the year ending 31 December 2014 will be restated to re ect this change. amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings. Notice will be provided to shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. For newly issued shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable Foreign currencies transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling premium when the options are exercised. at the date of transaction. Treasury shares Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase. If treasury and the gains or losses on translation are included in the pro t and loss account. shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of the cancelled shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve. Investments The Company’s cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings is stated at the Dividends or shares presented within shareholders’ funds aggregate of (a) the cash consideration and either (b) the nominal value of the Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability shares issued as consideration when section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the applies or (c) in all other cases the market value of the Company’s shares on discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria the date they were issued as consideration. are disclosed in the notes to the nancial statements. Taxation C2. Remuneration of directors The charge for taxation is based on the pro t for the year and takes into account The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain and options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report items for taxation and accounting purposes. on pages 57 to 79 and Section 2.1.3 of the Group nancial statements. Deferred tax is recognised without discounting, in respect of all timing C3. Staff numbers and costs differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except The number of people employed by the Company, including Directors, during as otherwise required by FRS19. the year was 28 (2013: 25) all of whom were employed in administrative roles. The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking. Financial instruments The Company participates in the IMI UK Funds, which are de ned bene t The principal nancial instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate schemes in which the assets are held independently. The Company is unable swaps. These instruments are used for hedging purposes in line with the to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes Group’s risk management policy. Interest differentials are taken to net interest and consequently in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9(b) the Company in the pro t and loss account. is required to account for pension costs as if the schemes were a de ned If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because contribution schemes. Section 4.5 to the Group nancial statements provides the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to further details regarding the de ned bene t schemes. market and any resulting pro t or loss is recognised at that time. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 151 C4. Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2014 2013 £m £m Prior year final dividend paid 22.5p per qualifying ordinary share (2013: 20.7p) 60.6 66.0 Current year interim dividend paid 13.6p per qualifying ordinary share (2013: 12.8p) 36.7 40.2 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 97.3 106.2 Dividends paid in the year of £97.3m represent 36.1p per share (2013: 33.5p). After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. 2014 2013 £m £m Current year final dividend 24.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2013: 22.5p) 64.8 60.6 Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the nal dividend paid. This is a result of the nal number of qualifying shares entitled to dividends differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date. C5. Fixed assets investments Subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total £m £m £m At 1 January 2014 cost and net book value 239.1 334.3 573.4 Disposals in the period (65.9) (65.9) At 31 December 2014 at cost and net book value 173.2 334.3 507.5 The Company disposed of its £65.9m investment in Artform International Limited on 1 January 2014 for consideration of £61.3m. Details of subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2014 are shown on page 153. C6. Debtors 2014 2013 £m £m Falling due for payment within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 43.0 86.3 Deferred tax asset 3.5 Prepayments and accrued income 0.9 Other financial assets 0.8 46.5 88.0 The deferred taxation balance relates to short-term timing differences arising on unexercised share options and has been calculated at a rate of 20%. C7. Other creditors falling due within one year 2014 2013 £m £m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 39.5 39.5 Other payables 1.7 1.0 Accruals and deferred income 0.5 41.2 41.0 152 IMI plc COMPANY NOTES TOTHE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued C8. Borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see section 4.4 in the Group nancial statements. 2014 2013 £m £m Due within one year: Unsecured US loan notes 2014 19.0 The reduction in unsecured loan notes is due to their settlement in the year. C9. Share capital and reserves Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2013 85.2 170.3 7.9 328.5 591.9 Retained profit for the year 288.9 288.9 Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.5 1.6 Dividends paid (106.2) (106.2) Share-based payments 11.2 11.2 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust (24.2) (24.2) share buyback programme (164.3) (164.3) At 31 December 2013 85.3 171.8 7.9 333.9 598.9 Retained profit for the year 659.3 659.3 Dividends paid on ordinary shares (97.3) (97.3) Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.8 1.9 Issue of ‘B’ shares capital option 151.9 (151.9) Issue of ‘C’ shares income option 10.9 (10.9) Redemption of ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares (162.8) 162.8 (162.8) (162.8) Dividends paid on ‘C’ shares (457.5) (457.5) Cancellation of treasury shares (3.7) 3.7 Share-based payments 4.4 4.4 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust (30.7) (30.7) At 31 December 2014 81.7 10.8 174.4 249.3 516.2 All of the retained earnings held at both 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 are considered to be distributable reserves. Share capital 2014 2013 £m £m Issued and fully paid 286.0m (2013: 341.0m) ordinary shares of 28 4/7p (2013: 25p) each 81.7 85.3 C10. Contingencies Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £73.5m (2013: £74.1m). There is a right of set-off with three of the Company’s bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries. Where the Company enters into nancial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. The Company, as parent of the IMI Group, has contingent liabilities in respect of contingencies within the Group as described in Section 5.1 of the Group nancial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 153 SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The principal subsidiary undertakings listed are those which in the opinion of the directors principally affect the gures shown in the nancial statements. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Annual Return of IMI plc to be led with the Registrar of Companies during 2015. Except where indicated below, the undertakings are subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom and the share capital consists of ordinary shares only. The principal country in which each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation. IMI plc’s effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd which is held directly by IMI plc. The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group accounts. The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these accounts. Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been led at Companies House. Aero Dynamiek BV Netherlands Nano Porous Solutions Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering A/S Denmark Buschjost GmbH Germany Newman Hattersley Ltd Canada IMI Hydronic Engineering Ges.m.b.H Austria CCI AG Switzerland Norgren A/S Denmark IMI Hydronic Engineering Oy Finland CCI América do Sul Comércio de Norgren AG Switzerland IMI Hydronic Engineering SA France Equipamentos Industriais Ltda Brazil Norgren AS Norway IMI Hydronic Engineering SA Spain CCI (Asia Paci c) Pte Ltd Singapore Norgren Automation Solutions LLC USA IMI Hydronic Engineering International CCI Czech Republic sro Czech Republic Norgren BV Netherlands SA Switzerland CCI Flow Control (Shanghai) Co. Ltd China Norgren Co Ltd China IMI Hydronic Switzerland AG Switzerland CCI Italy srl Italy Norgren European Logistics Company Ltd IMI Hidronik Muhendislik Iklimlendirme CCI KK Japan Sistemleri Ltd Sti Turkey Norgren GesmbH Austria CCI Ltd Korea TA Regulator d.o.o Slovenia Norgren GT Development Corporation Inc USA CCI Switzerland AG Switzerland Th Jansen-Armaturen GmbH Germany Norgren Kloehn Inc USA CCI Valve Technology AB Sweden Thompson Valves Ltd Norgren Ltd CCI Valve Technology GmbH Austria IMI Hydronic Engineering Ltda Brazil Norgren Ltd New Zealand Control Components Inc USA IMI Hydronic Engineering NV Belgium Norgren Ltda Brazil Control Component India Pvt Ltd India Tru o Marine Ltd Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd China IMI Hydronic Engineering Inc USA Tru o Rona SA Belgium Norgren Pte Ltd Singapore Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Germany Tru o Rona srl Italy Norgren Pty Ltd Australia Fluid Automation Systems SA Switzerland Z&J Technologies GmbH Germany Norgren SA de CV Mexico Fluid Automation Systems Technologies Zimmermann & Jansen Inc USA Norgren SAS France SA Switzerland Zimmermann & Jansen South Africa (Pty) Ltd Norgren SpA Italy Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Germany South Africa Norgren Sweden AB Sweden Hochdruck-Reduziertechnik GmbH Germany Orton srl Italy IMI Components Inc USA Corporate Pneumatex BV Netherlands IMI Components Ltd IMI Group Ltd Pneumatex GmbH Germany IMI Indoor Climate Trading (Shanghai) China IMI Kynoch Ltd Remosa Service & Construction SpA Italy IMI International Kft Hungary IMI Overseas Investments Ltd Remosa SpA Italy IMI International LLC Russia IMI Americas Inc USA Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment IMI International sro Czech Republic China (70%) IMI Fluid Controls Holdings Inc USA IMI International sp zoo Poland Stainless Steel Fasteners Ltd IMI Consulting (Shanghai) Co Limited China IMI Norgren Herion Pvt Ltd India STI srl Italy IMI Americas Inc USA Norgren Finland Oy Finland IMI Hydronic Engineering Deutschland IMI Fluid Controls Holdings Inc USA IMI Norgren SA Spain GmbH Germany IMI Consulting (Shanghai) Co Limited China IMI Scott Ltd IMI Hydronic Engineering AB Sweden Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides SAS France IMI Hydronic Engineering AS Norway Interativa Indústria, Comércio e Representações IMI Hydronic Engineering BV Netherlands Ltda Brazil 154 IMI plc GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees as at 31 December 2014 and is not required to be audited. UK 1,375 Continental Europe 6,285 Americas 2,340 Asia Pacific 1,609 Rest of World 62 Total 11,671 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY The restated figures in the tables below relate to the exclusion of the Retail Dispense businesses, which were sold on 1 January 2014. Further information is included within section 2.5. Income statement 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 1,427 1,645 1,694 1,743 1,692 Segmental revenue* 1,433 1,649 1,696 1,744 1,686 Operating profit* 262.4 307.6 300.1 321.6 295.5 Adjusted profit before tax* 235.4 280.9 274.8 297.7 278.1 Net credit on special pension events 10.9 7.0 Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme 15.1 Restructuring costs (10.7) (21.4) (18.9) (14.2) (8.6) Acquired intangible amortisation and impairment (6.7) (32.3) (29.6) (21.9) (60.4) Acquisition and disposal costs (6.3) (9.9) (1.8) Gains on disposal of subsidiaries 34.2 Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains/losses 9.6 (6.2) (1.0) (2.4) (2.8) Profit before tax from continuing operations 242.7 221.0 229.9 249.3 245.7 EBITDA† 320 321 318 332 371 * Before exceptional items. † Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, impairment and other income. Group sales by destination 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 £m £m £m £m £m UK 92 91 101 104 98 Western Europe 669 744 694 686 644 North America 259 297 306 338 318 Emerging Markets 327 396 462 504 544 Rest of World 86 121 133 112 82 1,433 1,649 1,696 1,744 1,686 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 155 Revenue £m Adjusted pro t before tax* £m Continuing revenue by geographic destination 2014 Rest of the World 5% 1,744 298 1,694 1,686 1,645 281 278 275 UK 6% 1,427 235 Westen Europe 38% North America 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Emerging 19% Markets * Before exceptional items. 32% Earnings and dividends 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Adjusted earnings per share (continuing) 52.6p 64.5p 64.7p 72.6p 78.0p Basic earnings per share (continuing) 54.3p 50.5p 53.9p 60.4p 69.2p Ordinary dividend per share 26.0p 30.0p 32.5p 35.3p 37.6p Balance sheet 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 £m £m £m £m £m Segmental net assets Continuing 791 806 906 897 849 Discontinued 194 192 189 196 Other net non-operating liabilities excluding borrowings (264) (275) (267) (246) (95) Net debt Continuing (164) (127) (160) (226) (200) Discontinued 19 18 16 27 Net assets 576 614 684 648 554 Statistics 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental revenue 18.3% 18.7% 17.7% 18.4% 17.5% Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental net assets 33.2% 38.2% 33.1% 35.9% 34.8% Effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax 28.0% 26.0% 24.0% 22.0% 22.0% Net assets per share (excluding treasury and EBT shares) 181.9p 193.5p 214.0p 210.0p 218.4p Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds 28.5% 20.7% 23.4% 34.9% 36.1% Net debt: EBITDA** 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.5 EBITDA: Interest 21 19 18 21 26 ** For 2014, net debt to EBITDA excluding disposal gains and one off pension gains was 0.6 times. 156 IMI plc SHAREHOLDER AND GENERAL INFORMATION Announcement of trading results To find out more information about the services American Depository Receipts The trading results for the Group for the first half offered by Shareview and to register, please visit IMI plc has an American Depositary Receipt (ADR) of 2015 will be announced on 31 July 2015. www.shareview.co.uk. programme that trades on the Over-The-Counter The trading results for the full year ending 31 (‘OTC’) market in the USA, using the symbol IMIAY. December 2015 will be announced in early 2016. ADR enquiries should be directed to Citibank Corporate website Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence, Interim management statements will be issued in The IMI plc website provides a wealth of useful RI 02940-3077, USA. Toll-free number in the May and November 2015. information for shareholders and should be your USA is 1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237) and from first port of call for general queries relating to the outside the USA is 1-781-575-4555. You can also Company and your shares. As well as providing email citibank@shareholders-online.com. Dividend payment share price data and financial history, the site Dividends on ordinary shares are normally paid also provides background information about as follows: the Company. Headquarters and registered office Interim: mid-October Shareholders are also encouraged to sign up to Lakeside Final: mid-May receive news alerts by email in the Investors section Solihull Parkway of the website. These includes all of the financial Birmingham Business Park news releases from throughout the year that are Birmingham Share prices and capital gains tax not sent to shareholders by post. You can access B37 7XZ the corporate website at www.imiplc.com. Telephone: +44 121 717 3700 The closing price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 2014 was 1,263.00p (2013: 1,525.00p). Annual General Meeting 2015 Registrars The market value of the Company’s Ordinary Shares on 31 March 1982, as calculated for This year’s AGM will be held at the Hilton Equiniti capital gains tax purposes, was 53.5p per share. Birmingham Metropole, National Exhibition Centre, Aspect House Birmingham B40 1PP on Thursday 7 May 2015 at Spencer Road The Company’s SEAQ number is 51443. 10am. For further information, please refer to the Lancing Notice of Meeting that accompanies this Report. West Sussex Enquiries about shareholdings BN99 6DA For enquiries concerning shareholders’ personal Telephone: 0871 384 2916* Individual Savings Account (ISA) holdings, please contact the Company’s Registrar: or from overseas +44 121 415 7047 IMI‘s ordinary shares can be held in an ISA. Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, For information about the ISA operated by our West Sussex, BN99 6DA. Monday to Friday Registrar, Equiniti, please call the Equiniti ISA Telephone: 0871 384 2916*, helpline on 0845 300 0430. Lines are open from *Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras. or from overseas +44 121 415 7047. 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Stockbrokers *Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Share dealing service J.P. Morgan Cazenove Please remember to tell Equiniti if you move house, Managed by Equiniti, the Company’s registrar, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch change bank details or if there is any other change IMI plc Share Dealing Service provides shareholders to your account information. with a simple way of buying and selling IMI ordinary shares. Telephone 0845 603 7037. Full written Auditor details can be obtained from the Secretary’s Department, IMI plc, Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Ernst & Young LLP Managing your shares online Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7XZ Shareholders can manage their holdings online (Telephone: 0121 717 3700). by registering with Shareview, the internet based platform provided by Equiniti. Registration is a straightforward process and by doing so allows IMI plc is registered in England Share fraud shareholders to: No.714275 Over the past few years we have been aware, • help us to reduce print, paper and postage costs as have many listed companies that our and the associated environmental impact of these shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls • cast your AGM vote electronically or correspondence concerning investment matters. • receive an email alert when important shareholder Share fraud includes scams where investors are documents are available online such as Annual called out of the blue and offered shares that often Reports and Notices of General Meetings turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an • access details of your individual shareholding inflated price for shares they own. These calls come quickly and securely from fraudsters operating in ‘boiler rooms’ that are mostly based abroad. Further information on how • set up a dividend mandate online to avoid share fraud or report a scam can be found • change your registered postal address or on our website. your dividend mandate details
