HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Device is committed to integrating human rights into our policies and business practices. Our Polices and Goals include: To enquire our employees, business partners, suppliers, and our customers to understand, respect, support, and adhere to the principles of Universal Declaration of Human Rights To address Human Rights risk and to act upon the Human Rights related issues. Implementation Device expresses the intention to support individual human rights and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, which are also clearly stated in the employment contract. We are trying to make sure that employees enjoy fundamental labour rights like a safe workplace, a living wage, nondiscriminatory work practices, and collective bargaining. We create accessible workplace or providing a workplace free from discrimination. The Company’s policies and objectives are delivered through “continuous training”; including organisational development and management training to all employees as appropriate to the job and career path. Measurement of Outcomes In the past year, Device has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Device recognizes that employees are our greatest asset. To ensure that we are able to recruit, hire, and retain the talented individuals in our organization, we strive to assist all of our employees in maintaining a balanced work life and to provide flexibility to employees on an individual basis. We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. An open door policy has been established where employees can report grievances to their upper management and the Human Resources Manager. Device shall not engage in or support the use of forced and compulsory labour in any forms. Device shall not hire or give support to hire a young worker under 18 years of age. Device shall not engage in or support any discrimination in respect of hiring, employment, payment of wage and remuneration, providing welfare and opportunity for training and development, promotion, termination of employment. Implementation Device has always been supportive of the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Prior to employment, it is our policy to be transparent about the working terms and conditions. All employees are awarded equal opportunities to develop the knowledge, skills and competence that are relevant to their job. Every employee’s salary increase is depending on their performance and their added value of their work. All employees are accorded equal opportunities to develop the knowledge, skills and competence that are relevant to their job. Device organizes in house training which are skills development courses, team work and regular social events and annual trip. Device’s employees are not discriminated against because of gender, race, origin, background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age, with the guideline of Labour Law of Myanmar. Measurement of Outcomes No labour rights violation reported during in this reporting period. HR policies were updated according to labour law of Myanmar. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We are, however, motivated and highly committed to protecting and making a positive impact on the local environment, while conducting our daily business activities. In order to promote the sustainable development of economic society, we keep improving the regional environmental quality and strengthen the environmental awareness to all staff. Implementation Device committed to ensure healthy and safe working environment and also ensure that all activities are carried out in a manner that ensures environment protection. Device controls necessary to comply with Environmental, Health & Safety requirements. We try to minimize environmental impact arising from activities by preventing or minimizing pollution and efficient use of natural resources. Device committed to focus on conservation and optimum utilization of resources such as water, electricity, paper and diesel etc. We focus on ensuring occupational health and safety in all activities of the organization. We dispose all types of waste generated process within the organization in an eco‐friendly manner. Measurement of Outcomes Device continued to take good care of the stakeholders and monitor the environmental quality in order to provide correct and transparent information to all stakeholders. ANTI‐CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Device supports the UNGC principles on anti‐corruption. We work strongly against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Device committed transparency, accountability and integrity in principle and practice. Every employee is responsible for ensuring that his or her conduct is legally and ethically compliant. After all, business partners, investors and the public expect us to be competent, fair and reliable. Based on the proven principles that characterize our business operations and clearly explains where and how you can obtain help with compliance questions. Implementation We make sure that all employees, partners, business associates and contractors haven’t been involved in any corruption activities. Any suspicion of involvement in corruption or fraudulent activities must be reported to the Board. Measurement of Outcomes Device has not experienced any cases of corruption within the past year. There have been no reported cases of attempted bribery or conflict of interest.
