15th September 2015 Statement of continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption , by the CADG President To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that the CADG International Pte Ltd (part fo the CADG Group of Companies) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From: July 2014 –August 2015 In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Raju Shaulis CADG President Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals CADG understand it has a social responsibility with respect to human rights 1.1 Please see enclosed our Ethics Policy as per Annex 1, which opposes our any type of human rights abuse. 1.2 Please also refer to the Whistle Blowing policy as per Annex 3, which outlines the Company’s disclosure procedure. Whistleblowing protection is confined to a disclosure which, in the reasonable belief of the employee making the disclosure, is made in the public interest. 1.3 CADG support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, through our business practices CADG seek to protect and promote the human rights and basic freedoms of all its employees and agents. 1.4 CADG ensure that all of its employees, agents and contractors are entitled to their human rights as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Human Rights Act 1998. 1.5 CADG confirms that we will not enter into any business arrangement with any person, company or organisation which fails to uphold the human rights of its workers or who breach the human rights of those affected by the organisation’s activities. 1.6 CADG are vehemently opposed to the use of slavery in all forms; cruel, inhuman or degrading punishments; and any attempt to control or reduce freedom of thought, conscience and religion. 1.7 CADGs goal in the next 12 months, is to hold bi-annual training seminars, educating and training our personnel on human rights. CADG acknowledge that good human rights performance is the conduct of company operations without causing harm to people, either directly through company activities, or indirectly through the company’s relationships to others who cause harm. A key step towards ensuring good human rights performance by is the conduct of human rights due diligence. Implementation The outcome of the seminars will provide concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. This will done throughout the seminar via: • Suggestion boxes • Discussion with personnel attending the event(s) • Via consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within CADG – currently assigned to the Operations Manager. CADG will develop, as a result of the training seminars • Enhanced Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights, and concrete measures to put it effect how we can quantifiably measure our contribution to human rights. Measurement of outcomes A report from the training seminars – with objectives such as: • Monthly review of worldwide Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights in general. – Do any policies need to be drawn up by CADG in the areas that we work in order to prevent these types of instances occurring again. • Specific report any progress made in the area of Human Rights – get feedback from our personnel on the ground, nominate project managers to make monthly reports. • A periodic review of results by senior management will be conducted no later than 2 months after each seminar, and a report will be communicated to all staff. 2014-2015 Outcomes  Due to remote locations of many CADG staff, 2 virtual training seminars took place with information disseminated via team meetings in-country  A monthly review of worldwide investigations legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights in general was carried out by CADG’s HR department by reviewing sites such as https://www.hrw.org/africa/kenya http://www.acas.org.uk/index.aspx?articleid=4898 and http://hrcouncil.ca/hr-toolkit/policieshuman-rights.cfm. No changes to CADG’s current policies were required.  Project Managers are now aware that human right issues and concerns should be reported to senior management via their monthly reports.  Senior Management reviewed the results at their regular board meetings Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals • Please see enclosed our Ethics Policy as per Annex 1, which opposes our any type of human rights abuse. • All personnel are provided with an employee’s handbook of company policy regarding their rights (as employee’s) and a contract which outlines their responsibilities and their compensation and benefits – as per Annex 2. • Please also refer to the Whistle Blowing policy as per Annex 3, which outlines the Company’s disclosure procedure. Whistleblowing protection is confined to a disclosure which, in the reasonable belief of the employee making the disclosure, is made in the public interest. • CADG adhere to international labour standards. • CADG adheres to International labour standards and the legal instruments drawn up by the ILO's constituents (governments, employers and workers) and setting out basic principles and rights at work. • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Labour principles and sign a copy prior to starting to do any work with CADG. • Specific goals are to investigate the laws into new markets/countries that we do not currently operate in, to ensure that we not only meet current legislation however ensure that we can continue to operate in our own high standards, and that not abuses occur. Implementation CADG adhere to labour policies and promote continuous professional development in order to reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. Examples • HR department are competent and trained on how to deal with any labour grievance, they monitor their labour policies • Awareness raising and training for operations and project managers employees on labour rights and policies Measurement of outcomes • HR are provided training to ensure they are up-to date on all ILO labor laws, so our policies ensure their requirements as adhered to. • Personnel are required to complete an Equal Opportunity Form – this gives accurate data about the diversity of our personnel. • These statistics are periodically reviewed by senior management. 2014-2015 Outcomes  CADG’s HR team continued to be updated on ILO labor laws and policies and ensure that these flowed down to local HR departments and local recruitment agents currently used by CADG  Agreements were signed with local recruitment agencies requiring them to also follow ILO labor laws  All new personnel completed an Equal Opportunity Form  The statistics were reviewed by the senior management at their regular board meetings Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals CADG have an integrated Quality and Environmental Management System is to ensure product and service quality continue to meet the highest standards demanded by the organization and expected by its customers; and to ensure CADG’s products, process, and services are carried out in an environmentally responsible and protective manner. • Please see enclosed our written Quality and Environmental Management System Manual as per Annex 4. • The company policy outlines CADG’s commitment on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks. This policy is disseminated to any of our business partners and suppliers, they sign a compliance for stating that they adhere to the environmental principles. • Specific goals in the area of the environment are the reduction of paper in the head office by 15% by July 2014. Implementation CADG will provide: • 10 minute reminder of awareness training of employees on environmental protection on the 10 th of each of month. • New recycling skips for the various materials on site. • Suggestion box allowing employees to promote additional energy efficiency of products, services and processes. • Raise awareness among suppliers by asking for the soft copies of brochures and quotes instead of hardcopies. • Environmental management system to identify, monitor and control the company’s environmental performance. Measurement of outcomes CADG monitors and evaluates environmental performance. • Information about how your company deals with incidents. • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to environmental principles. • Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period. • Periodic review of results by senior management. • External audits of environmental performance. 2014-2015 Outcomes  CADG has employed a dedicate HSE Manager who will review all current environmental policies and advise all staff on necessary changes. She has also visited most CADG project sites and advised on HSE issues and changes which should be implemented.  CADG is in the process of applying for ISO 14001 status which will involve the implementation of all actions mentioned above if they are not already in place Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals 1.8 CADG have a comprehensive written anti‐bribery policy for the company please annex 5. The Company is fully committed to instilling a strong anti-corruption culture and is fully committed to compliance with all anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation including, but not limited to, the Bribery Act 2010 (“the Act”) and ensures that no bribes or other corrupt payments, inducements or similar are made, offered, sought or obtained by us or anyone working on our behalf. 1.9 This Policy applies to all employees, agents, contractors, subcontractors, consultants, business partners and any other parties (including individuals, partnerships and bodies corporate) associated with the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 1.10 It is the responsibility of all of the abovementioned parties to ensure that bribery is prevented, detected and reported and all such reports should be made in accordance with the Company’s Whistleblowing Policy or as otherwise stated in this Policy, as appropriate. Implementation  CADG communicate and reiterate our stance on zero tolerance towards corruption. Our anti‐ corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. CADG will provide: • Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Allocation of responsibilities for anti‐corruption are at all levels throughout the company. Measurement of outcomes The following 5 items underpin CADG priorities for ensuring an effective Corporate Compliance Programme: 1. Individualized Risk Assessment CADG understand that the key element underlying an effective corporate compliance program is an individualized risk assessment that identifies and evaluates the key risks that the company faces with regard to bribery of foreign officials/ personnel working abroad. CADG recognize that there is no one-size-fits-all compliance program for all companies, because every company faces different bribery risks. An individualized risk assessment ensures that CADG corporate compliance program is tailored to the specific risks we face and will also help to identify changes needed in the compliance program as the company grows, expands operations, moves into different markets. 2. Commitment from Senior Leadership A successful anti-corruption compliance program requires a strong tone from the top of the company regarding the importance of strict compliance procedures. CADG senior management will take appropriate measures to encourage and support the observance of ethics and compliance standards and procedures against foreign bribery by personnel at all levels of the company. 3. Explicit Written Policies and Procedures, Ethics Policy, and Internal Controls CADG have policies to ensure that an effective compliance program is in place and that written policies and procedures against violations of anti-corruption laws. These policies and procedures, including internal controls and ethics policies, will be explicit as well as clearly articulated and visible within the company. 4. Effective Communication and Training Effective communication of, and periodic training on, CADG’s compliance policies and procedures to all directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and appropriate any third parties is an essential component of the compliance program developed. Therefore, directly-hired employees as well as applicable third parties must not only know about the company’s relevant anti-corruption policies and procedures, but understand them as well. 5. Monitoring and Auditing An essential component of a compliance program is ongoing monitoring and auditing of the compliance policies and procedures to ensure that they are indeed effective at preventing and detecting foreign bribery. This monitoring and auditing will be directed toward the company’s key risk areas, as identified by an ongoing, individualized risk analysis, and metrics should be developed, used, and revised as necessary to measure and ensure that the compliance program is effective. Finally, a company should regularly audit its own books and records, as well as the books and records of its covered third parties. 2014-2015 Outcomes  Corruption risk assessments were carried out at all new project sites and CADG locations  Regular internal and external audits were completed for all CADG projects and offices.  Anti corruption training is provided to all new employees Annex 1 Ethics Policy as per Annex 1 Annex 2 – Employee handbook Annex 3 Whistle Blowing Policy Annex 4 Quality and Environmental Management System Manual Annex 5 Anti –Corruption Policy
