Fountain Park United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report April/2014-March/2015 To our stakeholders, Fountain Park is co-creating meaningful future for its customers. We operate in the social business market by utilizing crowdstorming technologies in our projects. We offer co-creation solutions for sustainability, predictive leadership and enterprise listening. One of our core service areas is sustainability and corporate responsibility related stakeholder dialogues. We facilitate and execute the online phase of the dialogue and analyze the collected material for our customer companies and organizations. I am pleased to confirm that Fountain Park reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders in our webpages and other channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Riitta Ahlholm Managing Director Sivu 2/9 Contents Human Rights........................................................... 4 Principle 1: ........................................ 4 Principle 2: ........................................ 4 Labour ................................................................... 5 Principle 3 ......................................... 5 Principle 4 ......................................... 5 Principle 5 ......................................... 5 Principle 6 ......................................... 5 Environment ............................................................ 7 Principle 7 ......................................... 7 Principle 8 ......................................... 7 Principle 9 ......................................... 7 Anti-Corruption ........................................................ 8 Principle 10 ........................................ 8 Sivu 3/9 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. In the Finnish business environment, it is very rare that basic human rights become an issue. Respecting human rights is an absolute precondition for companies to be able to operate, and any human rights violations by companies would not go unnoticed. As a democratic welfare state, Finland has advanced legislation in terms of human rights and they are safeguarded by the Finnish constitution. As a company, Fountain Park is subject to the Finnish legislation. Finland has signed and ratified, among others, the following covenants • Universal Declaration of Human Rights • United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights • United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights • ILO Convention (nr 182) concerning child labour and immediate actions in banning and eliminating child labour Fountain Park’s main market area is Finland. Our services are, however, also provided to globally operating companies, and therefore we need to take human rights into consideration in our business as we are helping our customers to respect them in their world-wide operations, and in their supply chain. Through our services, our customers can have better possibilities to monitor, manage and communicate their human rights topics to their stakeholders. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Fountain Park strictly resists any kinds of human rights abuses. If we find any implications on human rights violations in our customer projects we will immediately notify our customers of such observations. We are a member of Finnish Business & Society (FiBS) organization, which is a network for responsible business, a non-profit societal actor whose purpose is to promote economically, socially and ecologically responsible business in Finland. Measurement of outcomes Sivu 4/9 Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Human Rights Principles. Our ambitions for the next year We plan to execute one pro bono case with our virtual brainstorming method for a human rights association. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. As a democratic welfare state, labour conditions are usually good in Finland. Violations of labour principles are usually minor, and they do not easily go unnoticed. Finland has advanced legislation in terms of labour principles. As a company, Fountain Park is regulated by the Finnish legislation. Finland has signed and ratified, among others, the following covenants: • Universal Declaration of Human Rights • United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights • United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights • ILO Convention (nr 182) concerning child labour and immediate actions in banning eliminating child labour Freedom of association and collective bargaining are constitutional civil rights in Finland. Fountain Park obeys the local legislation related to labour standards and respects employees' freedom of association and labour agreements, and strictly resist any abuse of labour. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. Sivu 5/9 Labour rights, occupational health and safety policies are incorporated into Fountain Park´s daily practices. They show in following:  We provide timely and accurate payment of wages.  We provide provision of different types of employment leave (parental leaves or alternation leave).  We provide (though a voluntary insurance) better medical benefits for all our employees than the local legislation or the association agreements require.  We enhance the mental and physical health of our employees by supporting their sports and/ or cultural activities.  We provide better vacation benefits for all our employees than the local legislation or the association agreements require. Fountain Park´s employee policy is continuously developed, with the emphasis on equality, fairness, motivation, and common rules of the game. Human capital is our most important asset, and we are committed to promoting the well-being of our employees. We have developed our reward systems, and our own rules of the game “the Fountiquette”. All new employees are familiarized with these internal policies. We oppose all kind of discrimination. We believe in good, communicative and open leadership, continuous development and motivating our personnel. We provide equal opportunities for every individual that joins our company. We accept all individuals regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, religion or nationality. Also, when hiring, candidates are always chosen based on professional qualifications. We do our best to ensure that our employees have good possibilities to combine work and family life. All employees, also men, are encouraged to use their parental leaves. Telecommuting, working at home and flexible working hours are actively used. As a part of our CSR work we also offer learning possibilities for trainees and students. Over the years we have had several students utilizing our virtual brainstorming technology and platform in their Master´s thesis work. We also have an active partnership with a local higher education institution. We also have a great indirect impact in promoting good leadership though our customer projects. We enhance openness and participative leadership when we make it possible for our customers to involve and engage large numbers of people in various situations. We are a member of Finnish Business & Society (FiBS) organization, which is a network for responsible business, a non-profit societal actor whose purpose is to promote economically, socially and ecologically responsible business in Finland. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Sivu 6/9 We have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour Principles. We will continuously ensure the demographics of management and our employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) Our ambitions for the next year We aim to set and communicate our goal to increase even more the possibilities to combine one´s work and family life. This will be done by enhancing flexibility, encouraging telecommuting, web-meetings and working at home (or other locations other than Fountain Park´s office). We will write and communicate a short company policy regarding telecommuting. We will conduct a “work well-being & management evaluation survey” in order to make sure that our leadership and the well-being of our employees meet our high standards. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Fountain Park is a management consulting company that specializes in cocreation processes through web. We produce insight, information and intelligence. In relative terms, we do not use considerable amounts of natural resources. However, our company still uses some resources such as electricity, paper and other office items, and we also travel. Therefore, environmental aspects are important for us too. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Fountain Park pays attention to: • Recycling biodegradable waste, batteries, glass, paper and other materials. • Efficient paper use in printing and copying. • Saving energy by switching off lights and using stand-by mode for electronic Sivu devices. 7/9 • Avoiding the use of single-use products. • Avoiding unnecessary travel by preferring phone or videoconferences. Even more important than our own activities regarding environmental responsibility are, however, our indirect impacts through our services to our customers. Through virtual stakeholder dialogues our customers can take greater responsibility for the environment and communicate their progress to their stakeholders. By involving their stakeholders, they can find new ideas on how to reduce the negative impacts and increase environmentally positive solutions. In addition to CSR related stakeholder dialogues, also our other services have positive impacts on the environment. When leadership development or strategy work is facilitated via web less travelling is required. We are a member of Finnish Business & Society (FiBS) organization, which is a network for responsible business, a non-profit societal actor whose purpose is to promote economically, socially and ecologically responsible business in Finland. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. We have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Environment Principles. Our ambitions for the next year During the next year, Fountain Park aims to start to collect and analyze information about the telecommuting days of our personnel. We aim to set and communicate our goal to reduce travelling. This will be done by encouraging web-meetings and working at home (or other locations other than Fountain Park´s office). We will write and communicate a short company policy regarding telecommuting. In addition, we will aim to reduce our use of paper even more. Our goal is not to deliver printed reports to our customers, unless specifically asked to do so. We will get rid of not environmentally friendly folders we have been using so far. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. In our field of business, receiving or giving gifts of considerable value or other Sivu business courtesies is not commonplace. 8/9 In Finland, bidding processes, especially public ones are closely monitored, which gives little room for corruption and bribery. Anti-corruption laws in Finland are advanced and we have a culture of transparency. As a company, Fountain Park is regulated by the Finnish legislation. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. The collaboration between Fountain Park and its customers and partners is always based on openness, honestly, and mutual trust. We only work with partners who believe in these principles as strongly as we do. We comply with laws and regulations, and we do not accept any illegal or morally questionable activities in any operations. When participating in public bidding processes, we pay attention to play by the rules and act as openly as possible. We are a member of Finnish Business & Society (FiBS) organization, which is a network for responsible business, a non-profit societal actor whose purpose is to promote economically, socially and ecologically responsible business in Finland. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. We have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principles. Our ambitions for the next year During the next year, Fountain Park aims to set and communicate rules about the value of gifts and complimentary services that we may offer or receive. Sivu 9/9
