United Nations Global Compact METRO GROUP Condensed Report 2014/15 Seite 1 von 6 CONDENSED REPORT 2014/15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Being a member of the United Nations Global Compact – the world’s largest initiative for corporate responsibility – helps METRO GROUP to firmly embed sustainability in its company strategy. As well as this, it provides the right framework for our long-term commitment to responsible and ethical business practices. With this Communication on Progress, METRO GROUP is fulfilling its obligation to demonstrate which guidelines and measures it is using to improve its performance in the fields of human rights, working standards, environmental protection and the elimination of corruption and to ensure that the Global Compact’s ten basic principles are adhered to in strategic decision-making and day-to-day work both now and in the future. Düsseldorf, December 2015 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014/15 In the following table, we show examples of commitments and management systems that serve the ten principles, measures that we have taken and results that we achieved in the reporting period 2014/15. HUMAN RIGHTS AND WORKING STANDARDS Commitments and management Principle systems Measures 2014/15 Achievements 2014/15 PRINCIPLE 1: METRO GROUP Business Producers in defined risk Of the 1,943 audited BSCISupport for Principles countries (based on the relevant factories, 93 per cent human rights assessment of the Business passed the social audit in Social Compliance Initiative accordance with BSCI Anti-discrimination guidelines [BSCI]) in which MGB Hong Kong specifications. PRINCIPLE 2: has import goods manufactured Elimination of and producers that manufacture human rights METRO GROUP guidelines on fair See the key performance working conditions and social own brands or own imports in abuses the areas of clothing, shoes, toys indicator for suppliers passing partnership the social audit. and consumer durables for the METRO GROUP sales lines are assisted in implementing the http://reports.metrogroup.de/2014-2015/condensed-report/sustainability/united-nation... 16.12.2015 United Nations Global Compact METRO GROUP Condensed Report 2014/15 Seite 2 von 6 Commitments and management Principle systems Measures 2014/15 Achievements 2014/15 PRINCIPLE 3: International standards BSCI standard or an equivalent Sales of fair-trade products Protection of throughout the supply chain social standards system. within the METRO Cash & Carry the freedom (BSCI) and Real sales lines in Germany of association came to almost €9 million. This and the right Social dialogue at the local level figure includes items featuring to collective Key labour standards of the is an important element in order the Fairtrade or the GEPA label. bargaining International Labour for METRO GROUP to build up Organization (ILO), embedded in good labour relations. Collective a variety of corporate guidelines agreements existing in various Based on the UN Guiding PRINCIPLE 4: countries were reinforced. In Principles on Business and Elimination of other countries, collective Human Rights, checks were all forms of Social standards clause in agreements were reached for conducted in Turkey, Poland and forced labour supplier contracts the first time or negotiations in Austria regarding compliance this regard are still ongoing. with the METRO principles of fair OECD Guidelines for working conditions and social PRINCIPLE 5: partnership. Abolition of Multinational Enterprises, Start of an awareness-raising child labour embedded in a variety of initiative for all METRO AG and corporate guidelines METRO Cash & Carry employees On the basis of a joint regarding inclusion and declaration in December 2013, PRINCIPLE 6: diversity, supported by METRO GROUP and the Elimination of workshops and an e-learning international trade union discrimination module. organisation UNI Global Union worked together closely to improve relations between the METRO GROUP has been on the trade unions and management in Board of Charta der Vielfalt e.V. Pakistan. since 2013. A Diversity Week was held in Düsseldorf in June 2015, with an information stand Representatives of the METRO and daily workshops and events GROUP management attended that covered the various the annual meeting of the UNI dimensions of diversity. METRO Global Union Alliance in Istanbul in October 2014. As a member of the Rhine-Ruhr Diversity Network, METRO Development and distribution of GROUP got together with various internal guidelines for 14 other companies in June maintaining a healthy and safe 2015 to run a joint campaign work environment. under the motto of “Make use of diversity – reap success” on the occasion of Germany’s third Strengthening of the country Diversity Day. network for health and safety. In financial year 2013/14, Training the health and safety METRO GROUP updated its officers. voluntary commitment to increasing the proportion of The proportion of women at women in managerial positions. management levels one to three The aim is for the proportion of was 16.8 per cent on the women in managerial positions reporting date, 30 September (levels one to three) to be 2015. 25 per cent throughout the group in the calendar year 2017. At METRO AG, the target is for See the employees chapter of women to make up 25 per cent the Annual Report 2014/15 of the first two management (../../annual-report/combinedlevels below the Management management-report/principlesBoard in the calendar year of-the-group/employees.html) . 2017 as well. http://reports.metrogroup.de/2014-2015/condensed-report/sustainability/united-nation... 16.12.2015 United Nations Global Compact METRO GROUP Condensed Report 2014/15 Seite 3 von 6 Commitments and management Principle systems Measures 2014/15 Achievements 2014/15 The employee network Women in Trade (WiT) now has some 130 members. It is instrumental in sustainably increasing the proportion of women in managerial positions, promoting internal and external dialogue, and creating better underlying conditions for women within the group. Founding of the employee network PRIDE for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex people with a view to raising awareness of the topics of sexual orientation and identity. For details of active involvement in the areas of inclusion and diversity, occupational safety and health management, and employeremployee relations, see the employees chapter of the Annual Report 2014/15 (../../annual-report/combinedmanagement-report/principlesof-the-group/employees.html) . ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Commitments and management Principle systems Measures 2014/15 Achievements 2014/15 PRINCIPLE 7: METRO GROUP environmental METRO GROUP environmental Environmental policy now Precautionary policy policy revised applies to all companies in approach to which METRO GROUP holds a environmental stake. challenges Energy and environmental METRO GROUP climate management systems protection target: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by Greenhouse gas emissions per PRINCIPLE 8: 20 per cent from 330 kg/m2 in m2 of selling space reduced by Promotion of Procurement policy for 2011 to 264 kg/m2 in 2020. 19.7 per cent compared with greater sustainable sourcing, also 2011. environmental purchasing guidelines for fish, responsibility palm oil and packaging Implementing energy-saving measures in all the sales lines Energy consumption per m2 of with the Energy Saving selling space down almost PRINCIPLE 9: International standards Programme and the Energy 2 per cent year-on-year. Diffusion of throughout the supply chain Awareness Programme. environmentally (GLOBALG.A.P., IFS) friendly Greenhouse gas emissions per technologies Assisting consumers with m2 of selling space resulting energy efficiency and correct from refrigeration system http://reports.metrogroup.de/2014-2015/condensed-report/sustainability/united-nation... 16.12.2015 United Nations Global Compact METRO GROUP Condensed Report 2014/15 Seite 4 von 6 Commitments and management Principle systems Measures 2014/15 Achievements 2014/15 The Consumer Goods Forum disposal by providing relevant leakage reduced by 5 per cent Board Resolution on information and guides, and year-on-year. Deforestation also by taking back old electrical appliances on a voluntary basis at Media-Saturn Water consumption per m2 of The Consumer Goods Forum and Real in Germany. selling space unchanged yearBoard Resolution on on-year. Sustainable Refrigeration Switching over our refrigeration systems to natural refrigerants Environmental KPIs Roundtable on Sustainable such as CO2 or ammonia. successfully audited externally Palm Oil (RSPO) once again. Ongoing involvement in CDP for transparency with regard to Energy management systems climate change. certified in accordance with ISO 50001 at 130 locations. Certification of other locations is Implementation of the general planned. buying policy for sustainable procurement and the purchasing guidelines for fish, Renewed BREEAM certification palm oil and packaging. for METRO GROUP headquarters. Range of ecologically and socially certified products. Charging point infrastructure for electromobility expanded. Committee work (e.g. on marine protection), partnership Customers given information by programmes for sustainable Saturn about actively reducing food production in cooperation the use of plastic bags in the with Bayer CropScience. form of a guide “Plastiktüten bewusst reduzieren” (Active plastic bag reduction). Car policy revised, additionally taking environmental issues into account. Implementation of an industrywide traceability system as a precautionary measure relating to illegal fishing in various countries, and expansion to include new partners. Products certified in accordance with the EU Regulation on organic farming accounted for €107 million in sales at the METRO Cash & Carry and Real sales lines in Germany. Real is the first retail company in Germany to sell food sourced from permaculture. The requirements of this production method go above and beyond those of organic farming. In financial year 2014/15, our sales lines METRO Cash & Carry and Real in Germany had a sustainable fish portfolio http://reports.metrogroup.de/2014-2015/condensed-report/sustainability/united-nation... 16.12.2015 United Nations Global Compact METRO GROUP Condensed Report 2014/15 Seite 5 von 6 Commitments and management Principle systems Measures 2014/15 Achievements 2014/15 comprising 108 own-brand products and 773 brand-name products with the certification label of the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC). These two sales lines also sell fish products certified as sustainable by the Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) and classified as dolphin-safe. Sales totalling approximately €90 million were generated in Germany with sustainable fish products. Real generated sales of close to €302 million with regional products in the last financial year. Sales of products bearing the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) label or the label of the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) amounted to almost €22 million. Media-Saturn generated more than €3 billion in sales with energy-efficient electrical appliances. Industry Group Leader, Food & Staples Retailing, in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Once again named Sector Leader, Consumer Staples, and Index Leader, MDAX, by CDP. Included in the FTSE4Good Global and Europe indices once again. Improved position in Deutsche Umwelthilfe’s company car ranking. See the carbon footprint 2014/15. ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES http://reports.metrogroup.de/2014-2015/condensed-report/sustainability/united-nation... 16.12.2015 United Nations Global Compact METRO GROUP Condensed Report 2014/15 Seite 6 von 6 Commitments and management Principle systems Measures 2014/15 Achievements 2014/15 PRINCIPLE 10: METRO GROUP Business Group-wide compliance Examples of internal Combating Principles communications providing staff communication measures: corruption with information in various formats, including • Compliance Talks Anti-corruption guidelines for METRO GROUP’s social media dealings with business partners • Newsletter Right! platform UNITED. and officials • Compliance presence on UNITED (METRO GROUP’s Implementation of an internal social media platform) Business partner questionnaires control system for managing compliance risks within OECD Guidelines for operational processes, including Examples of external Multinational Enterprises, systematic checks, dual control communication measures: embedded in a variety of and separation of functions. corporate guidelines • Membership of and active • Regular monitoring to involvement in the Alliance ensure that internal for Integrity, an antioperational controls are corruption initiative run by incorporated into Germany’s Federal Ministry operational store processes. for Economic Cooperation • Further roll-out of internal and Development and the controls for key compliance United Nations Global issues (e.g. anti-corruption Compact network. measures). E-training platform for Due diligence assessments compliance introduced gradually based on the anti-corruption in all METRO GROUP countries. guidelines for dealings with • In 2014, over business partners by means of 4,500 employees were business partner questionnaires. trained online in anticorruption measures. External auditing of • 2015: more than METRO GROUP’s compliance 350 employees took part in management system. classroom training. Compliance work for selected international companies pooled in organisational terms using local centre of excellence structures. http://reports.metrogroup.de/2014-2015/condensed-report/sustainability/united-nation... 16.12.2015
