Always an Edge Ahead CSR Report 2015 www.daifuku.com 1509-12CSR-E Message from the President Editorial This report is published once a year in order for policy Daifuku’s stakeholders to understand its approach Contents to and activities toward corporate social responsibility (CSR). We use this report to inform you of the social issues we addressed, as well as our Message from the President 2 solutions successes. We would like to hear your opinions and thoughts with the aim to further raise Daifuku’s Businesses 5 the quality of our future CSR activities. Being a forward-looking company CSR Management 7 CSR and Corporate Policies Structure 9 and solving customer and social issues Report The report covers the activities of Daifuku Co., Ltd. scope and the Daifuku Group. Action Plan and 11 with advanced technology High Determining Materiality Disclosed in this Importance to society report CSR Report 2015 Special Feature : From Materiality to CSR Action 13 Disclosed on our website report Provide Quality Products 15 Daifuku’s website High Strengthen Risk Management 17 Importance to Daifuku Pursue Safety and Security 19 Masaki Hojo Reported April 2014 March 2015 President and CEO period * Some content may be from outside the reported period. Nurture a Lively Corporate Culture 21 Reference ● United Nations Global Compact Contribute to Environmental 23 guidelines ● Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) G4 Conservation ● Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Version), Ministry of the Environment Government of Japan Along with All Stakeholders 27 Third-Party Opinion 29 About The photos were selected from the 452 entries Aiming to evolve into a diversification of consumption behavior. the cover submitted to our Global Photo Contest held in 2014 Corporate Data 30 Looking at societal trends in Japan, the photos with an environmental theme. The entries were Value Innovator work force is decreasing, and the spread of submitted by employees in 16 companies in 8 In fiscal 2014, the year ended March 31, e-commerce has led to a serious labor countries and covered a wide variety of the scenery, 2015, the second year of our four-year shortage at distribution centers. people and wild animals in each region. Contact business plan, we strove to evolve into a To address such trends, we integrate CSR Promotion Department Value Innovator and to provide the best leading edge technologies to develop and Daifuku Co., Ltd. solutions to customer and social issues. provide material handling systems and 2-14-5 Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0014 JAPAN In our business we have both equipment to respond to needs for Phone : +81 3 3456 2243 made-to-order solutions that respond to automation and sophistication. Specifically, FAX : +81 3 3456 2258 E-mail : webmaster@ha.daifuku.co.jp specific customer needs and general we have developed a robotic system for solutions that are more widely applicable. pharmaceutical distribution centers to solve With both, it is important that we regard the problem of handling an extremely large customer’s issues as our own and quickly number of items and the temporary storage provide the systems and products that and sorting system SPDR (pronounced as solve the issues, in addition to developing spider) for automobile production that material handling systems that handle the reduces the need for human labor in parts 1 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 2 Message from the President core businesses of systems for enhance our efforts. improvement that are easy for employees manufacturers and distributors, and those In addition, in 2014, we joined the to understand, we will have CSR activities for automobile, semiconductor and United Nations Global Compact, which is become part of our company’s culture and flat-panel display factories are steadily based on 10 principles in the four areas bring about a Daifuku-specific CSR. advancing. Overseas company acquisition of human rights, labor, environment and and exchange rate changes caused by the anti-corruption, to show our approach to Creating a new type of weaker yen have also had an influence, and CSR efforts more clearly in and outside achieving the originally formulated target a the Company. logistics to meet changes in year ahead of schedule is almost a social structure certainty. Modern times require the abilities to Establishing a safety culture In terms of operating income, we will aim determine the needs in logistics, select the to achieve 21 billion yen as a new target, and development of appropriate from the numerous technology which exceeds the record-high, as a result eco-friendly products found throughout the world, and integrate of assigning priority to increase sales Since our founding, we have been active in them to address the needs. If we hone outside of Japan looking forward, despite reducing worker burden, increasing these traits, I believe that we will be able to the operating margin being slightly below customer satisfaction and pursing become a true Value Innovator. This will logistics. Moreover, we are meeting the the initial planned target. In Japan, we have consumer convenience through our require always being alert to changes in the global expansion of e-commerce, such as implemented structural innovation to cut business operations while always social environment, collecting information installing in distribution centers for online costs significantly with great success. By considering people as central to our work. on leading edge technology and being supermarket shopping in South Korea, taking this method into subsidiaries outside Accordingly, we believe a company’s ready for what is coming next. contributing to customers and the Japan, the Group will aim to achieve the primary social responsibility is towards As part of such preparations, to better development of society. final targets of the plan. people, with highest priority placed on contribute to customers and society As a result of these efforts, orders Also, we added the new management ensuring safety to protect lives. We strive to through the internet of things (IoT), we set received for fiscal 2014 for the Daifuku target of return on equity (ROE) as an ensure safety during system installations up the IoT Promotion Department in April Group were 305.5 billion yen, a 10.4% indicator to increase in corporate value in through creating a work environment that 2015. increase compared to the previous fiscal response to the recent trend to enhance makes safety the top priority and nurturing We are also focusing on creating new year, and net sales were 267.2 billion yen, a corporate governance. safety awareness. In particular, the site business models. By developing a device 10.5% increase, both of which are new conditions, delivered systems and products with the knowledge gained in constructing records. Our net sales are now the largest are always different, so optimal safety systems, and then using the device in Every employee takes part measures must be considered at each site. constructing new systems, we would like to globally as a material handling systems and equipment supplier*. in Daifuku’s CSR The Daifuku Group also strives to reduce build a continuous cycle that creates higher Based on our business performance, we Daifuku started an environmental, social environmental impact. As a part of our value. have revised the final year management and governance (ESG) project for efforts, we established the Daifuku Furthermore, we will work with top target of our four-year business plan. Our sustainability in 2013. In 2014, we Eco-Products program, an in-house industry players to create new logistics *Source: The U.S. magazine Modern Materials Handling, April 2015 formulated a mediumto long-term policy certification of eco-friendly products, and forms in accordance with future society Daifuku’s CSR, which clarifies the direction by enlarging this program, we also after structural changes. If we collaborate Four-year business plan: of our Group, along with concrete contribute to our customers’ environmental with companies that have high expertise revision to final year management targets measures in the CSR Action Plan. These contribution. In addition, we set up the outside our industry, we will be able to Initially planned Daifuku Eco-Action program to encourage create a Logistics Industry 4.0 that is Revised are not just a top-down policies; they were targets formulated by younger staff members, and our employees’ voluntary environmental similar in concept to the Industry 4.0, Net sales 280 billion yen 340 billion yen the entire company plays an active role. We activities. initiated by the German government, to 21 billion yen wanted each employee to understand the Furthermore, we employ and give promote advancement in the manufacturing Operating income ratio 7% (to surpass the record-high 20.6 billion yen for the purpose of CSR and be aware of our opportunities regardless of gender and to industry. (amount) fiscal year ended responsibilities and role in society, so that those with disabilities. This is still a work in progress, but we will March 31, 2008） they could consider what we should do Companies have various characteristics actively disclose information and receive ROE 10% during their daily work. Moreover, we set and I believe that a company’s CSR should opinions from people in various positions to Non-Japan key performance indicators (KPI) and made be based on its characteristics. By starting use in new initiatives. sales ratio to 60% 70% total sales the targets more visible this year to with initiatives for safety or environmental 3 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 4 Daifuku’s Businesses We have led material handling systems and equipment for almost 80 years and have provided innovative products throughout the world, originating in our desire to fulfill our customer’s needs and support the development of society. 1937 to 1956 1957 to 1976 1977 to 1996 1997 to 2015 For the manufacturing industry 1973 Bucketbuil system Contributes to manufacturing efficiency by installing leading-edge automated factories 1965 Prontow 1994 Magic Vehicle 2013 Area Management System Controls high speed vehicles with 1966 Rackbuill, rack-supported building AS/RS a running speed of 200 m/min Automated storage and retrieval system (AS/RS) for consumer electronics, 1982 FA (factory automation) system an innovative warehouse at the start of the mass consumption era 1972 Delivered to the world’s most advanced motor factory Unit load AS/RS 2004 Mini load AS/RS running at the world-leading speed of 500 m/min Industry 4.0 Product 2006 Mini load AS/RS Synchronized System development 2008 Mini load AS/RS DUOSYS For the distribution industry 1976 Sorting Master 2014 Mini load AS/RS Smart Stocker Quattro Responds to wave of labor savings 1986 Digital Pick System From supermarkets to convenience in the distribution industry to meet rapid growth in supermarkets Founding era stores and then online shopping; our highly developed logistics e-Commerce Supports post war port logistics with the systems responds to consumer Stacker and the Piler spending diversification. 1999 Quake-absorbing AS/RS 1948 2012 audit Movable conveyor Piler 2011 eye-navi Automatic prescription checking systems 1988 Pick-to-light system to support the growth Picking Cart System to prevent dispensing errors to build trust of the Co-op individual delivery business between patients and pharmacists Labor shortage For semiconductor and flat-panel display manufacturing 2001 300mm wafer transport Contributes to the realization of a smart society and storage system along side the development of semiconductors 1978 TELELIFT and large flat-panel displays The predecessor of current IoT cleanroom systems for semiconductor factories 2012 1984 Cleanway, Clean Stocker Nitrogen purge system to 1953 Supports production of meet needs for Grain and bulk unloading 2003 semiconductor miniaturization equipment Bulkveyor semiconductors from its early stages Liquid glass substrate wafer transport system Smart society For automobile production 2014 SPDR Parts temporary storage and Contributes to the systemization sortation system of automobile production lines Supply chain from the start of Japan’s 1974 Trolley conveyor 1993 Ramrun-HID management Used in the major repair of motorization period Electrified monorail a National Treasure, the Great system with non-contact Buddha Hall of Todai-ji Temple 1983 Ramrun power supply 1957 The first chain 1959 Chain conveyor system 1989 2004 E-DIP conveyor system Delivered to Japan’s first 1979 Flexible Drive Automobile paint line system Abundant passenger automobile factory Inverted conveyor System living Along with daily life 2007 1993 Enters the airport baggage Provides a comfortable and Tunnel-type car wash handling system field machine Magic Thru convenient lifestyle, using its expertise and technology 2013 Drive-through car wash 1963 1981 Waxmor 303 2011 Baggage Tray System machine Twinfect Force Develops the first Japan-made bowling machine. 2007 Realizes the world’s fastest Microcomputer installed Delivers to the world’s biggest bowling center Gate-type environmentally conveyor speed at 600 m/min car wash machine friendly car wash machine Abient History of non-Japan affiliates In 2015, we have 61 affiliates in 22 countries and regions 1983 Daifuku U.S.A. Inc. (now Daifuku America Corporation) 2005 Daifuku Automation (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. 2009 Three affiliates in South Korea integrated into a new affiliate Daifuku Korea Co., Ltd. 2012 U.S.-based ELS Holding Company (now Elite Line Service, Inc.) joins the Group 1986 Daifuku Mechatronics (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 2005 Daifuku Carwash-Machine (Shanghai) Ltd. 2010 Six affiliates in China revamped into Daifuku (China) Co., Ltd. and two affiliates 2012 Daifuku (Suzhou) Cleanroom Automation Co., Ltd. 1989 Daifuku Europe Ltd. 2005 Taiwan Daifuku Co., Ltd. (now Daifuku (China) Manufacturing Co., Ltd. and Daifuku (China) Automation Co., Ltd.) 2013 Daifuku de México, S.A. de C.V. 1991 Daifuku (Thailand) Ltd. 2005 Jiangsu Daifuku Rixin Automation Co., Ltd. 2011 Daifuku Webb Holding Company (DWHC) to oversee two affiliates in the U.S. 2013 U.S.-based Wynright Corporation joins the Group 1995 Taiwan’s Pioneer Automation Co., Ltd. joins the Group 2005 Daifuku India Private Limited 2011 Three of Logan Teleflex group companies joins the Group 2014 Logan Teleflex (UK) Ltd. changes its name to Daifuku Logan Ltd. 2002 Daifuku (Shanghai) Ltd. 2007 U.S.-based Jervis B. Webb Company joins the Group 2012 Capital participation in Austria-based Knapp AG 2014 New Zealand’s BCS Group Limited joins the Group 2003 Daifuku Automation (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. 2008 Taiwan Daifuku Co., Ltd. absorbs another Taiwanese affiliate 2012 South Korea’s Hallim Machinery Co., Ltd. joins the Group 2015 DWHC changes its name to Daifuku North America Holding Company 5 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 6 CSR Management To be trusted by society and people, Daifuku ensures sound management practices and transparency and works as a Group to further promote CSR activities and strengthen corporate governance. Corporate Governance Aiming to raise corporate value Basic policy Internal control system to a new level We are fulfilling the sustained growth of our The Internal Audit Department supports the We at Daifuku contribute to society by supporting corporate value and the CSR based on the key building of internal control systems, mainly for Mikio Inohara tenets of its management philosophy: “provide ensuring reliable financial reporting, by our customer’s business activities with material Executive Vice President handling systems. the best solutions to benefit the global markets assessing risks in various business activities. In CFO and CRO From this June, the Corporate Governance and the development of society” and “focus on addition, internal inspectors, who were appointed Code is applicable to listed companies and we healthy, growth-driven global management from non-Internal Audit departments,conducts continue to take the necessary measures to under a diverse and positive corporate culture.” Plan-Do-Check-Act cycles by evaluating the comply with the code. In addition, with the aim Corporate governance is the platform internal control developments and operational to fulfill our social responsibilities and achieve supporting the realization of this mission. effectiveness. sustained growth, we place high importance on adequate disclosure and transparency that Corporate governance structure Compliance complies with the United Nations Global We will also continue to focus on healthy Regular meetings of the Board of Directors are The Compliance Committee comprised of all Compact and GRI. growth-driven company management and held every month, and extraordinary meetings directors has been established, with the Daifuku’s CSR, our mediumto long-term respond to expectations and trust from all our of the Board of Directors are held as necessary. President acting as chairman, to supervise legal policy, and the concrete measures CSR Action customers, shareholders, investors, employees For important management matters, a body compliance, fairness and ethics in corporate Plan were formulated in 2014 to further our and other stakeholders. At the same time, we comprising all directors, the Management activities. As part of our efforts, we hold training CSR activities. Moreover, this year in will endeavor to reduce environmental impact Advisory Meeting, is in place to confer and sessions companywide to raise awareness of accordance with this action plan, we set KPIs centering on CO 2 reduction throughout the make recommendations to the Board of compliance in all of our employees. In addition, that address material aspects and will work as a Group, while contributing to society through Directors. With Audit and Supervisory Board as a countermeasure against the global risk of unified Group to closely verify the various items biodiversity conservation and forest members in attendance, the Meeting also violating laws, we have established basic and improve their content and accuracy. maintenance at key locations. seeks the opinions of external specialists on an company rules to comply with competition and as-needed basis. bribery laws. In addition, with the introduction of the Corporate Governance Structure corporate officer system, all directors, Risk management corporate officers and full-time Audit and To develop an appropriate risk management General Meeting of Shareholders (Chair: President) Supervisory Board members attend and take system to address anticipated risks that have a Elect part in deliberations at an Officers Meeting held significant impact on the Group's businesses, the Elect Elect Internal reporting monthly. executive vice president acts as Chief Risk Delegate Audit & Supervisory Outside Counsel Board Board of Directors (Chair: President) Two outside directors provide insightful Officer (CRO) and develops and executes Audit & Supervisory Report advice and recommendations to the Board of countermeasures. We have taken steps to Deliberate Board Members Appoint Appoint Officers Meeting Compliance Committee Directors based on their abundant experience address significant risks, such as earthquakes, Inform (full-time/outside) Management Advisory President & CEO Export Control Committee and extensive knowledge in international trade floods,and fire, and in addition, to enhance Collaborate Audit Meeting Direct Central Safety & Hygiene Committee laws, corporate legal affairs, finance, and companywide Business Continuity Management Accounting Auditor Report Corporate Lawyer accounting. (BCM), the risk management structure has been Delegate documented. Delegate audits of accounting & internal control Internal Audit Dept. COO CFO & CRO Safety & Hygiene Management Corporate Business Development CSR Division Finance & Accounting Division Promoting Environmental Management Mental & Physical Health Promotion Disclosure Committee Environmental Enhancement Management Operations: Information Security Committee FA&DA eFA The Environment Enhancement Management striving to achieve these targets. Moreover, with Division Division AFA ABH Committee has been established to promote an the basic policies in the Corporate Code of Committee Committee LSP environmental management strategy. Conduct as our guideline, we stipulate that we Internal audit To fulfill our environmental responsibilities to will actively contribute to communities as a Japanese Affiliates Daifuku North America Holding Company the next generation as a member of global good corporate citizen. We disseminate these Non-Japanese Affiliates Contec society, we have formulated our Environmental policies to all associates who are involved in our Vision 2020 stating the Group’s vision and are business activities. 7 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 8 CSR and Corporate Policies Structure The Daifuku Group believes that the basic principles of CSR are to build a symbiotic relationship with its stakeholders and to practice its Corporate Policies Structure through its corporate activities. Daifuku’s CSR Corporate Policies Structure Company Creed Today we are doing better “A company that supports society and the future” To achieve this desire, we are engaging in the themes outlined below. than we were yesterday. Tomorrow we will be growing Provide high quality products Strengthen risk management ahead of where we are today. and services Respect human dignity Nurture relationships of trust Six (human rights, labor practices, initiatives with our suppliers safety, health) Management Philosophy Create good relations with Contribute to the environment communities through corporate activities 1. Provide the best solutions to benefit the global markets and the development of society. 2. Focus on healthy, growth-driven global management under a diverse and positive corporate culture. Customers Employees Brand Proposition Suppliers Value Innovator Company Creed Shareholders We aim to evolve into a top-class Value Innovator that provides the best Communities Management and Investors solutions for customers by capitalizing on our experience and technologies Philosophy we have accumulated as a comprehensive manufacturer and integrator of Brand Proposition material handling systems. Brand Message Brand Message Daifuku Corporate Policies Structure The brand message conveys our desire to create and provide best solutions to give customers a competitive edge. It also symbolizes our flexible and outstanding workforce, possessing both expertise and a commitment to taking on new challenges and making changes for the better. In addition to undertaking CSR activities throughout the Group, we have formulated our mediumto long-term policy, Daifuku's CSR, and concrete measures in our CSR Action Plan; having clearly laid To improve brand and CSR awareness out a vision, we are further promoting CSR activities and aim to comply with social demand for We distributes a booklet, our brand, which expresses our convictions disclosure of non-financial information in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 towards the Daifuku brand, our Company Creed, Management international guidelines. Philosophy, and Corporate Code of Conduct, to all employees. The booklet has nine language versions, Japanese, English, Chinese (Refer to page 12) Daifuku’s CSR CSR Action Plan (simplified and traditional), Korean, Thai, German, French, and Spanish. ●A comprehensive and long-term policy that concisely ●A plan that sets medium-term targets in line with the We have also created a Company Creed panel, and a panel that captures our views on CSR six initiatives and defines concrete initiatives summarize our Management Philosophy, Brand Proposition and Brand ●Specifies the six initiatives and declares the ● Discloses details and results of initiatives for each fiscal Message. They have been posted at all Group locations to raise overall implementation of our Corporate Policies Structure in year in the CSR report and website corporate activities as we coexist with our stakeholders Group awareness. 9 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 10 Action Plan and Determining Materiality In accordance with international guidelines, laws and regulations such as the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and GRI, the Daifuku Group has considered various social issues in light of our own management challenges and specified material aspects*1. Determining materiality The material aspects of the Action Plan and KPI results and targets The color coded items show material aspects and Daifuku’s actions and efforts. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 FY2015 FY2014 Disclosure Formulate a CSR Action Verify relevancy between Verify material aspects Initiative FY2015 plans and targets KPI results CSR targets (reference) report Website Plan stakeholders and business and set KPIs Number of improvement proposals 4,000 3,942 We launched the environmental, We joined the UNGC and We verified the progress of our Maintain and improve product quality Number of employees P 15 Provide high Improve product to satisfy customer needs 52 in the acquiring Safety 30 social and governance (ESG) demonstrated in and outside the efforts toward the 10 material quality products quality and Assessor certification Group project in November 2013 in Company our active incorporation aspects and revamped them as and services services Reduce product defects preparation of disclosing ESG of its 10 principles in the four necessary, while checking whether Improve customer satisfaction by ensuring a full support structure information conforming to the GRI areas of human rights, labor, our approach to issues are Number of times information guidelines. First, we held environment and anti-corruption. keeping with changes in the social security regulations were reviewed, Once Promote and strengthen information revised and publicized discussions to set the Group’s Next, we specified 10 material environment outside the security measures Number of times information CSR Vision to be the core element aspects by plotting the impact of Company. We then set KPIs*2 for Strengthen the risk security education was done Twice through e-learning of CSR activities, and then each theme of the CSR Action the material aspects and began management Risk assessment P 17 Strengthen risk execution rate 100％ 97％ formulated Daifuku’s CSR and Plan on stakeholders and business activities after setting quantitative structure Expand Business Continuity Management (BCM) management Number of safety confirmation 4 times or 4 times a year CSR Action Plan in June 2014. on a matrix. targets. training sessions more a year Implementation of Enhance compliance and compliance and ethics Completed anti-corruption measures training courses Enhance corporate Enhance transparency and monitoring governance of management Nurture Form partnerships with suppliers and Promote CSR Materiality relationships of trust with our procurement in share information on CSR the supply chain Construct mechanisms and ensure policies suppliers concerning fair procurement are kept After mapping the results from both Daifuku’s and the stakeholders’ points of Protect human Determine current considerations for human rights throughout the Group rights view, aspects that were considered important by both were designated as Ensure knowledge throughout the Group of in-house policies on human rights Develop workplace Conduct surveys of employee awareness material and top priority. environments that are easy to work in Promote work-life balance Expand employment of persons with disabilities Employment rate of persons with disabilities 2.0% 1.8% P 21 Employment of the elderly Promote diversity Respect for Facilitate an environment of gender equality Enhance compliance and Maintain and improve product human dignity Promote global human resources anti-corruption measures quality to satisfy customer needs (human rights, labor practices, Number of people safety, health) Expand health and safety training receiving training at the 940 persons Ensure health Anzen-Taikan Dojo management and P 19 safety of our Minimize (Eliminate) workplace accidents Severity rate 0.01 0.08 Promote and strengthen information Minimize (Eliminate) workplace employees and and other serious accidents Frequency rate 0.6 1.05 security measures accidents and other serious accidents those of our partner companies Build a global safety and hygiene management framework Promote mental and physical health Foster global business leaders Expand Business Continuity Personnel training Expand health and safety training Create and maintain a training system to help develop the skills of employees Management (BCM) Encourage communication Formulate a policy for social contributions of the Group Create good relations with and activities that communities contribute to society Conduct regular dialog with nearby communities Minimize environmental impact through energy and resource savings Expand employment of Increase the number of certified Promote Conduct conservation Conduct environmentally Care for persons with disabilities Daifuku Eco-Products friendly business Conduct activities to conserve biodiversity activitiesat the conservation work at Yui no Mori P 24 Shiga Works Yui no Mori forest operations Promote green procurement in the supply chain Contribute to the environment Increase the number Increase the number of certified Number of certified Conduct activities to Reduce CO2 from through corporate of eco-friendly Daifuku Eco-Products Eco-Products 28 or more 21 P 23 conserve biodiversity products and services activities products and services Reduce CO2 from products and services Contribute to 45,165t-CO2 25,694t-CO2 P 26 CO2 reduction*3 Enhance the Foster an environmental mindset in foundations for employees through training environmental Build a global environmental management management structure *1. Materiality: Issues that should have highest priority as they considerably affect environment, society and governance or stakeholder’s evaluation and decision making *3. CO2 reduction contribution: The CO2 reduction amount equals the amount of CO2 in 2020 emitted by all the Daifuku products and services in society subtracted from the amount of *2. KPI: Key Performance Indicator, a quantitative performance evaluation index that measures target achievement CO2 emitted by products and services in the base year of fiscal 2005. 11 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 12 Special Feature : From Materiality to CSR Action Daifuku takes action as a unified Group. Every Daifuku Group employee undertakes CSR activities for specified material aspects. We will introduce the activity results from five aspects: providing high quality products, strengthening risk management, pursuing safety and security, nurture a lively corporate culture and contributing to environmental conservation. Provide Quality Products Strengthen Risk Management Pursue Safety and Security Nurture a Lively Corporate Culture Contribute to Environmental Conservation Shiga Works, the world’s largest logistics production site with 11 factories spread out over about 1.2 million square meters 13 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 14 Provide Quality Products Daifuku contributes to solving customer and social problems by providing quality products, technology and services. Temporary storage and sorting system that Comment changes parts logistics Discussions are held for improvement and creative thinking, and we are focused on creating a workplace where anyone can make suggestions. Takamasa Suzuki Assistant Manager Manufacturing Department Factory & Distribution Automation (FA&DA) Employee teamwork initiatives Daifuku’s manufacturing aims evolve into total optimization An employee team comprising three to seven to be the industry’s No.1 people work to improve quality and reduce costs, and at the same time learn how to work A work process training video created from an together as a team. For example, in the FA&DA improvement proposal reduced production and instruction time Operations, targets for failure cost reduction through quality and work efficiency improvement are set by each team, with their Quality products come declaration toward accomplishing the targets from a clean workplace posted in the workplace. Our attitude of pursuing products Not only are the number of proposals that will satisfy customers is important, there is also a seven-step rating of a apparent in every part of the The inspiration to automate proposal’s content. This consideration leads to workplace. In FA&DA Operations, in available space with operations better quality in the following activities. on Monday, all staff clean together as they are Furthermore, interdepartmental improvement before starting work. In addition, Automobile production is composed of many addition, in emergencies, operators can retrieve projects are launched between production, now that factory tours and joint Arm processes before the vehicle is completed, parts manually. design and procurement departments, inspections are increasing, starting with press and molding. To ensure Moreover, the arm that grasps the cases expanding the scope of the activities toward workplaces are cleaned and higher quality and improved productivity, uses our unique technology, which makes it total optimization. organized to be presentable at all production technology and automation are possible to handle different sizes and store and The scale of employee teamwork initiatives times, and our staff warmly greet One case transfer continuing to progress. Meanwhile, human retrieve stacked cases as well. expanded to include headquarter divisions, and visitors. We are promoting visibility Heartily welcoming visitors labor was often needed to receive parts from SPDR makes parts logistics efficient and 3,942 improvement proposals were submitted in the workplace, from setting up posters that suppliers, temporarily store, and deliver helps reduce heavy labor. in Japan. Also, the initiatives expanded to clarify manufacturing flow and content to according to the production schedules. include Group companies around the world. posting notices that clearly list certificated Factors blocking automation were the wide The Taiwan and South Korean teams received employees. Comment variety of case shapes and sizes for storing the special award at a presentation event where The origin for these activities is our manufacturing The unique parts as cases could not be standardized. Also, mechanism of the arm teams selected from around the Group staff’s powerful resolve to create quality products newly required space and late deliveries if unit that securely holds announced their results. that benefit customers and society. a wide range of case operations had to be stopped were drawbacks sizes was the key to for rack type automated systems. the SPDR development. Multiple case transfer In December 2014, Daifuku launched the Kazuki Ogawa Improvement proposals Recipients of SPDR with the concept of automating while Safety Assessor certification Product Action keeping storage space and load dimensions as they are. Its strong points are the elimination of Development Department Automotive Factory Plan KPI FY2014 results 3,942 Target 4,000 FY2014 results 30 Target 52 A total of 3,942 improvement proposals were submitted A Safety Assessor is a person who has knowledge and skills for racks, minimization of fixed parts, and the use Automation (AFA) throughout the Group to improve manufacturing. machinery and equipment safety. of existing floor space to stack cases. In 15 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 16 Strengthen Risk Management Comment We use external security assessments, verify the Business risks are becoming increasingly diverse and complex. We endeavor to results of the countermeasures and continually increase our security level. understand, analyze, and develop countermeasures and abatement for Groupwide risks. Yasunori Kawase Associate Manager Information System Department Protecting personal and confidential information Preparing for highly sophisticated threats Threats to information security are becoming prevent targeted email attacks and ever more sophisticated. At Daifuku, we strengthen protection of information continually strengthen and improve the assets from cyber-attacks. guidelines and regulations for information asset Furthermore, we have distributed management and use, including our information posters on information management to security policy. Also, we use e-learning to Group companies worldwide to build educate all employees on information security. awareness. We are also improving and In addition, we use outside agencies for standardizing our IT infrastructure, all We have distributed posters on security assessments, verify computer the while striving to understand each country’s information management to global performance, detect known and new malware laws and regulations related to security and worksites Comment and implement security log monitoring to countermeasure levels at each location. With We check stockpiles periodically and donate items that are close to prevent infection. We have also been doing these as a base, we plan to formulate a common their sell-by date to local training for employees yearly from fiscal 2012 to Group Security Guideline in fiscal 2015. municipalities or NPOs. Tetsuya Nitta Associate Manager Strengthen compliance BCP Promotion Department Toward an even more effective efforts globally BCP prepared for emergencies Measures toward legal risks At Daifuku, in accordance with our Corporate Comment Code of Conduct, we ensure legal compliance, We enhance training 1,700 employees participates in fairness and ethics. In fiscal 2014, we especially sessions through interactive our first large-scale training focused on measures for global legal risk. In communications to foster individual awareness. The Daifuku Group has formulated a business May, we established detailed regulations to Satoko Nakajima continuity plan (BCP), placing human life as top comply with competition and anti-corruption Associate Manager Role-play training for large-scale disasters priority, to minimize business asset damage laws, with additional detailed regulations Legal Department during emergencies and to make operational system that uses personal computers and established in China. The President sent a continuity and early recovery possible. smartphones. message to the entire Group to emphasize its information with on-site managers. To increase the effectiveness of the BCP, in importance, and training sessions for From here on, we will create a compilation of fiscal 2014, we upgraded disaster equipment Construct a resilient management and sales were held 16 times at concrete examples related to compliance and and held training sessions and drills on crises global corporate culture major sites for about 500 managers. build an awareness improvement program management and disaster prevention. At the For Group companies around the world, in We also visited Group companies in 10 linked to other departments. Survival Handbook Shiga Works, we simulated a large scale addition to surveys, we hold onsite sessions to countries and regions and exchanged earthquake and did role-play training with 1,700 better understand the likely risks. Also, based employees for the first time. Moreover, we held on information from on-site managers, we several BCP seminars with about 400 distribute safety news to management and Risk assessment execution rate Safety confirmation training sessions 100 % 4 times employees at different sites to raise awareness related departments to encourage or of BCP and distributed our Survival Handbook communication. Action Plan FY2014 results 97% Target FY2014 results 4 times a year Target more a year of initial actions to take in earthquakes and We will strengthen BCP activities of the entire To determine latent workplace risks and hazards, we distributed a We simulated earthquakes and other disasters four times on a KPI survey sheet to 30 departments around the world receiving 29 safety confirmation system using personal computers and other disasters to all employees. We are also Group and construct a global corporate culture replies. smartphones. continuing training on a safety confirmation that is resilient in emergencies. 17 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 18 Pursue Safety and Security Ensuring employee health and safety is the foundation of corporate activities. Safety management activities are promoted by all Group companies and suppliers. Comment The key to preventing workplace accidents is avoiding human error. We will continue to nurture as many safety-conscious people as we can. Kunihiko Toba Safety Promotion Department Patrolling inside the Shiga Works The President (right) leading a safety patrol of the installation worksite Expanding Daifuku’s safety culture globally The safety management index, measured by the frequency rate of accidents and the severity rate, has been introduced at Group companies worldwide to make the current situation of accidents easy to see. In fiscal 2014, we focused on safety education and ensuring that Confirming the important check points before the patrol the safety policy is widely known. At P.T. Establishing a consistent safety Daifuku Indonesia, safety training were held in Simulating being caught in a roller management structure that July and November, starting with the basics of includes partner companies safety and the role of the supervisor, and then Building a global safety A safety management structure was created by continuing on with practical content. At Daifuku structure, aiming for zero establishing Cooperative Safety Committees consisting of partner companies of the (Suzhou) Cleanroom Automation, a safety training session was held in July, including workplace accidents installation, production and procurement employees from business partners. They divisions. Information has been actively shared, discussed workplace and traffic accidents and Raising everyone’s safety including steps on preventing industrial measures to heighten their safety awareness. awareness accidents, safety assessment guidance and In February 2015, we held a global safety With the global increase in staff as the proximate Simulating falling using a other matters related to safety. Moreover, we conference with Group company executives to safety harness cause, the number of workplace accidents has have worked together with partner companies explain the Group’s safety initiatives and stress increased in recent years, and in fiscal 2013 The curriculum simulates actual dangers to to mutually point out important safety issues the importance of safety management. there was a serious accident. As Daifuku’s ingrain safety skills. We plan to have partner and develop safety activities. Safety declarations posted at the longstanding safety culture would be impaired companies take this training as well. We also visited the factories of each supplier Shiga Anzen-Taikan Dojo if this were to continue, with “Safety is the Moreover, executives, including the President, to give advice on safety management planning foundation of corporate sustainability and did safety patrols, and joint patrols between and 5S activities. Management from major supersedes everything” as our slogan, we operations were conducted, leading to a suppliers were invited to a seminar held in revamped our safety management structure. decrease in workplace accidents. November. We presented on accidents and In April 2014, the Safety and Hygiene We will also place importance on increasing countermeasures, calling for the cooperation of Management Division was newly organized and safety awareness, promoting safety activities partners to realize zero accidents. directly overseen by the President. Moreover, a and conducting safety education and training. We will strive to ensure an even better safety safety committee was setup in the procurement culture with our business partners. departments, in addition to those already in Safety training (left: Indonesia, right: Suzhou, China) production and installation departments, to Workplace accidents within the Group Japan Outside Japan strengthen our preparedness. FY2010 21 16 37 As workplace accidents are mostly caused by People receiving training at the Accident frequency rate Accident severity rate FY2011 27 18 45 Anzen-Taikan Dojo in Shiga Works human error, increasing worker safety awareness is critical. To upgrade safety FY2012 17 72 89 Action Plan FY2014 results 705 Target 940 FY2014 results 1.05 Target 0.6 FY2014 results 0.08 Target 0.01 education focused on the individual, a new FY2013 27 80 107 KPI Anzen-Taikan Dojo is a facility where accidents can be The frequency rate is the number of deaths and injuries in a workplace Anzen-Taikan Dojo, Daifuku's hands-on safety simulated. or in a company per one million hours. The severity rate is the FY2014 14 58 72 Reduced by *The Osaka headquarters Anzen-Taikan Dojo is scheduled to close in December 2015. aggregate worker days lost per 1,000 work hours. training facility, was established in Shiga Works. about 30% 19 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 20 Nurture a Lively Corporate Culture Nurturing a lively corporate culture where all employees can bring out the most of their personal qualities and abilities in their work Comment I would like to become even more fluent in Chinese to introduce Daifuku’s Toward a gender technologically advanced and safe products. equal workplace Mikiko Wada Operation Group, Hini Arata Kan Supporting both work Comment and childcare As many staff can balance career and family, I Many female employees have an active role at believe the workplace is pleasing, rewarding, and gives us opportunities to learn new skills. Daifuku, such as at the full-scale demonstration Shuri Miura center Hini Arata Kan, one of the largest in the Operation Group, Hini Arata Kan world, where 11 of our female employees guide visitors from around the world. They introduce is encouraged. This system was Comment Daifuku’s businesses and wide variety of started in 1992, and almost all We strive to create an environment that encourages employees to products in Japanese, English and Chinese to staff who have used it have have and independently achieve their goals. deepen visitors understanding of the newest returned to work. Also, the Toshie Terashima logistics technology. They strive to hone their proportion of female managers companywide is Business Service Group knowledge and spirit of hospitality as they increasing year by year. Based on yearly General Affairs Department appeal the DAIFUKU brand globally using their employee awareness surveys, we are extracting language skills. and endeavoring to solve issues hindering Creating a workplace where In addition, use of the childcare leave system female employees’ motivation and careers. every employee can fully realize their strengths Accelerating the Widening the scope of work training of global activities human resources We employ persons with disabilities as part of improvement. Their work our efforts to realize a society without scope is steadily widening, Systemizing training for young boundaries. While raising awareness within the and their excellent staff, executive candidates and Company, we hold site tours for students and contributions have received business leaders their guardians from high schools for the commendations. The Daifuku Group, aiming for the global disabled and employ interns with disabilities. Looking ahead, we will education of human resources, is accelerating In addition to grounds work and cleaning, the consider restructuring efforts for both globalization of human 2011, we have also implemented a program to 20 persons with disabilities presently employed the salary table and resources within Japan and training of staff improve the business skills of executive in the Business Service Group have widened instituting an evaluation hired locally at our companies worldwide. candidates at Group companies outside of the scope of their work to doing assembly in system and a full time work system as measures Since 2005, we have provided young staff Japan. In addition, we started the Daifuku the production division. They also participate in to expand employment of such persons and with opportunities for language training and Japan Business Trainee Program for training the employee teamwork initiatives for workplace create a rewarding work environment. established a program for on-the-job training at business leaders of Group companies around Group companies worldwide for them. Since the world from fiscal 2015. Employment rate of persons with disabilities Action Plan KPI FY2014 results 1.8% Target 2.0% At Daifuku, employment is based on skill, suitability and ambition. 21 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 22 Contribute to Environmental Conservation We strive to reduce our environmental impact and conserve biodiversity through our products as one of our themes towards developing a sustainable society. AS/RS for long objects added as a Kicking off the Yui Project to Daifuku Eco-Product conserve biodiversity Reduction in overall system weight In 2014, we gave the name Yui (Japanese word saves energy and resources meaning “bring together”) Project to our efforts Automated storage and retrieval system to conserve biodiversity. The Yui Project aims (AS/RS) for long objects, which was certificated to bring together “water with greenery, nature as one of Daifuku’s Eco-Products, uses with people and person to person” to protect dedicated pallets that store steel beams and nature within the Shiga Works. In the first year, The path through Yui no Mori where nature in timber as long as six meters with the push-pull Shiga Works can be fully enjoyed we created the Yui no Mori forest, a place to type transfer, reducing energy consumption by bring nature and people together. We are also 42% compared to conventional systems. This having success with the conservation of the rare AS/RS also greatly improves storage efficiency. Japanese clouded salamander found on the site, while creating Comment from an opportunity for a customer employees and visitors to get together. Yuichi Taguchi Nishio Branch The Nature Study Pond where research and analysis for protecting Japanese clouded salamander larva Manager aquatic creatures are performed Sakuma Special Steel Co., Ltd. We are very satisfied with the new AS/RS, as it stores what took five in the past and reduces overall system cost, space and required energy. Another advantage of the system is its safety, as the increased level of automation created a safer workplace environment for staff. To develop and widely provide Eco-Product certification process eco-friendly products and services Planning, Development, Environmental activities posters Rated Features (Japanese, English and Chinese) We operate an Eco-Products certification Design ● Energy saving Division Recyclable program for evaluating and certificating the developing Rating of Energy and ● Environmental Design ● Lightweight environmental performance of products the product ● Long life Resource saving according to in-house standards. We only ● Primary Screening ● Water saving certify products that meet standards for saving ● Low noise energy and resources, and preventing pollution. Eco-Product Secondary Screening ● Clean water preservation Harmful substance Globalization of In fiscal 2014, seven products were added and ● environmental activities Committee Eco-Product reduced Certification the aggregate amount is 21 products. Comparison with conventional models In fiscal 2014 Daifuku began the annual received the award for activities started on their (when 220 pallets are stored) Environmental Activities Award to motivate own initiative. This activity raised environmental workplace self-initiatives. This award is given for awareness by using a part of its grounds as a Conventional Long-object AS/RS group activities in the workplace, in addition to vegetable garden and improving separation of Energy saving individuals who participate in local and other waste. Moreover, this awareness has spread to (electricity consumption) 150.8Wh 42%reduction 86.8Wh environmental activities. suppliers and is now a widespread activity. High storage rate (installation area) 330㎡ 53%reduction 155㎡ Daifuku (Suzhou) Cleanroom Automation 23 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 24 Contribute to Environmental Conservation Fiscal 2014 environmental action plans and results Evaluation standards 〇: Achieved ×: Not achieved Promoting environmental-conscious business operations Global warming countermeasures 【Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from business activities】 【CO 2 emissions from transportation】 Scope: Japan (factories and offices) / control index: units of CO2 emissions compared to FY2005 Scope: Japan (product transport) / control index: units of CO2 emissions compared to FY2005 CO2 emissions ■ Aggregate amount of emission CO2 emissions Emissions per unit of net sales: FY2005 = 100 Target Result Emissions per unit of net sales: FY2005 = 100 Reduce by （t-CO2 ） 30,000 （%） 120 19% or more 35.3％ （t-CO2 ） 6,000 （%） 120 100.0 100.0 Target Result 25,000 80.4 82.7 100 100 Grade: 〇 20,000 80 4,000 66.9 60.4 80 15,000 25,665 60 ■ Per unit of net sales 60 84% or less 60.4％ 10,000 40 Target Result 2,000 4,829 40 16,774 16,616 2,627 2,285 5,000 20 20 0 0 78% or less 82.7％ 0 0 Grade: 〇 2005 2013 2014 (FY) 2005 2013 2014 (FY) Non-native fish species fishing to protect Lake Biwa’s ecosystem Grade: × Resource saving 【Waste generation】 【Water used】 Scope: Japan (factories and offices) / control index: units of waste generated compared to FY2005 Scope: Japan (factories and offices) / control index: units of water used compared to FY2005 Total waste generation Final disposal Water used Waste generated per unit of net sales: FY2005 = 100 Water used per unit of net sales: FY2005 = 100 （t） （%） （t） （%） 7,000 120 Target Result 350,000 140 Helping improve the water quality of Lake Biwa by cutting reeds 6,000 100.0 95.4 90.1 Target Result 100 300,000 120 5,000 100.0 80 76% or less 90.1％ 250,000 100 We support our employees’ 4,000 60 5,696 200,000 57.6 56.2 80 3,000 2,000 4,427 4,020 40 150,000 310,797 60 63% or less 56.2％ 1,000 393 32 32 20 self-initiated environmental 0 0 Grade: × 100,000 145,404 40 Eco-points were used to install guidance signboard at the 2005 2013 2014 (FY) 50,000 136,801 20 0 0 Grade: 〇 Lake Biwa Museum 【Waste recycling rate】 contributions 2005 2013 2014 (FY) Scope: Japan (factories and offices) / control index: recycling rate of waste 97% or more 99.2％ Grade: 〇 Daifuku Eco-Action program The Daifuku Eco-Action program gives points Conserving biodiversity Scope: Japan (factories and offices) Green procurement Scope: Japan (factories and offices) for environmental activities that employees can Target Result Target Result ● Initiate activities to conserve ● Caring for Yui no Mori forest Understand the environmental Research suppliers’ environmental exchange for primarily environmentally related biodiversity in Shiga Works ● Raised awareness via various impact of suppliers’ actual impact with a questionnaire rewards. ● Raise awareness via events and the company Intranet emissions employee training This system is not just standard environmental Grade: 〇 Grade: 〇 Hini Arata Kan shuttle buses run on fuel made from activities education, but also promotes recycled cooking oil. Eco-points were used for their carbon offsetting self-initiative. In fiscal 2014, a total of 2,566 Expand eco-friendly products and services Enhancing the foundations for environmental management employees participated in Eco-Action activities, Certification of Daifuku Eco-Products Scope: Global Environmental education Scope: Global greatly exceeding the target. The Global Photo Eco-Actions events Target Result Target Result Contest that included staff at Group companies Participation in Eco-Action Participation in Eco-Action Non-native species fishing festival Certification of a total of Certification of Grade: 〇 worldwide had 452 entries. 21 or more models 21 models 1,800 people or more 2,566 people Environmental household budgeting Grade: 〇 The eco-points of employees were converted into a monetary amount and used for a Passing the Environmental Specialists Certification test Contribution to CO 2 reduction Environmental management structure Scope: Global Scope: Global donation to the Lake Biwa Museum and for a Target Result Target Result Environmental volunteer and discussion ● Build an environmental ● Environmental Activities Award carbon offsetting of all CO 2 emitted by the meetings (individual participation) 35,909 25,694 Grade: × activities award system system started demonstration center Hini Arata Kan. tons of CO2 or more tons of CO2 ● Expand Eco-Action to ● Expanded Photo Contest globally Competitive Community Cleanup non-Japanese affiliates ● Environmental Vision From here on, we will plan events and 2020 revised Grade: 〇 Declaration to use personal chopsticks projects that can be undertaken throughout the entire Group to help improve unity. Reed cutting, and other activities *Detailed data is given on the website: www.daifuku.com/csr/environment/index.html 25 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 26 Along with All Stakeholders We continuously communicate with stakeholders in various scenes. Customers 2014 Company Worldwide 2014 revenue Headquarters Employees rank (million USD) 1 No. 1 sales in the world 1 Daifuku 2,536 *1 Japan 1 Our U.S. subsidiary Daifuku Webb Holding The yearly survey titled Top 20 System Suppliers 2 Schaefer 2,487 Germany Company’s contributions to promoting labor in 3 Dematic 1,600 U.S.A. Michigan State were highly evaluated and the conducted by the U.S.-based magazine Modern 4 Murata Machinery 1,100 Japan 2 company received the 2014 Prosperity Award from Materials Handling, ranked Daifuku as world No.1 in 5 Vanderlande 1,051 Netherlands sales in the material handling industry for 2014. 6 Mecalux 952 Spain the Michigan Works! Association, the state’s labor 7 Beumer 902 Germany development organization. 2 At the 16th AUTO-ID System Awards, our product “eye-navi” was a joint winner with Co-op Tohoku of 8 Fives 721 France 2 We invited employee families on our 19th tour at the 9 Swisslog 712 Switzerland the Outstanding Performance Award, hosted by comprehensive demo center Hini Arata Kan. 10 Intelligrated 627 U.S.A. Japan Automatic Identification Systems Association. 11 Knapp*2 620 Austria 3 Daifuku Webb Holding Company held a Town Hall 3 At the 6th Robot Awards, hosted by the Ministry of 12 Kardex 556 Switzerland Meeting for the 3rd time at Farmington Hills, 13 TGW 525 Austria 3 Michigan, U.S.A. It was broadcasted live over the Economy, Trade and Industry and The Japan 14 Grenzebach 477 Germany 1 2 Internet to employees in all offices nationwide to Machinery Federation, Daifuku received the 15 Witron 340 Germany Outstanding Performance Award along with Toho 16 viastore systems 207 Germany strengthen the Group’s organizational cohesion. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and two partner companies 17 System Logistics 174 Italy 4 Our Mental and Physical Health Promotion for a pharmaceuticals distribution center advancement 18 Egemin Automation 170 Belgium Committee brought the foremost soma trainer, robot system. 19 Bastian Solutions 168 U.S.A. Katsumi Koba, to the Tokyo Head Office to give a 20 Savoye 138 France 4 Daifuku China, Daifuku China Manufacturing, and talk on healthy living. *1. Calculated from the earnings forecast announced in the third quarter 1 Daifuku China Automation received an Outstanding for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, and average exchange 4 rates during the fiscal year Supplier Award from Chery Jaguar Land Rover *2. Knapp became Daifuku’s equity-method affiliate in July 2012. Automotive Company Ltd. Source: Modern Materials Handling, April 2015 3 4 Communities Business Partners 1 Our products “eye-navi” and Jungle Cart won the Grand Prize at the 24th Japan MH Prize hosted by 1 Our Group company Elite Line Services, Inc. the Japan Material Handling Society. received the Gold Excellence Award from iCIMS Company. 2 Daifuku was awarded the Environmental Management 1 Award by the Environmental Conservation 2 We held the 2015 Management and Production Association of Shiga Prefecture. 1 Trends Presentation, inviting 162 major business partners, ranging from manufacturers, trading 3 We participated in an activity to sprinkle water for 2 companies to those involved in processing, cooling held by the Minato Eco-Conscious 2 3 installation, servicing, design, and software Consortium in the HAMASITE open space in Minato development. City, where our Tokyo Head Office is located. 4 3 Under a supplier recognition program, we have the 4 The continuance of the Tokyo Head Office lifesaving Individual awards: Supplier Quality Development (S.Q.D.) Award lectures was highly evaluated, receiving a letter of Nissin Sangyo Co., Ltd. system to commend outstanding goods-related appreciation from the Tokyo Fire Department. Fukada Kogyo Co., Ltd. suppliers every year. This year, we selected six 5 We held a Gate Ball Meet as part of our contribution Tokuken Corporation companies for individual awards and category to local activities. Asagami Corporation awards. 6 Our Group company Wynright Corporation won the Category awards: 2014 Green Supply Chain Award for energy saving Daishin Seiko K.K. and cost reduction in products. 3 Marukichi industry Co., Ltd. 6 5 7 7 For greening and biodiversity conservation, Shiga Works received the 2014 Commendation as a Greening Excellence Plant from the Director of Shareholders and Investors Kansai Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry; Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 1 We invited our shareholders to tour the Hini Arata 8 We concluded an agreement with Hino Town in Kan. It was the 7th such event, with a total of 153 people participating. The visitors enjoyed seeing our Shiga Prefecture to use our Shiga Works as a latest logistics systems and equipment in the temporary evacuation site for neighborhood 8 9 showroom. residents in case of disaster. 2 We exhibited at an Individual Investors Fair 2014, 9 Daifuku China received an Innovative Product 2 hosted by a Nomura Group company, at the Tokyo Award from Soo56, China’s largest logistics search engine website. International Forum. We communicated with 600 1 individual investors, appealing our growth potential 10 We participated in a Competitive Community in the industry. Cleanup Rally, sponsored by the Minato 3 We also presented at the 2015 Tokyo Stock Eco-Conscious Consortium in the Shimbashi 11 Exchange’s trade fair for individual investors at the Station SL Square, Minato City. Tokyo International Forum, appealing our growth 11 We donated 21,500 bottled storage water to an potential of businesses and the progress of our incorporated NPO in Hino Town, Shiga Prefecture. 10 four-year business plan. 12 We participated in maintenance and cleanup 3 4 We hold results briefing every quarter specifically for activities at Shakunage-kei (Rhododendron Gorge), analysts and institutional investors. a nationally recognized natural monument. 12 4 27 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 28 Third-Party Opinion Corporate Data The CSR Report 2015, by looking back at the considered especially important were non-financial aspects of your development as extracted, and KPIs were set to confirm them. a Value Innovator, spectacularly realized in Setting these numerical targets is a big step fiscal 2014 by being No. 1 in net sales of toward making your efforts visible. material handling systems and equipment A variety of activities based on the CSR globally, is very successful in describing the Action Plan are reported as individual themes, diverse elements that comprise your strengths. and the entire report clearly conveys your As for how the information is presented, the approach of contributing to society through layout is the opposite from the previous year, your business operations with high levels of with an overview of the CSR management technology. What I was especially impressed structure first shown, with individual themes by was how you reconfirmed that the core of Shiga Works Keisuke Takegahara following. This change may be due to the Daifuku’s CSR is always people by nurturing a Headquarters General Manager, systemization of CSR management being corporate culture where all employees can Environmental Initiative and largely completed in fiscal 2014 as well as work energetically and safely, and by providing Corporate Social Responsibility-Support Daifuku’s CSR and the concrete measures in information on employee training. A good Department, the CSR Action Plan being formulated as the example of this is the AS/RS for long objects Development Bank of Japan Inc. result of the ESG project started in fiscal 2013. that was added as an Eco-Products. This Born in Shizuoka Prefecture in 1966. Graduated from the Faculty of Law, By using a solid framework of introducing the system not only increased productivity, it also Group company with a factory Hitotsubashi University, in 1989, and general overview before entering detailed created a safer workplace, as confirmed by Group company joined the Development Bank of Global branch Japan (now the Development Bank discussions, the CSR management you are the customer’s comment. of Japan Inc.). Posted to Frankfurt in aiming for and your activities are easy to The report is very appropriate for Daifuku 1995. After working at the Research Department and the Policy Planning understand. and embodies how CSR should be based on Department, was appointed to be director of the CSR Support Office in Moreover, the report clearly showed your the characteristics of a company, as stated in Global production sites of the Daifuku Group the Business Development ability to quickly meet the demands of the the Message from the President. I expect that Department in 2009, leading to the current position from May 2011. times by joining the United Nations Global the reporting structure established in this issue Compact and making ROE a management will enhance content even more in the future. target to strengthen corporate governance. The newly added list of KPI results and targets The new orientation shown by instituting the should function as a chart to show the step by Daifuku America Jervis B. Webb Wynright Jervis B. Webb Canada concept of materiality and setting Key step progress of your efforts. I am looking (U.S.A.) (U.S.A.) Performance Indicators (KPI) to comply with forward to further progress such as adding KPI the GRI guidelines was striking. Ten aspects that include stakeholders’ viewpoints and are from the CSR Action Plan that were more focused on outcomes. Shiga Works (Main Campus) Daifuku (China) Daifuku (China) Daifuku (Suzhou) Daifuku Korea Automation Manufacturing Cleanroom Automation Response to the third-party opinion Mr. Takegahara, I am most grateful for your opinion. When we formulated the CSR Action Plan as a concrete measure for our CSR activities, we specified materialities and set KPIs for each one. Clean Factomation Hallim Machinery Taiwan Daifuku Daifuku Singapore Daifuku Thailand Daifuku Logan (U.K.) In the CSR Report 2015, we set forth five themes to match the (South Korea) (South Korea) materialities. In particular, “Pursue Safety and Security” and “Nurture a Lively Corporate Culture” introduce our efforts from a new aspect. Corporate name: Daifuku Co., Ltd. Representative: Masaki Hojo, President and CEO The improved visibility of our activities through the setting of numerical Headquarters: 3-2-11 Mitejima, Nishiyodogawa-ku Employees: 7,746 KPI targets and providing various information were highly evaluated. We (consolidated / as of March 31, 2015) Osaka 555-0012 JAPAN Yoshihisa Ichinose will continue to undertake Plan-Do-Check-Act cycles to improve and Consolidated net sales: 267,284 million yen Established: May 20, 1937 Corporate Officer intensify these efforts. We will continue our CSR endeavors while (fiscal year ended March 31, 2015) General Manager of Paid-in capital: 8,024 million yen (as of March 31, 2015) responding to changes in the social environment outside the company Non-Japan sales ratio: 66% CSR Division and taking into account the viewpoints of our stakeholders as suggested. Stock exchange listing: First Section of Tokyo Stock Exchange Group companies: 61 (9 in Japan and 52 overseas) 29 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 Daifuku CSR Report 2015 30
