TSKB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013-2014 INDEX About This Report 3 Chairman’s Message 5 CEO Message 6 Company Profile 7 TSKB’s Subsidiaries 8 TSKB’s Products and Services 9 Basics of Sustainability at TSKB 10 TSKB’s Sustainability Structure 11 Stakeholder Analysis 12 Financial Performance 18 Support to Sustainable Development 20 Sustainability Finance 22 Thematic Global Funds 26 Corporate Governance 28 Sharing Experience with Initiatives 31 Sustainability Management at TSKB 32 Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts 34 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts 35 Human Resources 37 Investment in Human Resources 40 Occupational Health and Safety & Supplier Relations 44 Social Responsibility 45 Sustainability Literacy 48 Goals and Performance Objectives 49 GRI G4 Content Index 53 TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT 4th SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET In its fourth sustainability report, TSKB discloses its Corporate Governance sustainability performance Sharing Experience with Initiatives in the period of Sustainability Management at TSKB 2013-2014 based on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Management of Loans’ Environmental G4 Guidelines, in accordance with the BUSINESS and Social Impacts Management of Internal option Comprehensive. Financial Performance Environmental Impacts 3 DIMENSIONS OF Support to Sustainable Development SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Finance The report elaborates on Thematic Global Funds sustainability, which has been adopted by TSKB as a business model, under three dimensions: Business, Planet and People. Detailed information, pertaining to TSKB’s approach, operations and performance results in the field of sustainability, is delivered under PEOPLE 14 sub-categories. Human Resources THE FIRST REPORT OF SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Investment in Human Resources Occupational Health and Safety TSKB’s new sustainability & Supplier Relations report is the first Social Responsibility report issued by TSKB’s Sustainability Committee Sustainability Literacy without obtaining consultancy support. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 3 OUR VISION & MISSION Our Vision To be the pioneering bank for Turkey’s sustainable development. For Turkey’s sustainable development, supply entrepreneurs with medium and long-term financing, brokerage and Our Mission advisory support, play a continuous role in the development of capital markets in Turkey, create increasingly more added value for our shareholders, customers, employees, and all other stakeholders. Support Provide brokerage and sustainable advisory services to development entrepreneurs OUR GOALS Strengthen the Ensure sustainable Communicate effectively corporate structure growth and profitability with stakeholders OUR STRENGTHS Solid capital structure and strong partners Professional and highly experienced human resources Trust of international and supranational fund providers Ability to reach customers with high operational efficiency Access to long-term thematic funds and competency in transferring Reliable and advanced technological infrastructure these funds to business world TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 4 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Depletion of world resources while we produce more and need for financing of adaptation to global warming will be more in an effort to meet the needs of an ever-increasing USD 70-100 billion annually until 2050 in developing world population is one of the biggest dilemmas of our time. countries, it is better understood that the principles of Our 4.5 billion-year-old planet, in an effort to eliminate the sustainability is indispensable for the banking sector. environmental impacts we have so far created, is in a position where it cannot handle the climate change issue without our Established as a development and investment bank in 1950, help. Researches demonstrate that the critical threshold has TSKB adopts sustainability, at a very early stage, as an efficient been exceeded and that even if we manage to fix the carbon business model. TSKB supports transition to low-carbon dioxide level in the atmosphere until 2050, the effects will last economy both through financing the renewable energy and for hundreds and hundreds of years. efficiency projects and through the accurate management of internal environmental impacts, and effectively tackles Climate change challenges every industry in a different climate change. way. Many duties including the prevention of the reduction of agricultural production due to drought, management Believing that our efforts toward sustainable transformation of the environmental impact of wastes, reduction of water can create a meaningful change joined with the contributions footprints of crops, increased use of renewable energy, more of all stakeholders of the financial sector, I invite our sector efficient use of resources, and the improvement of working and all of our stakeholders to unite for a low-carbon future conditions and human rights affect almost all industries to target. different degrees. Kind Regards, A big responsibility falls upon the shoulders of the banking sector in this chain reaction. Our sector does not consume high amounts of water, energy or raw materials to make productions, but has a greater responsibility through the financial services offered. Considering that the cost of environmental impact is doubled every 14 years and that the ADNAN BALİ Chairman TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 5 CEO’S MESSAGE Humankind has always been in search of the new in their journey they We also set sustainability as a principle for our business culture. To have set out to establish a safer future for themselves. They have discovered demonstrate our determination at the highest level, we have established the new stops, tried to find new ways to do old jobs, facilitated their lives with TSKB Sustainability Committee, which is composed of two Board Members innovations, and finally made the agricultural, industrial and technological and two Executive Vice Presidents. The number of our employees working in revolutions... While all these innovations changed not only the human beings sustainability teams operating under our Committee has exceeded 10% of but the world as a whole, the journey they set out dreaming for a safer future the total number of our employees. Also, corporate governance, an important was overshadowed by threats including climate change, famine, and energy portion of this management culture, has always been our priority. In our 65th bottleneck. anniversary, we have proved this again by being awarded “The Business with the Highest Corporate Governance Rating” at the BIST Corporate Governance Today, the difficulties we need to overcome are tough ones, yet we can Index. make our journey safer again. To do this, we need to adopt a growth strategy whereby we meet our needs and take care of the rights of future generations At TSKB, we adopt sustainability in its business, planet and social dimensions to meet their needs. With new business models, new products, new sources of and put a great emphasis on sharing experience. We aim to raise awareness energy and with an understanding of sustainability... about sustainability through our social responsibility projects. We intend to expand this awareness to all of our stakeholders with the www.cevreciyiz.com At TSKB, we have rapidly adapted to the Zeitgeist since the very day we have website where we create a significant domain with its content and followers set out on a mission to support national development, acted in line with the and also through platforms including the Sustainability Workshops where principles of sustainability and always kept the bar high in our individual we focused on university students. We improve our expertise and know-how undertakings. through cooperation with national and international initiatives. Our first stop in our sustainability journey has been renewable energy. 14% Although we have taken many steps for a sustainable future, we are aware of our national installed renewable energy capacity has been realized with of the long road ahead of us. We believe that the banking sector, having our Bank’s support. With our inherent expertise, we have incorporated energy the power to transform all industries through its financing services, have a efficiency investments in 2009, and resource efficiency investments in 2013. great responsibility to this end. We put a great emphasis on the widespread And in 2014, we have increased our pace in sustainable tourism. With all these adoption of the principles of sustainability. investments, we have contributed to a significant decrease in carbon dioxide emissions, one of the most important indicators of climate change. While our In our fourth sustainability report, we demonstrate the last two years of our energy and resource efficiency projects transformed more than 50 enterprises sustainability journey that we embarked on with innovative applications and into more environment-friendly and profitable establishments, we took new pioneering approaches based on the GRI-G4 Guidelines. steps in an effort to reduce our national dependence on foreign energy. I wish this report will inspire our sector and stakeholders. While creating resources for our national sustainable development, we have also developed our Bank’s internal activities with a sustainability perspective, Kind Regards, which results in an important performance. We have reduced our carbon footprints by 40% in the last 5 years and switched to carbon neutral banking. Thanks to the improvements in our buildings, we have achieved a reduction of at least 25% in our electricity, natural gas, water, and paper consumption. ÖZCAN TÜRKAKIN CEO TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 6 COMPANY PROFILE Sustainable value for Turkey’s economic growth TSKB’s shareholder structure since 1950... TSKB was established in 1950 in Istanbul with the support of World %50.00 Bank and the Central Bank of Turkey and shareholding of private commercial banks, with the mission of supporting the Turkish %41.62 private sector development. Since the day it was founded, TSKB has been supporting Turkey’s sustainable growth with its deep knowledge and experience as well as the broad array of corporate banking, investment banking, and consultancy services that it provides its customers. Through subsidiaries offering real estate and sustainability solutions, TSKB also adds value to its customers’ investments. Ever since its inception, TSKB has been engaging in business partnerships with supranational financial institutions, international development agencies, and banks and financial institutions all over the world through which it brings qualified and themed global funds together with investments undertaken by the Turkish %8.38 business world. With a wide range of credit options that include corporate lending, T. İş Bankası A.Ş. Group project finance, and much more, TSKB provides financing support to sustainable investment projects in many different sectors. At T. Vakıflar Bankası T.A.O. the same time and in its capacity as an investment bank, TSKB also Free Float and Others gives its customers the benefit of its international-class investment banking experience with products and services that have been carefully crafted to meet their specific needs. Detailed information pertaining to TSKB’s capital structure can be found in 2014 Annual Report, on Page 4, published at the following web link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 7 TSKB’S SUBSIDIARIES Yatırım TSKB Finansman Gayrimenkul Menkul Değerleme A.Ş. Değerler A.Ş. Appraisal Turkey’s first With subsidiaries active in services at brokerage the fields of capital markets, international www.tskbgd.com www.yf.com.tr firm real estate investment standards partnership, real estate valuation and sustainable consultancy, TSKB provides its clients integrated and high-added-value solutions. Escarus Sürdürülebilir TSKB Danışmanlık A.Ş. Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. Sustainability Other affiliates: solutions targeting • Affiliates in Türkiye An investment private İş Bankası Group portfolio www.escarus.com sector • Industrial affiliates concentrating www.tskbgyo.com on commercial • Foreign affiliates real estate (share in European Investment Fund) Detailed information pertaining to TSKB’s subsidiaries and affiliates can be found in 2014 Annual Report, on page 37, published at the following web link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 8 TSKB’S PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TSKB offers a rich portfolio of products and services, which is designed and structured in line with the country’s development and Turkish business world’s goals, in the fields of Corporate Banking, Investment Banking and Consultancy. Corporate Banking Investment Banking Consultancy Contribution to the Country’s economy and Support to improve clients’ assets... Added value based on expert knowledge... employment... Corporate Lending Corporate Finance Strategic Finance Consultancy Industrial Investments Equity Public Offerings and Transactions Company, Brand and Licence Valuation Energy and Resource Efficiency Debt Security Offerings and Transactions Feasibility Analyses & Studies Environment Friendly Investments Mergers & Acquisitions Financial Restructuring Renewable Energy Asset Purchases & Sales Advisory Strategic Roadmaps Sustainable Tourism Privatization Advisory Sector Analyses Health and Education Investments Project Finance Consultancy Capital Markets* Project Finance Equities Brokerage Services Real Estate Valuation* Power Generation and Distribution Fixed Income Securities Brokerage Services Real Estate Appraisal Commercial Real Estate FX Transactions Machinery and Equipment Appraisal Logistics Warrant Transactions Bidding Consultancy Transportation/Infrastructure Repo Transactions The Highest and Best-Use Analyses Public Private Partnership Projects Derivative Transactions in International Markets Collateral Appraisal Mergers & Acquisitions Forex and Leveraged Trading Feasibility, Project Development & Monitoring Loans Against Securities Sector Analyses and Market Research Report Other Loan Products Asset Management Green Building Analyses Wholesale Banking Investment Advisory Urban Renewal Consultancy • SME Finance Concept Development Consultancy • Export Finance Derivatives Foreign Trade Finance Forwards Sustainability and Environment* Country (ECA) Loans Options Sustainability Management Working Capital Finance Caps & Floors Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Financial Leasing Swaptions Technical Consultancy Swap Transactions Climate Change Management • Currency Carbon Consultancy • Interest Rate Environmental and Social Risk Management • Cross Currency Investment Monitoring for Financial Institutions Renewable Energy Consultancy *TSKB provides a part of its services in investment banking and advisory services within the scope of cooperation with its subsidiaries; Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş., TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme A.Ş. and Escarus Sürdürülebilir Danışmanlık A.Ş. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 9 BASICS OF SUSTAINABILITY AT TSKB Financing the sustainable investment projects Corporate governance With support of TSKB, whose more than 50% of portfolio consists of sustainable projects, TSKB seeks continuous and full compliance to Turkey’s governance code more than 100 renewable energy projects with a total of 3,900 MW installed capacity, of conduct and believes in the importance of fairness, transparency, corresponding to approximately 14 percent of Turkey’s renewable energy capacity were responsibility and accountability. financed. The energy saved through almost 60 energy efficiency projects financed by TSKB is the equivalent of yearlong heating of a city of 850 thousand people. With all these Modern human resources practices investments, Turkey’s annual carbon emissions were reduced by 7.2 million tons. TSKB prioritizes talent and performance management practices as well as training and development activities in order to ensure sustainability of qualified human resources, and provides a working atmosphere where Measuring environmental and social discrimination is prevented and human rights are respected. risks of projects Since 2005, TSKB has measured Support for empowering women in business world environmental and social risks of all As the Bank has gender and opportunity equality as cornerstones of its investment projects which are analyzed human resources strategies, women employees account for 55% of TSKB’s human resources. Being a signatory of UN’s Women’s Empowerment by the Bank. ERET (Environmental Principles (WEPs), TSKB has carried the support it gives to women’s and Social Evaluation Tool) Model, employment to an international level. specially developed by TSKB, is used in the processes of project assessment, financing and investment monitoring. Sharing experience with initiatives Believing in the relevance of sharing experience for a sustainable future, TSKB undertakes collaborations with many national and international organizations for this purpose. Turkey’s first carbon-neutral bank With its Sustainability Management System, TSKB has been measuring all the environmental impacts resulting from its activities since 2005 and defining strategies in order to mitigate them. Environment and sustainability are prioritized in social responsibility 2006: First Turkish bank to obtain ISO 14001 Environmental Management System projects 2008: Turkey’s first carbon-neutral bank With social responsibility projects, TSKB works towards creating 2012: First institution in banking sector to obtain ISO 14064-1 Certificate a sustainable future, and builds awareness in business world and 2005 to date: universities in relation to climate change, energy and carbon emissions. 25% less electricity 32% less natural gas • Turkey’s most comprehensible environment portal – www.cevreciyiz.com 27% less paper 32% less water • “Sustainability Workshops”, a sustainability literacy program created 40% less carbon emissions 100% green energy jointly by TSKB and Escarus, targeting universities • Various conferences in the fields of environment, energy and sustainability Integration of sustainability in all • First carbon-neutral concert at IKSV Istanbul Music Festival business processes The concept of sustainability is being integrated in entire business model with a Sustainability Committee Subsidiaries that make a difference in the field of sustainability formed by two Board of Directors’ Escarus: Business world’s sustainability consultant Members and two Executive Vice Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler: Turkey’s first carbon-neutral Presidents, and a Sustainability Subbrokerage firm Committee formed by representatives TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme: First Green Building Valuation Practice in of various departments. Turkey TSKB’s successes and awards in the field of sustainability Institution with Highest Corporate Governance Rating Award First institution to publish a Sustainability Report in finance sector TKYD (2013-2014) Having been publishing Sustainability Reports since 2009, TSKB is “Sustainable Bank of the Year” Finalist in the Territory of distinguished as an institution that published first GRI A+ sustainability Europe FT & IFC (2013) report of finance sector. Highest Ratings in “Transparency” and “Performance” Categories of Climate Change Leaders Award assessments, CDP Turkey (2013) TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 10 TSKB’S SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE Sustainability Sustainability Committee Sub-Committee 2 Executive 2 Board of Task Vice Directors’ Groups Presidents Members TSKB’s Sustainability Structure TSKB’s Sustainability Policies Sustainability Finance Sustainability Management Stakeholder Communications • Sustainability Policy • Renewable Energy • ISO 14001 • Clients • Environmental and Social Impact • Energy Efficiency • ISO 14064 • Employees Policy • Sustainable Tourism • Zero-Carbon Banking • Shareholders • List of Restricted Activities • Resource Efficiency • Environmental and Social Risk • Government and Regulatory • Occupational Health and Safety • Environmental Investments Evaluation (ERET) Bodies Policy • Financial Institutions • Human Rights Policy • Suppliers • Sustainable Procurement • Subsidiaries Management Policy • NGOs • Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption • The Media Policy • Banking Sector For detailed information: http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainablebanking/tskb-surdurulebilirlik-yonetimorganizasyonu/our-sustainability-policy TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 11 STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS Focusing on creating value for Turkey’s sustainable economic development, TSKB Clients determined all of its corporate priorities in Employees Client Visits and Meetings the field of sustainability in the light of its Department Meetings Manager Meetings Sector Meetings Seminars and Conferences TSKB Website and Social Media Channels stakeholders’ expectations. Focus Group Meetings Online Transactions Platform MT Development Program Client Communication Form Development Workshop In its sustainability report, TSKB shares its Intranet Regulatory Documents Platform approaches and business results pertaining Press Meetings Banking Sector to these priorities. Public Disclosure Platform and Press Releases Meetings as part of sector association memberships Columns Collaborations In this report TSKB focuses on economic, The Media environmental and social components of GRI G4 and those human rights and Annual Ordinary General Assembly Meeting product responsibility aspects where the Board Meetings Bank creates added value. All the dialogs Periodical Reports TSKB Website and Social STAKEHOLDER Board Meetings Joint Project Operations of TSKB with stakeholder groups and the Media Channels COMMUNICATION Manager Meetings results of stakeholder analysis carried Shareholders out with participation of representatives PLATFORM Subsidiaries of stakeholder groups are reviewed in prioritization matrix. NGOs Boards STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION Task Groups Reporting requirements of General Assemblies the law and legislation and Co-organized Events regular follow-ups of other TSKB places great emphasis on establishing Cevreciyiz.com information exchange Participation to relevant meetings and maintaining a sustainable dialog Company Meetings Government and Regulatory Bodies with all stakeholder groups via various Capacity Building Meetings Field Visits communication platforms. Feedback Suppliers Thematic Seminars and Conferences Participation to Annual Meetings received from stakeholders sheds light to Company Meetings Intern Exchange many aspects ranging from identifying Feedback to Satisfaction Surveys Periodical Reports and Assessments Periodical Reporting and TSKB’s strategic priorities to creating Assessments Financial Institutions relevant policies, and from business model to social responsibility projects. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 12 PRIORITIZATION ANALYSIS Dimensions of Prioritization Analysis Prioritization and Stakeholder Analysis A. Financing of tackling climate change and supply of themed funds • Theme Diversity, Including Renewable Energy, Energy and Resource Efficiency, In addition to contacts and meetings with all stakeholder groups Sustainable Tourism, Waste Management and Innovation in the framework of its business model, TSKB carried out a • Effective Cooperation with National and International Financial Instutions stakeholder analysis in the scope of its sustainability report. B. Evaluation of environmental and social risks of the investment projects and Prioritized fields that were identified considering GRI-G4 Technical management of these impacts Protocol were analyzed with a widely-participated survey that • Compliance with Environmental Regulations • Efficiency included practices under 7 headings. • Biodiversity • Human Rights • Occupational Health and Safety C. Full compliance with corporate governance principles and effective risk management Our Clients • To be Ethical, Fair, Transparent, Responsible & Accountable • Risk (Capital, Operational, Loan, Asset-Liabilities) Management Our Business Partners D. Customer orientation Financial • Cost Effective Institutions • Effective Lending • High Service Quality E. Responsible profitability Our Suppliers • Return on Equity • Sustainable Growth • Strong Capital Adequacy Ratio Our Employees • High Quality Assets • Effective Management of Liquidity Position Stakeholders F. Investment in human resources and respect to human rights Participating • Training/Development • Remuneration in Stakeholder Associations • Effective Performance Management • Ensuring Work/Life Balance Our Subsidiaries Analysis and Initiatives • Language, Religion, Ethnicity, Race, Gender Discrimination Prevention we subscribed to G. Social responsibility projects in creating awareness in the field of sustainability Sharing Sustainability Experience with Different Stakeholder Groups: Academia • Our Employees The Media • Business World • Universities • Initiatives • Non-Governmental Organizations • Public TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 13 PRIORITIZATION ANALYSIS Prioritization Analysis Results In review of the findings from TSKB’s stakeholders and senior management’s prioritization analysis, Financial Institutions Employees 1. Evaluation of environmental and 1. Investment in human resources it is evident that stakeholder social risks of the investment projects and respect to human rights groups and Bank’s Board and senior and management of these impacts 2. Financing of tackling climate management have the following first 2. Financing of tackling climate change and supply of themed funds three priorities: change and supply of themed funds 3. Evaluation of environmental and 3. Full compliance with corporate social risks of the investment projects governance principles and effective and management of these impacts risk management Customers 1. Evaluation of environmental and social risks of the investment projects and management of these impacts 2. Customer orientation Initiatives 3. Responsible profitability 1. Full compliance with corporate governance principles and effective First three priorities of the Bank’s risk management Board and senior management: 2. Investment in human resources 1. Full compliance with corporate and respect to human rights governance principles and effective risk 3. Evaluation of environmental and management social risks of the investment projects 2. Investment in human resources and and management of these impacts respect to human rights 3. Evaluation of environmental and social risks of the investment projects and management of these impacts TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 14 PRIORITIZATION MATRIX Findings from examination of the Prioritization Matrix The fact that all criteria, from financing to governance and from human resources to social responsibility, are located on very close and similar area mutually on the graph both by stakeholder High groups and by TSKB Board of Directors and senior management, Evaluation of reveals that the Bank’s policies and business model in this regard Environmental and has met the high expectations of stakeholder groups. Social Risks Sustainability Highest priority given by stakeholders to “Evaluation of Finance environmental and social risks of the investment projects and Human Corporate management of these impacts” strengthens TSKB’s commitment Resources and Governance to measure environmental and social risks involved in any lending Customer Human Rights facilitation and to refuse providing funds to high risk investments. Orientation Importance to Stakeholders The fact that stakeholders’ high expectations for “Financing of Responsible tackling climate change and supply of themed funds” which is Profitability expressed as “Sustainability Finance” has met TSKB’s priorities is especially important as it reflects the awareness in the business Social world and among the other players in the economy. Responsibility As a missionary bank that supports investments for the purpose of the country’s economic development, TSKB has highest priority of “Corporate Governance”, which further underlines the Bank’s unvarying policy towards being fair, transparent, responsible and accountable. Having long-term relations with its clients both in terms of financing and consultancy activities, TSKB places great emphasis on expert and competent human resources, which is reflected on TSKB axis of stakeholder analysis. Covering 360 degree of all economic, environmental, managerial and social aspects of the journey of sustainability, TSKB will continue to have interactive dialogs with all of its stakeholders Low High and to create added value. Importance to TSKB TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 15 OPINIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS “EIB Group has been operating in Turkey for more than 50 years: from the beginning TSKB has “TSKB is a highly valued and trusted partner to promote renewable energy, resource efficiency been a very valuable partner for the successful implementation of our Facilities to SMEs and and sustainable industrial development projects. We share the vision that economic and Mid-Caps. As a shareholder of the European Investment Fund (EIF), TSKB is also proactively social development goes hand in hand with protection of the environment. TSKB and KfW are supporting new initiatives in the venture capital market with focus on Research and both committed to steadily improve their tools and expertise. This is why we established staff Innovation. Every new EIB Group action aimed at improving resource efficiency, environmental exchanges and pool our know-how. protection and sustainable development of the Turkish economy has always received a strong support from TSKB and our wish is to reinforce even further this excellent cooperation in the Jürgen Kern years to come.” Head of Division Energy and Transport South East Europe and Turkey KfW Development Bank Massimo d`Eufemia EIB Group Representative in Turkey at European Investment Bank “TSKB, as one of the pioneer banks in adopting and employing a sustainability approach, has always made a point of being the bank to set the best example for the rest of the banking “The Batı Anadolu Group, guided by the essential industrial principles of continuous sector. The fact that sustainability in economic, social, environmental and managerial senses improvement and development, has invested in environmental improvements and has now become the natural way in which the bank does business is a reference point for the energy efficiency at our Batıçim and Batısöke cement factories together with TSKB, banking sector as a whole. This strengthens TSKB’s image as a “reliable bank” as a bank that Turkey’s first zero-carbon-footprint, ISO 14001 certified bank. TSKB, in contrast to the creates value for stakeholders and stands out against the rest of the sector.” classical banking approach, is supporting industrial companies in Turkey to produce in more environmentally friendly, energy efficient and caring ways.” Güler ARAS, Ph.D. Professor of Finance & Accounting Feyyaz Ünal Founding Director Yıldız Technical University Center for Finance, Governance & Vice General Director Batıçim Sustainability “Our relationship with TSKB, which began decades ago, has progressed into a strong “At Korozo Packaging, a company that is really focusing on economic, social and partnership to fight climate change, involving long-term investments totaling $275 environmental sustainability for a better future, we are proud to be collaborating million. TSKB is a model financial institution that has successfully demonstrated with TSKB, which is one of the exemplary organizations in its field with its sustainable that supporting sustainable development by financing the private sector is a viable approach to banking. We see the projects and investments regarding renewable business model.“ energy, resource efficiency and the environment as important milestones for our collaborations. In this regard, we wish TSKB every success in its projects, which Aisha Williams brought us together with the aim of creating permanent values.” IFC Country Manager for Turkey Jeki Mizrahi General Coordinator Korozo A.Ş. “TSKB is on a mission to establish sustainable development within our country. However, TSKB, with its business understanding that is based on sustainability, isn’t just focusing on its own corporate sustainability. The organization is playing an “TSKB is providing sustainability and development by working closely with us. It is inspirational role set on making this a nationwide approach to business, by basing its contributing to creating resources by analyzing our needs together and taking them mission on the sustainable usage of financial support of development.” under control. TSKB is helping us use these resources of time, money and energy so that we can carry out our duty of caring about the world and its people. When we Sinan Ak are working with TSKB, our actions are carefully planned. We are making long-term General Director Zorlu Energy investments with returns; we aren’t just focusing on one single outcome. We are working alongside TSKB with the purpose of bringing together conceptual, physical and strategic components in a way that is beneficial to all ways of life.” Ahmet Yılmaz Plant Manager Tırsan TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 16 OPINIONS OF TSKB’S SENIOR MANAGEMENT The Executive Vice Presidents of TSKB adopt a vision of multidimensional sustainable banking in their areas of responsibility. Orhan Beşkök Burak Akgüç “For 65 years, we have been introducing qualified global funds to business “Climate change and the pressing need for the conservation of natural resources investments through partnerships we have developed with supranational compelled businesses to significant change. As the leading supporter of financial institutions, development agencies, and international banks. While sustainable investments, our bank enjoys a distinguished position in the finance doing so, we measure the environmental and social risks of investment projects sector with investments in renewable energy, energy and resource efficiency, that we finance. At the same time, we maintain systematic efforts to integrate environment and sustainable tourism comprising 50% of our loan portfolio. sustainability principles to all of our work processes, and our Board of Directors We are delighted to be an enabler of transformation in businesses through our as well as Executive Management take personal ownership of these efforts. As experience not just in financing activities, but in consultancy services as well.“ Turkey’s first carbon-neutral bank, we aim for significant reduction in consuming resources like energy, water, natural gas and paper, taking an active stance against climate change.” Ömer Eryılmaz Çiğdem İçel “We believe that corporate governance is one of the pillars of sustainability. “I believe that experience sharing is one of the key values in TSKB’s sustainability Nurturing and developing a fair, transparent, accountable and responsible journey. Experience sharing is at the heart of everything we do; partnerships management culture is among our priorities. Our commitment to this issue has with global funds, clients and other stakeholders for the purpose of financing been recognized by the Istanbul Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Index sustainability, countless investment projects we have valuated so far, our human where we have sustained leadership in highest corporate governance scores. resources sustainability targets, employee awareness of sustainability, and our Meanwhile, an increasing share value and an excellent reputation with our sustainability literacy efforts directed at various segments of the society.” creditors and investors further reinforce the positive results of our dedication to sustainable investments, and boost our confidence for the future.” Ufuk Bala Yücel Gökhan Çanakpınar “We view effective risk management and credit performance monitoring as the “Information technology is the key factor in the evolution of businesses towards key elements of sustainable banking. As the holder of the lowest NPL rate in the sustainability. From a banking perspective, we are highly motivated to keep Turkish banking sector, we seek to preserve a high-quality credit portfolio while abreast of technological developments that contribute to a number of significant never compromising our ability to create value for our clients.” areas including fast and secure transactions, high-quality service, paper-free processes, and remote access capabilities that reduce our carbon footprint.” Hakan Aygen Ece Börü “There is a growing trend among investors to consider the financial and share “Sustainability is at the heart of TSKB’s strategic planning. We shape our work performances of companies as much as their performance in sustainability processes, organizational structure and banking activities in reference to this worldwide. Renewables and energy efficiency gain more importance day by philosophy and we promote efficiency as our most important performance day, while there is an abundance of green investment instruments in the capital measure. We also believe that information and document infrastructure is critical markets of developed countries. We believe that investors in Turkey are likely to to the systematic implementation of our sustainable banking activities, and will include such instruments in their investment portfolios soon. TSKB is the best carry our expertise and corporate memory forward as the key differentiators of business partner for our clients thanks to our strong research capabilities and our bank.” extensive knowledge in investment banking, and our leadership position in sustainability.” TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 17 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Robust growth in assets TSKB’s sustainable profitability and growth targets: While the Bank’s assets expanded by an annual average of 19% on TL basis in the last five years, the loan portfolio grew by 23%. With an NPL ratio of 0.2% which is far below the sector average as of 2014 year-end, TSKB grew its balance sheet while maintaining its asset quality. USD 7.6 billion worth of loans to the real sector in the last five years As required by its mission, TSKB offers solutions to meet the needs Increasing Efficient cost Growing Maintaining Efficient of its clients for long-term funds and contributes to the Turkish equity control and market the asset management economy’s sustainable growth through loan allocation activities. and asset improvement value and quality of the Bank’s TSKB directly provided USD 6.9 billion of funding to the real sector profitability investor-base liquidity and in the last five years, in sectors such as renewable energy, energy positions efficiency, infrastructure and logistics. Total funding extended to the real sector in the last five years reached USD 7.6 billion, including the loans which were allocated to SMEs through APEX lending and amounted to USD 0.7 billion. Strong capital structure TSKB has grown its shareholders’ equity by 16% on annual basis in the last five years. The Bank’s capital adequacy ratio was announced as of the end of 2014 to be 18.1%, which is well above the sector average. Average annual growth of 15% in net profit TSKB achieved an average annual net profit growth of 15% between the years 2010 and 2014. Expanding its assets in a healthy way while maintaining its profitability, the Bank recorded a return on equity ratio of 17.7% and a return on assets ratio of 2.6% as of 2014 year-end. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 18 FINANCIAL INDICATORS Main financial parameters (TL million) Main ratios (%) Asset Size Loans Shareholders’ Net Profit Average Return Average Return Capital Adequacy on Equity on Assets Ratio Equity 15,701 22.7 12,911 20.4 19.4 19.7 19.1 18.4 18.2 18.1 17.9 17.7 10,981 10,290 9,456 9,177 7,912 6,895 6,395 4,843 2,288 2.9 3.1 1,755 1,885 2.9 2.8 2.6 1,264 1,366 212 255 307 326 369 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 How did we share the value* that we created in 2013 2014 2013 and 2014, and with whom? (TL) Gross profit 400,893,700 461,678,760 Tax 74,836,814 92,404,004 Cash dividends distributed to shareholders and Board of Directors 65,001,666 72,001,602 Dividends distributed to employees 7,578,940 8,407,962 Undistributed profit (**) 253,477,946 288,866,794 Employee termination benefits 874,773 1,195,328 Personnel expenses 45,733,227 54,794,672 Total operating expenses 26,582,000 58,281,000 *Gross profit is deemed to be the value created by TSKB as a result of banking services cycle. **TL 200 million and TL 234 million were distributed as bonuses in 2013 and 2014 respectively, while TL 53,477,946 and TL 54,866,794 were set aside as reserves in 2013 and 2014 respectively. The above figures were received from TSKB’s solo financials and profit distribution statements as of December 31st, 2013 and December 31st, 2014. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 19 SUPPORT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TSKB’s targets to support sustainable development: With proactive business strategies, TSKB constantly improves its level of support to sustainable development. • Weight of loans provided to investments with the theme of sustainability in the Bank’s total loan portfolio excluding the finance sector reached 52% as of the end of 2014. • More than 100 clean energy projects with total of 3,900 MW installed capacity, corresponding to approximately 14% of Turkey’s renewable energy capacity, were financed. • The energy saved through almost 60 energy efficiency projects financed by Supporting Expanding Increasing loan Increasing Efficiently TSKB is the equivalent of yearlong heating of a city of 850 thousand people. climate client-base and foreign short and transferring • With all these investments, Turkey’s annual carbon emissions have been change trade volumes medium term funds reduced by 7.2 million tons. tackling with free fund secured from • TSKB focuses on investments in areas such as resource efficiency including a responsible volumes supranational energy efficiency, renewable energy, logistics, sustainable tourism, food and financing institutions to infrastructure. approach business world • In addition to providing financial support for Turkish private sector’s transition to low-carbon and high-efficient production economy, TSKB offers companies consultancy services in these fields. As a requirement of its growth strategy, TSKB deepens its relationships with current clientèle while aiming to gain new Most important business lines: Corporate Lending clients from various business lines. In this context, the following Project Finance projects and sectors are on TSKB’s agenda going forward: • Public-Private Partnership Projects (PPP), mainly in the fields of health and education ns A P E X lo a g d i re c t l y • Renewable energy projects, in particular wind, solar and geothermal energy projects n v ia Investment loans illio n d in ing Working capital loans • Energy and resource efficiency projects • SME loans m f fu an c 0 In the last five years, USD 70 no li o fin APEX bil illi the real sector was 6 .9 • Sustainable tourism and environmental projects on U SD b .6 S D7 supported by A t ot al U • Acquisition of publicly held electricity generation plants and other assets under the scope of privatization and investments related to these privatizations. Planning to place greater emphasis on investment loans in the near future, TSKB aims to grow its loan portfolio as well as maintaining its strong asset quality while supporting Turkey’s economic development. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 20 LOAN INDICATORS REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS (FACILITATION) ¨ 19% market share in Loan portfolio Strong asset quality the development and amounting to with an NPL ratio investment TL 11 billion of 0.2% banking sector Sectoral Diversity of Loan Portfolio 6% Mediterranean Eastern Anatolia Aegean Southeastern Anatolia 1% 3% Central Anatolia Black Sea Marmara 4% 33% Energy Production 5% Electricity-Gas Distribution Finance 6% Logistics REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF APEX LOANS (FACILITATION) Non-residential Real Estate 6% Metal and Machinery Chemistry and Plastics Construction 7% Tourism Food Automotive 7% 9% Other 13% A gradual decrease is expected in the share of energy production due to Bank’s focus with respect to renewable energy projects shifting to wind Mediterranean Eastern Anatolia Aegean Southeastern Anatolia and solar power projects. Central Anatolia Black Sea Marmara Finance sector loans mainly consist of APEX loans. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 21 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCE Renewable Energy Aiming to be the leading bank of the 107 projects with total sector in relation to sustainability and of 3,885 MW estimated 90 projects with Projects financed environment, TSKB has been financing installed capacity were total of 2,868 MW correspond to renewable energy investments since financed installed power approximately 14% 2002. The Bank thus plays an important started operation of Turkey’s renewable role in tackling climate change in Turkey energy capacity and Turkey’s transition to low-carbon economy while indirectly contributing to the decrease of the Country’s dependence on abroad in energy Total investment amount Loan amount that was production and reduction of current of energy projects that committed to these deficit. were financed in the projects by TSKB was period of 2003-2014: approximately Having a share of 9% the sector’s overall USD 7.6 billion USD 2.3 billion energy loans, TSKB funds diversified energy projects ranging from wind power plants to solar power plants. While wind power and geothermal power plants in Wind particular receive greater emphasis in Projects: 17 Total Installed 2014 in terms of renewable energy, the Capacity (MW): 618 total weight of energy sector in TSKB’s loan portfolio remains at the same level Geothermal Biomass Projects: 3 Projects: 6 as of year end. TSKB aims to provide Total Installed Total Installed Capacity (MW): Capacity (MW): 95 investment financing to geothermal, wind 220 and solar power plant projects in the near future in the scope of its sustainable Solar Projects: 2 banking mission. Hydroelectric Projects: 79 Total Installed Total Installed Capacity Capacity (MW): (MW): 2 2,950 Total Installed Projects Capacity (MW) Total 107 3,885 TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 22 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCE As of the end of 2014... Energy and Resource Efficiency Believing in the important role played by efforts in energy and resource efficiency 56 energy efficiency projects of in tackling climate change, TSKB has been supporting the energy efficiency projects O33 companies were financed 6 resource efficiency projects of 6 companies of many enterprises that manufacture in an were financed array of industries, with medium and longUSD 388.7 million term loans. loans disbursed Share of energy and resource efficiency loans in TSKB’s total loan portfolio has reached 8% as of the end of 2014. With the support of record-level medium and long-term foreign resources it secured in 2014, TSKB aims to finance new resource efficiency projects. The Bank so far provided a total of USD Energy Efficiency = heating of 212,700 homes per year Resource Efficiency 400 million financing to more than 60 projects ranging from energy efficiency to raw material efficiency, and production processes efficiency to waste management efficiency. In the reporting period, total of EUR 300 million in loans with resource efficiency theme were secured. Reduction of greenhouse gases equivalent to 1,221,500 tons/year; saving 2,100,000,000 (1,000 Kcal) heating of 212,700 EUR 18.3 million of energy = homes per year loans disbursed EUR 37.7 million USD 661.3 million projects’ total projects’ total investment amount investment amount TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 23 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCE Sustainable Tourism As of the end of 2014: Sharing its experience in the field of sustainable banking with the tourism sector, TSKB supports both the protection of environment and the tourism investments to be sustainable. In the reporting period, total of EUR 160 million 9 sustainable Loans offered by TSKB in the field of in loans with sustainable tourism projects of tourism aren’t merely loans for facility tourism theme were 8 companies were investment, facility renovation or secured financed expansion investments, but also cover aspects such as energy efficiency, resource efficiency and investments to mitigate the environmental impact that are vital for tackling climate change. Loans disbursed: The use of sustainable EUR 62 million tourism loans is being continued TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 24 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCE APEX Loans As of the end of 2014: TSKB applies its sustainable banking principles also to its efforts in the fields of creating new business opportunities, increasing the exports and employment. As the leader and role-model practitioner of APEX banking in Turkey, TSKB finances Export revenues of these companies SMEs and exporters via banks and financial in the period leasing companies. Being provided under Synergetic structure Total of USD 1.2 billion immediately APEX banking, this service is offered in the with 29 intermediary in loans provided to 649 following loan scope of the World Bank’s EFIL (Export Finance institutions within the companies within the utilization: Intermediary Loan) programs and APEX loans framework of APEX scope of EFIL Approximately obtained from EBRD, KfW and EIB. USD 15.5 billion As of the end of the year, APEX credits represent 7% of TSKB’s credit portfolio and the Bank continues to procure new resources within the scope of APEX. In this context, USD 250 Total of USD 407 million Contribution to in loans provided to 823 employment in SMEs: million worth of “Innovative Access to Finance SMEs within the scope of Approximately 5,350 Project Loan” was obtained in 2014 from the SME loans people World Bank to be used for financing SMEs and medium scale export companies via participation banks and factoring companies. Thus, TSKB will be the first to act as mediator for facilitation of a loan by the World Bank via participation banks and factoring companies in Turkey. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 25 THEMATIC GLOBAL FUNDS TSKB brings global funds and Turkish business world’s investments With the funding secured from supranational financial bodies, TSKB together. continues to finance renewable energy, environment, sustainable tourism, and energy and resource efficiency projects. Its strong and well established international relations network is one of the distinguishing aspects of TSKB and excels as one TSKB secured approximately USD 2.2 billion from international markets via of the important privileges the Bank offers to its clients. its thematic loan agreements, Eurobond issuance and syndicated term loans in 2013 and 2014. Being one of the recognized Turkish banks in international finance markets, TSKB works in close cooperation with development In addition, TSKB broke new ground in 2014 by issuing its first Eurobond. financial institutions including but not limited to the World Citigroup, Commerzbank, ING and Standard Chartered Bank were mandated Bank (IBRD), European Investment Bank (EIB), Council of Europe for the issuance of bonds amounting to USD 350 million with a 5 year Development Bank (CEB), KfW Development Bank (KfW), Islamic maturity. The deal was completed by the end of October. TSKB targeted Development Bank (IDB), Agence Française de Développement solely European market (REGs), raising considerable interest in investor (AFD), International Finance Corporation (IFC), Oesterreichische meetings held in Zurich, Frankfurt and London, and was approximately fourEntwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) and European Bank for times oversubscribed than the planned bond issuance. The strong investor Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). appetite for the bond issuance, despite the volatile market conditions, is an indicator of the confidence in the strength of TSKB and the Turkish economy. On the other hand, correspondent relations undertaken with international banks represent another important component of Willing to continue supporting investments promoting Turkey’s sustainable TSKB’s international cooperation network. growth with the additional funds secured by the Eurobond issue, TSKB will keep working to increase the diversification of its funding base. TSKB aims to provide financing at favorable conditions to investment projects promoting Turkey’s sustainable economic development as well as contributing to improve the competitiveness of private sector companies. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 26 THEMATIC GLOBAL FUNDS INDICATORS 2013 2014 European Investment Bank (EIB) Islamic Development Bank European Bank for Reconstruction and • EUR 100 million Sustainable Tourism and • USD 220 million Restricted Mudaraba Development (EBRD) Energy Efficiency Loan Agreement for private sector companies’ • EUR 50 million Resource Efficiency Loan • EUR 150 million Financing “SMEs and Mid-Cap investments in generating energy based on Companies” throughout Turkey renewable resources and/or for energy efficiency Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) World Bank KfW Development Bank • EUR 100 million APEX Financing productive • USD 250 million Innovative Access to • EUR 150 million Financing Resource Efficiency investments to be carried out by SMEs Finance Project Loan and Environmental Measures in the Industry throughout Turkey for creation and preservation of viable jobs KfW Development Bank Citibank-OPIC Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) • EUR 100 million Resource Efficiency Loan in • USD 40 million Energy Efficiency and • EUR 20 million Renewable Energy Industry Renewable Energy Loan and Energy Efficiency Loan International Finance Corporation (IFC) Agence Française de Développement (AFD) European Investment Bank (EIB) • USD 75 million Environment and Resource • EUR 60 million Sustainable Tourism and • EUR 100 million-Financing of small and medium Efficiency Loan Innovative Renewable Energy Projects Loan sized investments in the fields of renewable energy, energy efficiency and projects that substantially increase the environmental efficiency of industrial processes TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance and full conformance to laws TSKB believes that adopting the basic principles and becoming fair, constitutes power source of sustainable economic transparent, responsible and accountable are highly important for the performance, framework of ethical and honest banking, and development of both national and international capital markets, and also in the primary tool for balancing and maintaining stakeholders’ terms of the interests of the bank and all stakeholders. interest. TSKB has clearly defined policies, procedures, risk management principles TSKB adopts the corporate objective of providing banking and systems for business lines, services and products. With the information services with a management approach that tends to its all technologies infrastructure it has, TSKB ensures that policies, procedures stakeholders’ expectations and provides to them the highest and systems are rapidly and efficiently internalized in the service cycle. possible benefit, and to constantly develop its prestige in the Information technology infrastructure further allows that all management market and brand power. reporting functions can be carried out in the most efficient way, helping internal and external audit functions can be performed without omission. TSKB believes that adhering to all ethical values in addition to conforming to laws and legislation is necessary and contribution to society, environment and social life is essential in order to achieve this objective. Equal treatment of all stakeholders, protecting their rights, sharing accurate, open and comparable information with public and fair use of their authorities by the senior management are prioritized by TSKB. Board of Directors, CEO, senior management team and committees constitute TSKB’s company governance structure. The Bank also strives to provide structures where all stakeholders, especially employees and shareholders, have the ability to participate in management. Detailed information pertaining to TSKB’s Corporate Governance, Board of Directors, senior management, and committees can be found on pages 42-48 and 52-60 of 2014 Annual Report published at http://www.tskb.com. tr/i/content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Since the day it was included in BIST Corporate Governance Index in 2009, TSKB maintains its position among the companies with highest corporate governance rating of Turkey. TSKB raised its corporate Sustainable governance rating to 9.44 on a scale of 10 on October 20, 2014. With this rating, the Bank has been awarded, for the third time, “Organization with Highest Corporate Governance Rating” in Corporate Governance Awards competition held by Turkish Corporate Governance Association. Responsible Fair Sub Categories Weight (%) 2014 Shareholders 25 9.46 Public Disclosure and Transparency 25 9.58 Stakeholders 15 9.73 Board of Directors 35 9.21 Total 100 9.44 Transparent Report authored by SAHA Kurumsal Yönetim ve Kredi Derecelendirme Hizmetleri A.Ş. in relation to corporate governance rating can be found at http://www.tskb.com.tr/en. Accountable TSKB Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report is on pages 52-60 Another star in our 65th year! of 2014 Activity Report, published at the address of http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/ We are proud to be “The Company with the Highest Corporate content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf. Governance Rating Score in BIST Corporate Governance Index” once again. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk Management team carry out their activities as a unit that is Risk Management directly connected with the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee. The team monitors and measures the risk level that the TSKB considers risk management to be one of the fundamental Bank is exposed to in the scope of risk management strategies that components of added value cycle towards sustainable banking and are vital for sustainable performance, in adherence to international development targets. Structured in line with best practices and legal standards and as per the formal risk policies. Whilst TSKB continues arrangements of international arena, TSKB’s risk management process to measure and monitor credit risk and market risk, which are the serves in creating a common risk culture throughout the organization. major risks of the Bank, legally according to the Standard Approach Risks encountered by the Bank are defined in a way that conforms with legislation, it also measures and reports with the use of its own international arrangements and measuring, analysis, monitoring and advanced software and internal models. At TSKB, risks are monitored reporting activities are carried out in this framework while continuous not only statically but also through dynamic analyses. For this, shortand systematic input is provided to the Bank management’s decision and mid-term projections based on various stress and base scenarios making process. are made. Furthermore, the Bank uses software and analyses that incorporate advanced measurement methodologies for the purpose of effectively managing its assets and liabilities. Preventions of Laundering Criminal TSKB’s Internal Controlling Center includes Prevention of Laundering Income and Financing of Terrorism of Criminal Income and Prevention of Financing of Terrorism in their controlling operations, inspecting compliance to governing In Turkey, MASAK (Board for Investigating Financial Crime) works legislation as well as the sufficiency of the measures that were in the field of struggling with laundering of criminal income and adopted. Client transactions carried out at TSKB are checked on daily, financing of terrorism. The legal framework of this struggle consists monthly and quarterly basis and current and potential issues are of “Code for Prevention of Laundering of Criminal Income” that was regularly reported to the Board of Directors. TSKB adopts the principle adopted in 2006 and “Code for Prevention of Financing of Terrorism” of full adherence to Turkey’s governing legislation for preventions of that was adopted in 2013. Regulations published in 2008 entails the laundering of criminal income and financing of terrorism and strives requirement of preparing a compliance program, with the exception to ensure that controlling, warning and other mechanisms needed in of development banks, in order to prevent laundering of black its business processes function without omission. money via Turkey’s banking system. Entirety of TSKB’s Policy for Struggling with Bribery and Corruption can be found at the following link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_anti_ bribery_and_anti_corruption_policy.pdf. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 30 SHARING EXPERIENCE WITH INITIATIVES TSKB carries out collaborations with INTERNATIONAL NATIONAL many national and international organizations, believing in the importance of sharing experience CDP Carbon Disclosure Project TBB The Banks Association of Turkey for a sustainable future. WDP Water Disclosure Project TKYD Turkish Corporate Governance Association First Turkish bank to become a UNEP FI member UN Declaration of Human Rights TSPAKB Turkish Capital Markets Association Participation to Carbon Disclosure Project since GRI The Global Reporting Initiative DEIK Foreign Economic Relations Board the year it was established UNEP FI UN Environment Program TUSIAD Turkish Industry and Business Association Finance Initiative One of first two financial institutions from Borsa Istanbul Sustainability Index Advisory Turkey that signed Water Disclosure Project United Nations Global Compact Committee ADFIMI Association of National First Turkish development and investment Development Finance Institutions in bank that subscribed to United Nations GIF Global Relations Forum Member Countries of the Islamic “Global Compact” Development Bank One of the two institutions in finance IIF International Institute of Finance SKD Sustainable Development Association sector in Global Compact Turkey Network ICC International Chamber of Commerce İKSV Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts Board of Directors LTIC Long-Term Investors Club Money Managers Association Signatory of WEPs (Women’s IDFC International Development Finance Empowerment Principles) Risk Managers Association Club ELTI European Long-Term Investors Chair of Finance Sector’s Role in Sustainable Association Growth Task Group established at the Banks Association of Turkey (TBB) since 2009 TSKB supports its activities in associations subscribed with various task groups. In this context, the Bank participates in special task groups of associations such as DEIK, TUSIAD, TBB and SKD. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 31 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AT TSKB Sustainability Management at TSKB focuses on 6 objectives: As the leader of sustainable banking in Turkey, TSKB aims to support Turkey’s sustainable economic development Assessing and managing systematically the environmental and growth by defining the concept of sustainability in risks originating from the activity of loan facilitation economical, environmental and social axes. TSKB adopts the following policies as fundamental principles that shape Control and systematic management of internal its sustainability efforts: environmental impacts, such as electricity, water, natural gas consumption, paper consumption and CO2 emissions, • Sustainability Policy originating from TSKB’s operational services • Environmental and Social Impact Policy • Occupational Health and Safety Policy Developing TSKB’s products and services from a • Human Rights Policy sustainable banking perspective and financing renewable • Sustainable Procurements Management Policy energy, energy efficiency and environment investments • Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Continuously informing all TSKB employees and Detailed information pertaining to this issue is shared at the following web link: stakeholders about sustainability issues, and increasing http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/tskb-sustainability-managementorganization/tskb-sustainability-management-system their sensitivity to these issues by ensuring their active participation in processes Preparing sustainability reports periodically in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards to be shared with the Bank’s stakeholders and supporting stakeholders for good sustainability practices Periodically calculating the Bank’s carbon footprint as a part of ISO 14064 requirements and pursuing the banking activities with zero carbon principles by offsetting its carbon footprint TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 32 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Having launched its first efforts in the field of sustainability in 2005, TSKB established the same year its Environmental Management System, which was a very important step in the finance sector. Further developing this system in Sustainability Sustainability 2012, the Bank took it to next level as its Sustainability Committee Sub-Committee Management System. TSKB later established Sustainability Committee in order to address the issue with broader participation within the Bank in 2015. 2 Executive 2 Board of Task Vice Directors’ Groups Presidents Members Sustainability Committee Sustainability Sub-Committee • The Committee consists of two Board Members and two Executive Vice Comprised of managers from various departments of TSKB, Presidents elected by the Board of Directors. the sub-committee reports to TSKB’s Sustainability Committee. • Two Executive Vice Presidents in Sustainability Committee also serve as “Coordination Officers”. • The Committee has a sub-committee that is comprised of different department representatives. Responsibilities: Responsibilities: • Bank’s sustainability strategy, vision and action plans • Management of sustainability activities • Following international developments, public regulations and trends • Internalizing and capacity development of sustainability • Providing recommendations on new business opportunities and social • Monitoring of national and international legislation responsibility projects • Integration of sustainability in banking products and processes • Expanding Bank’s sustainability network • Management of internal/external environmental impacts and social responsibility • Communication of sustainability • Sustainability measurements and reporting TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 33 MANAGEMENT OF LOANS’ ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS Climate change, which is one of the most important agenda ERET (Environmental Risk Evaluation Tool) items throughout the world, is in first place in TSKB’s Environment Policy. TSKB supports investment projects with products that TSKB measures the ERET is created on a environmental and social risks of voluntary basis and offers contribute to prevention of climate change, while adopting an a unique piece of software. all investment projects that it’s approach that tends to environmental and social issues and been assessing with ERET since TSKB’s strong banking mitigates the impacts at their origins. TSKB defines the sole 2005. discipline forms the objective for a habitable future as a “low carbon economy”. foundation of ERET. Paying attention to provide loans to investments that’ll support TSKB does not assess projects that it forsees Turkey’s economic and social development, TSKB adopts to have very high environmental impact. Project evaluation is made in accordance with 35x5 criteria. ERET identifies technical, environmental conservation, tackling climate change and social Thus, ERET ratings are concentrated in B and financial and legal obligations that might arise development as its fundamental objectives. C categories. In cases where environmental from current and potential environmental/ risk turns out to be higher than the social impacts of investment project subject average and/or is considered to be high, how to evaluation and those of the other activities TSKB provides guidance to its clientèle in relation to defining, the environmental impact can be mitigated of the project owner. Results are considered in and monitored is structured with a plan that accurately managing and mitigating environmental and social is prepared jointly with the client. project assessment, financing and investment monitoring processes. impacts of the projects to be financed. 2013 2014 company Environmental and Social Impact Policy 24 30 15 23 TSKB considers measuring and managing the indirect risk 9 10 2 1 originating from its service activities to be the most difficult and most important aspect for a financial institution in relation to R u m isk L management of environmental and social risk. Environmental e vel) and social impacts that may originate from TSKB’s activities are l) R i S e n s it ve assessed and managed in the scope of Environmental and Social i v e R i s k Le Impact Policy: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKBev s k e l) Le v ENVIRONMENTAL-AND-SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf h e l) 2013 2014 ig Projects and activities that are not to be financed by TSKB are 1 0 A ( H e di M m likewise discussed in the aforementioned policy. Detailed information 3 8 B + ( e di u L k on this issue can be found at the following web link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/ project 24 21 B ( w R is M C (L o assets/document/pdf/TSKB-List-of-activities-that-are-not-to-be-financed.pdf 22 35 Information pertaining to projects analyzed by TSKB using ERET model since 2007 can be found here: http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/sustainability-finance/environmental-riskevaluation TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 34 MANAGEMENT OF INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS TSKB, Turkey’s first carbon-neutral bank, has been measuring the environmental impacts of its internal banking activities and defining strategies in order to mitigate them since 2005. In this context, electricity, water, 2006: First Turkish Bank to fuel, paper and other waste materials generated at the have ISO 14001 Environment Bank’s service buildings are periodically measured. Management System Certificate (renewed with success every year) As a volunteer party of Carbon Disclosure Project since 2010, TSKB continues to provide periodical information. (For detailed information regarding Carbon Disclosure Project: http://cdpturkey.sabanciuniv.edu) What does “carbon footprint” mean for a bank? Emissions of greenhouse gases due to transportation of 2008: Turkey’s first carbon-neutral bank employees and their heating, cooling, illumination in the (the Bank measures, reduces and erases its buildings all together constitute the carbon footprint. 2005 to date: carbon footprint by purchasing carbon credits every year regularly) 2012: First Carbon 25% less electricity institution from Emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 banking sector to (tonCO2e) have ISO 14064-1 Scope-1 735 600 413 440 32% less natural gas Certificate (Control and Approval of Scope-2 0 0 0 0 27% less paper Greenhouse Gas Emissions) Scope-3 383 350 352 373 Total 1,117 950 765 813 32% less water 40% less carbon emissions 2009 to date: 100% green energy TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 35 INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS INDICATORS TSKB’S Carbon Footprint (%) 2013 Carbon Footprint (%) 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL 2013 2014 INDICATORS 0.95% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 15.01% Electricity Consumption 16.80% Electricity Consumption (kWh) 1,030,978 1,073,916 30.58% 0.86% Transportation Transportation Electricity Consumption (Mj) 3,711,521 3,866,098 0.26% Ventilation Ventilation Electricity Consumption / m2 58 62 Natural Gas Natural Gas Electricity Consumption / person 3,133.67 3,398.47 Paper Paper Natural Gas Consumption 56.09% Generator Generator Natural Gas Consumption (m3) 64,879 60,871 25.90% Electricity Electricity Natural Gas Consumption / m2 4 4 Natural Gas Consumption / person 197 193 53.62% Water Consumption Water Consumption (m3) 7,999 7,149 Water Consumption / m2 0.45 0.42 Water Consumption / person 24 23 Paper Consumption Electricity Consumption (kWh) Natural Gas Consumption (m3) Water Consumption (m3) Paper Consumption (kg) 6,735 6,325 Paper Consumption / person 20 20 Waste Paper Consumption 1,067,232 84,668 8,094 Waste Paper Consumption (m3) 6,900 7,900 1,076,471 75,484 8,095 Waste Paper Consumption / m2 21 25 1,030,978 64,879 7,999 CO2 Emissions 1,073,916 60,871 7,149 CO2 Emissions (kg) 764,161 812,380 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 CO2 Emissions / profit 0.0050 0.0051 CO2 Emissions / person 2,322.68 2,570.82 Paper Consumption (kg) CO2 Emissions (kg) Service Building Area (m2) 17,679 17,236 Number of employees (average) 329 316 Income (US Dollars) 153,800,000 160,206,000 6,541 1,117,370 7,195 950,495 6,735 764,161 6,325 812,380 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 36 HUMAN RESOURCES TSKB sees its highly competent and expert human resources as its most important corporate power. TSKB provides a modern working environment with full respect to TSKB’s Human Rights Policy human rights while encouraging equal-opportunity participation. In all of TSKB’s human resources and talent management applications, the sustainability of training and Aiming to fully comply with UN Declaration of Human Rights, UN Global development, mechanisms encouraging initiative-taking and a workplace that evaluates Principles Act and Turkey’s legislation that arranges human rights and the performance in the best possible way and rewards success, can be considered as business life in Turkey, TSKB is against forced labor and child labor in Turkey tangible indicators of success. and worldwide and supports the initiatives towards prevention of such illegal practices. • A workplace with full respect for human rights TSKB prioritizes the sustainability of its human resources, focuses on sustaining its Never discriminating among its employees, all assessments related to modern workplace where participation is encouraged and human rights are fully employees are free from all prejudice or discrimination (of gender, mental respected. / physical handicap, age, race, religion, language, sect, belief, cultural or social class). TSKB takes measures against the types of conduct that might • Recruitment cause ill treatment or abuse, while allowing its employees to share their TSKB, has taken the approach of “Creating a TSKB family” and training its own managers complaints anonymously. itself, employs recent graduates with management potential through recruitment programs specifically designed for the bank’s dynamics. The employees’ occupational and personal development is continuously supported through feedback and trainings in a way that’ll encourage • Training and development programs their dedication to the organization and participation and creativity of the TSKB always invests in its human resources its greatest strength with personalized employees are encouraged via transparent communication channels. assessment and development programs. Complete text of TSKB’s Human Rights Policy can be found at the following web link: http:// • Effective performance management www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Taking into account that the most important goal in developing human resources is increasing efficiency, objective evaluations of all employees are conducted through the Supporting the women’s participation in the economy: WEP’s Performance Management System in order to achieve this. Various training programs are provided to employees for their continuous development alongside these evaluations. 55% of TSKB’s employees are women and this fact is one of the most tangible indicators of TSKB’s human rights policy that is based on diversity • Career management and equal opportunity. With 46% women in management staff, TSKB At TSKB, career management is applied effectively. Employees who have the knowledge, stands out and acts as a role model in the sector in terms of women’s experience and capability required for a position are promoted and further progress participation in economy as well. in their careers. The bank’s highly capable and expert team plays an important role in sustaining corporate performance. Believing in the great importance of women’s active participation in the economy, TSKB signed “Women’s Empowerment Principles” (WEP’s), most • Compensation and benefits important international initiative for this purpose. Thus, TSKB took its TSKB employs a market-sensitive compensation policy that is coordinated with the support to gender and opportunity equality to an international level. performance evaluation system. • Strong employer brand and internal communication Women’s Empowerment Principles, which is the most important TSKB strives to create a dynamic and highly motivated team with a sense of belonging international initiative, established by partnership of the United Nations and carries out strong employer branding practices. These practices include many Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women in the Society internal communication projects for its employees. Structured collaborations with (UN Women) and UN Global Compact, aims to empower women in all universities aim to increase TSKB’s recognition among recent graduates and make the areas, especially in health, safety, education and development. bank a preferred organization. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 37 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS Gender, Education and Age Distribution (Banking Employees) Gender Distribution in Top Management and Committees Education Total PhD 4 4 MSc/MA 46 43 89 Board of Directors University 106 83 189 Chairman 1 College 7 1 8 Vice Chairman 1 High School 2 1 3 Member 1 8 Audit Committee Total 161 132 293 Member 2 Sustainability Committee Age Total Member 2 2 21-30 48 40 88 Sustainability Sub-Committee Member 7 2 31-40 69 54 123 Corporate Governance Committee 41-50 42 30 72 Member 3 512 8 10 Senior Management Total 161 132 293 Chief Executive Officer 1 Executive Vice President 3 5 Total Total Secretary General 1 Number at The End of Year 161 132 293 Average Number 155 124 279 Of the Bank’s employees, 55% are and 45% are Average employee age is 36, average seniority 7.4 years 96% of the Bank’s employees are university graduates Average age of recruits of last 2 years is 28 32% of the Bank’s employees have MSc/MA or higher academic degrees 87% of employees speak English TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 38 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS Gender distribution of employees who Gender distribution of recruits in the were recruited and those who have quit Service group distribution Regional distribution of TSKB’s reporting period: of employees (end of 2014): Banking employees (end of 2014): within the past two years: * 93 ing İstanbul 2 es 288 38 34 2 a nk oye al 3 B pl tot es Ankara em KB’s oye İzmir 2 l TS mp 4 e 33 Gender and cause of departure distribution of resignees in the reporting period: 2013 2014 Resignation 10 11 6 14 Age group and regional distribution of new recruits in the reporting period: Retirement 6 2 10 5 Military Obligation 2 0 0 0 İstanbul Abandonment 6 1 4 1 71 Age Subsidiary* 4 4 0 0 21-30 53 Total 28 18 20 20 Ankara * Appointments within TSKB’s subsidiaries. 31-40 17 İzmir 1 41-50 1 511 Gender distribution of those who Gender distribution of those employees who Total 72 used maternity leave: returned to work following a maternity leave: Age group and regional distribution of resignees in the reporting period: İstanbul 7* 17 7* 17 Age 79 21-30 17 5 Ankara 31-40 40 2 İzmir *Parental leave *Parental leave 41-50 23 516 Total 86 5 female employees left their jobs within 12 months of returning to work following maternity leave. Employees who used unpaid leave following their return from maternity leave, took 1080 business days. *Only one of the banking employees work half-time on contractual basis. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 39 INVESTMENT IN HUMAN RESOURCES TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Training and Development Development Workshop Managerial Development Program: TSKB organizes a range of training and development programs The Development Workshop program, designed to adapt to TSKB competencies, to support its employees’ technical competencies and focuses on personal and managerial development. The workshop program initially personal development. Training and development programs begins with the development center and then takes shape with the determination of are personalized and depend on development fields for the individual needs. The process is supported by in-class training, group exercises, projects, employees. articles, books and various other activities throughout the workshop. The long-term For TSKB, raising employees’ awareness of the topics of training program spread over almost two years invests in development of managers. environmental issues and sustainability is one of the founding elements of its training activities. Competency Development Training: The “Training Catalog” based on TSKB’s core competencies is used to support our TSKB training programs are designed to increase performance employees’ capabilities, which are open to development. During the performance levels to perfection, both throughout the bank as a whole and on evaluation meetings where they assess their competencies with their managers, an individual level. employees get the chance to determine the training areas necessary for their personal development with the Training Catalog. The Purpose of Training Activities: • To support TSKB’s business strategies with professional and Coaching Model: personal training This model is carried out to support the business dealing models of specific • To encourage initiative-taking departments. • To take corporate efficiency at the highest level • To raise employee satisfaction Sustainability Management System Trainings: Training Programs: Training for all employees: • Management Trainee (MT) Program Occupational Health and Safety Training • Development Workshop Managerial Development Program First Aid and Ergonomics Training • Competency Development Training Sustainability Meetings • Coaching Model • Sustainability Management System Training New recruit training: • Orientation Program Orientation • Technical Training Programs On-the-job Training • Individual training domestic and foreign Sustainability Management System and Emergency Work Sustainability Presentation • Seminars open to all of the bank’s employees Individual training: TSKB Management Trainee (MT) Program Renewal Training for Basic First-Aider Certification TSKB is working towards its goal of training its own managers; Fire Security Training the bank conducts a Management Trainee (MT) Program every Printer User Training summer to train the experts and managers of the future. TSKB ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Internal Auditor Training intensively prepares its management trainees with training programs specifically designed for their future positions and Sustainability Management Certification Program duties. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 40 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS Training Lengths per Employee, Gender and Training Categories Average Training Average Average Training Average Average Personal Number of Total Training Hours per Training Hours Hours per Male Technical Development Banking Hours (Banking Employee per Female Employee Training Hours Training Hours per Employees Personnel) Employee per Employee Employee 2013 269 16,256 60 55 67 43 17 2014 293 15,609 53 51 56 40 13 Training Lengths per Employee Categories Training Hours of Training Hours of Training Hours of Training Hours of Senior Management / Middle Management / Associate Group / Assistant and Supervisor Person Person Person Group / Person 2013* 13 31 71 37 2014 2 31 65 16 *In accordance with Act No: 6331 on Occupational Health and Safety Law, Basic Occupational Health and Safety trainings were organized for all employees in 2013. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 41 INVESTMENT IN HUMAN RESOURCES Performance Management The results of Performance Management System are used as input for identifying training needs, career planning, remuneration and reward management. The TSKB Performance Management System is a competency and goal-based system whose principles involve the following processes: • Identify and rate employee competencies · Associate corporate objectives with employee performance · Conduct personal interviews · Prepare individual development plans. Remuneration and Reward Management TSKB employs a competitive and market-sensitive remuneration policy. Market compensation research is regularly conducted by consultants specialized in such matters are used as input for implementation of this policy. TSKB bases compensation on compatibility with ethical values, internal balances and TSKB Income Package: strategic goals, and is not associated with the bank’s shortterm performance. • Gross monthly compensation • Dividend payout to employees from the TSKB’s compensation policy is structured with the purpose bank’s profits once each year of motivating managers to take more actions to contribute • Premiums rewarding extraordinary successes to the bank’s long-term performance and to achieve good in the relevant year results on a yearly basis. TSKB places great importance on performance-based compensation. Premiums payouts, which have the purpose of positively affecting TSKB’s corporate values, Criteria Taken into Account for Compensation: are based on objective criteria such as TSKB’s • Work unit properties and workload performance and individual performances, and • Compensation level of the work units in the market take into account the terms of the risks taken by • Results of the Performance Management System the Bank. (competencies, goals, experience) • Geographical/region/country differences • Long-term business solvency of TSKB TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 42 INVESTMENT IN HUMAN RESOURCES Recruitment with the TSKB Career Workshop Program Internal Communication TSKB has been conducting the three-day TSKB Career Exercises and platforms intended to increase the feeling of belonging and Workshop program annually since 2010 with the aim motivation of current employees via employee communication activities: of providing resources for Management Trainee (MT) recruitment. During the workshop at a hotel near Istanbul, Online Communication Platform An effective online communication environment is available to all participants (fourth-year university and postgraduate employees in the form of the corporate intranet, e-business flow students) receive personal development and outdoor/indoor platform and e-announcement channels. Employees can thus keep training alongside the opportunity to work on projects themselves informed of all bank developments immediately and can with coaches selected from managerial positions within the conduct all of their business processes on a modern platform. bank. The workshop, where the bank is introduced, is an opportunity to get to know the candidates better. During the Traditional corporate events event, employees who fit with TSKB’s profile are included in TSKB employees have the opportunity to meet at various annual the Management Trainee (MT) recruitment process. events such as the foundation cocktail, executive meetings and New Year dinners. The fifth TSKB Career Workshop was held between April 24–26 April in Şile, Istanbul with the motto of “Show You’re Different”. Team Games 17 new graduates started their working lives with the Career Employees from all positions are encouraged to participate in the team Workshop during the reporting period. games of table tennis, rowing and soccer organized by TSKB. TSKB’s own employees represent the bank in intercorporate tournaments, Strong Employer Brand increasing team spirit, motivation and efficiency. Structured collaborations with universities aim to increase the bank’s recognition among recently graduated candidates Artistic Activities and to make the bank a preferred organization with a strong Employees enjoy a determined quota of tickets during the Istanbul employer brand: Foundation for Culture and Arts music festival, which is sponsored by TSKB each year. • TSKB Career Workshop • Sustainability Workshops TSKB employees are also encouraged to enjoy photography, a • Career day participation common corporate hobby. Photograph exhibitions are held in the • Presentations on various banking subjects during classes TSKB Art Corridor and on the corporate intranet site. • Participation in conferences and seminars During the 2013–2014 period, 10 internal activities took place, including the foundation cocktails, New Year dinner, Istanbul Culture and Art Foundation (İKSV) concert, executives meeting and Department Meetings with CEO. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 43 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY & SUPPLIER RELATIONS Occupational Health and Safety Supplier Relations TSKB is a corporate citizen which recognizes the importance of its TSKB works with suppliers that comprehend the importance of sustainability employees’ health and safety and which makes such issues integral and establish their business logic accordingly. TSKB contributes to indirect to its human resources policies and practices. environmental impact with the approach it adopts in its relations with its suppliers, thereby supporting and ensuring that the sustainability is Safe Working embraced and implemented by a wider body of stakeholders throughout the business world. In both its headquarters buildings in İstanbul and in its branches TSKB is mindful of being in full compliance with all occupational TSKB’s sustainability approach reflects on its supply process as preference health & safety laws and regulations currently applicable in of products and services whose total cost is determined in line with the Turkey. In addition, the bank also abides by a policy that takes environmental, social and economic impacts thereof. The Bank cooperates into account internationally accepted occupational health & with suppliers that acts responsibly and in accordance with sustainability in safety practices as well. The bank’s physical conditions and their supply process. technical infrastructure are regularly checked for compliance with occupational health & safety laws and regulations. Current Sustainability Criteria observed in Supplier Relations are as follows: information about activities related to health and safety issues is • As a principle, companies with whom the Bank has a supplier-client published on the bank’s corporate intranet. relationship must evaluate the environmental impacts, obtain relevant permits and enforce relevant procedures Vision “Zero Accident” • In line with a Sustainable Management System, suppliers must perform their obligations in conformance with the environment TSKB deems persisting in zero accident approach at the workplace legislation and international legislations as a permanent corporate objective. Moreover, TSKB cooperates • Presence of certification such as ISO 14001 with professionals and organizations specializing in the fields • Depending on the type of the service received, cooperation for of health and safety in order to ensure health and safety at the complying with the Bank’s relevant procedures workplace without omission. TSKB structures sustainability in supplier relations in form of contracts Full text of TSKB’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy can be found at the signed with its suppliers. In those contracts, suppliers explicitly warrant that following web link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskbthey are to enter in cooperation in order to meet TSKB’s relevant demands. Occupational-Health-and-Safety-Policy.pdf TSKB defines any violation and negligence of items summarized above as righteous cause for termination of supplier contracts, thereby accentuating the importance of the issue. Entirety of TSKB’s Sustainable Procurement Management Policy can be found at the following web link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-SustainableProcurements-Management-Policy.pdf TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 44 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Digital Platforms: cevreciyiz.com & tskbenerjiverimliligi.com Launched in 2007, cevreciyiz.com was redesigned in June 2014 and is currently TSKB structures social responsibility projects in the scope of 1 Turkey’s most comprehensive environment portal that provides reference for its sustainable banking mission around the theme of raising many aspects including business world’s sustainability efforts, energy efficiency, the awareness of business world and universities towards environment-friendly designs, alternative energy sources and sustainable business ideas. Effectively using the social media for this purpose, cevreciyiz.com’s Facebook environmental aspects that constitute risks for the future followers are increasing from 851 (at the end of 2013) to 23.000 (at the end of of our world, including but not limited to climate change, 2014) and that shows this content has reached more people every day. energy and carbon management. As an important platform and reference point in energy efficiency, tskbenerjiverimliligi.com web portal has been online since 2011. With the social responsibility project “Environment: Our Priority” that has been continued since 2007, TSKB Sustainability Workshop 2 Launched in 2012, Sustainability Workshop is the very first literacy program participates effectively in sustainability platforms, in the field of sustainability which brings university students, namely future developing various events and sponsorships. The project management candidates, academia and private sector representatives together. is managed by TSKB for the purpose of promoting and Please refer to Sustainability Literacy section for more details on this important project that is organized with the cooperation of TSKB’s subsidiary Escarus. increasing awareness, especially throughout the business world and universities. Zero Carbon Projects TSKB has been carrying out carbon-neutral banking since 2008 and continues to 3 TSKB’s social responsibility activities can be support low-carbon life through various projects: • The first Zero Carbon Concert organization within the scope of IKSV Music Festival discussed under five categories: • Erasing the carbon footprint of TSKB’s recruitment program, the Career Workshop • Organizing Zero Carbon conferences and events • Annually, providing certificates to customers and business partners for offsetting their individual carbon footprint Sharing Experience 4 TSKB shares its expertise in sustainability by providing support in form of Sharing sponsorships, organization and speakers to many events. The Bank continues to Digital Experience organize many case study presentations and forums at the universities, featuring Platforms Bank’s managers, in order to convey its sustainable banking experience to younger generations. Please refer to Sharing Experience section for greater details on these communions which are especially important in terms of TSKB’s reaching to a broad body of stakeholders and sharing its experience in the field of sustainability. Culture & Arts Zero Carbon Since 1990, TSKB has been supporting concerts at the Music Festival organized by Projects 5 Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts (IKSV), contributing to Turkey’s cultural growth. Turkey’s first carbon-neutral bank, TSKB started to offset all of the carbon emissions generated by the transportation requirements of the performers and art lovers with a “Gold Standard Carbon Credit” that was purchased by TSKB from a Sustainability clean energy company as of 2014. Culture & Arts Workshop TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 45 SHARING EXPERIENCE 2013 The Bank participated in total of 103 conferences and organizations in 2013 and 2014 that set the bar high in terms of content and impact. TSKB’s senior management members have given 57 presentations or speeches in these organizations. In 17 of these organizations, TSKB was either sponsor or organizer. TSKB Sustainability 2nd Solar Symposium 3rd National Turkey TUSIAD Workshop: Energy Efficiency Wind Power FT/IFC Sustainable Measuring Forum and Congress Investing in Climate Tourism Exhibition Business Forum Seminar Sustainable Finance Ege University Bilkent University 2nd International En1st Turkish Ger“Act with TSKB for a Forum man Energy World Bank Workshop ergy Sustainable EIE and UNDP on Energy Efficiency Innovation Life” Meeting Energy Efficiency Efficiency Institutional Options Summit Forum Convention for Turkey EU Energy Efficiency Forum Croatian Development Bank Energy and ICC Sustainable Resource Efficiency General Directorate of Sustainability in Renewable Energy Energy Istanbul University Banking Project Assessment and Presentation “Dynamics of Project Sustainability Banking Session for Financing of Convention Energy Efficiency Assessment” Presentations Presentation Energy Ministry’s Energy Condition Board Sector Presentations Sponsor and Speaker University Presentations Sustainability Workshop TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 46 SHARING EXPERIENCE 2014 The Bank participated in total of 103 conferences and organizations in 2013 and 2014 that set the bar high in terms of content and impact. TSKB’s senior management members have given 57 presentations or speeches in these organizations. In 17 of these organizations, TSKB was either sponsor or organizer. TSKB Bosphorus University Solar Energy, Sustainability Zero Carbon Concert Sustainable Investments, Workshop: with IKSV Development Practices and Energy and Clean Production National Industry Istanbul Center Sustainable Workshop ADFIMI-TSKB Carbon Management Production Green Finance Summit METU Symposium Conference Scaling Up METU “Project German Turkish TSKB Energy Sector Sustainable Energy Solutions Assessment Processes Energy Forum and Project Financing Conference from TSKB’s Renewable Energy Presentation at National Perspective” Working Group Bilgi University Innovative Access To Energy Efficiency Presentation Finance Project Loan Forum and Training Program Exhibition License-free Solar Power Plant Investor Workshop Koc University Social UNEP FI Euromoney 7th Annual Global Compact Impact Forum General Assembly and Turkey Energy & Turkey Sustainable SKD, UNEP FI and Sustainable Banking Banking and Finance Global Compact “Sustainability Infrastructure Finance” Radio Meetings Financing Task Group 2nd Sustainable Turkish German Meeting Finance Forum Conversation Specialty Conference Conference Energy and Environment Technologies Sector Presentations Sponsor and Speaker University Presentations Sustainability Workshop TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 47 SUSTAINABILITY LITERACY In the scope of sustainable banking, TSKB diversifies Sustainability Workshops held in 2013-2014: its efforts towards private sector university cooperations. The Bank has been organizing Sustainability Workshops, the first literacy program 2013 2014 in the field of sustainability, by bringing together Sustainable Energy the private sector representatives, academia and Management: university students, as the managers of the future, April 2014 | METU Culture and Energy Efficiency: Convention Center since 2012. April 2013 | TSKB Cennet Bahçesi Training and Culture Facilities Students: 53 (METU Faculty of Economics Students: 40+ (from various universities) and Management and Engineering Faculty) In this project jointly conducted with the Bank’s Private sector: 13 Project Coach and Senior Management from TSKB: 9 subsidiary Escarus, university students, academicians Academicians: 4 Academicians: 1 and private sector representatives come together and • Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, General Directorate of Case Study: conduct case studies on measuring methodology of Renewable Energy , EBRD Energy Efficiency An exemplary sustainability project was measured sustainability. and Climate Change representatives under the coaching of expert financial analysts and • TSKB and Escarus management engineers of Escarus and TSKB. Afterwards, 9 student groups conducted their presentations and had the In workshops, where students gather in various Case Study: opportunity to discuss and comment on the results together with academicians and coaches. teams to carry out case studies, each team is led by An exemplary energy efficiency project measurement was made with participants that have experience in private sector. the leadership of important Afterwards, the results and studies are interpreted. representatives of the business world and TSKB’s expert engineers. Three main issues are focused in Sustainability Workshops that are held each year: • Measuring • Evaluating in multiple dimensions • Working as a team TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 48 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES Our 2013 – 2014 Objectives Our 2013 – 2014 Performance Future Objectives The Bank projects to finance solar power plants of Expanding our renewable energy portfolio in 2013 minimum 50 MW capacity and wind power plants by means of financing new projects including but By December 31, 2014, number of renewable energy of 100-150 MW capacity as of the end of 2016 in the not limited to solar power and wind power plants in projects financed by TSKB reached 107. scope of our dedication to innovative renewable terms of both numbers and weight in our portfolio. energy financing. The Bank aims to continue supporting projects for improving the productivity in all aspects of energy and resource (water, raw materials and other production inputs) use in our country for SUSTAINABLE BANKING Expanding our energy efficiency portfolio in 2013 TSKB financed 56 projects of 33 companies in the the purpose of increasing the productivity of the by means of financing new projects in terms of both field of energy efficiency as of the end of 2014. industry and ensuring efficient and optimum use numbers and weight in our portfolio. of finite resources. In this scope, the Bank aims to ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABLE BANKING finance 5 new water efficiency projects along with 10 new energy and/or resource efficiency projects until the end of 2016. During the reporting period, TSKB continued to Providing the long-term resource opportunities, access international financial resources and to TSKB aims to provide the long-term resource especially renewable energy, energy efficiency engage in efforts to secure the long-term resources opportunities, especially renewable energy, energy and APEX loans, to our clients under long-term required by its sustainable banking mission. Total of efficiency and APEX loans, to our clients under longmaturities offered by international markets. 560 m € and 295 m $ was provided as financing in term programs offered by international markets. 2013 and 2014. TSKB commits to calculate and offset its carbon TSKB continued to be a carbon-neutral bank in 2013 Continue to be carbon-neutral bank in 2013 and footprint and continue its banking activities in and 2014 by successfully implementing its Carbonthereafter. accordance with zero carbon principles in the Neutrality Project. following years. Decreasing carbon footprint in 2013-2014 by 10% TSKB’s total carbon footprint was reduced by 24% TSKB aims to further reduce its CO2 emissions by and in this scope, continuing efforts for saving in 2013 and 2014 in comparison to total carbon 2.5% annually until the end of 2016 in comparison electricity and natural gas. footprint of 2011-2012. to 2012. Having switched to use of renewable energy in all ENVIRONMENT Continuing the use of renewable energy in all TSKB projects to continue its use of renewable service buildings by June 1, 2009, TSKB continues to service buildings. energy in all service buildings. use renewable energy since then. Beginning from 2013, ERET, which was an Excel based TSKB commits to carry out all environmental and evaluation tool, is programmed as TSKB specific banking social risk measurements of all investment loans Further developing the internal capacity for climate application. By embedding ERET into IT database, its irrespective of the project size, ensure that relevant change and Environment Risk Evaluation Method outputs and results become traceable, auditable and measures are taken in advance as appropriate for (ERET). comparable in addition to its consolidation to the overall the risks involved, and follow up to make sure that project appraisal process. these measures are in deed implemented. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 49 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES Our 2013 – 2014 Objectives Our 2013 – 2014 Performance Future Objectives TSKB has received full marks in its fourth ISO 14001 TSKB aims to successfully complete ISO 14001 and certification audit, and was entitled to a new ISO14064 audits of 2015 and 2016. Successfully completing ISO 14001 and ISO 14064 certificate for a three-year period. audits in 2013 and 2014. Periodically calculating and neutralizing the Bank’s The Bank was entitled to receive its fourth ISO carbon footprint within the scope of ISO 14064. 14064-1 certificate in 2015. TSKB has been systematically following up the developments taken place and steps made in ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABLE BANKING the field of climate change in Turkey and abroad, and actively participating in volunteer initiatives conducted by NGOs. In this scope, the Bank Closely following developments in Turkey TSKB continues to closely follow developments in subscribed to Global Compact, UNEP FI and and abroad in the field of climate change, and Turkey and abroad in the field of climate change, participated in Carbon Disclosure Project. considering these developments in our banking and considering these developments in our banking ENVIRONMENT activities. activities. As a leader institution in Turkey, TSKB is leading The Banks Association of Turkey’s task group. In addition, TSKB is a Board Member of World Business Council for Sustainable Development well as Global Company Local Network. In the period subject to this report, TSKB did every endeavor to comply with laws, corporate governance principles and ethics. TSKB’s Banking Ethics were updated in line with Continuing full compliance with the laws, corporate The Banks Association of Turkey’s Banking Ethics TSKB aims to continue its compliance in this governance principles and ethics, and maintaining that were updated in 2014. New ethic code, regard and to maintain its current “zero error/zero zero-tolerance level of error, impropriety, and published at the Bank’s website, was adopted and corruption/zero complaint” policy. complaint. binds the Board of Directors as well as all employees. The Bank published its Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption Policy at its website on December 8, 2014. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 50 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES Our 2013 – 2014 Objectives Our 2013 – 2014 Performance Future Objectives Since the day it was included in BIST Corporate Governance Index in 2009, TSKB maintains its position CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Maintaining its current position as one of three companies among the companies with highest corporate governance TSKB aims to maintain its full compliance in this field, and with highest corporate governance rating in the sector rating of Turkey. TSKB’s corporate governance rating was continue to be a role-model with its corporate governance and continuing to be role-model institution with its revised to 9.44 on a scale of 10 on October 20, 2014. Thus, practices. corporate governance practices TSKB is now officially the institution that has the highest corporate governance rating of all times. TSKB is committed to being in full compliance with current laws and regulations in Turkey pertaining to Maintain the Bank’s “zero incident” standing in the area money-laundering and terrorismfinancing. For this TSKB aims to continue its compliance in this regard and to of preventing money laundering and the financing of reason, it has incorporated all essential control, warning, maintain its current “zero incident” policy. terrorism. and other mechanisms related to such matters into its business processes. During the reporting period no incidents concerning such matters were reported. Each TSKB employee was subjected to an average of TSKB aims to continue and further improve technical 6 hours (43 hours technical and 17 hours personal and personal training programs for its employees. In Continuing to support professional and individual development) and 53 hours (40 hours technical and 13 this scope, planning is made so that each employee will development of human resources. hours personal development) of trainings respectively in participate at least in 1 training, which is the objective of 2013 and 2014. years 2015 and 2016. In the next period, TSKB aims to increase the weight of HUMAN TSKB provided various environment awareness trainings Increasing environment trainings environment trainings in its human resources training to its employees in the reporting period. efforts. RESOURCES Maintain diversity. In 2014, percentage of women employees of TSKB was TSKB aims to maintain and further improve the diversity 55% and that of women in management was 27%. of its human resources. TSKB aims to build awareness in broader sections of SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION the community by expanding the area of influence and Completely redesigned in 2014, cevreciyiz.com website number of followers of cevreciyiz.com. In this scope, Improving cevreciyiz.com website in terms of content and continues its efforts to build awareness in various our aim is to maintain the current number of visitors of SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY social media presence. categories of the community with its sustainability based cevreciyiz.com, increase Instagram followers by 40%, subjects and social media posts. increase twitter followers by 25% and increase Facebook fans by 20%. TSKB, in cooperation with the Bank’s affiliate Escarus, has been organizing “Sustainability Workshops” as a literacy program The aim is to continue the Sustainability Workshop project in the field of sustainability since 2011, by bringing together Building awareness for sustainability literacy by means of in 2015-2016 with cooperation of Escarus, increasing the private sector representatives and, academia and university Sustainability Workshop activities. awareness and consciousness about the issue with at least students, the managers of the future. Until now, approximately 1 workshop activity each year. 200 university students have participated in case studies of the workshop program. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 51 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES Our 2013 – 2014 Objectives Our 2013 – 2014 Performance Future Objectives Considering sustainability to be a common target for SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Bank participated in total of 103 conferences and entire business world rather than a competitive factor and organizations in 2013 and 2014 that set the bar high in believing in the importance of sharing its experiences terms of content and impact. TSKB’s senior management accordingly, TSKB aims to continue sponsoring, organizing Sharing our experience with NGOs, sector players and the members have given 57 presentations or speeches in and participating as speaker to the events that are academia. these organizations. In 17 of these organizations, TSKB was aligned with its field of activity in the period of 2015either sponsor or organizer, and in 39 a representative. 2016. Moreover, the Banks is committed to continue The Bank shared its sustainable banking experience in sharing its experience in the field of sustainable banking universities in several lessons via its best practices. in universities, which it considers to be an important stakeholder. TSKB launched a “Zero Carbon Concert” at the Istanbul Music Festival in the World Environment Day of 2014. All The Bank aims to continue its “Zero Carbon” organizations Acting responsibly in terms of carbon footprint of all of the carbon emissions generated by the transportation in 2015-2016, calculating the carbon footprints of concerts events that the Bank sponsors or organizes in order requirements of the performers and art lovers were sponsored by TSKB, Career Workshops, Sustainability to support the target of measuring and mitigating its offset with a “Gold Standard Carbon Certificate” that was Workshops, conferences held by the Bank, and presents internal impacts. purchased by TSKB from a company investing in clean prepared by the Bank, and offsetting the carbon emissions energy. Carbon footprints of new year presents given to of these by purchases of Gold Carbon Credits. clients have also been offset. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 52 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Description Page Omissions Disclosures Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance G4-1 CEO’s Message, p 6 of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Chairman’s Message, p 5 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities CEO’s Message, p 6 Organizational Profil G4-3 Name of the organization TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services TSKB’S Products and Services, p 9 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Istanbul, Turkey Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of G4-6 countries where either the organization has significant operations or that Turkey are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Company Profile, p 7. Formed in 1950 TSKB is a publicly G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form listed company on the İstanbul Stock Exchange (ISE ticker symbol: TSKB) Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and G4-8 Company Profile, p 7 types of customers and beneficiaries) At end-2014, the total number of people employed in banking services at TSKB headquarters and branches was 293. The Bank operates at its headquarters in Istanbul and in its 2 branches in G4-9 Scale of the organization İzmir and Ankara. For products, services and operations: TSKB’S Products and Services, p 9 For value produced: Financial Performance, p 18-19 G4-10 Number of employees by employment contract, region and gender Human Resources, p 37-39 In TSKB there is no any collective bargaining agreement in Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 place. Employees are hired on an individual basis and rights agreements under the Turkish Labor Law are fully provided. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 53 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Description Page Omissions Disclosures Organizational Profil TSKB’s main suppliers are supranational financial institutions. TSKB provides funds from these institutions and finances investment projects. Apart from these, TSKB works with local G4-12 Organization’s supply chain suppliers on technology, transportation, catering, cleaning, office materials, etc related needs. Thematic Global Funds, p 26-27 Supplier Relations, p 44 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the G4-13 There has not been any change during the reporting period. organization’s size, structure, ownership, and its supply chain TSKB supports the precautionary principle under the UN Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle Global Compact. Consistent with that principle, we advocate G4-14 is addressed by the organization a risk-based approach to our operations through our extensive management systems. Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, TSKB is a member of many international organizations and has G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or also participated in a number of global initiatives and adopted which it endorses their principles. Sharing Experience With Initiatives, p 31 TSKB is a member of many international organizations and has Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national G4-16 also participated in a number of global initiatives and adopted or international advocacy organizations their principles. Sharing Experience With Initiatives, p 31 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-17 Company Profile, p 7 b. Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents that are not covered by the report Stakeholder Analysis, p 12-15 a. Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries TSKB’s report content is defined by the GRI G4 Content Index and the issues material to the business as identified by key G4-18 b. How the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for stakeholders who will use the report, including employees, Defining Report Content community members, non-governmental organizations, and the media. Material aspects are the ones that are answered in the Content G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content Index. Stakeholder Analysis, p 12-15 TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 54 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Description Page Omissions Disclosures Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-20 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary within the organization Stakeholder Analysis, p 12-15 G4-21 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Stakeholder Analysis, p 12-15 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous Provided primarily as footnotes to individual charts where data G4-22 reports, and the reasons for such restatements changed. Contents and boundaries are determined according to the Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and G4-23 G4 Guidelines and materiality analysis. Previous report was Aspect Boundaries prepared according to G3.1 A+. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Analysis, p 12-13 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to G4-25 Stakeholder Analysis, p 12-13 engage Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an G4-26 Stakeholder Analysis, p 12-13 indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder G4-27 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key Stakeholder Analysis, p 12-15 topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 2013-2014 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 2011-2012 G4-30 Reporting cycle Biennial Hülya Kurt, TSKB Engineering Head & Sustainability G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Sub-Committee Head ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen and GRI Content G4-32 In accordance with the option Comprehensive Index for the chosen option TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 55 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Description Page Omissions Disclosures Rapor Profili In addition to its comprehensive internal metrics systems, TSKB employs a variety of internal and external processes to bring assurance that its operations are transparent and the information Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 it reports is accurate and truly reflective of its actual results. While assurance for the report TSKB’s financial performance is independently audited by KPMG majority of the KPIs presented in this report are checked by BSI as part of the ISO14001 and ISO14064 periodical audits. Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the G4-34 Corporate Governance, p 28-30 highest governance body Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics G4-35 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees Indicate whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and G4-36 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics, if G4-37 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 consultation is delegated, to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Human Resources, p 37-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an The Chairman of the Board does not carry out any executive G4-39 executive officer duty in day-to-day business Please see TSKB's Corporate Governance Compliance Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body G4-40 Report 2014, pages: 57-60, at: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/ and its committees content/2189_1_TSKB_KYU_Raporu_2014_ENG.pdf Please see TSKB's Corporate Governance Compliance Report Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest G4-41 2014, pages: 55, 56, 59, 60, at: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/ are avoided and managed content/2189_1_TSKB_KYU_Raporu_2014_ENG.pdf Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and G4-42 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 56 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Description Page Omissions Disclosures Governance Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s G4-43 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics Please see TSKB's Corporate Governance Compliance Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance G4-44 Report 2014, pages: 59-60, at: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/ with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics content/2189_1_TSKB_KYU_Raporu_2014_ENG.pdf TSKB's highest governance body is the Board of Directors in setting the Bank's strategies. The Sustainability Committee comprised of 2 Board Members and 2 Executive Vice Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of Presidents of the Bank and Corporate Governance Committee G4-45 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities comprised of 2 Board Members and 1 Executive Vice President present their recommendations in the context of environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities to the Board. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the G4-46 organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 and social topics Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, G4-47 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the G4-48 organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 are covered Different topics are presented to the Board of Directors by Committees (Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance G4-49 Corporate Governance Committee, Sustainability Committee) body for information and approval. Also Executive Vice Presidents present critical topics to the Board of Directors regularly. Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to G4-50 the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 resolve them For executives and employees at all levels, the remuneration Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior G4-51 policy of the Bank considers the equilibrium of the wage executives market and the Bank's competitiveness strength in the market. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 57 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Description Page Omissions Disclosures Governance The process for determining remuneration is managed on the basis of criteria such as the characteristics of the functions and workload, geographical / regional / country differences, the equivalent wage levels in the market of functions (general, sectoral or functional), performance evaluation ( competences, knowledge and skills, experience) and payment power of the Bank in the long-term. In order to support the decision process, sector wages research is being participated once in a year, including almost all of the banking sector. Reports prepared Process for determining remuneration. Indicate whether remuneration by expert consultants on current year’s wages and benefits consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they and the next year’s projected values are followed regularly. The G4-52 are independent of management, and any other relationships which the remuneration management of Inspection Board, and Internal remuneration consultants have with the organization Control and Risk Management departments – referred to as the Bank’s Internal Systems – is carried out independently in accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, comprised of Board Members. Monitoring and auditing of the compensation practices at the Bank on behalf of the Board is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee appointed by the Board of Directors. Each year Remuneration Committee evaluates the Remuneration Policy and practices within the framework of risk management, and presents in a report including recommendations to the Board. How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding G4-53 remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies TSKB does not have such a process. and proposals, if applicable Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highestTSKB does not paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median declare this data as G4-54 annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the it is commercially highest-paid individual) in the same country sensitive. Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-55 operations to the median percentage increase in annual total This ratio is 1. compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 58 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Description Page Omissions Disclosures Ethics and Integrity For our Sustainability Policy and its supplementary policies: Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/tskbG4-56 as codes of conduct and codes of ethics surdurulebilirlik-yonetim-organizasyonu/our-sustainabilitypolicy Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/anti-briberyG4-57 lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as and-anti-corruption-programme.pdf helplines or advice lines Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/anti-briberyG4-58 integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing and-anti-corruption-programme.pdf mechanisms or hotlines TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 59 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Economic Company Profile, p 7 DMA Financial Performance, p 18-19 Support to Sustainable Development, p 20-21 TSKB’s economic contribution to society is more than financial profits. It creates jobs, pay salaries and invest in the skills of its G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed human resources. TSKB also pays taxes, supports business in our supply chain and provides products that satisfy the needs Economic of our customers. Financial Performance, p 18-19 Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the G4-EC2 Sustainability Finance, p 22-25 organization’s activities due to climate change Please see TSKB’s 2014 Annual Report, page 89, at G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf TSKB does not get any type of financial assistance or aid from G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government the government. DMA Sustainability Finance, p 22-25 Indirect Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Economic G4-EC7 Sustainability Finance, p 22-25 supported Impacts TSKB contributes to increasing the export and creating new G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts business fields via APEX banking. Sustainability Finance, p 22-25 Environmental DMA Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 60 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Description Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Environmental DMA Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 Energy Each year TSKB takes actions to reduce its energy consumption in order to reduce its CO2 emissions in the context of ISO 14064. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption The first audit was in 2012 and it is set as base year. Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 Each year TSKB takes actions to reduce its energy consumption in order to reduce its CO2 emissions in the context of ISO 14064. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services The first audit was in 2012 and it is set as base year. Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 DMA Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 Emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 35-36 TSKB’s business activities do not result in significant emissions G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) of these substances. TSKB's business activities/operations do not generate G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions significant emissions of these substances. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 61 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Description Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Environmental DMA Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 34 All of TSKB’s initiatives on such issues are governed by the Products and Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and Bank’s Sustainability Management System. G4-EN27 Services services Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 34 Sustainability Finance, p 22-25 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are TSKB’s business activities/operations do not generate G4-EN28 reclaimed by category significant packaging materials. Corporate Governance, p 28-30 DMA Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 34 Compliance Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary There was not such an incident in TSKB during the reporting G4-EN29 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations period. DMA Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 32-33 The CO2 equivalent of the carbon emissions resulting from TSKB’s transportation and travel activities in 2014 amounted Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other to 435 tons, which corresponds to 53,5 % of the Bank’s total G4-EN30 goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting carbon emissions the same year. Of this total, only 102 tons members of the workforce were generated by the vehicles which the Bank uses to transport its personnel to and from work. Sustainable Procurements Management Policy, http:// DMA www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-SustainableProcurements-Management-Policy.pdf Supplier Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental Environmental G4-EN32 Supplier Relations, p 44 criteria Assessment TSKB’s activities are not environmentally high-risk activities. Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the G4-EN33 TSKB considers its suppliers (particularly cleaning and catering) supply chain and actions taken compliance with ISO 14001 standard. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 62 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Description Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Environmental TSKB evaluates any opinions, suggestions and complaints Environmental DMA submitted through its website, social media and other channels. Grievance http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/about-us/tskb-contact-form Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, G4-EN34 There was not any complaints during the reporting period. and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work DMA Human Resources, p 37-39 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover G4-LA1 Human Resources, p 37-39 by age group, gender and region Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Type of working time does not have an effect on benefits G4-LA2 temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation provided. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Human Resources, p 37-39 Human Rights Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/ DMA Labor/Management document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including TSKB complies with the requirements of labor laws and G4-LA4 whether these are specified in collective agreements regulations applicable to such issues in Turkey. Occupational Health And Safety Policy, DMA http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TskbOccupational-Health-and-Safety-Policy.pdf TSKB’s Occupational Health and Safety Board is comprised of Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– 6 bank employees, 1 HSE specialist, 1 occupational physician, G4-LA5 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on 3 subsidiary companies representatives and 7 sub-employer occupational health and safety programs representatives. Occupational Health and Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and In 2013, 48 lost days due to work injury and in 2014, 97 lost Safety G4-LA6 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and days due to work injury occured. by gender TSKB is in the less dangerous working places class in the service Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their G4-LA7 sector. There is almost no work accident and occupational occupation disease rate is zero. There are no union contracts in TSKB, all employees have G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions individual contracts. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 63 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Description Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work DMA Investment in Human Resources, p 40-43 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by G4-LA9 Investment in Human Resources, p 40-43 employee category Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Education G4-LA10 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing Investment in Human Resources, p 40-43 career endings During the reporting period, all TSKB personnel who were Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career G4-LA11 employed in banking services were subjected to the Bank’s development reviews, by gender and by employee category performance evaluation and career progression processes. DMA Human Resources, p 37-39 Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Human Resources, p 37-39 membership, and other indicators of diversity DMA Investment in Human Resources, p 40-43 Equal Because TSKB abstains from any approach that takes gender Remuneration for into account with respect to compensation levels, the ratio of Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee Women and Men G4-LA13 men’s and women’s salaries to one another is of no importance category, by significant locations of operation whatsoever when determining or implementing compensation policy. Human Rights Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/ Labor Practices DMA document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and There were no grievances about labor practices in TSKB during G4-LA16 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms the reporting period. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 64 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Description Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Social: Human Rights Sustainability Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainableDMA banking/tskb-surdurulebilirlik-yonetim-organizasyonu/oursustainability-policy In 2013 and 2014, 87% of the medium and long-term loan agreements that were signed for a total amount of USD 1.660 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and million (equivalent in US Dollars) with international financial Investment G4-HR1 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human institutions, corresponds to agreements that include provisions rights screening related to human rights. No bussiness agreement or contract has been subject to human rights screening during the reporting period. Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures There are no specific trainings on human rights. Bank G4-HR2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, employees were informed about human resources and human including the percentage of employees trained rights in Sustainability Meetings. Human Rights Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/ DMA document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Non-discrimination There were not any incidents of discrimination in TSKB during G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken the reporting period. Human Rights Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/ Freedom of DMA document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Association and Collective Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise As no incident of such a nature was identified during the Bargaining G4-HR4 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at reporting period, it has not been necessary to develop such a significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights policy. Sustainability Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainableDMA banking/tskb-surdurulebilirlik-yonetim-organizasyonu/oursustainability-policy Security Practices In 2014, the related training under the “Private Security Law and Individual Rights” topic has been taken, as a part of Identity Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human G4-HR7 Refreshment training of the security staff. 16 staffed and third rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations company provided security employees are trained on these topics regularly. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 65 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Description Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Social: Human Rights Sustainable Procurements Management Policy, http:// DMA www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-SustainableProcurements-Management-Policy.pdf TSKB checks to see if its suppliers’ employees’ income and social security taxes are being paid or not. All suppliers from which Supplier Human Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights TSKB procures goods and services are required to abide by G4-HR10 Rights Assessment criteria the relevant clauses of the bank’s environment management system and ISO 14001 certification. This requirement is explicitly stipulated in suppliers’ contracts. As there was not any significant actual and potential negative Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the G4-HR11 human rights impacts in its supply chain during the reporting supply chain and actions taken period, TSKB did not take any action. All employees can use the I have a suggestion module on the intranet page that is open to the Bank's personnel. http:// Human Rights DMA www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/anti-bribery-and-antiGrievance corruption-programme.pdf Mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and In the reporting period there were not any complaints G4-HR12 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms delivered to TSKB regarding human rights. Social: Society Environmental And Social Impact Policy DMA http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKBENVIRONMENTAL-AND-SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf The effects of the financed projects on society are evaluated in the Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, context of the ERET model. In addition, during the visits carried G4-SO1 impact assessments, and development programs out in the project area, the views of local people about the project and their demands are also identified and taken into account. Local Communities Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local TSKB does not have / nor finance any operation which has a G4-SO2 communities negative impact on local communities. TSKB does not have any service point in low-populated FS-13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas or economically disadvantaged areas. TSKB is a development bank. Therefore the Bank does Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged FS-14 not have retail banking services for disadvantaged people people. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 66 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Description Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Social: Society Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy http://www.tskb.com. DMA tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_anti_bribery_and_anti_ corruption_policy.pdf Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to Please see pages 62-64 of TSKB’s 2014 Annual Report: http:// G4-SO3 corruption and the significant risks identified www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf Anti-corruption All our stakeholders can reach TSKB’s activities on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption from the following link: G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/anti-briberyand-anti-corruption-programme.pdf As no incidents of corruption were identified during the G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken reporting period, it has not been necessary to take any such action. TSKB does not make any political donations or grants, according to the Banking Law numbered 5411, “Regulation on the Donations and Grants to be made by Banks and Institutions subject to Consolidated Supervision” which was published by DMA Banking Regulatory and Supervision Agency, and TSKB’s AntiPublic Policy Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy item 5/b. Also all donations and grants which shall be made by TSKB are defined in its Donations and Grants Policy: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/ document/pdf/TSKB_DonationPolicy_ENG.pdf TSKB does not contribute financially and in-kind to political G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary parties, politicians and related institutions. Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report 2014, DMA page 56: Anti-competitive http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf Behavior During the reporting period (2013 2014), TSKB was not the Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and G4-SO7 subject of any legal process due to any behaviour restricting monopoly practices and their outcomes competition, trust or monopoly practices. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 67 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Description Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Social: Society Please see TSKB’s 2014 Annual Report, pages: 62-63, at: DMA http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf Compliance TSKB paid 22.091 TL tax penalty during the reporting period. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary G4-SO8 Please see TSKB’s 2014 Annual Report, page 172, at: sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf TSKB receives and evaluates all complaints and suggestions Grievance DMA through the Communication part in its website: Mechanisms for http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/about-us/tskb-contact-form Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and In the reporting period, there were not any grievances G4-SO11 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms delivered to TSKB. Social: Product Responsibility DMA Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 34 TSKB offers all its products and services within the framework of Turkish laws and international conventions which Turkey is a party of. TSKB operates in full compliance with the laws, Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products standards and voluntary codes regarding the marketing Communications communications including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 34 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and In the reporting period, there were not any complaints G4-PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including delivered to TSKB. advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Within the scope of credit and lending processes, the information provided by the customer, which is covered by confidentiality agreements made in accordance with the DMA customer demand, are stored by TSKB during the time interval Customer mentioned in the contract. TSKB does not share this information Privacy with any third party, organization or institution as long as there is no legal obligation or liability. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of In the reporting period, there were not any complaints G4-PR8 customer privacy and losses of customer data delivered to TSKB. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 68 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Aspect Description Page Omissions Approach (DMA) / G4 Indicator Social: Product Responsibility Please see TSKB’s 2014 Annual Report, pages: 62-63, at: DMA http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1407_1_TSKB_EN_2014.pdf Compliance In the reporting period, there were not any incident for non Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and G4-PR9 compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services and use of products and services. DMA Sustainability Finance, p 22-25 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. FS-6 Sustainability Finance, p 22-25 micro/SME/large) and by sector. Product Portfolio Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS-7 Sustainability Finance, p 22-25 social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS-8 Sustainability Finance, p 22-25 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. Audit DMA Performance and Objectives, p 49-52 DMA Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 34 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with Active FS-10 which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social TSKB has no subsidiaries or affiliates of this nature Ownership issues. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social FS-11 TSKB has no assets of this nature. screening. TSKB Sustainability Report 2013-2014 69
