SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 TOWARDS A MORE SUSTAINABLE WORLD Contents SSAB in brief 2 Comments by the CEO 4 Vision and values 6 Strategy and targets 7 Our sustainability approach 8 SSAB’s sustainable value chain 10 Policies and guidelines 12 Environmental responsibility Steel lifecycle 14 Increased efficiency and environmental benefits with highstrength and wear steels 16 Energy-efficient construction solutions 18 Continuous work to improve our environmental performance 20 Recycling, material efficiency and waste management 22 Energy usage and recycling 24 Carbon dioxide emissions and other emissions into the air 26 Water usage and water effluents 27 Operating and regulatory environment 28 Social responsibility High-performing organization 31 Safety first 34 Business ethics 36 Responsible sourcing 37 SSAB in the community 38 About this report 38 Glossary 39 Addresses 41 Most of the energy consumption and emissions of steel end-products occur when those products are being used. ABOUT THIS REPORT SSAB’s Sustainability Report 2014 is comprised of inforSSAB offers its customers high-strength and energymation on SSAB’s sustainability related activities and efficient steel products and solutions that prolong the life, performance. The report also constitutes Communication on Progress (CoP) reporting to UN’s Global Compact, lower the costs and reduce the environmental impacts of where activities and results related to Global Compact´s principles are reported. The scope of reporting is the an end-product during its entire lifecycle. SSAB also works SSAB Group, former SSAB AB and former Rautaruukki to reduce the environmental impacts of end-products by Oyj combined. The reported data reflects pro-forma ­figures, i.e. as if Rautaruukki Corporation had been part continuously improving material and energy efficiency in its of SSAB the whole reporting period from Jan 1 to Dec 31, own production processes. These improvements can lead 2014, unless otherwise stated. Also the comparison years’ data has been re-stated to cover the new SSAB. to lower emissions and less use of resources. With a unique The environmental data refers mainly to the main prooffering of high-strength and wear-resistant, efficiently-­ duction sites in Sweden and Finland and for some data also to the North American operations. Figures in brackproduced steels, SSAB contributes to building a stronger, ets refer to the comparison period 2013. The report is lighter and more sustainable world. intended to be read together with SSAB’s Annual Report 2014, where more extensive information can be found Safety is also a top priority for SSAB. We are determined to regarding SSAB’s business, strategy, financial performance and corporate governance. be one of the safest steel companies in the world, continuSSAB’s Sustainability Report 2014 is published ously striving to achieve zero accidents and work-related in English in PDF format and is available on SSAB’s ­sustainability website at: http://www.ssab.com/en/­ injuries in all our operations. Sustainability/. SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 1 SSAB in brief SSAB is a highly specialized, global steel company. The company 60 is a leading producer on the global market for Advanced High Strength Steels (AHSS) and Quenched & Tempered steels (Q&T), strip, plate and tubular products, as well as construction solutions. Net sales SEK 60 billion pro forma SSAB’s steels help to make end products Main production sites lighter and increase their strength and Borlänge Sweden 17,000 lifespan. Established: 1878 Strip products SSAB has a cost-efficient and flexible proSSAB Europe duction system. SSAB’s production plants Employees: 2,100 Number of employees: in Sweden, Finland and the US have an approximately 17,000 annual steel production capacity of 8.8 Hämeenlinna, Finland million tonnes. The company also has Established: 1972 capacity to process and finish various steel Strip products and tubes products in China and a number of other SSAB Europe 50 countries. In Sweden and Finland, producEmployees: 900 tion is integrated into a blast furnace process. In the US, it is scrap-based producLuleå, Sweden tion in electric arc furnaces. Established: 1941 Steel-making Employees in 50 countries SSAB Europe Employees: 1,200 Mobile, Alabama, USA Established: 2001 We are unique Heavy plate mill Scrap-based EAF production • A global leader in value-added high-strength steels SSAB Americas • The origin of the best applications development and Employees: 600 service innovations • Leading home market positions in the Nordics Montpelier, Iowa, USA Established: 1997 and US Heavy plate mill • Long-term customer relationships Scrap-based EAF production • Strong end-user focus R&D Center SSAB Americas • Unique, globally recognized brand Employees: 500 Raahe, Finland Established: 1960 Steel-making, heavy plates and strip products SSAB Europe Employees: 2,800 Oxelösund, Sweden SSAB is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm (Large cap list) and has Established: 1913 a secondary listing on Nasdaq OMX Helsinki. Steel-making, heavy plates • Headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden SSAB Special Steels • President & CEO Martin Lindqvist Employees: 2,400 • SSAB employs approximately 17,000 people in 50 countries • Net sales: SEK 60 billion pro forma (SEK 57 billion in 2013) 2 Overview SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SSAB’s divisions SSAB Special Steels SSAB Europe Global steel and service partner in value-added The leading Nordic-based steel producer of Advanced High Strength Steels (AHSS) and high-quality strip, plate and tubular products Quenched & Tempered Steels (Q&T) SSAB Americas Tibnor Ruukki Construction Market-leading North American steel The leading Nordic distributor of steel and European provider of energy-efficient producer of high-quality heavy plate non-ferrous metals building and construction solutions Group Divisions Key figures, SSAB Group 2014 2013 Sales2), SEK 60,112 m Sales, SEK million 47,752 36,455 Operating profit/loss 1), SEK million 894 -1 ,204 Profit/loss after financial items 1), SEK million 242 -1, 801 SSAB Special Steels 19% SSAB Europe 36% Earnings per share, SEK -3.33 -3.29 SSAB Americas 22% Operating cash flow, SEK million 1,737 1,956 Tibnor 13% Ruukki Construction 10% Proposed dividend 0 0 Energy consumption, GWh Fuels 3) 4,179 4,255 Electricity 4,632 4,615 Carbon dioxide emissions 4), thousand tonnes 9,628 9,358 Accident frequency (LTFI= Lost Time Injury Frequency) 6,6 7,4 Total sales Operating profit/loss1) Number of employees, 16,887 SEK m SEK m 50,000 3,000 SSAB Special Steels 18% 40,000 2,000 SSAB Europe 43% SSAB Americas 7% Tibnor 8% 30,000 1,000 Ruukki Construction 20% Other 4% 20,000 0 10 11 12 13 14 10,000 -1,000 0 10 11 12 13 14 -2,000 The financial data reflects actual figures. Other data reflects pro-forma figures, i.e. as if Rautaruukki had been part of SSAB since Jan 1, 2013. 1) Excluding items effecting comparability 2) Pro forma 3) Inludes oil, natural gas, LPG. Coal and coke excluded 4) Preliminary, not verified SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Overview 3 Comments by the CEO The event having the greatest impact on SSAB in 2014 was the acquisition of the Finnish company Rautaruukki. Together, we are now creating a more efficient and flexible steel company, whilst strengthening our leading position on the home markets in the Nordic region and globally within high-strength steels. Our strategy of global leadership in high-strength steels is the main driver towards our vision of a stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. Rautaruukki fits in excellently After the combination with Rautaruukki, we set-up must be analyzed and goals set to take with our strategy are well placed to achieve industry leading the Group’s sustainability work further and to SSAB’s strategy is based on an overriding profitability through the improved efficiency include sustainability issues more clearly in vision to contribute to a stronger, lighter and of strip products in the Nordic region, by our business. more sustainable world. The vision relates to ­capturing synergies, continuing to develop SSAB’s ability to develop steel applications for profitable operations in the US, and by con­ Continuous work to improve our customers to enable them to e.g. reduce tinuing to grow through high-strength steels environmental performance end-product weight, increase payloads, simand value-added services globally. Steelmaking is an energyand resourceplify production and to cut fuel and energy intensive industry and, as a steelmaker, we consumption. Three overriding objectives Focus on sustainability have a responsibility to minimize adverse have been formulated in our strategy “Taking In the new SSAB, we are placing even stronger environmental impacts. SSAB has for many the lead” – to be leader on domestic markets focus on managing and coordinating sustainyears worked hard to bring down carbon in the Nordic region and North America, to be ability and corporate responsibility-related dioxide emissions and other emissions from global leader within high-strength steels and issues on Group level. During the our manufacturing. Even if our blast furnaces to be leader within value-added services. year, we decided to coorare already among the world’s most carbon The combination with Rautaruukki gives dinate sustainability efficient, we are constantly looking for opporSSAB a considerably larger base in the Nordic work more tunities to improve. In 2014, we continued to region within sheet and plate, and strengthens clearly, invest in technology to further reduce emisthe global position within high-strength steels sions and increase energy efficiency. In Swethrough new products, trademarks and marden, a new hot stove became operational in kets. The product offering is being expanded Oxelösund and a major renovation was within sectors such as high-strength tubes for “In the new SSAB, we are carried out of one hot stove in the automotive industry and within coated Luleå. Both investments ­placing even stronger focus decrease the amount of products, for example. On top of this, a greater total number of service centers and producon managing and coordinating energy used in the blast tion units enhance the service level. sustainability and corporate furnace processes. The How the strategic objectives will be responsibility-related issues switch from oil to natural achieved has been formulated into three congas to fuel a reheating furcepts: flexible operations, a high-performing on Group level.” nace in Borlänge was completed organization and superior customer experiin December. The change of fuel will ence. The acquisition of Rautaruukki gives us result in a reduction of emissions. In 2014, an enhanced cost position in the Nordic region, we also started construction work on a new together with the widest offering and highest and quenching tower at the coke oven plant in level of service. SSAB has already previously to this end Luleå, which will halve the particulate matter enjoyed a leading cost position among comwe set up a group emitted from coke quenching. In Raahe, a new parable steel works in North America. A recursustainability function power plant unit (75% owned by SSAB), will ring theme in the combination has been to that reports directly to me. replace the technically obsolete equipment in capitalize on the best competences in SSAB Our sustainability approach is based the old power station in 2016, and at the same and Rautaruukki. Together, the new SSAB on our economic, environmental and social time improve the efficiency and environmengains considerably greater competence and performance. We take responsibility, not only tal soundness of the plant. a broader platform on which to develop new for our own operations, but also continuously products and offerings, and thus to further develop our practices to better control the New EU energy and climate policies strengthen customer collaboration. environmental and social impacts of our whole In October 2014, the European Council summit Our goal is to recapture our leading value chain. During 2015, we will announce a set new more ambitious targets for carbon ­position as one of the most profitable steel revised sustainability strategy and new goals emissions, renewable energy and energy companies globally. Historically, in terms of for this prioritized area. The renewal of the ­efficiency for 2030. The new target to reduce profitability, SSAB has outperformed peer sustainability targets that we launched in 2013 carbon dioxide emissions is to cut them by competitors as a whole, but our performance is necessary after our combination with Rau40% compared to 1990. These targets risk in recent years has been unsatisfactory. taruukki. Risks and opportunities in the new further weakening our competitiveness in the 4 Overview SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 global market, unless there is a binding and ment, human rights, labor standards and equally as ambitious international agreement anti-corruption and work is continuing to interelated to carbon emission reductions. In grate them into our operations, culture and accordance with our own position, and that value chain. of the steel industry in Europe, the European SSAB is also better placed than earlier Council summit agrees that the most efficient when it comes to sustainability. The combinaindustrial operators exposed to international tion with Rautaruukki has given us greater competition should not be subject to a direct resources, flexibility, efficiency and improved or indirect cost disadvantage resulting from cost position, as well as enhanced potential the EU’s climate policy and Emission Trading for profitable growth in high-strength steels System for 2030. For SSAB and for all other that are at the core of our vision. steel producers in Europe it is extremely important that the requirements of the EU Emission Trading System do not lead to a ­significant economic disadvantage compared to our competitors outside the EU, regardless Martin Lindqvist of our highly-efficient steelmaking and subPresident and CEO stantial investments made to lower carbon emissions. Similar rules for all players are also necessary to combat climate change so as to prevent steel production relocating to countries where there is no emissions regulation. Aiming to be one of the safest steel companies in the world We have long been striving to constantly increase awareness of, and to reduce, the risks related to safety in all our operations. Good results have been achieved especially within SSAB Americas, whose accident statistics are among the lowest in the industry, as well as in Ruukki Construction. Good progress has been made also in some units in Europe, showing that determined safety management and leadership bears fruit. As a whole, SSAB’s lost time accident frequency decreased to 6.6 (7.4). Despite all our efforts, regrettably, a fatal accident occurred at SSAB’s site in Luleå. We continue to further improve the safety work we have long been doing. Our aim is to be one of the safest steel companies in the world. To achieve this, we have established a group-wide safety expert group and safety management team to plan and execute safety initiatives throughout SSAB. We will increase focus on preventative actions, managerial support and the sharing of best practices throughout the entire company. Supporting the UN’s Global Compact initiative SSAB has been a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact initiative for several years, thereby making clear the responsibility we assume for the environment, people and communities affected by our operations. This report con­ stitutes a part of our communication on how we operate based on the Global Compact principles. We continue to support the Global Compact’s principles related to the environSSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 A stronger, lighter and more sustainable world OUR VISION OUR VALUES SSAB’s vision points out the direction for the company’s long-term Our values are the guiding principles of our company. They shape our development and the objective toward which the company strives: culture and characteristics. They serve as a compass for our actions a stronger, lighter, and more sustainable world. and behavior, and describe what we stand for. Values guide us daily in making the right choices and doing the right things. Together with our customers, we will go further than anyone else in realizing the full value of lighter, stronger and more durable steel products. CUSTOMER’S TAKING RESPONSIBILITY EXCEEDING EXPECTATIONS BUSINESS IN FOCUS • We constantly listen to and understand • We build strong, long-lasting • We are dedicated, ambitious and our customers’ needs. relationships by being professional, proud of what we do. cooperative and honest. • We aim to always take an active, long-term • We are straightforward, result-oriented interest in our customers’ business. • We keep our promises. and quickly take action. • We want to earn our customers’ trust. • We work safely and responsibly. • We don’t do things that don’t create value for our stakeholders. • We want to be our customers’ • We respect people and strive innovation partner. for diversity. • To achieve top performance, we always challenge ourselves and further enhance our expertise. Strategy and targets SSAB’s strategic direction Leader within SSAB’s strategy “Taking the lead” is high-strength aimed at securing the company’s steels long-term development and value for shareholders and other stakeholders, Leader in Leader within domestic value-added while at the same time promoting What SSAB does markets services long-term sustainable development. Taking SSAB’s overarching objective is to be the lead What makes SSAB Flexible Superior one of the most profitable steel successful operations customer ­companies in the world. experience Highperforming organization SSAB ONE – THE NAME OF OUR MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY FINANCIAL TARGETS SSAB One is about having the customer’s business as a starting point when involving SSAB has three financial targets within three areas. all employees in improvement work, to improve the flow or the series of activities that create customer value. Area Objective Profitability SSAB targets an industry-leading SSAB ONE profitability measured as EBITDA margin among comparable peers1). Vision Capital structure The Group’s operations are cyclical. The objective is a long-term net debt/ equity ratio of 30%. Dividends Dividends are adapted to the average earnings level over a business cycle and, in the long term, constitute approxiA stronger, lighter and more sustainable world mately 50% of profit after tax, taking into consideration the net debt/equity Values ratio. It shall also be possible to use dividends to adjust the capital structure. SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Customer’s Taking Exceeding business in focus responsibility expectations Following the combination between SSAB and Rautaruukki, a new sustainability strategy and targets for SSAB Principles are being developed. The new sustainability strategy, Learn and improve to be launched during 2015, will support the overall SSAB ­strategy – Taking the lead. Right from me Customer demand driven Normal state 1) AK Steel, Dillinger, Nucor, Salzgitter, Steel Dynamics, Tata Steel Europe, Thyssenkrupp, US Steel SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Overview 7 Our sustainability approach Our vision is the core of our sustainability approach. In everything we do, we strive to create a stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. Our role as a unique, highly-specialized steel company and our s­ trategy of global leadership in high-strength steels are the main drivers towards our vision. Global drivers such as a growing population, increased energy demand and a scarcity of natural resources as well as ­climate change, make it increasingly important for us to focus on material and energy efficiency both for our products and own operations. Our sustainability approach is based on our and Vice President & Head of Group Sustainarelated to issues concerning the external envieconomic, environmental and social perforbility. She reports directly to the President and ronment, SSAB has an Environmental Council, mance. We take responsibility, not only for our CEO of SSAB. To ensure Group-wide collabowhich includes representatives from each own operations, but also taking into account ration, a Sustainability Management Team has division and main production sites as well as the whole value chain. Our employees are a been formed. The members of the team creSSAB’s subsidiaries, Merox and Tibnor. The key driving force, given that our value-added ate a network of expertise having the responCouncil is chaired by SSAB’s Environmental services are built on experience and knowsibility of coordinating SSAB’s sustainability Director, also member of the Sustainability how, and we continue to develop our high-­ initiatives on Group level. Decisions related to Management Team. For issues related to performing organization. Safety is always the strategic direction of SSAB’s sustainability responsible sourcing the Director of Business a top priority for SSAB. We are determined work are taken by the Sustainability Board. In Ethics is working together with the procureto be one the safest steel companies in the practice, sustainability is integrated into the ment department. world with an objective of zero accidents day-to-day work at production sites, as well and work-related injuries. as, global business and support functions. Renewed sustainability strategy Because of the combination with Rautaruukki, New organization for sustainability Sustainability work throughout there will be a review of the sustainability management the organization strategy and objectives introduced in 2013. In the new SSAB, stronger focus is being Each member of the Sustainability ManageAt the end of 2014, a materiality analysis proplaced on managing and coordinating susment Team is responsible to include relevant cess was conducted in order to define SSAB’s tainability and corporate responsibility issues employees throughout the organization to most important sustainability aspects in on Group level. In September 2014, Maria ensure the involvement of key experts and accordance with the new GRI G4* process. As Långberg was appointed President Merox AB divisional representation. To support work a part of this process, a stakeholder survey The organization President & CEO President Merox AB Vice President Sustainability Board & Head of Group Sustainability • VP & Head of Group Sustainability • Deputy CTO • EVP & Head of Group HR Sustainability Management Team • EVP & Head of Group Communications • Environment • Sustainability Reporting • EVP & Head of Market Development • Energy & Climate & Responsible Investment • VP Strategy • Business Ethics • Sustainability Strategy • Director Business Ethics & Coordination • Mgr. Sustainability Strategy • Health & Safety • Sales & Marketing • HR • Public Affairs Networks within the organization linked to each area of expertise 8 Overview SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 was carried out in the form of an online survey tainability related assessments from suppliers and interviews of a selected group of our key and customers, investors as well as from variDistribution of economic value stakeholders owners, investors, customers ous sustainability ratings. SSAB has defined and our own employees. The outcomes of the its key stakeholders as being its customers, stakeholder survey will be taken into account suppliers and subcontractors, owners, inveswhen updating SSAB’s sustainability focus tors and its own employees. Collaboration areas and targets, and when defining the and interaction with these stakeholders are material aspects and indicators for GRI G4 high on the corporate responsibility agenda. report content in 2015. Other stakeholders we interact actively with The renewed sustainability objectives include the media, local communities near our for SSAB will be defined during 2015. These production sites, regulators and various non-­ objectives will include measurable targets governmental organizations, research bodies related to our most important sustainability and partner organizations. Wages and salaries 51% aspects. Information about the sustainability Wages and salaries 51% Social security expenses 16% Social security expenses 16% targets defined in 2013 can be found in this Dividends to shareholders 0% Dividends to shareholders 0% Interest payments to lenders 7% report on pages 21 and 32. Interest Reinvestedpayments to lenders in the company 26% 7% Reinvested in the company 26% Stakeholder engagement and continuous dialogue SSAB aims for regular, honest and transparent SSAB creates and distributes economic value to various stakeholders in society, such as owners, interaction with its stakeholders. We actively financiers, suppliers, employees, the public secmaintain and develop our stakeholder relator and communities, whilst minimizing the tions and draw on information obtained from adverse impacts of its operations. SSAB is a stakeholders when developing our operations, major local and regional influence in many places products and services. Through a continuous where it has production sites. This is reflected in SSAB’s role as an employer, buyer of regional dialog SSAB also communicates what efforts goods and services and as a benefactor to local * Global Reporting initiative (GRI) is a leading sustainability and measures are taken within sustainability. reporting framework. The fourth generation of the guidecommunities. The chart above illustrates how the At the same time, good communication is lines, GRI G4, was launched in 2013. Reports published after economic added value created by SSAB was disDecember 31, 2015 should be prepared in accordance with tributed among various stakeholders in 2014. equally important from a stakeholder perthe new version, if a company reports officially according to spective – that SSAB can contribute to susthe GRI framework. SSAB welcomes dialogue and actively seeks comments from different stakeholders by inviting them to open forums or presentations. Examples of these are summarized in the table below. Stakeholder Forum Issues Customers Meetings with customers, Knowledge • Profitability and environmental benefits with high-strength steels Service Center, customer seminars, • Exchange of know-how trade fairs and the Swedish Steel • Quality in deliveries Prize • Joint development together with our customers Employees Performance dialogs, employee • Health & Safety ­surveys and information meetings • Feedback from performance dialogs • Strategic and integration issues Shareholders Annual General Meeting, Capital • Strategy and financial performance ­Markets Day, investor meetings with • Sustainability strategy and management shareholders, investors and analysts, • Safety issues interviews and web survey • Risks relating to suppliers • Climate change issues • Resource and energy efficiency Authorities and Industry organizations, research ­co• Emissions rights trading and competitive conditions organizations operation projects, consultation and • Technological development negotiations on permit matters • Environmental and social responsibility reporting Suppliers Purchasing meetings, conferences • Contract issues regarding human rights, the environment and visits to suppliers and other ­matters regarding responsible sourcing • Delivery certainty and quality The community Local consultation with residents, • Permit matters the media, environmental groups • Impact on the local community and politicians • Impact on the environment • Exchanges of information • Community relations SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Overview 9 SSAB’s sustainable value chain SSAB’s value chain illustrates relevant sub-activities throughout the various phases of the value chain, highlighting the inputs needed and outputs generated in each stage, and the main sustainability impact on SSAB’s business, stakeholders and the environment. SSAB strives to integrate sustainability in its culture, and the company’s endeavors depend on every employees’ contribution. Every activity undertaken is guided by our vision and values, the principles of our management ­philosophy SSAB ONE, management systems, Code of Business Ethics, and complies with applicable laws and regulations. Sustainability impact Sustainability impact R&D aims to improve process efficiency and Effective and responsible sourcing, including environmental and create innovative products that strengthens social aspects such as labor conditions, can reduce SSAB’s footprint SSAB’s and customers’ business. and risk profile with regard to up-stream operations. R&D Supply -Product development -Extraction and transports of raw materials -Process development (iron ore pellets, scrap metal, coal, -Support in customers' limestone, alloying elements) application development -Energy supply -Administrative services T -Human capital and know-how about customer business -Purchasing requirements -Responsible business -Customer feedback -Visits and follow-up -Up-coming regulations -New Steel grades -Unique production process -Innovative provider of efficient steel solutions End of life (product) Customers/Users -Re-use -Use of active products (transportation -Recycling industry, moving machine parts, etc) -Landfill -Use of passive products (building constructions, infrastructure, etc.) T -End of life products -Product life cycle -High strength steels -Lighter and safer structures -Up-grade of the with high load-carrying capacity -Recyclability due to design current steel grades -Products with a longer life span -Steel parts for reuse -Product knowledge due to higher wear resistance -Scrap metal for recycling and innovation -Energy-efficient construction -Waste -Value-added services solutions Sustainability impact Sustainability impact Effective management of residuals enables SSAB’s products and solutions can reduce the environmental footprint recirculation of material to SSAB production significantly for the customer and end-users. High strength steels enables which replace the need for external raw use of less materials, reduced emissions during the user phase through materials and increases the recycling rate. lighter construction and longer durability of products. Additionally new revenue streams are created by processing and selling products externally. 10 Overview SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Sustainability impact SSAB’s guiding principles Energy intensive production requires high focus on material and energy Vision and values efficiency to mitigate environmental impacts, including climate change. SSAB ONE, our common Health and safety in the workplace is a top priority. Stakeholders trust management philosophy SSAB to manage labor rights and other social impacts of our operations The management systems responsibly. Code of Business Ethics Regulatory Compliance Production -Own personnel and contractors -Casting and slabs handling -Ore-based hot metal and -Rolling, quenching, coating Sustainability impact steelmaking -Energy recovery SSAB’s business is dependent on -Scrap-based -By-products and waste efficient transports throughout the steelmaking management stages of the value chain. Logistic efficiency in terms of timely and optimized transports as well as reduced fuel rates have direct economic and environmental impact for SSAB. -Iron ore pellets, scrap -High strength steels (strip metal, coke, limestone, products and heavy plates) Transport alloying elements, -Ordinary steels -External transports residuals -Materials for recirculation (land-based and -Energy (electricity -By-products for external sales sea-based) and fuels) -Energy for recovery -Internal transports -Emissions to air and water -Waste to landfill Sales -Marketing and sales -Logistics planning -Knowledge service centers -Electricity, diesel and -Go-to market heavy fuel oil -Wear services -Distributors -Emissions to air -Agents (exhaust gases) -On-time deliveries T -Customer needs -Satisfied customers and demands -Strengthened customer -Know-how and relationships sales skills Sustainability impact The sales stage, including all market activities, is key to identify customer needs and gain market insights leading to potential improvements of T Transport products and offerings. Through collaborations SSAB can help customers improve their processes and products, through new design and constructions. Input Output SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Overview 11 Policies and guidelines Since the combination with Rautaruukki, SSAB has undergone major reorganization. To ensure all Group policies and guidelines continue to meet external and internal requirements, Group polices will be updated during the beginning of 2015 according to the new company. The Code of Business Ethics, the Environmental Policy and the Health and Safety Policy are the most important Group polices from a sustainability perspective. Code of Business Ethics The new Environmental Policy will establish Whistleblower SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics (the “Code”) is the most important ambitions for SSAB’s enviA whistleblower function allows employees the company’s ethical compass and lays down ronmental work and cover the environmental to report serious irregularities and violations guidelines for SSAB’s behavior vis-à-vis aspects, which play a key role in the sustainaof SSAB’s various policies. In 2014, 5 (9) stakeholders and the market. The Code helps ble development of SSAB’s business. The Envi­complaints were reported to the Whistleus translate values into action and forms the ronmental Policy will support day-to-day work blower function. Two of these cases have basis for our environmental and social responacross the organization and will essentially resulted in SSAB taking action and 3 are still sibility commitments. The provisions of the entail the following: under investigation. Code take precedence over all other policies • SSAB will continue to develop products and in a division area or at a subsidiary level and, services in cooperation with customers, so Corporate Governance in certain cases, may be more far-reaching as to actively contribute to environmentally For information regarding corporate than national laws and regulations. The Code sound and profitable business; ­governance, see pages 98–109 in the is corporate-wide and applies to all employ• SSAB attaches importance to the efficient Annual Report 2014. ees. The Code is based on international standuse of raw materials and energy, while miniards including the UN Declaration of Human mizing waste Sustainability Indices Rights and UN Global Compact Principles. An increasing number of investors and anaRisk awareness and systematic lysts assess SSAB’s share taking into account SSAB’s up-dated Code of Business Ethics will risk management also the company’s environmental and social include guidance within: Management systems and action plans ensure responsibility, as well as corporate govern• Employee health and safety the Group systematically carries out its work ance work. SSAB is selected for inclusion in • Diversity and internationally recognized on critical sustainability issues. Several differthe Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register. labor law guidelines ent management systems and tools are used This selection by Forum ETHIBEL indicates • Business practice to effectively control operations in accordthat the company performs better than aver• Human rights ance with SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics, age in its sector in terms of Corporate Social • Stakeholder and community relations Health & Safety Policy and Environmental PolResponsibility. In addition, SSAB maintains • The environment icy. Systems developed in-house, as well as its inclusion in the OMX GES Sustainability • Communication third party certified systems, are in place. Sweden Ethical Index. Safety management systems for systematic Health & Safety Policy and health and safety work have been impleSSAB is a signatory to the UN’s Global ComEnvironmental Policy mented at all production sites, of which pact and supports its 10 principles within the In order to reflect the new SSAB, a new Health OHSAS 18001 is one of the systems used. areas of human rights, labor standards, the & Safety Policy and a new Environmental PolEnvironmental and climate work takes place environment and anticorruption. icy is being defined. SSAB is committed to primarily within the scope of the ISO 14001 ­creating value for its stakeholders and to environmental management standard and via building relationships based upon respect, local energy management systems. Work responsibility and excellence with its employenvironment risks and environmental risks are ees, customers, shareholders and other busialso covered by SSAB’s internal risk controls ness partners – and to do so in a socially and and internal audits. environmentally responsible manner. The new Health & Safety Policy will focus on a safe working environment for all SSAB’s employees and contractors. Compromising on safety is never acceptable. SSAB actively strives for the continuous improvement of workplace health and safety for its employees and contractors. 12 Overview SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Environmental responsibility To minimize our environmental footprint, we remain committed to further improving the resource efficiency in our operations. We continue to innovate and provide our customers with unique steel products and applications that increase material and energy efficiency throughout the end-product’s lifecycle. The potential to reduce the weight, whilst increasing the productivity and durability of end-products is a crucial environmental aspect from the lifecycle perspective. Use of SSAB’s high-strength steels can reduce the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions of end-products. In many cases, this reduction exceeds the emissions that originate from the steel production processes due to e.g. lighter vehicles that consume less fuel. Steel lifecycle Steel is the most recycled industrial material in the world and can be recycled indefinitely without losing its properties. Due to its durability, steel products have a long useful life and can often be recycled and used in other applications, thus saving resources. SSAB aims to reduce the environmental impact of its steel products in every phase of the lifecycle, from raw material extraction to recycling at the end of a product’s life. 1. Responsibility in raw material sourcing 2. Efficient steel production 3. Recycling of minerals and Raw materials used in iron and steel producTwo different processes are used in the other by-products tion are our most significant purchases. SSAB ­production of SSAB’s steels: iron-ore based Wherever possible, minerals and by-products purchases iron ore pellets from the Swedish production in blast furnaces in Sweden and created in the ironand steel-making process supplier, LKAB, and a smaller share from the Finland and scrap-based production in elecare recycled to substitute virgin raw materials. Russian supplier, Severstal. Metallurgical coal tric arc furnaces in the U.S. Even though the Most of the dust created in the blast furnace is purchased from major suppliers in Australia, efficiency of our five blast furnaces is already based steel-making process is returned back Canada, the US and a smaller share from a among the top performers in the world, we to the process, which results in decreased Russian supplier. The injection coal is sourced are constantly looking for opportunities waste amount and increased material effifrom a specific mine in Russia. Steel scrap to improve. Industry-wide cooperation is ciency. Recycled steel reduces the environfrom the scrap market is used as raw material important for continuously improving the mental footprint during the end-product’s in all SSAB’s steel mills and scrap is purchased technology available to reduce emissions. lifecycle. It replaces the iron ore as input locally in the US, Sweden and Finland. SupCO2 emissions originating in production in material in the steel production process. Also portive blast furnace coke is purchased in electric arc furnaces are less than 10% of the energy flows created are recovered back to Poland to the Raahe site, when needed. Limeemissions generated from iron ore-based the production process. Not all by-products stone is purchased for all steel making from steel production. can be recirculated in the steel production. In Sweden. Alloys are purchased from some 40 Read about our continuous work to some cases new revenue streams are created different suppliers. improve our environmental performance on by processing and selling products externally. Read more about responsible sourcing of pages 20–27. The material flows from production that canraw materials on page 37. not be recycled or sold externally are sent to The SSAB steel lifecycle Recycled steel 6. Recyclability after product use 2. Steel production 1. Raw material sourcing of steel 3. Recycled steel from 3. Recycling of minerals upgrading process and other by-products 5. Product use phase 4. Product manufacture 14 Environmental responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 landfill. In the Nordics, SSAB’s subsidiary 5. Use phase: Stronger, lighter and and thus primary steel needs to be produced Merox develops products based on by-prodmore sustainable world from iron ore. SSAB’s mills in the US produce ucts originating in steel operations. The Through the use of high-strength steels, steel based exclusively on recycled scrap by-products are recycled internally or sold ­customers are able to manufacture products, metal. Small amounts of coal and natural gas externally, and new areas of use as alternawhich use less material, are stronger, lighter are used in the production process, but mainly tives to depositing in landfills are continuously and provide improved total economy. For electricity is used for smelting the scrap metal. under development. energy using applications the use phase carAll in all, CO2 emissions are less than one tenth Read more about the material and energy ries a significant share of the lifecycle environof the emissions generated in conjunction with efficiency of our production and how by-prodmental footprint. The most beneficial weight iron ore-based steel production. SSAB uses ucts are managed on pages 22–24. reductions can be found in applications such approximately 20% of scrap metal in conjuncas mobile and loader cranes and load handling tion with steel production in Sweden and Fin4. Resource-efficient product equipment. In many cases, the reduction in land, and 100% in the US. manufacture emissions due to decreased weight can Read more about the benefits of steel High-strength steels are stronger than ordiexceed the emissions originating in the steel recycling on page 22. nary standard steels. Withstanding any given production processes when calculated over physical load requires less high-strength the entire lifecycle of an end-product. steels than would be the case using standard Read more about our energy-efficient steels. Consequently, designs that use highsteel products and construction solutions on strength steels are lighter and weight savings pages 16–19 . can be up to 20–40%, meaning around 20–40% less steel is used. In addition, the 6. Recyclability of steel quantities of steel material involved in the As the world’s most recycled industrial mateend-product’s manufacturing process, as well rial, steel is unique in that it retains its properas the resources used in steel production (iron ties no matter how many times it is recycled. ore, alloying elements, carbon and energy) Using recycled steel, scrap metal, in steel proare also similarly reduced. In close collaboraduction saves natural resources and increases tion with customers, product design can material efficiency, whilst also reducing CO2 increase the environmental and cost benefits emissions. However, recycled steel is not enabled by the use of high-strength steels. enough to meet the growing demand for steel Life cycle assessment shows the efficiency of SSAB’s steel production SSAB conducted a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study for several steel ­products in 2014. The LCA study, based on data from 2012 and conducted for SSAB’s steel plant in Raahe, showed that the steel mill can produce a tonne of steel with approximately 10% smaller global warming potential and energy use , compared to the European average. The lifecycle assessment is based on SSAB’s own production and worldsteel datasets*, which provide accurate and comprehensive data on the environmental profiles of steel products. Given the performance of the blast furnaces in Luleå and Oxelösund, they will most likely show similar results if included in a LCA study. Specific LCA data for SSAB’s products are available in the form of environmental product declarations (EPDs) for steel products and steel construction products. EPDs contain information about the lifecycle environmental impacts of products: the use of raw materials, energy consumption and emissions arising from production, as well as product recyclability. These EPDs are available on request. Construction product EPDs are posted also on Ruukki Construction’s website (www.ruukki.com). * SSAB has contributed to worldsteel’s product lifecycle inventory data (LCI). The information is available on request to all SSAB stakeholders via worldsteel’s website SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Environmental responsibility 15 Increased efficiency and environmental benefits with ­ high-strength and wear steels Requirements and demand for improved material and energy efficiency are important drivers leading to the growing use of high-strength steels, which provide advantages in the form of stronger, lighter and more durable steel solutions. High-strength steel applications reduce the environmental footprint at the user stage, and have an important role in the transition towards a more sustainable world. Unique offering in special steels cations, the use of SSAB’s high-strength 40% SSAB offers its customers a broad range of steels (Domex, Weldox and Optim) reduces high-strength and wear steels that enable the weight of vehicle structures by enabling better energy and material efficiency, as well minimum steel thickness through new strucas strength and durability in the applications tural design, and also enables redesigns that they are used in. In addition, reduced deadcan reduce production cost, e.g. through less High-strength steels can reduce up to weight in moving transport means higher welding, and improved usability. A reduction 40% of the weight in steel constructions. in the weight of the vehicle leads to increased 10-40% ­payloads and improved fuel economy. payloads and lower fuel consumption and Driving improvement with emissions. For example, the weight of trailer knowledge sharing bodies made of SSAB’s high-strength steels SSAB works in close cooperation with its cuscan be reduced by up to 30% compared to tomers during the phases of application and using traditional steel grades. In applications High-strength steels can reduce CO2 emissions by 10–40% during the life cycle of passive process development in order to design more such as lifting equipment, where high load-­ ­constructions. value-added and sustainable products by bearing capacity is required, the use of high5-10% upgrading into high-strength or wear steels. strength steel enables stronger designs. At By taking full advantage of SSABs value-addthe same time, structural wall thickness is ing services and technical expertise, customreduced, which through weight savings lowers ers can build lighter products with longer lifefuel consumption and emissions of mobile cycle. Hardox Wearparts is a one-stop-shop machines. High-strength steels can reduce CO2 emissions by service concept, providing spare parts and Furthermore, automotive manufacturers 5–10% during the life cycle of active contructions. advice to users of Hardox wear steel e.g. in are calling for light-weight, durable materials mining, infrastructure, construction and recywith beneficial environmental properties that, cling machinery. The concept allows for furadditionally, are manufactured resource effither product development and innovation, ciently. SSAB’s cold-rolled advanced highand reduce the environmental impact over the creating opportunities for e.g. abrasion calcustrength steels make it possible to develop machinery’s lifecycle. lations on existing equipment and improvesafer, lighter and less emitting cars. The new ment measures with new replacement parts. steel grade Docol 1700 M has been engiImproved energy-efficiency and ­ It also benefits the environment by extending neered for safety applications in cars with eco-friendliness with coatings the lifespan of end-products. SSAB Shape stringent requirements for reduced weight SSAB develops new functional surface coatoffers customized solutions based on a wide and high energy absorption. ings that lower energy consumption and range of design, processing and logistics maintenance costs, improve durability of sur­services through its own VAS Centers and a Extended service life of machinery face and extend the life-span of buildings. worldwide network of pre-processing suppliand equipment There are several coatings that contribute to a ers. In addition, SSAB’s Knowledge Service SSAB’s wear steels (Hardox, Raex) are more environmental friendly and sustainable Center provides specific advice and innovaQuenched and Tempered (Q&T) steels that construction. Thermal coatings (Prelaq Energy tion support regarding the ways in which the are used in different types of machinery and and Hiarc reflect) reflect solar radiation when properties of high-strength steels can be utiequipment in mining, quarries, recycling and used outside the building and thermal radialized to achieve maximum benefits, creating road building segments. Common to all these tion when used inside the building leading to more value-added and sustainable products. applications is that they have a unique combidecreased energy consumption in heating nation of hardness and toughness that is and cooling. GreenCoat is a new type of color Optimized weight and fuel consumption characteristic of Q&T steels. Using Q&T steels coating for steel, including high-strength in moving transport segment in buckets, crushers, blades, shedders and tipsteel, that is partly based on rapeseed oil The environmental and financial advantages pers provides higher resistance against strucinstead of traditional fossil oil. The result is an of using high-strength steels are significant in tural wear and damage, which in turn improves improved coated steel product, with a proactive constructions such as trailers, trucks, machinery performance and extends its serlonged service lifetime, as well as a reduced materials handling and lifting equipment as vice life. Additionally, weight reductions in environmental footprint. well as construction machinery. In these applimachinery result in cost benefits to end-users 16 Environmental responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Swedish steel prize case: Building the world’s largest dump truck The winning design of the international Swedish Steel Prize* 2014 was created by the global mining dump truck manufacturer Belaz from Belarus. By using SSAB’s high-strength steels in the new innovative construction for axle suspension and slewing bearings, Belaz successfully created the world’s largest dump truck, the 75710. The dump truck is capable of a payload of 450 tonnes, an increase of 20% compared to conventional trucks leading to decreased emissions per ton transported load. The new construction takes full advantage of the properties of high-strength steels using Weldox 700F in the swivel carriage (part of the truck suspension system) and Hardox 450 in the dump truck body. Other features of the dump truck include an additional pair of tires (in total 4 pairs) and to save fuel when the dump truck is not loaded, it runs on only one of its two 16-cylinder diesel engines. The full load fuel consumption is 13 L/km. The dump truck is currently undergoing final testing in an open coal pit in Siberia, known for its harsh mining conditions, proving that the dump truck can handle temperatures down to -60 Celsius degrees. The first dump truck is already being produced and there are more orders planned for 2015. * The Swedish Steel Prize was established by SSAB in 1999 to inspire and disseminate knowledge about high-strength steel and how it can be used to develop stronger, lighter and more sustainable products. Energy-efficient construction solutions The building sector accounts for around 40% of total European energy use. Reducing the energy consumption through thermal control in buildings, especially heating, cooling and air conditioning, plays an important role in reaching the energy efficiency targets set by the European Union. Through the use of energy-efficient exterior structures and by utilizing renewable energy sources, it is possible to enhance the energy performance of a building during its use phase. SSAB’s energy efficient solutions for the construction industry take into account increasingly stringent requirements for the energy performance of buildings, and can directly impact on buildings’ energy performance ratings in environmental certifications. Reduced energy consumption with energy-efficient building solutions By using energy-efficient exterior structures, such as energy panels, the user of a building gains improvements in the building’s energy efficiency performance. The thermal insulation of Ruukki Construction’s* energy panel, combined with the airtightness of the panel, generates savings of up to 20% in annual energy costs compared to the use of more traditional sandwich panels in Nordic conditions. During 2014, a new renovation concept for old commercial and industrial buildings was developed that utilizes a building’s existing frame and installs panels on the walls to improve the energy performance. By preserving the old frame, the solution also saves materials and costs. Decreasing CO2 emissions with renewable energy sources By using solutions that utilize renewable energy sources, it is also possible for the building sector to reduce its overall environmental impacts and gain benefits in building energy performance. Ruukki Construction’s solar Near zero-energy hall in Hämeenlinna energy solutions for roofing and facades enaRuukki Construction has participated in a project to build a near zero-energy ble solar energy to be used to heat up domeshall on the campus of HAMK University of Applied Sciences in Hämeenlinna. tic hot water and living spaces. There is also a When completed during the spring 2015, the 1 500-square-meter hall will be made-to-measure system, launched in 2014, the first near zero-energy hall in Finland. A near zero-energy hall is more available within the solar thermal products. competitive than a similar hall built using traditional building solutions since the initial investment is less than the energy savings over the entire building’s life cycle. Energy piles in the building’s foundations transfer geothermal energy to heat up the building during winter. During summer, solar thermal 20% energy is transferred into the ground, where it is stored and utilized again during winter. Solar heat collectors are installed on the roof and the building envelope is created with an airtight energy panel system and walls that ­feature components collecting solar energy to be used in heating. The windows and the envelope have been designed for maximum energy efficiency Ruukki Construction’s energy panel can and weather protection. Instruments and sensors are installed in the hall ­generate 20% of savings in the annual energy costs of a building. structures to verify lifecycle energy efficiency. Partners in the project are Ruukki Construction, HAMK and Häme Municipal Federation for Professional Higher Education (HAKKY). Arkkitehtitoimisto Kaipainen Oy is the lead designer in the project. * A division of SSAB Group 18 Environmental responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Ruukki Construction solutions for lowand zero-energy buildings: • Ruukki Classic Solar thermal roof heats up water with solar energy • Ruukki Solar energy solutions are a product family for water heating and electricity production based on solar energy • Ruukki facade solar systems are building-integrated systems, which convert ­sunlight into electricity • Hiarc reflect coating for façade solutions keeps the façade surface cooler, which reduces the need for indoor cooling and improves the energy efficiency of the building • Ruukki energy panels ensure thermal insulation and air tightness that conforms to the strictest requirements for thermal insulation. Energy panels can generate savings up to 20% in annual building energy costs compared to the use of more traditional sandwich panels • Ruukki life energy panels lower Global Warming Potential and enable higher rate of secondary material usage in buildings • eRR and eRD energy piles can be integrated into a ground heat collection system in building foundations Continuous work to improve our environmental performance Steel production is resource intensive and generates carbon dioxide emissions. SSAB is committed to continuous environmental work aiming at minimizing the adverse environmental impacts from our operations. Even if our blast furnaces are among the most efficient in the world in terms of minimizing emissions, we are constantly looking for opportunities to improve. Also in 2014, we invested in technology that reduces emissions and increases energy efficiency. Significant environmental aspects Energy efficiency in production is improved Dalarna University, Swerea, Oulu University, The most significant environmental aspects through utilization of process gases, recovAalto University, Åbo Akademi Univercity and for SSAB are: ered heat and residual materials from producVTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. In • Efficient use of raw materials and energy tion processes instead of purchased fuel and SSAB Americas The American Iron and Steel • Air emission reductions of carbon dioxides, raw materials. Association is an important partner. SSAB is nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and particuAs a result of continuous development of participating in various national and internalate matter our processes, our blast furnaces are among tional joint projects with different research • Water effluent reductions of nitrogen and the most efficient in the world in terms of miniinstitutions and industrial associations. suspended substances mizing emissions from steel production. • Landfill waste minimization SSAB’s use of coke and coal as reducing eleEnvironmental management ments is close to the theoretical minimum for The continuous development of environmenThe most significant environmental impacts a blast furnace. If SSAB had used reducing tal performance is ensured through monitorarise at SSAB’s production sites in Luleå, agents as the average blast furnace in Europe ing performance against environmental tarBorlänge, Oxelösund, Raahe, Hämeenlinna, (EU15), the emissions of carbon dioxide would gets and the environmental management sysMobile and Montpelier. However, the impact have been 7% higher, i.e. 600,000 tonnes tem. SSAB’s environmental management is on the local environment in the vicinity of more on annual basis (see graph below). based on the Group’s Environmental Policy SSAB’s plants has decreased significantly over Industry-wide cooperation is important for and the international environmental and time. Technological advances and increasingly identifying new technical solutions that can energy management system ISO 14 001 and stringent external requirements promote confurther decrease the impacts of steel making ISO 50 001 standards. tinuous operational improvements. processes. In the Nordics, SSAB is collaboratIn 2014, all SSAB’s manufacturing sites Emissions and resource utilization can be ing with KTH Royal Institute of Technology in had third party certification for the ISO 14 001 controlled and reduced by improving energy Stockholm, Luleå University of Technology, standard. Energy efficiency management is efficiency in the production processes and by recirculating by-products (slag, sludge, mill scale and dust) and scrap as input material in steel production. Where it is not possible to return the residual materials back to the proBlast furnace efficiency* cesses, SSAB’s Nordic subsidiary, Merox, is 150 working to develop new areas of use for them as alternatives to depositing in landfills. Sys125 tematic energy efficiency management at all sites and energy recovery, as well as produc100 tion of electricity from process gases at steel mills, ensure efficient use of energy and lower 75 emissions. 50 Our blast furnaces are among the most 25 efficient in the world SSAB has significantly reduced emissions over 0 the past decades by focusing on improving SSAB EU15 South America Key Works China** North America NAFTA Russia World Total China India resource efficiency, e.g. by utilizing waste energy for district heating, and by investing in environmentally sound technology. Steel production processes are based on the best available technology. In recent years, one of the main focus areas has been to find a solution for resource-efficient production while * Consumption of reducing agents (coal, coke, gas, oil) in iron making in blast furnaces (kg/t hot metal). running blast furnaces at below maximum Indexed, SSAB=100. Source: Stahl-Zentrum (2012) and SSAB capacity in a response to lower steel demand. ** Key Works in China = Steel works with 70% of total hot metal production in China 20 Environmental responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 systematically promoted at production sites, preventive measures and corrective actions at either as part of an ISO 14 001 system or various levels, both in corporate governance Environmental targets for 2014– through a certified ISO 50 001 energy manand ways of working locally on site. 2018 and progress in 2014 agement system (in Borlänge and Finspång). The Corporate Sustainability Strategy Internal and external audits at sites ensure Environmental permits and legislation includes three measurable environthat everyday practices comply with set tarSSAB’s operations are subject to environmenmental targets, developed by the forgets. Also regular management reviews drive tal permits containing numerous environmenmer SSAB, for the period of 2014–2018. the environmental work. In 2014, work started tal conditions governing various parameters The baseline year was 2013. To date, all on preparing an action plan to ensure complias it relates to production levels, air emissions, targets are on track. Measures comance with the coming revision of the ISO14001 discharge water effluent, and waste managepleted during 2014 will allow approxienvironmental management system standard. ment. All production sites comply with relevant mately 40% of the carbon emission Divisions, subsidiaries and sites are local, state, and federal environmental reduction target to be met and the tarresponsible for putting environmental protecrequirements and the Group holds mandatory gets related to the reduction of purtion into practice. Each production site has an environmental damage as well as liability chased energy and material deposited environmental team or manager responsible insurance covering damage to third parties. in landfills to be surpassed in 2015. The for monitoring compliance with legislation and SSAB records all environmental damage and most significant improvement meashandling permit matters. Each SSAB employee other environmental non-compliances and ures taken were the switch from oil to is responsible for complying with the environmakes a public proclamation of them to the natural gas in Borlänge and, since 2014, mental policy and for integrating environmenauthorities. On some occasions permit limits the briquetting of Basic Oxygen Furtal aspects into their everyday work. at the Raahe Works were exceeded during nace (BOF) sludge in Luleå being used 2014. The most common cause for exceeding as a raw material in the blast furnace Management of environmental risks was oil discharges into the waterways caused instead of being sent to landfill. By Environmental risks are included in the corpoby oil escaping into cooling systems. As corthe end of 2018, individual activities rate risk management process. Risk managerective actions a new oil separation basin with shall, in a sustainable manner and ment supports the company’s strategy and oil removing devices is invested in one wastewhen taken together on an annual ensures business continuity. Emissions from water line and operational and maintenance basis, have: normal operating conditions are controlled work practices are improved. SSAB received • Reduced by 100,000 tonnes CO2 and subject to environmental permit limits. no environmental fines during 2014. emissions derived from fossil fuels Regular risk analyses cover possible emissions • Reduced by 20 GWh the use of in the event of disruption or accident. The ­purchased energy results of these analysis serve as the basis for • Reduced by 10,000 tonnes the quantity of material ­deposited in landfills or sent for destruction externally Permitted production at the Swedish plants 1) New environmental targets for SSAB in 2015 Thousand tonnes Locality Permitted production Production 2014 Renewed sustainability targets for Coke Luleå 1,100 652 SSAB will be set during 2015 as a part of Oxelösund 530 385 SSAB’s new sustainability agenda. The Hot metal Luleå 2) 2,093 targets will include measurable targets Oxelösund 2,000 914 related to minimizing our environmenSteel slabs Luleå 3,000 2,030 tal impacts. The revision of targets is Oxelösund 1,900 930 necessary because of the combination Hot-rolled steel Borlänge 3,200 2,008 with Rautaruukki. In addition to Group Oxelösund 1,000 519 level targets, all SSAB’s production Pickled steel Borlänge 2,500 1,267 sites have their own more specific enviCold-rolled steel Borlänge 1,400 764 ronmental targets that are relevant for Annealed steel Borlänge 650 468 their type of production and impacts Metal-coated steel Borlänge 400 303 they have. Organic-coated products Borlänge 140 86 The new targets will be published Köping 30 14 on our sustainability website (http:// Finspång 3) 40 21 www.ssab.com/en/Sustainability/) 1) Not applicable to Finnish sites due to different legislation. In North America, production levels are determined in the form of ­maximum permitted hourly production volumes. 2) Not regulated. 3) Unit million m2. SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Environmental responsibility 21 Recycling, material efficiency and waste management Material and energy efficiency is a key aspect in minimizing emissions originating in SSAB’s own production processes. Effective management of residuals enables recirculation of material back to production, which replaces the need for external raw materials and increases the recycling rate. This includes by-products from blast furnace production that are recirculated, and scrap metal that is recycled and used in blast furnace, steel plant and electric arc furnace steel production. Recirculation of by-products and slag Scrap metal used in steel production 45% SSAB promotes the use of materials originatRecycled steel has a big impact on reducing ing from its production in its own processes the environmental footprint of the product’s and thus reduces the use of natural minerals lifecycle. It replaces the iron ore as input and decreases raw material costs in producmaterial in steel-making. However, the avail­ tion. In 2014, the amount of raw materials ability of recycled steel does not cover the In SSAB as a whole, an average used in steel production in the Nordics growing global demand for steel. In SSAB as of 45% recycled steel is used in amounted to 12.7 million tonnes and in the U.S. a whole, an average of 45% recycled steel is steel production. 78% 3.4 million tonnes. Thanks to the exact proused in steel production. SSAB Americas processes, as well as the long experience and duces steel based exclusively on recycled expertise in SSAB’s steel­making, steel producscrap metal. SSAB uses approximately 20% tion gives rise to a number of valuable of scrap metal in conjunction with steel proby-products that can be recirculated back duction in the Nordics, and 100% in the US. In 2014, 78% of by-products and into the processes. In 2014, 78% of by-prodwaste from the ore-based steel ucts and waste from the ore-based steel proWaste management and landfill ­production were utilized, internally duction were utilized, internally and externally. SSAB is continuously focusing on reducing the and externally. Steel slag (BOF slag) is recirculated in the amount of material sent to landfill. The key to 1.1 blast furnaces in Luleå, Raahe and Oxelösund. waste reduction is to refine by-products and During the year, a new sludge drying method waste from steelmaking into raw materials was taken into use in Luleå and, as a result, that can be reused as well as developing new over 12,000 tonnes of basic oxygen steelmakby-products that can be sold outside of SSAB. ing sludge was turned into briquettes to be There are waste products from the proIn 2014, 1.1 million tonnes of used as raw material instead of being landduction processes for which there is not cur­by-­products were sold externally, excluding scrap metal. filled. In addition, almost 8,000 tonnes of ladle rently any environmentally or economically slag originating in the continuous casting projustifiable application and which need to be cess was used as raw material in the blast furremoved from the processing cycle on envinace instead of being landfilled in Luleå. In ronmental grounds. At SSAB, this type of Raahe, desulfurization slag and part of ladle waste is e.g. flue gas sludge that cannot be slag are utilized in internal infrastructure conutilized due to its physical andchemical charstruction. Development work is being done to acteristics. The management and monitoring maximize the internal use of metal component of the company’s landfill sites are strictly regseparated from slag. Today, already most of ulated by laws and governmental authorities. this scrap is used internally. Deposited waste must be handled in such a Not all by-products can be recirculated in way that these resources, too, might be utisteel production. In some cases new revenue lized in the future. SSAB Americas does not streams are created by processing and selling own or operate waste transportation equipproducts externally. For example, the BOF slag ment or landfills and deals only with governis sold to the road construction segment. In ment-approved landfills. Before waste is Raahe, blast furnace slag is sold to road conbeing classified as landfill material thorough struction, agriculture and cement industry and testing and classification is carried out. The major part of ladle slag is sold to agriculture. In testing is carried by a specialized third party 2014, 1.1 million tonnes of by-products were contractor. sold externally. 22 Environmental responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Basic oxygen steelmaking sludge turned into briquettes for use as a raw material instead of being landfilled in Luleå Over the years, many attempts have been made to develop a way to re-use the sludge originating in basic oxygen steelmaking in Luleå, Sweden. The sludge contains fine-grained steel particles and burnt lime. The problem has been how to efficiently dry the wet sludge so that it could be returned to the steel production process. A new method for drying the sludge was developed during 2013 and 2014. This method involves taking the sludge from landfill and spreading it onto a large field to dry in the sun. Trials to produce briquettes from the dried material proved very successful and, during 2014, over 12,000 tonnes of sludge from the landfill were reused in the briquette mix for the blast furnace. The aim is to increase this amount in 2015. Ladle slag used as raw material in the blast furnace instead of being landfilled in Luleå Ladle slag is a waste product originating in the continuous casting process and for many years it has Merox – with a focus on been deposited in a landfill in Luleå. Spring 2014 saw sustainability the first trials to reuse ladle slag in the blast furnace. In the Nordic region, SSAB’s subsidiary, Merox, works to The results were good and almost 8,000 tonnes of ­optimize the value of SSAB´s by-products, scrap and waste ladle slag were used during the year. Since ladle slag with a focus on sustainability and value creation. Merox’s contains less phosphorus and vanadium than steel operations cover the whole value chain from R&D and promaking slag (BOF slag), more limestone and manduction to marketing and sales. The operations primarily ganese ore can be saved at the blast furnace. consist of three parts; recirculation of materials to SSAB ­production, processing and selling products externally and managing waste that cannot be recirculated or processed Recycling scrap tires in Alabama into new products. This includes handling of material being In Alabama, SSAB Americas has had a scrap tire sent to landfill in the Nordics. Merox delivers products globrecycling program that utilizes scrap tires as a subally and has six production facilities in Sweden and Finland. stitute material for the carbon used for charging in In Americas, the management of by-products, scrap and the EAF. Since 2003, SSAB has recycled more than waste falls under the responsibility of SSAB´s production 5 million scrap tires. The program also supports facilities in North America. SSAB’s Foundation for Education. For ten years, SSAB has made donations of $100,000 per year to local schools for the purchase of key supplies and equipment, all as a direct result of the cost savings from the scrap tire recycling program. Energy usage and recycling SSAB’s production processes are energy-intensive. Systematic work to increase energy efficiency in various stages of steel production is central in mitigating the environmental impacts, such as CO2 emissions. Also cost savings can be achieved by more efficient use of energy. In total, SSAB’s steel operations consumed blast furnace, and basic oxygen steelmaking 4,632 4,632 (4,615) GWh of electric power and 4,179 gases, which cannot be used in the steel pro(4,255) GWh of oil, liquefied petroleum gas duction, are used in combined heat and power (LPG) and natural gas during 2014. The main plants, among other things, to supply SSAB fuels that are used at the production sites are with approximately 37% of the electricity needs process gases, natural gas, propane and for of the steel production in Sweden and Finland. SSAB’s steel operations consumed 4,632 GWh the time being, also heavy fuel oil. During the year, 1,039 (975) GWh of electricity of electric power in 2014. 1,064 was produced from recovered energy. Energy recovery at steel mills In 2014, SSAB delivered 1,064 GWh of To improve energy efficiency, energy flows are ­district heat. SSAB’s supply of district heat recycled in the production (see the illustration in Luleå, Raahe and Oxelösund cover about below). Gases, steam and hot water produced 90% of local district heating needs. SSAB delivered 1.064 GWh of district heat in 2014. in the processes are recovered and utilized in 37% other parts of the processes to generate electricity and heat. The energy-rich coke oven, of the electricity used in the Nordic steel production is produced from recovered process gases and heat. Energy recycling in blast furnace steel production Total energy consumption GWh 5,000 Recovery of process 4,000 gases and heat 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 10 11 12 13 14 SSAB Total electricity SSAB Total fuels* * Includes oil, LNG, LPG. Coal and coke excluded Energy sources Sale of Energy Coking coal Steel Production electricity Coke district heat Electricity Gas (LNG/LPG) Oil Use of secondary energy in generation of electricity, steam and hot water 24 Environmental responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 New liquefied natural gas terminal project in SSAB’s involvement Northern Finland in Fennovoima SSAB is participating in Manga LNG Oy’s ble SSAB to replace the use of oil-based nuclear power liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal profuels and thus reduce particulate, nitrogen project ject to be built in Tornio in the north of Finoxide (NOx), sulfur oxide (SOx) and CO2 land. The terminal will serve industry, mines emissions from their present levels. SSAB SSAB took over Rautaruukki in its and other energy users in the area. At has a 25% share in the terminal project. entirety, including all assets and obligaSSAB’s Raahe steel mill, liquefied natural The terminal in Tornio will be completed in tions under applicable agreements. gas (LNG) will replace the use of LPG in the early 2018. Subsequently, Rautaruukki’s commitreheating furnace in the strip mill and be ment to participate in Fennovoima’s used as a support fuel in the boiler of the Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power plant project in new power plant unit. Use of LNG will enaFinland was part of the transaction. Involvement in the project is one way SSAB can spread purchases of the electricity needed in steel production in FinConversion to natural gas in Borlänge land. SSAB seeks to ensure a long-term supply of competitive and steadilyNatural gas, supplied as liquefied natural Efforts to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions priced electricity. As an investor, SSAB is gas (LNG), replaced oil in Borlänge to fuel from the production in Borlänge have one of many companies in the Finnish one of the reheating furnaces in the hot taken place in several phases over the past Voimaosakeyhtiö SF (VSF), which curstrip mill. The switch from oil to natural gas ten years. Conversion to natural gas is the rently owns 66% of the shares in Fennowas completed already in December 2014, final phase in this work. voima. SSAB’s share of the output of the a few months ahead of schedule. The The conversion is also an important plant’s nominal capacity is estimated to change of fuel will result in a reduction of part of SSAB’s strategy to adapt the be around 40 MW (3%) over the follow40,000 tonnes in annual CO2 emissions energy system towards an increasingly ing 10 years and SSAB will invest around and completely eliminate the sulfur dioxide more sustainable energy supply, and to EUR 60 million in the project. Most of the emissions of 400 tonnes. Requirements spread the risks by using several fuel investment will be back loaded. The to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions will types and to prioritize the growing power plant is scheduled to enter comalso be met. energy markets. mercial service in 2024. Investments in hot stoves in Oxelösund and Luleå In Sweden, a new hot stove became operaOne of the main benefits of these invest(coke and coal) used in the blast furnace tional in Oxelösund and a major renovation ments is that the higher temperature of the processes. The investments also increase was carried out of one hot stove in Luleå. hot blast air reduces the amount of energy operational safety. Carbon dioxide emissions and other emissions into the air The process of producing steel from iron ore is carbon-intensive Carbon dioxide emissions and the raw materials used in the production are the main thousand tonnes source of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, along with CO2 emis12,000 sions generated from energy usage. 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 In 2014, SSAB’s carbon dioxide (CO2) emisThe combustion processes and the fine 2,000 sions were 9.6 million tonnes (9.4). Around ­material used in iron and steel production 0 10 11 12 13 14 90% of SSAB’s total CO2 emissions are genergive rise to particulate emissions into the ated in the iron ore-based steel production in air. In 2014, particulate emissions, excluding Crude steel production Luleå, Oxelösund and Raahe, and 98% of fugitive particulate emissions, totaled 758 these CO2 emissions are related to coke and tonnes (737). Particulate emissions contain coal. Compared to the European average, metals, which originate mainly from the iron Particulate emissions 1) SSAB’s steel production generates around ore pellets, coking coal as well as from by-­ tonnes 600,000 tonnes less CO2 emissions each product and waste handling. SSAB is continu2,500 year due to efficient use of raw materials in ously working to reduce the particulate emis2,000 the blast furnaces. The greenhouse gases sions. In 2014, the construction work of a new produced in Nordic steel production is quenching tower at the coke oven plant in 1,500 within the scope of the European EmisLuleå started, which will reduce particulate sions Trading System. matter emissions during 2015. The particulate 1,000 At SSAB Americas’ production sites, steel emissions from the quenching tower will be 500 is produced in two electric arc furnaces, using halved, corresponding to a reduction of the electricity and scrap as raw material. The annual emissions of about 20 tonnes. 0 10 11 12 13 14 scrap metal is melted using a combination of In 2014 around 2,096 tonnes (3,001) of electric and chemical energy in the electric arc sulfur dioxide emissions originated from the furnaces. The melted scrap then becomes new sulfur containing raw materials and fuels. At Sulfur dioxide emissions 1) crude steel. CO2 emissions are less than 10% of the Raahe site, the closure of the sinter plant tonnes the emissions generated in conjunction with and the switch to using iron ore pellets has 8,000 iron ore-based steel production since less coal resulted in a significant reduction in sulfur and natural gas are used in the production. dioxide and particulate emissions compared 6,000 Additionally, much of the coal used in the proto 2011. Nitrogen oxides emissions are mainly duction is derived from recycled coal residual. formed in the combustion processes in the 4,000 coking plants and rolling mills. In 2014, nitroOther emissions into the air* gen oxides emissions amounted to 3,485 2,000 In addition to CO2, there are also other emistonnes (3,372). sions into the air being formed during the steel Emissions of volatile organic compounds 0 10 11 12 13 14 making process. The most important air emis(VOC) occur in the use of coatings, as well sions are particulate emissions, sulfur oxides as protective and profiling oils in the further (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). SSAB moniprocessing of steel. In 2014, these emissions Nitrogen oxides emissions 1) tors the emissions arising from its operations totaled 171 tonnes (194). tonnes both at production sites and in their vicinity to 4,000 ensure compliance with emissions limits and to improve local air quality. 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 10 11 12 13 14 * Data presented about other air emissions include main 1) Includes main production sites in Sweden and Finland production sites in Sweden and Finland. For VOC emissions, Ruukki Construction is also included. 26 Environmental responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Actions taken during 2014 to reduce emissions: • The switch from oil to natural gas to fuel a reheating furnace in power plant unit. SSAB owns 75% of the new company and EPV Borlänge will result in a reduction of 40,000 tonnes in annual CO2 25%. When the new unit is operational, it will result in a reduction emissions and completely eliminate the sulfur dioxide emissions of almost 120,000 tonnes of annual CO2 emissions due to of 400 tonnes. Requirements to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions increased efficiency and taking the reduced need for external will also be met. power production into account. The intention is to start up the • To meet the requirements of the Best Available Techniques, SSAB new power plant unit in 2016. is investing in the new quenching tower at the coke oven plant in • The color coating line in Hämeenlinna became 100% hexavalent Luleå, which will reduce particulate emissions starting in 2015 and chromium free at the beginning of 2014. The corrosion resistance beyond. The particulate emissions from the quenching tower will of Hämeenlinna products is at the same level as before, and some be halved, and this corresponds to a reduction of the annual of the characteristics even improve. Waste containing chromium emissions of around 20 tonnes. is avoided. • SSAB and EPV Energy Ltd (EPV) established a joint venture company Raahen Voima Oy, which bought Ruukki’s existing power plant in Raahe and invested around EUR 121 million in a new Water usage and water effluents Plentiful access to water is crucial for steel production, particularly in quenching, where water is used for the direct cooling of hot-rolled steel. Most of the water used in SSAB’s production processes is recirculated in cooling systems. All operations are subject to environmental permits and guidelines regarding discharged water. SSAB uses surface water at all its production systems. All recycled water meets strict fedsites. Both seawater and fresh water are used. eral and state regulatory standards on water Effluent discharge into waterways* Water is used mostly in processing, cooling quality. At all SSAB’s sites actions are taken to and in scrubbing flue gases at the steel works prevent the risk of contaminating local water tonnes 2014 2013 2012 and rolling mills. Water is also needed for elecresources and reduce effluents into water. Chemical oxygen tricity production and in slag granulation. Out Discharges of effluent into the waterways demand, COD 310 296 285 of all the water used during the year, 99% was consist of suspended solids, which contain Oil 10 16 13 used for cooling purposes. Steel production or calcium, magnesium and silicon compounds, * Includes main production sites in Sweden and Finland upgrading sites are not situated in groundwaand originate from the steel plants and blast ter areas. A large share of the water used in furnaces. Oily emissions originate from the production passes water treatment to be rolling processes. There are also some nitrore-used. In Montpelier and Mobile, millions of gen and iron emissions into water. The followcubic meters of water used in the steel proing table shows chemical oxygen demand and duction process are recycled annually after oil discharge into the waterways. being processed through water treatment Raahe oil spill An oil spill from the power plant in Raahe occurred in June 2014. The cleanup of soil and coastline due to the oil spill has been completed. The local police started investigations about the causes of the accident. SSAB has started co-operation with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and offers oil spill cleanup training, which is open to local people. A survey of the waters and fisheries conducted off of the coast of Raahe in the fall, found the oil spill had had only minor impacts on the water quality, bottom sediment, benthos and fish stocks. The results showed no changes compared to previous years and were either similar or even better than earlier samples taken. SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Environmental responsibility 27 Operating and regulatory environment SSAB operates globally and is affected by many international agreements and especially by EU and US. regulation. SSAB actively monitors energy, climate and environmental legislation and ­proactively prepares for future changes. The most significant operations in terms of environmental impact are located in Finland, Sweden and the US. The most relevant issues from SSAB’s perspective relating to environmental regulation are presented here. EU energy and climate policies Energy Efficiency Directive Sea, North Sea, English Channel and the In October 2014, the European Council summit The European Council Summit has set a Atlantic seaboard of the US. Specific requireset new more ambitious targets for carbon ­target to increase energy efficiency by 30% ments for emissions from vessels may not emissions, renewable energy and energy effiby 2030, based on the 2005 reference exceed 0.1% sulfur content. The amended Sulciency for 2030. The new target to reduce CO2 ­scenario. In order for the EU to achieve this phur Directive entered into force on January 1, emissions is to cut them by 40% compared to target, the industry needs to meet with the 2015. SSAB aims to minimize the financial 1990. These targets risk further weakening our requirements that are implemented in the effects of the directive. Examples of on-going competitiveness in the global market, unless ­legislation at a national level. SSAB regularly actions include re-routing, optimizing of calls there will be a binding and as ambitious intercarries out energy audits at sites and work and changed modes of transport. A likely national agreement related to carbon emissystematically to continuously identify energy effect is also a modal back-shift from sea to sion reductions. In accordance with our own savings, which is in line with the European truck. A modal shift from sea to train is not position, and that of the steel industry in Energy Efficiency Directive. likely, since the track fees are estimated to Europe, the European Council summit agrees increase significantly during 2010–2025. At that the most efficient industrial operators Environmental protection legislation the same time, the railway system in Sweden is exposed to international competition, should SSAB’s operations are subject to environmensuffering from high capacity utilization and not be subject to a direct or indirect cost distal permits with numerous environmental eroded robustness. For inbound raw material advantage resulting from EU’s climate policy ­conditions governing various parameters and overseas outbound transports, nothing and EU’s Emissions Trading System for 2030. regarding production levels, air emissions, can really be done to avoid extra cost. For SSAB and for all other steel producers in water effluent and waste management. VariEurope it is extremely important that the ous SSAB production sites have operations REACH requirements of the EU Emissions Trading that require environmental permits. REACH, the European Union’s chemicals System do not lead to a significant economic Our Nordic production facilities are cov­regulation, aims to improve the protection of disadvantage compared to our competitors ered by the European Industrial Emissions human health and the environment against outside the EU, regardless of our highly-effiDirective (IED) and preparations to comply the risks of chemicals and to enhance the cient steelmaking and substantial investwith these requirements are in progress pricompetitiveness of the EU chemical industry. ments made to lower carbon emissions. marily in Luleå, Oxelösund and Raahe. In conSSAB is a manufacturer, importer and nection with the IED, the Best Available Techuser of substances and articles that REACH Allocation of emission allowances niques Reference Document is to be followed. applies to. We submit information about the The allocation of free allowances for CO2 Some of these techniques, such as Iron and registration of substances and of any hazardemissions for the current trading period is Steel Production (IS), have been updated, ous substances in the supply chain. The chemnot affected by the new EU climate target some such as the Large Combustion Plants ical safety data sheets for our products comfor 2030. Nevertheless, SSAB is of the view (LCP) are ongoing, and others such as the Ferply with the requirements of Europe’s revised that the company was awarded an insuffirous Metals Processing Industry (FMP) are to chemical legislation. SSAB employs a chemicient number of CO2 allowances both in Swebe revised. As a result, SSAB is investing in a cal safety data sheet management system den and Finland for the trading period of new coke quenching tower in Luleå, which will to improve management of up-to-date infor2013–2020. Thus, both SSAB and the former reduce particulate emissions during 2015 and mation about the use of chemicals. In addition, Ruukki have appealed the current decision on the BAT level will be met. In addition, preparaSSAB communicates with stakeholders about free allocations to the Swedish Land and Envitions are underway for status reporting of soil any requirements regarding REACH and ronmental Court and the Finnish Supreme and groundwater contaminants within our SSAB’s products when obligations change. Administrative Court respectively. The cases industrial sites in Luleå, Oxelösund and Raahe. SSAB works together with the supply chain to are still pending in both Courts. The Finnish Corresponding requirements will follow for replace substances regulated by REACH with court has requested a preliminary ruling from Borlänge and Hämeenlinna, when the FMP safer ones as soon as possible. Thanks to the EU Court of Justice (EUJ) that has been is revised. effective monitoring and active work with confirmed, and SSAB has asked the Swedish stakeholders, SSAB’s products comply with court to follow the same line. Sulfur Directive the requirements of REACH. Sulfur Emission Control Areas (SECA) have Queries about REACH matters can be been decided for maritime traffic in the Baltic submitted to reach@ssab.com. 28 Environmental responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ciation (EFTA). By affixing the CE mark on a ings and the aim is to support customers to product, a manufacturer declares conformity apply for certification. Ruukki Construction with all relevant legal requirements and in has sandwich panels that can promote energy ­particular those ensuring health, safety, and efficiency, reduce lifecycle costs and thus environmental protection. The Construction have an impact on points awarded in LEED Products Regulation requires a Declaration of and BREEAM certification systems for energy Performance (DoP) to indicate the technical efficiency and sustainable materials. During characteristics of CE-marked products. Ruukki 2014, Ruukki Construction offered further Construction’s customers receive a DoP with training for employees to increase their CE marking in compliance with the the product. knowledge and better support customers in Construction Products Regulation environmental certification systems like LEED Ruukki Construction’s declarations of conformity CE marking in accordance with the Construcand BREEAM. are available online at: http://www.ruukki.com/Prodtion Products Regulation (305/2011/EU) ucts-and-solutions/Certificates-EC--and-environRead more about Ruukki Construction’s solutions became compulsory in respect of load-bearmental-declarations affecting LEED and BREEAM points at: ing structures from July 1, 2014. SSAB’s division http://www.ruukki.com/Our-focus/EnergyRuukki Construction introduced CE marking in Building standards and stakeholder efficient-buildings/Environmental-certificationall product groups already in May 2013. SSAB requirements systems-LEED-and-BREEAM and Ruukki Construction have CE marking During the year, SSAB and its division Ruukki rights in sandwich panels, steel frame strucConstruction took part in developing a Nordic tures, welded steel structures, load-bearing proposal for a European-wide standard for sheets, steel piles used in foundations and structural steel construction products’ prodguard rails for roads, among others. CE markuct category rules (PCR) for environmental ing is also in use in some residential roofing product declarations. The proposal proceeded products. to the European Committee for StandardizaIn the construction industry, CE marking tion CEN in December and work on the PCR will enables the free movement of construction continue in 2015. products throughout the European Economic SSAB has long accumulated expertise in Area (EEA) and the European Free Trade Assoenvironmental certification systems for buildSSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Environmental responsibility 29 Social responsibility Together we are stronger The combination with Ruukki doubled the number of employees in SSAB. During the year, the focus was on ensuring successful integration of the two companies by combining the best competences of both into one high-­ performing organization. SSAB is determined to be one of the safest steel companies in the world and our objective is to achieve zero accidents and work-related injuries. To be able to reach this, all divisions run safety development programs, and best practices are shared across the company. In addition to human resources practices related to SSAB’s own employees, social responsibility in SSAB also incorporates engagement with people in neighboring communities and in the supply chain. SSAB is a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact initiative and its principles are applied also when working with suppliers and subcontractors. High-performing organization A high-performing organization is one of the cornerstones of SSAB’s strategy. This involves long-term work on developing and strengthening the performance culture, reaching the objective of zero accidents and work-related injuries and continuing to be an attractive knowledge company. Building a high-performing organization Responsible integration to secure Focus during the first part of 2014 was on a high-performing culture Permanent employees at year end thousand tonnes planning and preparing for a successful inteIntegration is carried out responsibly where 20,000 gration of SSAB and Rautaruukki, and in parcompany culture is recognized as an enabler allel minimizing business disruption. Since for a successful integration. During the plan18,000 September, the focus has been on three key ning phase, principles for integration were 16,000 areas to build a high-performing organization: defined and embedded in the ways of working: • Building and staffing the new SSAB’s divi• Combining the best of both companies 14,000 sions and functions to ensure business • A fair and transparent integration process agendas are supported by an effective • Building one high-performing company 12,000 organization as well as matching talent with 10,000 12 13 14 opportunities. In addition, a company culture survey was • Strengthening the leadership. SSAB leaders conducted among the project members to are instrumental in managing change and explore strengths, similarities as well as thereby ensuring the organization is highimprovement opportunities and prepare for Permanent employees by division performing. A global process for managethe upcoming integration. ment planning has been implemented in In September 2014, a broader survey was order to understand the development needs conducted where employees were invited to SSAB Special Steels 18% as well as the talent and leadership pipeline. respond. A random sample of around 3,000 SSAB Europe 43% • Establishing a reward framework that supemployees was invited to take part in a culSSAB Americas 7% Tibnor 8% ports performance in alignment with the tural survey in order to give a view on perRuukki Construction 20% goals and strategy of the new SSAB. ceived strengths and improvement opportuniOther 4% ties of the new SSAB’s organization and existOne month after the new SSAB was formed, ing culture. The response rate was 64%. a top management meeting was held with 80 Among the top characteristics, currently senior managers. An important element durand relevant for the future, that received the ing this meeting was to establish the foundahighest ranking were Customer focus, Being tion for a high-performing company culture. competitive and Team work. Speed of implePermanent employees by country The vision, shared company values and a mentation was seen as the single most imporcommunication approach on how it should be tant improvement opportunity. Overall, the communicated to the rest of the organization respondents were motivated and manageSweden 40% were agreed upon. In order to cascade outment received good grades. Clarity of work Finland 31% comes from the Top Management meeting, and communication were seen as areas with Russia 8% USA 8% communicate values, direction of the new most room for development. Poland 4% SSAB and respond to questions, roadshows Rest of the world 9% where the Group Executive Committee and Divisional management teams jointly visited major sites, were conducted during the fall. In addition, employee development and creating exciting career opportunities continue to be important priorities to secure competence in the midto long term. SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Social responsibility 31 Diversity and equal opportunities stand what kind of competencies are available SSAB has employees in over 50 countries. in the new SSAB. The insights found have enaPermanent employees Leveraging on diversity, when it comes to bled us to define and staff new leadership – Gender distribution competence, experience and background, and teams for the Group, divisions and global providing equal opportunities are fundamenfunctions, as well as matching the needs of Women 19% Men 81% tal in the way results are being achieved. individuals with opportunities provided by the The steel industry is traditionally integration. male-dominated. An important starting point Through the global annual Management for our work with gender diversity is to Review process, SSAB works to ensure that increase the share of females in leading posiinternal leadership talents are identified and tions. During 2013, we participated, together developed. In the process, all SSAB managers with other companies, in a program called are assessed against the company’s manage“Battle of the Numbers”, which resulted in an ment criteria, and successor plans are estabimprovement plan approved by our Group lished. An important function of the ManagePermanent employees ,managers Executive Committee. Several of the initiatives ment Review is to ensure that we have suita– Gender distribution were implemented prior to the combination ble internal candidates for managerial posiwith Rautaruukki, for example a gender divertions. The results from the Management Women 18% sity score card and diversity work-shops with Review will be used actively during the year for Men 82% top management. competence development, appointments and SSAB has cooperated with municipalities as a support in organizational development. to create internships for people with immiThe process will be based on the previously grant backgrounds. The working model was existing Management Review process of fordeveloped at SSAB in Borlänge and has mer SSAB with some improvements. recently been established in Luleå. In Borlänge 15 trainees have participated in the internship Engaging SSAB people for performance and in Luleå approximately 20 trainees began towards goals Permanent employees their internship in January 2015. The cooperaAligning individual performance with SSAB’s – Age distribution % tion is well aligned with the ambitions of both strategic direction is a central element in 15 SSAB and the municipalities, increased diverbeing a highperforming organization. Clarity 12 sity as well as language training and offering concerning goals and performance expectaparticipants an opportunity to learn more tions as well as feedback are key elements 9 about the labor market in Sweden. and enablers to effectively manage our During 2015, SSAB will continue to focus change journey. 6 on improving diversity. Together with other The annual performance dialogue 3 Swedish companies, SSAB will participate in between employee and manager is a key elethe “Äntligen Jobb” program, which aims to ment in following up results, providing mutual 0 <30 35-39 45-49 55-59 provide internships to immigrants with an feedback, discussion around the workplace 30-40 40-44 50-54 60­academic background. atmosphere and planning future performance and individual development. Leadership and Competence SSAB continuously reviews and aligns SSAB Manager Criteria: During the year, SSAB has been focusing on reward structures to ensure performance understanding the critical competence management processes are supported 1. Achieves result demands required for successfully delivering effectively. 2. Serves as a role model on the business agenda, as well as to under3. Drives improvement 4. Has self-awareness 5. Generates energy 6. Gives employees a chance to develop Social responsibility targets Business Ethics and behavior in accordthe Employee Satisfaction Index in 2014 for 2014–2018 ance with our values • 95% of employees in the former SSAB In 2013, SSAB set group level sustainability • All employees shall undergo courses in have completed the business ethics targets for the period 2014–2018. The business ethics e-learning launched in November 2012 baseline year was 2013 and the scope for the targets was former SSAB. Sustainability Progress in 2014 New social responsibility targets targets included also the following social • Lost time injuries per million work hours in for SSAB in 2015 responsibility objectives, aimed at achieving the former SSAB were reduced from 7.9 Renewed sustainability targets for SSAB will fairness for all involved. in 2013 to 7.4 in 2014, which corresponds be set during 2015 as part of our new sus• An annual reduction by at least 5% in lost to an annual reduction of 6.3% tainability agenda. The agenda will also time injuries per million work hours • Annual rate of conducted annual perforinclude targets related to social responsibil• All employees shall have annual performance dialogs in the former SSAB was at ity. The renewed targets will be published on mance and planning dialogs the same level as in 2013, around 93% our sustainability website at: www.ssab. • An Employee Satisfaction Index of at • Due to the combination, the employee com/en/Sustainability. least 90 survey was postponed to 2015. This • Ensuring compliance with SSAB’s Code of means we have not been able to measure 32 Social responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The technical development program The continuous development and growth hired in to the technical development proof technical knowledge is essential for gram. The program is individually customized SSAB. The technical development program and runs for approximately 18 months and is a structured way of ensuring that knowcovers areas such as customer application how and experiences are shared from development, product development and proIntroduction more senior employees to newly hired employees. duction across five different departments. The program was initiated during 2013. training Each year, two to three young engineers Currently, there are five individuals, two of During spring 2014, a cooperative (newly graduated or young professionals) are whom are woman, on the program. ­project between the Swedish Public Employment Service (Arbetsförmed­ lingen), Lernia and SSAB, took place to offer long-term unemployed people vocational training and internship. The Me & My City learning environment project was run in Luleå, Borlänge and SSAB seeks to provide opportunities for awareness of local people, as agreed with Oxelösund. The training lasted 8–12 local communities to get to know the comthe city of Raahe, each year all sixth-grade weeks and the content was based on pany as an employer, workplace and a students from schools in Raahe visit Me & individual plans based on matching the member of a community. Also, it is imporMyCity. individual’s previous knowledge with tant to invite young people to see the variMe & My City is a Finnish, award-winthat required by the specific workplace. ety of job possibilities the company offers, ning educational innovation and learning The training consisted of a combination before they start planning their paths for concept about entrepreneurship, the of theoretical elements and practical their future jobs. In Northern Ostrobothnia, economy and society. In November 2014, on-the-job training. Every partic­ipant in the region of SSAB’s Raahe site in Finthe “city” was opened in Oulu (80 km from was assigned a coach during land, Me & My City learning environment Raahe). Local Me & MyCity reflects the the program. sixth-class students visit SSAB and learn economic structure of the region and Nearly all of the 61 persons that by doing what it takes to be a community introduces local employers to students participated in the training were hired member, consumer and employee. SSAB’s and teachers. as summer holiday substitutes at the participation has a positive impact on the sites where they were trained. Safety first SSAB is determined to be one of the safest steel companies in the world and its objective is to achieve zero accidents and work-related injuries. The provision of a safe and secure work environment for our employees, contractors and other partners is our top priority. Safe working is a basic requirement for working at SSAB. Occupational safety is part of the integrated management system and company values. To achieve our objective of zero accidents and • ensure that all employees are provided work-related injuries, SSAB will: with all necessary instructions, as well as Accident frequency • ensure that safety is taken into considerathe training and equipment necessary for LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency*) 10 tion in all activities and decisions across facilitating safe working practices the company • comply with or exceed all statutory require8 • cooperat;e to prevent accidents and ments, as well as requirements imposed by work-related ill-health by identifying, the authorities or other legal parties 6 ­evaluating and removing risks; • establish clear objectives and carry out 4 • systematically identify and eliminate the regular monitoring to ensure that these root causes of accidents and near misses, objectives are fulfilled 2 which have occurred to prevent them from happening again Safety performance in 2014 0 10 11 12 13 14 • occupational safety is the management’s SSAB’s lost time accident frequency r­ esulting * Number of accidents resulting in an absense of more than one day per million working hours and line organization’s responsibility and in an absence of more than one day was 6.6 they are assisted by occupational safety (7.4). There were a total of 182 accidents. specialists. All SSAB employees are, howAt SSAB’s Luleå site a fatal accident ever, responsible for their own safety and occurred on October 27 where a contractor for that of others in their own working envidriving a fork lift collided with a locomotive ronment. We must intervene and instruct near the blast furnace. SSAB is co-operating colleagues and contractors when they take with all relevant authorities in investigating a risk or fail to comply with established the accident. safety rules. All work which is not performed safely must be discontinued • set a good example. Managers are responsible for the work environment and must set a good example and serve as good role models Safety precautions are a part of a normal working day at Tibnor Tibnor in Sweden has, during the past two and react to the safety risks at their whole tions, employees save them in a safety years, increased the number of risk obserworkplace. reporting system. The risks should be elimivations made from an average of 1 to 5 At Tibnor, much effort has gone into nated and required changes implemented observations per employee per year. One of developing improved and safer working within 45 days. Of course, some risk issues the most important results of this is a safer methods. By establishing daily routines and are solved faster where required. work environment, with the number of lost common working methods, all employees Ensuring a safe working environment is time injuries halved. can be better involved in safety work. For not only the responsibility of the employees The key to good development is to have example, at Tibnor’s sites in Eskilstuna and within Tibnor’s logistics and production a clear vision and working methods to Köping, employees collect, register and units. For example, Tibnor’s management encourage employees to be active in identisolve risk observations together in teams. team conducted more than 15 safety rounds fying and preventing everyday risks in operObservations can be made in the employfocusing on identifying and preventing risks ations. Ideally, employees not only minimize ees’ own working environment or in other at different sites during 2014. their own risks, but also proactively observe work areas as well. After making observa34 Social responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Towards our goal of becoming an accidentfree working environment SSAB Americas and Ruukki Construction were the best safety performers in 2014, serving as excellent internal benchmarks in safety for the rest of the company. However, good results have also been achieved in some units in Europe, showing that determined safety management and leadership bears fruit. To achieve the goal of being among the safest steel companies, all divisions are running safety development programs. At Group level, the focus of safety development is on setting common safety management principles, harmonizing safety reporting, sharing information on divisional activities and results, sharing best practises and information on serious incidents between the divisions, as well as recommendations on preventive actions. Divisional safety programs will focus on leadership, training and the involvement of all employees in risk observation and executing corrective and preventive actions. Safety work will also be enhanced by aiming to improve incident data collection and tracking, as well as by utilizing a more systematic approach to analyzing the root causes of incidents. There will also be safety campaigns focusing on a particular risk area e.g. crane operations and lockout tag out procedures. Special emphasis will be given to contractor safety. SSAB people recorded numerous proactive safety observations, which help us to reduce and eliminate the risks in the working environment. The safety observation frequency was 18,844 per million working hours. A total of 1.1 such observations were reported per employee. The reporting and fast implementation of corrective actions is the most important tool towards our goal of becoming an accident-free working environment. Business ethics SSAB continues to strive to ensure that the company maintains a global culture of respect, honesty and integrity. By providing a framework for business ethics and compliance, SSAB continues to focus on creating a mature organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct. This framework provides the required support and tools to meet SSAB’s expectation that each and every employee acts with honesty, integrity and responsibility while performing their work. risk areas for corruption, before an initial assessment showing that such partners respect our fundamental rules of business ethics. The instruction applies to all operations within the SSAB Group. It is primarily the sales organization that is affected by the new instruction, and training seminars were held by Legal during spring 2014. Seeking guidance or reporting of improprieties – Whistleblower Everyone working at SSAB must feel a sense of responsibility to react when improprieties are suspected or uncovered. Several years ago, SSAB established a Group whistleblowing function where employees can seek guidance on or report serious improprieties and violations of the Company’s policies. Employees can report anonymously and are protected against reprisals or punishment. Global business requires good training. Also similarly, former Ruukki impleAnti-corruption manual management of business ethics mented an e-learning course in business ethDuring the year, internal audit has developed Business ethics are an important part of ics a couple of years ago. an anti-corruption manual to audit fraud and SSAB’s sustainability and corporate social corruption risks and introduced a number of responsibility work. The need for training in Training in SSAB Americas audits in subsidiaries based on this manual. business ethics increases as our business As a supplement to the Group’s global compliThese audits have not revealed any specific becomes more global and complex. This is also ance training, within SSAB Americas, employirregularities, but have identified potential to reflected in the tougher legislation enacted in ees receive compliance training in the form of further reduce risks from this perspective. several countries in recent years. SSAB sees webinars, in-person seminars, lunch events, Defined risk mitigation measures are implegreat potential for steel products on emerging toolbox talks, intranet publications, email mented according to agreed action plans. The markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern advisories and desktop manuals on a variety ambition is to conduct more audits during Europe. Several of the countries in these marof topics including the US Foreign Corrupt 2015. In addition, SSAB’s Business Ethics funckets head international corruption indices, a Practices Act and related anti-corruption tion will conduct the Global Compact self-asfactor, which requires SSAB to ensure its laws, anti-trust rules, conflict minerals and sessment analysis, which will provide further employees are aware of, and work against, harassment prevention training. direction for upcoming work. corruption. Review of business partners E-learning reaches many At the beginning of 2014, SSAB introduced a Shared ethical guidelines are fundamental in a new instruction for business ethics reviews of global group such as SSAB. With a global SSAB’s business partners. This instruction e-learning module, it is possible to reach out mainly covers agents, certain distributors and to all employees in order to provide basic consultants who represent SSAB against any training in business ethics and implement third party. In most cases there is no need to anti-corruption work. SSAB implemented an review the integrity of a business partner more e-learning module in business ethics several closely, but the instruction means that SSAB years ago and, by the end of 2014, 95% of the may not enter into or renew agreements with former SSAB’s employees had completed this business partners that are within the typical 36 Social responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Responsible sourcing SSAB has a large number of suppliers in different parts of the world. Raw materials used in iron and steel production are SSAB’s most significant purchases. SSAB’s suppliers need to comply with SSAB’s own policies and international social and environmental guidelines. Responsibility in the supply chain expected to act in relation to suppliers, cusand highrisk suppliers and about 80 self-asSSAB is a major buyer of raw materials, prodtomers and other business partners. sessment questionnaires to major or critical ucts and services in most of the countries it suppliers. Former Rautaruukki’s supplier evaloperates. SSAB seeks to enter into long-term Identification and evaluation uation database currently holds around 375 contracts with suppliers and to develop coopof supplier risks supplier evaluations. During 2014, the former eration with them. Since the supply chain is The Group underwent reorganization during Rautaruukki performed 11 supplier evaluations global, it is important to evaluate supplier risks the year as a result of the acquisition of Rauof new potential suppliers and of existing supand suppliers’ ability to address social and taruukki. To ensure the new SSAB is efficiently pliers who are deemed critical and whose perenvironmental issues. At SSAB, sustainability managing social responsibility in the supply formance requires improvement. Criticality is an integral aspect of sourcing operations chain, SSAB is reviewing its internal processes and performance can refer to, for example, and supply chain management. to identify the best practices within the new delivery reliability, the characteristics of a The general terms and conditions of supcompany. product or service or environmental or social plier contracts take into account SSAB’s Code The former SSAB has systematically idenconditions 1). of Business Ethics and values. SSAB also takes tified the risks relating to the Group’s suppliers. SSAB also conducts regular visits to major environmental aspects into consideration This was done by placing suppliers in various suppliers of raw materials around the world, when choosing a supplier. risk categories depending on which countries including high risk suppliers. During these visthey operate in. Classification in this way illusits, purchasers and quality managers visit proGuidelines and governance trates the risks relating to, for example, human duction sites and conduct quality inspections. SSAB is a signatory to the UN’s Global Comrights, labor conditions and corruption and Aspects such as a supplier’s social conditions pact initiative and its principles are applied in shows that only a few suppliers have a high risk and environmental performance are importhe work with suppliers. SSAB’s Code of Busiprofile. SSAB will step up its monitoring of suptant and will be the subject of even greater ness Ethics reflects Global Compact principles pliers located in what is considered to be highfocus in conjunction with future visits to and represents the most important control risk countries. Suppliers who are placed in the suppliers. document as regards work with suppliers. mediumor high-risk group will be required to SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics is included complete a self-assessment questionnaire No conflict minerals in SSAB’s steel in supplier contracts and asks the suppliers to containing questions about, for example, their SSAB does not use conflict minerals (including adhere to the Code. SSAB also has anti-bribsocial conditions and environmental credengold, tin, tungsten and tantalum) and, upon ery instructions, which provide employees with tials. Unsatisfactory answers are investigated. request, provides customers with certification information on how SSAB defines bribery and During 2014, SSAB sent out about 170 affirming this.2) improper benefits, and how employees are self-assessment questionnaires to mediumSources of SSAB’s raw materials Metallurgical coal Iron ore pellets Limestone SSAB purchases iron ore pellets from the Swedish SWEDEN Metallurgical coal Iron ore supplier, LKAB and a smaller share from the Russian Injection coal supplier, Severstal. Metallurgical coal is purchased RUSSIA Coke from major suppliers in Australia, Canada, the US, Scrap metal and a smaller share from a Russian supplier. The USA Metallurgical coal injection coal is sourced from a specific mine in Russia. Scrap metal is purchased locally in the US, Sweden and Finland. Supportive blast furnace coke is purchased in Poland to the Raahe site, when needed. al coal Iron ore Limestone Metallurgical coal Limestone is purchased for all steel making from Iron ore Metallurgical coal Sweden. Alloys are p ­ urchased from some 40 differRUSSIA ent suppliers. SWEDEN Injection coal Coke POLAND 1) Social conditions includes e.g. labor rights, health and AUSTRALIA Metallurgical coal safety, working conditions, child and forced labor Metallurgical coal 2) Conflict minerals is a term used for minerals from areas characterized by large-scale internal strife, where mining al coal Metallurgical coal of minerals risks contributing to, or financing, continued conflict and violation of human rights. SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Social responsibility 37 SSAB in the community SSAB actively engages with communities in which it operates. SSAB contributes to, and supports, projects of importance to its employees and acts as a responsible employer locally. SSAB maintains an open dialog with local politicians, governmental agencies, the media and the public with the aim of increasing the general knowledge about steel and steel production. Supporting local communities in butions are matched by Company. Another Sweden and Finland example of charity work is recycling of scrap In the communities in which it operates in tires In Mobile, for use as a raw material in Sweden and Finland, SSAB contributes to cresteel production. The financial savings generSWEDEN ating a wide range of recreational activities in ated are invested in an educational foundawhich SSAB’s employees, their families and tion, which each year donates money to local also the local community can participate. school partners. donation would be used to support SOS Examples include sponsorship of local sports SSAB’s employees in Montpelier sponsor ­Children’s Villages’ emergency aid program organizations and exchange of knowledge and support The Make-a-Wish Foundation, an in the area. Instead of giving a Christmas with schools. SSAB also supports associations organization which aims to realize the dreams gift to its employees in 2014, SSAB made in which employees are involved, primarily of sick children. Support from the Company in another donation in support of SOS Children’s within sport and culture. Montpelier also goes to The Community FounVillages in the Central African Republic. We dation of Greater Muscatine, which supports also supported a family-strengthening proStrong community involvement in smaller organizations and charitable projects gram in Ukraine. SSAB Americas in the region. SSAB Americas has a long tradition of community involvement. This takes place not only Donations to charity in the form of financial contributions, but also In 2012, SSAB entered into a cooperation through participation in various initiatives or ­project with the SOS Children’s Villages organsupport projects during the year. One of the ization to support a children’s village in the largest organizations supported by SSAB is Central African Republic, one of the poorest United Way, a charitable organization which countries in the world. Construction of the vilsupports the needy through donations, edulage was delayed due to turmoil in the country cation and volunteer work. Employees’ contriand SSAB therefore decided that the initial About this report SSAB’s Sustainability Report 2014 is comprised of bined. The reported data is pro-forma figures, i.e. as Information about the employees has been colinformation on SSAB’s sustainability related activiif Rautaruukki Corporation had been part of SSAB lected from the company’s personnel information ties and performance. The report also constitutes the whole reporting period from Jan 1 to Dec 31, systems. The HR data reported in this report covers Communication on Progress (CoP) reporting to UN’s 2014, unless otherwise stated. Also the comparison whole SSAB, unless otherwise stated. Global Compact, where activities and results related years’ data has been re-stated to cover the new Environmental data have been combined from to Global Compact´s principles are reported. SSAB’s SSAB. Figures in brackets refer to the comparison the former SSAB’s and former Rautaruukki’s reportcombination with Rautaruukki was completed on period 2013. ing systems. The environmental data refers mainly July 29, 2014. SSAB’s sustainability reporting from The report is intended to be read together with to the main production sites in Sweden and Finland 2014 has its basis on the indicators of the Global SSAB’s Annual Report 2014, where more extensive and for some data also to the North American operReporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines that both information can be found regarding SSAB’s busiations. The scope of the data collected depends on former SSAB and Rautaruukki have used in their ness, strategy, financial performance and corporate the significance of environmental impacts at each sustainability and corporate responsibility reporting. governance. site, when examined from the environmental perBoth companies had started preparations to report SSAB’s Sustainability Report 2014 is published spectives of the entire Group and also on current in accordance with the new GRI G4 guidelines as in English in PDF format and is available on SSAB’s data availability. from the 2014 reporting year. Because of the combisustainability website at: http://www.ssab.com/en/ This sustainability report has not been verified nation, it was decided to postpone migration to G4 Sustainability/. by an external party. The data has been checked by by one year. For this report, indicators that are relecomparing it with the data for previous years at vant to SSAB and our stakeholders were selected DATA COLLECTION both the site and Group level. Any divergences have from the G3.1 Guidelines. Also there were restrictions The financial information contained in this report is been analyzed. with data availability from the new SSAB that based on SSAB’s consolidated financial statements, affected the selection of indicators. which have been prepared in compliance with IFRS. The scope of reporting is the SSAB Group, forThe financial information disclosed in the report is mer SSAB AB and former Rautaruukki Oyj comsubject to audit. 38 Social responsibility SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ABC of steel – a glossary of terms Cold rolling – Metalworking process in which the thickness of a Hot-dip galvanization – Method for adding a rust protection sheet, strip or plate is reduced by rolling at ambient temperature surface layer. For example, adding zinc and aluminum in hot, A Color coating/Coil Coating – A process where usually molten form on the steel. The opposite to zinc-plating, an elec­cold-rolled and metal-coated strip is additionally coated with trochemical method of applying a coat of molten zinc to the surAdvanced high-strength steels – Multi-phase steels which an organic paint to improve corrosion protection and achieve face of steel for the purpose of enhancing corrosion resistance contain martensite, bainite and/or retained austenite to achieve a decorative, pleasing appearance Hot metal – The name for the molten iron produced in a blast an improved balance of strength and formability as compared to furnace. It proceeds to the basic oxygen furnace in molten form Continuous casting – A process by which molten metal conventional high-strength steels or is cast as pig iron is ­solidified into a semi-finished billet, bloom, or slab for After-treatment   – Heat treatment, cooling, etc., in order to ­subsequent rolling Hot strip rolling mill – A mill for rolling heated slabs through a endow the steel with certain qualities; also galvanizing, organic series of rolling stands to produce sheet steel in coil form Construction steel – See structural steel coating, and cutting to size Corrosion protection – The minimization of corrosion by Hot rolling – A metalworking process in which slabs are heated Alloy  – A substance composed of two or more metals or a metal to high temperatures and then deformed between rollers to form ­coating with a protective metal and a non-metal thinner cross-sections Cowper stoves – Heating apparatus; ceramic towers used for Alloy steel  – An iron-based mixture is considered to be an alloy pre-heating blast air, also called hot stoves when minimum quantities of alloying elements are present, e.g. Crude steel – Steel in its solidified state directly after casting. silicon, manganese, chromium, nickel and molybdenum Alloying material  – Material that is added to the molten metal This is then further processed by rolling or other treatments, I which can change its properties during the steelmaking process and which combines with iron or Cutting station – Place for cutting the steel strand into slabs Injection coal – Coal powder which is injected into the blast other metals and changes the metal’s qualities ­furnace under high pressure without being converted to coke Annealing  – A thermal cycle involving heating to, and holding Iron ore pellets – Iron ore particles rolled into small balls and at a suitable temperature, and then cooling at a suitable rate for such purposes as reducing hardness, improving machinability, D thermally processed into hard spheres facilitating cold working, producing a desired microstructure, or obtaining desired mechanical or other properties Dry distillation process – Combustion without entry of oxygen Application  – Area of use; a product which uses a certain grade Dual-phase steel (DP) – High-strength steel that has a L of steel one soft (ferrite) and one hard (martensite) microstructure Applications engineer – Trained specialists in the qualities of which allows for the desired combination of good formability Ladle – A “bucket” lined with refractory (heat resistant) the material and its applications; problem solvers and developers with high strength bricks, used to transport molten steel from process to process in a steel mill Ladle change – Switch from an empty to a full container of steel B E Ladle metallurgy furnace (LMF) – An intermediate steel processing unit that further refines the chemistry and temperature Electric arc furnace (EAF) – Steelmaking furnace where scrap of molten steel while it is still in the ladle. The ladle metallurgy Briquette – A block of flammable matter used as fuel to start is generally 100% of the charge. Heat is supplied from electricity step comes after the steel is melted and refined in the electric and maintain a fire. Common types of briquettes are charcoal that arcs from the graphite electrodes to the metal bath arc or basic oxygen furnace, but before the steel is sent to the briquettes and biomass briquettes continuous caster Blast furnace – Continuously operating shaft furnace for the Environmental product declaration (EPD) – An environmental product declaration tells the story of the environmental Ladle treatment method – Different methods for ladle reduction of iron ore. The end product in the blast furnace is impacts of product’s life cycle in a written report. metallurgy called pig iron or hot metal LD converter (Linz Donawitz) – Oxygen steelmaking process Blast air – Heated air which is blown into the blast furnace employing a converter (vessel) and top blowing oxygen lance to under high pressure refine the blast furnace hot metal into crude steel. The name Best Available Technique (BAT) – BAT is identifying the most F comes from the Austrian cities of Linz and Donawitz effective techniques (e.g. power generation, water treatment) Lifecycle  – Definition of the product raw material extraction, that reduce emissions and the impact on the environment, and Fatigue – The progressive and localized structural damage that material production, product manufacturing, use phase, repair that are economically and technically available for industry. In occurs when a material is subjected to cyclic loading at stresses and recycling of the product and its materials including distributhe European Union, EU’s industrial emissions legislation is based considerably below the ultimate tensile strength tion in all phases.. on regular development of defining Best Available Technique. Formatting – Marking, wrapping or cutting the steel into the Lifecycle assessment (LCA)  – Environmental impact assessBy-product – A secondary product derived from a manufacturrequired dimensions ment of the complete product lifecycle from “gradle to grave”. ing process or chemical reaction. It is not the primary product or Four-high rolling mill – Mechanical equipment; comprises four service being produced. Load-bearing sheets – Load-bearing profiled sheets are made cylindrical rollers with extremely high pressure which press slabs of high-quality raw materials for the roof construction of cominto plate by repeatedly rolling backwards and forwards mercial and industrial buildings. They are a cost-effective roof Frames – Prefabricated steel frame structures make it possible solution for achieving long spans, which eliminates secondary C to create spacious and adaptable interiors. Steel is the perfect steelwork. They may also be designed as a stressed skin to dischoice for strong, light and slender frame structures that are tribute horizontal loads to the frame/foundations Carbon dioxide – CO2, a colorless gas, soluble in water to form quick and safe to install. Steel frames can be tailored and easily Low alloyed steel grades – steel, other than carbon steel carbonic acid; included in carbonated drinks and comprises optimized in terms of clear height and column spacing that requires the minimum content for each specified alloying 0.04% of the atmosphere and is identified as a greenhouse gas element to be lower than the applicable limit for the definition Carbon monoxide – CO, a colorless and odorless energy-rich for alloy steel gas which burns with a blue flame; noxious. Upon combustion, carbon dioxide is formed G Carbon steel – Unalloyed steel Charging – The act of loading material into a vessel. For example, Galvanization – The process of applying a protective zinc ­coating to steel or iron to prevent rusting or corrosion M iron ore, coke, and limestone are charged into a blast furnace; a Magnetite – Fe3O4, magnetic iron ore, black iron oxide basic oxygen furnace is charged with scrap and hot metal, and Martensitic steel – Steel with a very hard form of steel crys­ an electric arc furnace is charged with steel scrap and fluxes Chemical oxygen demand, COD – COD determines the H talline structure called martensite that is formed by displacive transition. The martensite is formed by rapid cooling (quenchamount of organic pollutants found in surface water (e.g. lakes Hardening – Process that increases the hardness of steel, i.e. ing) of austenite which traps carbon atoms that do not have and rivers) or wastewater, making COD a useful measure of the degree to which steel will resist cutting, abrasion, penetratime to diffuse out of the crystal structure water quality. It is expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l) also tion, bending and stretching Material design – Control of the steel chemical composition referred to as ppm (parts per million), which indicates the mass Hearth – Lower part of the blast furnace; area for the collection and processing to achieve a microstructure that offers a combiof oxygen consumed per liter of solution. of molten hot metal nation of properties desirable for an intended product or Cladding – A covering of a building’s façade that can include application Heat treatment – Heating and cooling a steel product so as to solar panels, glass, color coated steel, aluminum, etc. used for obtain desired conditions or properties Metal coating – see Hot-dip galvanization new building and renovation construction Hematite – Fe2O3, a non-magnetic iron ore or red iron ore Metallurgy – The science and technology of metals Coilbox – Rolling machinery; box for coiled steel employed to promote temperature uniformity during the hot-rolling process High-strength steels – Steels that can bear high static or Microalloying – In the case of advanced fine grain steels with dynamic loads without breaking particularly stringent yield strength and tensile strength requireCoiler – Mechanical part which captures strip from the rolling Hollow section – A circular, square or rectangular tube that ments, small quantities of alloying elements such as niobium, mill and coils it can be generally used in welded steel frames. In manufacturing vanadium or titanium are added Coke – Dry distilled coal, the basic fuel consumed in blast hollow sections, a welded tube goes through a series of shaping Mold – Casting mold ­furnaces in the reduction of iron ore stands, which form the round tube into the final square or Cold-formed steel section – An open steel profile. A steel strip ­rectangular shape is gradually and continuously cold formed with several rolls into various shapes of cross section. Cold formed steel sections are commonly used in steel frames and structures SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 39 Roofing– A steel roof made of roofing sheets. Usually also Surface treatment – Cleaning, polishing or coating of surfaces; includes understructures, rainwater systems, roof safety prodfor example, through galvanization or organic coating N ucts, flashings and other elements and accessories Suspended solids – Suspended solids is the amount of tiny Rougher/Roughing mill – Two rough cylindrical rollers which solid particles, inorganic or organic, that remain suspended in Niche products – In SSAB’s case, advanced high-strength press the steel to thinner dimensions prior to hot rolling water and act as colloid.The measurement of suspended solids is steels and quenched steels one way of gauging water quality. Physical alterations caused by Runner – Ceramic-lined spout for controlling molten, hot metal Nitrogen oxides – A generic term for the mono-nitrogen oxides suspended solids include reduced penetration of light, temperaNO and NO2. They are produced from the reaction of nitrogen ture changes, and inﬁlling of channels and reservoirs when solids and oxygen gases in the air during combustion, especially at high are deposited. temperatures. In the atmosphere, nitrogen oxides can contribS ute to formation of photochemical ozone , smog, can impair visiSandwich panel – Sandwich panels are prefabricated elebility, and have health consequences. ments that consist of an inner insulation core between two T color-coated steel sheet layers. The insulating core can be minTemper mill – A type of cold rolling mill, usually a four-high, sinO eral wool, polyurethane or polystyrene. Sandwich panels are used in façades, partition walls and ceilings. The most typical gle stand mill, used to provide a relatively light, cold-rolling applications include industrial, office and commercial buildings, reduction to hot-rolled, cold-rolled, or coated flat steel products Ore car – Railcar for the transportation of lump ore, iron ore sports halls, warehouses and power plants. The panels are also to improve flatness, minimize surface imperfections/flaws such concentrate or pellets suitable for food industry construction and demanding clean as coil breaks, and to alter mechanical properties Oxide scale – An oxide of iron which forms on the surface of room applications Tempering – Heating to 200–700°C degrees to make steel hot-rolled steel Scrap – Ferrous (iron-containing) material that generally is tougher and less brittle Oxygen lance – Pipe-shaped lance for treatment using oxygen re-melted and re-cast into new steel Tensile strength – Ability to withstand tensile stress. (See SEN – Submerged entry nozzle, a ceramic pipe which protects Strength) the steel from exposure to air, in conjunction with casting Thermo-mechanical treatment – A manufacturing method P Sheet pile wall – Long structural sections with a vertical interthat gives steel the desired strength etc. properties by a careful combination of mechanical work (rolling) and temperature locking system that creates a continuous wall. The walls are Pair of rollers – A pair of cylindrical rollers for rolling steel to most often used to retain either soil or water control thinner dimensions under high pressure Shot blasting – Cleaning and descaling metal by means of a Torpedo – Cylinder-shaped brick-lined railway car used for Particulate emissions – Particulate emissions are emissions stream of abrasive powder or shot. The shot can be sand, small transporting hot, molten metal characterized by the presence of small particles of solids and steel balls of various diameters, granules of silicon carbide, etc. Tube – Round or square tube is made in the same way as pipe. liquids. Sintering – A process that combines iron-bearing particles into During the manufacturing process, a flat steel strip is gradually Particulates filter – Purification plant for gas or air in which small pellets forced into shape to become round, and the edges are preparticulates are separated and condensed for recycling Skirt – Pipe around the blast furnace for the supply and allocasented ready to weld. The edges are then welded together to tion of hot blast air, also known as a bustle pipe form the tube. In making a square or rectangular cross-section, Phases – Steel has different crystal structures at various tema welded tube goes through a series of shaping stands, which peratures and the phase(s) present depend on heat treatment, Slab furnace – Furnace for heating steel slabs to rolling form the round tube into the final shape alloy quantity, hardening, quenching, etc. Best known are the temperatures martensite (quick hardening) phase, ferrite phase (pure iron) Tundish – An intermediate container in the casting process to Slabs – The most common type of semi-finished steel, used facilitate ladle change without disruption in the process austenite (nonmagnetic) phase and bainite phase for production of flat steel products Pickling line – A processing line which chemically removes Slag – Solution of mainly liquid oxides. Flux such as limestone oxide or scale from the steel surface to obtain a clean surface for may be added to foster the congregation of undesired elements subsequent processing into a slag. Because slag is lighter than iron, it will float on top of V Plate – Flat rolled steel product which is typically classified as the pool, where it can be skimmed over 1,200 mm (48 ) in width and 4.5 mm (0.180 ) in thickness Slitting – A metalworking process involving shearing which Vacuum degassing – An advanced steel refining facility that Process gas – Gas from metallurgical processes; often is typically employed to cut a wider steel coil into one or more removes oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen under low pressures energy rich narrower coils (in a vacuum) to produce high-quality steel for demanding applications Process water – Water from cooling or treatment in Smelting reduction process – Reduction of iron ore which the ­processes. Always undergoes purification and can often takes place in a smelting phase Volatile organic compounds (VOC) – variety of organic chembe re-circulated icals that have a high vapor pressure at ordinary room temperaSpecial steel – Alloyed steel ture. Some VOCs are dangerous to human health or cause harm Profiled – Profiled (or corrugated) steel which is pressed in Standard steels – Steels with lower strength (yield strength to the environment. order to corrugate the steel often 235–355 MPa (or N/mm2)). Used within more convenProtection steel – Structural steel with ballistic properties tional applications within the engineering industry and construction sector Purlin – Purlins are cold-formed open profiles used in construction as a load-bearing element of roofing and cladding Steckel mill – A four-high reversing rolling mill, a Steckel W mill allows the rolling of a large slab by providing heated coil ­furnaces or boxes on both sides of the mill to store the Wear resistance – Ability to resist the erosion of material from the surface as a result of mechanical action, e.g. abrasion and Q increased length produced during rolling Steel – Alloy of iron and carbon with a carbon content of friction less than 1.7% Wear steel – Steel with qualities adapted to withstand wear, Quenched steels – Hardened and/or tempered steel. SSAB’s e.g. abrasion quenched steels are also high strength Steel bath – The hot, molten steel in a container Steel shuttle – Train system for transportation of steel slabs between Luleå, Borlänge and Oxelösund production facilities R Strand – The continuous cast slab within the continuous casting Y machine prior to cutting into individual slabs Yield strength – Is defined in engineering and materials science Rain water systems (RWS) – The rainwater systems of a steel Strength – Properties related to the ability of steel to oppose as the stress at which a material begins to deform plastically. roof consist of guttering, downpipes, water tunnels, and other applied forces. Forms of strength include withstanding imposed Prior to the yield point the material will deform elastically and will elements to channel rainwater efficiently into the sewer system loads without a permanent change in shape or structure and return to its original shape when the applied stress is removed. resistance to stretching Recycling – Return of used products or by-products to enter Once the yield point is passed, some fraction of the deformation a new cycle of production and use Strip – Thin, flat steel that resembles hot-rolled sheet, but it will be permanent and non-reversible. is normally narrower and produced to more closely controlled Reduction agents – Carbon or hydrogen used to remove thicknesses ­oxygen from iron ore to produce iron Structure – The steel’s molecular form following different treatRefining – In oxygen-blown steelmaking processes, the ment methods; crystalline structure. May also refer to the size, ­reduction of the hot metal’s carbon content during refining by shape, and arrangement of phases within the steel the use of gaseous oxygen Structural steel – Steel intended for, e.g. load-bearing strucRolling mill – Any of the mills in which metal undergoes a rolling tures, e.g. crane girders. Important qualities include strength, process. For plate, sheet and strip, these include the slabbing weldability, bendability and toughness mill, hot rolling mills, cold rolling mills, and temper mills. Any operating unit that reduces gauge by application of loads Sulfur dioxide –Sulfur dioxide is released primarily from burning through revolving cylindrical rolls; operation can be hot or cold. fuels that contain sulfur (such as coal and oil). Sulfur dioxide is The elevated temperature rolling mill is the Hot Mill and is capaalso a primary contributor to acid rain, which causes acidificable of reducing the gauge of a slab 92–99% tion of lakes and can damage trees and historic statues. High concentrations of sulfur dioxide affect health. Roll pass – Number of times a billet or slab passes through a pair of rollers Sulfur purification – Method for removing sulfur from the hot metal or the steel, e.g. through the addition of caustic lime 40 SSAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Addresses Head office Divisions SSAB AB SSAB Special Steels Box 70 Box 70 SE-101 21 Stockholm, Sweden SE-101 21 Stockholm, Sweden Tel. +46 8 454 5700 Tel. +46 8 454 5700 Fax. +46 8 454 5725 Fax. +46 8 454 5725 SSAB Visitors: Visitors: Klarabergsviadukten 71, D6 Klarabergsviadukten 71, D6 www.ssab.com SSAB Europe Harvialantie 420 FI-13300 Hämeenlinna, Finland Tel. +358 20 5911 Fax. +358 20 592 5080 SSAB Americas SSAB Enterprises, LLC 801 Warrenville Rd, Suite 800 Lisle, Illinois 60532, USA Tibnor Tel. +1 630 810 4800 Fax. +1 630 810 4600 Tibnor Box 600 SE-169 26 Solna, Sweden Tel. +46 10 484 0000 Visitors: Sundbybergsvägen 1 Ruukki Construction Box 138 FI-00620 Helsinki, Finland Ruukki Construction Tel. +358 20 5911 Fax. +358 20 592 9088 Visitors: Panuntie 11 www.ruukki.com Production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: Stefan Ek (cover), Magnus Fond, A. Aunola p.13 among others. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet, March 2015. SSAB is a Nordic and US-based steel company. SSAB offers value added p ­ roducts and services developed in close cooperation with its customers to create a stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. SSAB has employees in over 50 countries. SSAB has production facilities in ­Sweden, Finland and the US. SSAB is listed on the Nasdaq OMX Nordic Exchange in Stockholm and has a secondary listing on the Nasdaq OMX in Helsinki. www.ssab.com SSAB Group AB P.0 Box 70 Klarabergsviadukten 70, D6 101 21 Stockholm Sweden T +46 8 45 45 700 F +46 8 45 45 725 info@ssab.com www.ssab.com
