5/26/2015 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Alcoa is a values­based company, and we uphold the highest standards of respect for the protection of human rights for all stakeholders. We are a participant in the United Nations Global Compact. The compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti­ corruption. Statement of Support Alcoa is fully committed to the United Nations Global Compact. Integrity and respect for people are core Values for Alcoa, and we believe that financial success, social responsibility, and protection of the environment are totally aligned and absolutely essential for long­term sustainability. The Alcoa Code of Conduct outlines our commitment to be open, honest, and trustworthy in all of our dealings with all stakeholders. Our policies and procedures, which apply to Alcoa­ controlled operations globally, specifically incorporate our commitment to human rights, freedom of association, and excellence in environment, health, and safety. In addition, our policies clearly communicate that we will not tolerate forced, compulsory, or child labor; discrimination of any kind; or any forms of corruption and bribery in our global operations. Klaus Kleinfeld Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2014 Communication on Progress The following overview of our 2014 progress against the 10 principles is supplemented by references to information contained on our external website, www.alcoa.com. Principles 2014 Progress References Human Rights 1. Businesses should support Alcoa’s Human Rights Policy is Vision & Values and respect the protection of available in more than 20 go internationally proclaimed languages on our corporate human rights. intranet and internet sites. We Human Rights Policy respect all internationally go proclaimed human rights standards in our operations throughout the world. Treating each person with dignity and respect is one of our core Values. We value diversity and inclusion in all of our operations. We began implementing a third­party supplier due­ diligence program with our supplier base. This program http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 1/9 5/26/2015 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact includes specific survey questions related to child labor and human trafficking and is expected to be introduced to the majority of our suppliers in 2015. We deployed to every employee an updated, comprehensive Alcoa Code of Conduct available in 19 languages. The new code, Advancing with Integrity, provides clear and easy­to­ navigate information and guidance on ethics, compliance, and human rights. We offer a 45­minute human rights course to managers and professional employees that educates them about the human rights principles of the United Nations Global Compact and emphasizes that all actions taken on behalf of the company must respect and support human rights. We have a robust and mature Integrity Line Integrity Line available 24 go hours a day, seven days a week in multiple languages for employees and external stakeholders to report alleged violations of laws and our policies on a confidential basis. Reports also can be filed online. A portion (10%) of our Inclusion variable compensation for go managers and executives was based on progress in achieving diversity and inclusion objectives in each of our businesses and in every region throughout the world. 2. Businesses should make We seek to understand fully all Human Rights Policy sure that they are not aspects of how business is go complicit in human rights conducted where we have our abuses. operations throughout the world. Our standard is to contractually require our contractors and suppliers to adhere to the same internationally proclaimed human rights protections and guarantees to which we hold http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 2/9 5/26/2015 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact ourselves. We began implementing a third­party supplier due­ diligence program with our supplier base. This program includes specific survey questions related to child labor and human trafficking and is expected to be introduced to the majority of our suppliers in 2015. Our Global Supplier Supply Chain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include human rights components. We continued the global Stakeholder Engagement implementation of the Alcoa go Community Framework, which requires each of our locations to engage with key stakeholders in and around our facilities. Human rights is a critical component of the framework. At the end of 2014, 100% of our manufacturing locations had implemented the framework and met with key stakeholders to review common initiatives, including human rights protections. Labor Standards 3. Businesses should uphold We fully support an Human Rights Policy the freedom of association employee’s right to choose go and the effective recognition whether or not to join a union. of the right to collective bargaining. We worked cooperatively and Labor Relations in good faith with many labor go unions that represent groups of our employees in various facilities throughout the world. 4. Businesses should uphold We forbid the use of any Human Rights Policy the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor go forced and compulsory labor. within our own operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 3/9 5/26/2015 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact We began implementing a third­party supplier due­ diligence program with our supplier base. This program includes specific survey questions related to child labor and human trafficking and is expected to be introduced to the majority of our suppliers in 2015. Our Global Supplier Supply Chain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 5. Businesses should uphold We forbid the use of any child Human Rights Policy the effective abolition of child labor within our own go labor. operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. We began implementing a third­party supplier due­ diligence program with our supplier base. This program includes specific survey questions related to child labor and human trafficking and is expected to be introduced to the majority of our suppliers in 2015. Our Global Supplier Supply Chain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 6. Businesses should uphold Alcoa’s recruitment processes Human Rights Policy the elimination of and practices ensure the go discrimination in respect of protection and respect for all employment and occupation. people and that no individual Equal Employment Opportunity is discriminated against on the Statement basis of race, color, religion, go national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, veteran status, genetic information, sex, or age (within statutory limits). http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 4/9 5/26/2015 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact Our company Values include Vision & Values “respect”—we treat all people go with dignity and provide a diverse, inclusive work environment. A portion (10%) of variable Inclusion compensation for managers go and executives was based on progress in achieving diversity and inclusion objectives in each of our businesses and in every region throughout the world. We met our 2014 goals to have women hold 21.3% of our global executive positions (achieved 21.8%) and U.S. minorities hold 16.1% of our U.S. executive positions (achieved 16.4%). We received top ranking in the Awards Human Rights Campaign go Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index for the sixth consecutive year. Environment 7. Businesses should support We support the precautionary a precautionary approach to approach to environmental environmental challenges. challenges. We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability 2030 goals to drive our Targets environmental performance go against a 2005 baseline. We achieved a 25.9% Climate Protection reduction in carbon dioxide go intensity (carbon dioxide equivalents per ton of production) against a 2005 baseline in our Global Primary Products business group. We reduced our freshwater­ Water use intensity (consumption per go unit of production) by 21% versus 2005 levels. We reduced our landfilled Emissions & Waste waste by 23% versus 2005 go levels. We met our 2020 goal of a 15% reduction in bauxite residue land requirements per http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 5/9 5/26/2015 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact unit of alumina produced— seven years ahead of schedule—and continued reductions in 2014. 8. Businesses should We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability undertake initiatives to 2030 goals to drive our Targets promote greater environmental performance go environmental responsibility. against a 2005 baseline. We use Sustainability Sustainability Strategy Scorecards to measure each go business’ progress against key near­term sustainability metrics. We included an annual carbon Climate Protection dioxide reduction target as a go component of our 2014 variable compensation program. Alcoa Foundation invested Alcoa Foundation 30% of its 2014 funding in go environmentally focused programs around the world. Among our employees, 58% Month of Service participated in the 2014 Month go of Service employee outreach campaign. Many of the activities were focused on the environment. We have established a closed­ Recycling loop recycling system for the go new aluminum­intensive Ford F­150 truck. We developed an aerospace recycling model to overcome logistics barriers to establishing closed­loop systems with customers. We built a second recycling facility that uses Hertwich furnace technology to recycle aluminum wheel scrap into billet for new wheels. Alcoa Foundation became the first committed funding partner of The Recycling Partnership, a new public/private partnership to increase packaging recycling rates in the United States. http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 6/9 5/26/2015 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact Alcoa and Alcoa Foundation invested approximately US$6.5 million between 2007 and 2014 to develop community­based recycling programs. Our Global Supplier Supply Chain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include environmental performance. Case Studies go 9. Businesses should Alcoa 951 bonding technology, Products encourage the development which received the prestigious go and diffusion of R&D 100 Award in 2014, environmentally friendly enables the mass production technologies. of aluminum­intensive vehicles like the F­150 truck. Automotive parts made with the new Alcoa Micromill® material will be twice as formable and 30% lighter than parts made from high­strength steel. We introduced four specialty foundry alloys that enable lightweighting and boost performance in automobiles. The new Ultra ONE™ heavy­ duty truck wheel helps trucks shed weight for increased payload and fuel efficiency. We entered into a joint Press Release development agreement with go Phinergy to further develop electric vehicle batteries that run on air and aluminum. Case Studies go Anti­Corruption 10. Businesses should work Our global Integrity Line and Integrity Line against corruption in all its web reporting capability go forms, including extortion and provide employees and bribery. external stakeholders with the opportunity to confidentially report any potential violations of law, regulations, and company policies and procedures 24 hours a day, http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 7/9 5/26/2015 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact seven days a week. Reports also may be made via letter, fax, email, and online to our Compliance organization or management. Our Anti­Corruption Policy Anti­Corruption Policy prohibits facilitation, or go “grease” payments, and commercial bribery in addition to bribery of public officials. The Alcoa Code of Conduct, Ethics & Compliance Program which was updated in 2014 go and deployed to every employee, and the Alcoa Supplier Standards discuss our zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. At the time of hire, all employees are expected to complete “Do What’s Right!” training, which contains anti­ corruption elements. Alcoa employees who meet certain criteria must participate in online ethics and compliance training that is available in 16 languages and includes anti­corruption training. Employees who do not participate in the online training program complete annual shop floor training. In addition to annual online anti­corruption training, employees meeting certain criteria receive annual in­ person or web­based anti­ corruption training where they have an opportunity to ask questions and participate in discussion. We began implementing a Supply Chain third­party supplier due­ go diligence program with our supplier base that includes managing risk related to anti­ bribery and corruption. Archived Reports 2013 Communication on Progress 2012 Communication on Progress 2011 Communication on Progress 2010 Communication on Progress 2009 Communication on Progress http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 8/9 5/26/2015 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 9/9
