1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY A BRIDGE BETWEEN PEOPLE 2015 COMMUNICAITON ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION 2 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY TABLE OF CONTENTS Company Profile ………………………………………………………………. 3 Statement of Commitment ………………………………………………. 4 Elite Tech IT Services & UN Global Compact …………………….. 5 United Nation Global Compact 10 Principles ……………………. 6 HUMAN RIGHT Our Approach, Policies & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes LABOR STANDARDS Our Approach, Policies & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes ENVIRONMENT Our Approach, Policies & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes ANTI-CORRUPTION Our Approach, Policies & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Throughout 2014 3 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT Elite Tech IT Services Co., Ltd has signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2014. We have been complying to align our operations and strategies with the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles, which are universally acknowledged, and covered the areas of human rights, labor, health, and safety, the environment and anti-corruption. Our Human Rights Policy illustrates how we abide by these principles and related global standards. Our Human Resource Policy, which is assessed yearly to guide as we grow and challenge new business issues in Myanmar. Our Human Resource Policy states how we treat each other with integrity, honor and respect, and gives guidelines regarding acceptable and proper practices and actions for all of our employees. As part of Elite Tech IT Services’ commitment to the United Nations, we have prepared ‘Communication on Progress’ (COP). Our COP report provides details on how we are executing the Ten Principles and meeting many, if not most, best practices under each standard appropriate to our company. Yours faithfully, U Chan Nyein Zaw (Chief Executive Officer) Elite Tech IT Services Company Limited 4 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY COMPANY’S PROFILE Elite Tech Group of Companies first established in 2009 and has become one of the strongest and most reliable local companies in Myanmar to operate in the field of building Telecommunication Infrastructure. In 2010, Elite Tech Group of Companies was granted the largest subcontracting work with Ministry of Myanmar Post-Telecommunication (MPT) to build CDMA 800MHz, CDMA 450MHz and GSM 4 millions subscribers project. After the project has been expanded Elite Tech IT Services Company Limited was formed to distribute MPT’s products such as Sim Cards, and Top Up Cards. Elite IT Services Company Limited Company is currently distributing MPT’s products in four regions: Yangon East, Ayeyawaddy, Kayin and Thahintharyi. ETIT has total of 10 hubs (small-scaled offices) to able to grasp the maximum outreach to our customers. Not only Elite IT Services has hubs across Myanmar, we also have a retail chain with total of 14 shops to fulfill our customer’s needs while providing them with astounding customer service. Our retail shops are situated at the most favorable locations for the convenience of our customers. Our retail shops’ locations cover major division of the country including Nay Pyi Taw (Capital City), Yangon (Commercial and Metropolitan City), Mandalay (Second Most Populated City), Pathein (Agricultural City) and Taunggyi (Touristic City) more over we are expanding into more essential locations across the country. We thrive to satisfy all of our stakeholders through Excellence, Leadership, Integrity, Teamwork, and Efficiency. 5 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY LIMITED & UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Since Elite Tech IT Services Company Limited has been inaugurated; our mission is to be a socially responsible organization for the future prosperity of our organization, our community and our country. We work independently without any help of foundations or NGOs; our own employees are willing to volunteer to contribute to the country’s education sector, health sector and religious affairs. After acknowledging about the United Nations Global Compact in November of 2014, we have became a proud registered participant of United Nation Global Compact only a month after in December, which we embarked to one of our organization’s milestones. Since Elite IT Services Company has committed as an participant of UNCG, we have been complying and adapting the ten principles of UNGC as part of our short and long term strategy, culture and imprinted in dayto-day operations of our organization. 6 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 – Make sure Businesses are not complicit in human right abuses LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 – Business should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 – The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 – The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 – Eliminated discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 – Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 – Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 – Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 7 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 – Make sure Businesses are not complicit in human right abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Most people have an ingrained sense of what it means to be treated with dignity and respect. Through constructed fundamentals and regulations are crucial for defining common standards for human rights and enforcing these standardizations may lead to sustainability of our organization. Elite Tech IT Services Company’s human resource polices and practices are coordinated with Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), which requires us to treat one another with respect, regardless of our race, language, nationality and color. Imposing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights would help identify, prevent, mitigate and account for our human rights impacts. IMPLEMENTATION In Elite Tech IT Services Company, we have zero tolerance policy towards any types of discrimination. We ensure all of our employees are treated equally no matter what their race, color, gender and the religion they believe in. We have abided by the following policies: 8 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 1. We administrate regular training session for all our employees to raise their awareness on human right concerns. 2. In our company’s policy, we have clearly stated our resistance towards child labor. 3. We have allowed and respect for our employees’ right to freedom of speech by obtaining suggestion box in our common areas such as reception, cantina and inside our Human Resource’s office. 4. We have a Staff Booklet in which our employees are entitled to fairness and equal treatment. Any sound complaints are granted to be voice to a senior staff. 5. We have endorsed the UDHR in our policies to commit so that as an organization, we have effective communications by having a compliance mechanism. 6. We have established a Corporate Human Resource Department to consistently integrate policies to comply with internationally proclaimed Universal Declarations of Human Rights. 7. We also conduct orientation trainings on regular basis not only to welcome the new employees but also to educate employees regarding our company’s policies as to all employees are fully aware of their rights and responsibilities. 8. We also prohibit any forms of discrimination in hiring, compensation, and access to training, promotion, or termination based on race, gender, national origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, marital status and political affiliation. 9 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY Elite IT Services Company will contribute our best efforts to promote our employees to treat each other with integrity and respect without any discrimination. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Elite IT Services Company’s management team monitors closely to the measurement of outcomes the human rights matters. During our first year as a participant of United Nation Global Compact, we have not face a single misconduct case of Human Rights. We, as an organization also assure to our partners and stakeholders to be fully communicated about UN Human Rights principles, policies and procedures. 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 0 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 – Business should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 – The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 – The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 – Eliminated discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Elite Tech IT Services Company Limited is fully aware and devoted to comply with International Labor Organization and its opposition on child labor, the eradication of all forms of involuntary or compulsory labor, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and freedom to unionize and common bargaining. Our employee booklet clearly states the terms and conditions of our policies regarding employee rights, compensations, roles and responsibilities. We encourage on being diverse within our organization to support different cultures and ethnicities, are fully committed to be nondiscriminatory and to have equal opportunities to all qualified employees and applicants. We discourage and forbid discrimination based on race, religion, age, and gender in recruiting, hiring, training, promotion and discipline process. 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 1 IMPLEMENTATION Elite Tech IT Services Company Limited is fully abided with the labor laws and regulations. We do not support child labor, only hired 18 years old and above. We support fair employment and do not encourage any forms of discrimination based on their beliefs, genders and sexual orientations. We only hire employees on the basis of their qualifications. All of our employees are entitled to annual leave, leave without paid, medical leave, maternity and fraternity leave and other benefits so that our staffs will be motivated and initiative to deliver their full potential to the workforce. We also provide travelling allowance and cost of living if our employees require living in other regions due to their job obligations. At our headquarter, we have a training center to provide necessary trainings for the skill, profession, and career development for all of our employees. We partake to ensure that our employees have the right tools and resources that are essentials for cultivation in both personal and professional matters. At the end of every month, we provide incentives for all the sale employees who have achieved their monthly sales target. Not only we reward them with incentives, we also celebrate each and everyone’s birthday by giving out monthly birthday cards. Elite Tech IT Services also provide ferry transpiration for the convenience of all our employees. We 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 2 also have a cantina for our employees to enjoy their meals during lunchtime. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Since Elite Tech IT Services is awarded with ISO 9001:2008 for Quality Management System, we are fully devoted to comply with its rules and regulations to responsibly operate our business. We are in full acquiescence to Myanmar’s labor laws and also ILO principles. Elite Tech IT Services employ approximately 400 employees with diverse ethnic and religions. We employ people from different parts of Myanmar such as Kayin, Ayeyarwady, Thanintharyi and Shan state. We have strict policies and ensure all our employees to obtain equal and friendly working environment with no discrimination. Both genders have equal chance in our organization proven that men and women ration is equivalent with one to three. We ensure the communication channels between employees and management is to be well-organized and transparent through emails and hand-phones which are both provided by the company. All feedbacks, suggestions, claims and complaints are delicately handled by our Corporate Human Resource Department. By solving the problems carefully and immediately, we have seen a decrease in work-related complaints and employees turnover rate. 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 3 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 – Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 – Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Elite Tech IT Services encourage our employees to be environmentally responsible for future growth and development of the community around us. We practice paperless report system whereas employees are strongly encouraged to report through email with Words and Excel documents. We are also implementing environmentally friendly practices such as introducing energy saving measures by switching off Air-Conditioning and lights when the rooms are being unoccupied. IMPLEMENTATION Our top priority is to reduce electricity consumption by switching off AC and lights when the rooms aren’t being used and after work hours. A group of security team double checks to ensure everything is turned off after operation hours. We, top management believe that taking these small steps will add up to create the environment safe and viable in the long run. If our top management accepts then trickling down this knowledge and encouragement to our employees is easier. Our top 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 4 management also educates all the employees to abide by our electricity consumption reduction protocols hence environmental preservation and conservation can be attained. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES By implementing the policies on conserving energy, we have seen exponential change in our utility bill, which have decreased drastically. We plan to replace the existing lights with energy saving LED-blubs. When we renovate or open a new branch office, our employees are strongly encouraged to use only LED light bulbs. 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Elite Tech IT Services Company is fully devoted to integrity, uprightness and adopts good corporate governance practices. Our company has uncompromising enforcement of policies for corruption, bribery and extortion. Our management team establishes rigorous policies and protocols against any corruption and bribery regardless of any level of management positions. We abundantly discourage our managers to accept gifts or presents in favor of the performance of work. Being transparent within our organization and each department is important value for us hence we are fully committed to strictly maintain our anti corruption and bribery policies, to implement effectively and to monitor for constant improvement. IMPLEMENTAITON Elite Tech IT Services value on transparency and open communication to all of our stakeholders including our shareholders, employees and 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 6 suppliers that we have ZERO tolerance policy on corruption and bribery. Our policy regarding anti corruption is also briefly explained in our employee handbook. We also encourage our employees to report if they have encounter any case of corruption without hesitation through our Corporate Human Resource Department. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Our internal audit team also plays an important role in anti corruption and bribery to maintain a check and balance system over transactions carried out through out each year. Due to our strict policies we have not face any illegal cases associated with corruption and bribery. 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 7 CSR ACTIVITIES THROUGH OUT 2015 Our relationship to the society and environment in which we operate is a crucial factor to continue to operate effectively and efficiently. Elite IT Services Company CSR activities for the year 2015 are mentioned below but not limited to. 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 8 We often offer trainee opportunities (internship) to freshly graduates from colleges (MBA, Post graduates, and/or diploma recipients) to provide them training of six months minimum and also grant them with a certificate of completion of training and job opportunities from Elite IT Services Company Limited. During the flooded crisis our employees came together as one to donate necessities flooded cities. 1 ELITE TECH IT SERVICES COMPANY 9
