Annual Review 2014 i Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Contents About the Syngenta Annual Report Overview Crops in focus The full print edition of Syngenta’s Annual At a glance ii Cereals 18 Report 2014 comprises: Chairman’s statement 02 Corn 20 – the Annual Review 2014, summarizing both ﬁnancial and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s statement 04 Diverse ﬁeld crops 21 non-ﬁnancial performance Our business model 06 Rice 23 – the Financial Report 2014 Soybean 24 Our strategy – the Corporate Governance Report Specialty crops 25 and Compensation Report 2014. Integrate 08 Sugar cane 27 Innovate 08 The Annual Review includes quantitative Vegetables 28 and qualitative information on strategies, Outperform 09 Lawn and Garden 29 policies and actions taken towards our business and corporate The Good Growth Plan Operational performance responsibility goals. Make crops more efﬁcient 11 Research and Development 30 For further information go to: Rescue more farmland 12 People 32 – our online Annual Report 2014 Help biodiversity ﬂourish 13 Sustainable operations 34 including expanded information on Empower smallholders 14 Business integrity 38 our corporate responsibility activities Help people stay safe 15 and non-ﬁnancial performance: Public debates 39 www.syngenta.com/ar2014 Look after every worker 16 – our corporate website including the Performance data Form 20-F, the Our Industry publication Regional performance 42 and a section with answers to many Product line performance 43 “Questions about Syngenta”: Financial information 44 www.syngenta.com Non-ﬁnancial information 51 The Syngenta Annual Report also serves as our annual Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Board of Directors 60 Global Compact. Executive Committee 61 Shareholder information 62 10 18 51 The Good Growth Plan Crops in focus Non-ﬁnancial information Six commitments that How we are innovating The performance indicators will help our planet face across technologies and we are using to track our progress its toughest challenge addressing growers’ needs on sustainability ii Syngenta Annual Review 2014 At a glance Bringing plant Crop performance potential to life Our business is helping the world’s We are using our deep growers to increase crop quality understanding of crops to and yields, to feed an ever-growing develop fully integrated offers, population. World-class science, which increasingly bring together deep understanding of growers’ genetics and chemistry. needs and continuous innovation have made us one of the world’s leading companies. Crop sales Now, to help feed an extra 2 billion people by 2050, we’ve +6% Crop sales 1 set our sights even higher. Our Good Growth Plan commits us to help grow more food using fewer resources while protecting nature and helping people in rural communities live better lives. And at the same time, we’re making our own operations Sales 2 $m 2014 more sustainable. Cereals 1,943 Corn 3,355 Diverse ﬁeld crops 1,351 Rice 635 Soybean 3,017 Specialty crops 2,110 Sugar cane 275 Vegetables 1,743 Lawn and Garden 693 Read more about “Crops” on pages 18–29 1 Growth at constant exchange rates (CER); percentage excludes Lawn and Garden 2 Crop sales are based on Syngenta estimates iii Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Business Our global reach highlights 2014 Throughout 2014 we continued Our teams around the world to strengthen our integrated offers combine their local knowledge through innovation, acquisition with our global assets and and collaboration. Here are a few expertise, tailoring solutions highlights from the year. that create value for growers. New solution for soybean rust 90 Countries ELATUS™, a breakthrough foliar fungicide, was launched in Brazil. Read more on page 25 111 Production and Supply sites 1 Acquisition: durum wheat seed company 141 Research and Development sites Società Produttori Sementi (PSB), a leader in durum wheat breeding and production. Read more 29,340 Employees 2 on page 19 Europe, Africa and Middle East Cellulosic fuel collaboration Sales 3 $m 4,547 Syngenta and Cellulosic Ethanol Technologies, LLC announced Employees 2,4 13,300 CELLERATE™, a revolutionary cellulosic ethanol process Research and Development sites 50 technology to increase ethanol plant production. Production and Supply sites 41 Read more on page 20 North America Sales 3 $m 3,582 Acquisition: winter wheat and Employees 2 4,636 winter oilseed rape Research and Development sites 41 Access to Lantmännen’s germplasm, seeds pipeline and Production and Supply sites 36 commercial varieties, to support development of hybrid cereals worldwide. Read more Latin America on pages 19 and 22 Sales 3 $m 4,279 Employees 2 4,945 ® New PLENE for commercial Research and Development sites 14 sugar cane planting Production and Supply sites 12 Exclusive licensing agreement with New Energy Farms to develop an innovative planting system for sugar cane Asia Paciﬁc in Brazil: CEEDS™. Sales 3 $m 2,033 Read more Employees 2 6,459 on page 27 Research and Development sites 36 Production and Supply sites 22 The Good Growth Plan on track Syngenta has established a global network of 860 reference farms and 2,738 benchmark farms. 1 Includes six multi-functional production sites 2 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) as of September 30, 2014 Read more 3 Excluding Lawn and Garden on pages 10–17 4 Including headquarters (Switzerland) Syngenta Annual Review 2014 01 Group performance Syngenta’s integrated strategy continues to gain momentum as evidenced by the strong sales growth achieved in 2014. Our focus is now on achieving above-market growth and on driving greater proﬁtability through operational leverage. Group sales Cash flow return People trained on safe use on investment 4 $15.1bn +5% (CER1) 11% 4.7m 2014 15.13 2014 11% 2014 4.7 2013 14.69 2013 13% 2013 2.8 2012 14.20 2012 15% 2012 3.0 Crop protection sales 2 Seeds sales Seed supply farms in Syngenta Fair Labor Program1 $11.4 bn +6% (CER1) $3.2bn +2% (CER1) 28,361 2014 11.38 2014 3.16 2014 28,361 2013 10.92 2013 3.20 2013 22,895 2012 10.32 2012 3.24 2012 17,625 Earnings per share 3 Dividend per share 5 Recordable illness and injury rate 2 $19.42 +1% CHF 11.00 +10% 0.37 2014 19.42 2014 11.00 2014 0.37 2013 19.30 2013 10.00 2013 0.41 2012 22.03 2012 9.50 2012 0.39 Research and EBITDA Smallholders reached3 Development investment $1.4 bn +5% (CER1) $ 2.9bn +7% (CER1) 15.3m 2014 1.43 2014 2.93 2014 15.3 2013 1.38 2013 2.90 2012 1.26 2012 3.11 1 Growth at constant exchange rates (CER) 4 For a deﬁnition of cash ﬂow return on investment, 1 Number of farms in Fair Labor Association’s audit scope 2 Including sales of Crop Protection products to Seeds see page 50 2 Per 200,000 hours, according to US OSHA deﬁnition 3 Fully diluted excluding restructuring and impairment 5 2014 dividend is subject to shareholder approval 3 Indirectly through sales, 2014 ﬁrst year of reporting at the Annual General Meeting on April 28, 2015 Read more about “Financial information” Read more about “Non-ﬁnancial information” on pages 44–50 on pages 51–58 02 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Chairman’s statement Measuring our contribution to farming and to the environment The Board’s conﬁdence in the company’s ﬁnancial strength, its people and future prospects is manifested in our recommendation to increase the dividend in line with our progressive policy. Michel Demaré Chairman Syngenta Annual Review 2014 03 2014 was a year in which both the farmers are somehow exploited. In truth, our more details of which can be found in the enormous potential of global agriculture business is reliant upon healthy ecosystems Compensation Report. The proposal, and its innate volatility were clearly visible. and thriving rural communities – it would developed by the Compensation The potential was evident in the growth be entirely self-defeating for us to want to Committee, was reviewed with external of developed markets such as Western damage either. And the company’s work advisors and approved by the Board at Europe, as well as in developing agricultural is complemented in this regard by the our December meeting. I am convinced markets such as Southeast Asia, where Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable that the framework appropriately a major step-change in yield is still possible. Agriculture, whose primary focus is the incentivizes the executive team with the Volatility in the year was manifested in smallholder farmer. right drivers, while at the same time, further three areas: weather, particularly in North aligning total compensation with the longSyngenta continued to be active in this America; commodity crop prices, with large term interests of shareholders. debate and to demonstrate our profound swings in corn, soybean and wheat; and contribution to the planet and society. 2014 was also the ﬁrst full year of the Board emerging market currencies, with signiﬁcant Convincing an often skeptical and of Directors in its current composition. With weakness, notably in Russia and Ukraine. entrenched audience will take determination, ten members of eight different nationalities Against this challenging backdrop, the but I remain conﬁdent that we are on the and diverse backgrounds across a variety company delivered sales growth for the ﬁfth right path. We also moved further along of industrial sectors, scientiﬁc disciplines year in a row, and strong cash ﬂow, but the this path by rolling out, during the year, and professions, it is a very strong and signiﬁcant headwinds curtailed growth in The Good Growth Plan across all experienced body and well placed to guide proﬁts. Newly-launched products such as 19 of our territories around the world. the company in the years ahead. I should ELATUS™ have strongly contributed to the like to thank my Board colleagues for their resilience of our top line, and I am conﬁdent 2014 was also the ﬁrst year of measuring insights and constructive criticism that our late-stage R&D pipeline will continue our progress against our six commitments throughout the year. to deliver growth in the future. in The Good Growth Plan, and to this end we established a global network of around I should also like to thank all our employees The year also saw signiﬁcant progress in 850 reference farms and 2,700 benchmark for their dedication and hard work, which our Accelerating Operational Leverage farms. Furthermore, the Board of Directors enabled us to deliver a robust ﬁnancial program, which aims to deliver a $ 1 billion approved the recommendation to take and commercial performance in the face improvement in EBITDA by 2018. The its auditing standards to the level of a full of signiﬁcant challenges. The Board’s program comprises a number of key projects ﬁnancial audit – making us one of the very conﬁdence in the company’s ﬁnancial to obtain greater efﬁciencies across few companies in the world in any sector strength, its people and future prospects Commercial, Global Operations and R&D and to strive for such rigor. is manifested in our recommendation to is central to the delivery of greater shareholder increase the dividend in line with our returns in the coming years. I am conﬁdent The Board also had the opportunity to progressive policy. Looking ahead, the that this program will enable us to deliver assess the impact both of our integrated company is strategically best placed to proﬁtable growth in the future and make strategy and The Good Growth Plan during capture the many opportunities that exist us more agile and resilient to the inevitable a visit to Italy, one of the most sophisticated in a dynamic, global agricultural market, challenges and volatilities within our markets. markets for food in the world. Our business and to deliver strong returns for in Italy is at the forefront of developing There were challenges in the area of license shareholders in the coming years. innovative, value-adding partnerships with to operate during the year. The polarized food companies and retailers. It was clear debate about pollinators and neonicotinoids from our visit that The Good Growth Plan in Europe, and the contentious issue of the is not only enabling those partnerships, but labeling of food containing genetically is also fully embedded in our integrated modiﬁed ingredients in the USA were just value offer to customers. two which gained signiﬁcant coverage. The disconnect between urban and rural Progress towards The Good Growth Plan society continues to pose a threat to the goals is just one of the performance metrics industry’s reputation, and is predicated upon set out in the new Executive Committee Michel Demaré beliefs that our products harm human and compensation proposal being submitted Chairman environmental health and that smallholder to this year’s Annual General Meeting, 04 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s statement Focusing on proﬁtability and above-market growth With the emerging markets now representing more than 50 percent of our sales, managing more volatile conditions has become an integral part of our business. Longer-term our strong position in these countries, where the scope for productivity gains is still immense, underpins our future growth potential. Michael Mack Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Syngenta Annual Review 2014 05 The decision to integrate our Crop Protection We are convinced that the breadth of This provided a visually compelling and Seeds businesses, announced in 2011, our portfolio across crops will allow us opportunity to engage with town dwellers was based on a determination to meet the to resume a trend of share gain in these on the reality of agriculture and to show challenges faced by growers. Over the last markets also. school children how their food is produced. four years, these challenges have included As we enter the next phase of our strategy, Our employees worldwide are fully engaged increased demands from the value chain our focus is clearly on delivering improved in The Good Growth Plan. For many, and regulators, as well as varying weather proﬁtability through the Accelerating making crops more efﬁcient is inherent conditions leading to major ﬂuctuations Operational Leverage program. The in the service they provide to customers in yield. In 2014, high levels of production comprehensive actions we have announced or in the scientiﬁc research they conduct. caused a sharp dip in crop prices, creating will enhance both our commercial Increasingly though, our people are signiﬁcant uncertainty with regard to the effectiveness and the power of our voluntarily expanding their contribution outlook for farm incomes. This in turn has innovation. By optimizing our cost structure through activities such as the creation of affected perception of Syngenta’s shortwithin the framework of our integrated natural habitats on degraded land. Active term prospects. It does not however alter strategy, we are set to attain industryparticipation in The Good Growth Plan is the longer-term fundamentals of our leading efﬁciency. bringing the concept of sustainability to life industry and the imperative of producing across the company and is heightening more food with ﬁnite natural resources. Innovation will play a key role in enabling us awareness of the importance of each to achieve our objective of proﬁtable aboveI am pleased to report that in a difﬁcult individual’s work. market growth, as we enter an upturn in the market environment we achieved our innovation cycle. In 2014, we introduced At the end of 2014, John Atkin retired as objective of 6 percent growth in integrated three new active ingredients of which the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer after a formidable sales at constant exchange rates. This was most signiﬁcant was ELATUS™, which had 37-year career in agriculture. John played despite a deliberate reduction in low margin sales of over $ 300 million following its launch a pivotal role in the creation of Syngenta by glyphosate. Earnings were only slightly higher in Brazil. This was the largest product launch successfully merging two Crop Protection than the previous year largely because of an in Syngenta’s history, involving more than businesses to form a clear industry leader, unfavorable impact from currencies, notably 1,000 sales people. Their enthusiasm and the strength of which is a cornerstone those of the CIS countries. We did however commitment ensured that the product’s of the integrated strategy. I should like to mitigate this impact through price increases, advantages, which have been validated by thank John for his outstanding contribution, and we maintained our strong track record key external researchers, have been widely and am pleased that in Jon Parr we have in terms of risk management. With the recognized by our customers. found a strong successor on the emerging markets now representing more Executive Committee. than 50 percent of our sales, managing more As we approach the publication of the ﬁrst volatile conditions has become an integral data set relating to The Good Growth Plan, I should also like to thank all our employees part of our business. Longer-term our we have fulﬁlled our pledge to continue worldwide for their energy and dedication strong position in these countries, where the seeking counsel and guidance from our at a time of change and challenge. We have scope for productivity gains is still immense, stakeholders by holding a series of Year established the platforms for bringing underpins our future growth potential. One Updates in various cities. At these distinctive offers to growers more quickly events, we were able to report on the many and for achieving a sustained improvement Our conﬁdence in achieving this potential projects and crop solutions that are in proﬁtability. These will allow us to work has been reinforced by the early successes underway in all regions. The dialogue with together towards realizing the vast potential of the integrated strategy. In most emerging participants deepened our insight into their of global agriculture. markets, we have gained share in both crop concerns, which include smallholders and protection and seeds, with tailored cropfamily farmers, food waste and soil health. based offers accompanied by agronomic There is also growing awareness of the advice and services. In developed markets, dichotomy between urban consumers where technology adoption is already and rural growers, which often gives rise advanced, progress has been slower to tensions and misunderstanding. We but the need for complete solutions – for illustrated the dichotomy at the event in Michael Mack example to address abiotic stress and Brussels, where we installed a miniature Chief Executive Ofﬁcer resistance issues – is undisputed. farm with four crops in the city center. 06 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Our business model What allows us What we do to do what we do Working with others and through direct operations Financial capital Research and – Scientists and – Crop protection development universities discovery and – Research institutions innovation – Farmers – Advanced and suppliers seed breeding – NGOs – Addressing insect, fungus, weed and – Agricultural environmental extension services People and the stress on crops intellectual property they create Production – Active ingredients – Seed supply farms – Raw materials – Seed processing Chemical, biological, – Intermediates – Lawn and Garden genetic and supply chain – Formulation, fill computational and packaging sciences Natural resources Commercial – Distributors – Product – Demonstration farms management – Processors and the – Crop-based offers food chain – Marketing and Facilities distribution – Agronomists and services – Agricultural extension services – Technology providers Local communities Supporting – Stewardship – Industry activities – Product registration associations – Health, Safety, – NGOs and IGOs Environment, – Multi-stakeholder Quality and Security dialogue Laws and regulations – Technology and engineering Syngenta Annual Review 2014 07 What we create The value we provide Products, services and solutions Return on investment for growers and shareholders Agronomic know-how Food, feed, fuel and ﬁber – Cereals Crops – Corn Sustainable – Diverse field intensiﬁcation of crops – Herbicides agriculture to provide – Insecticides – Rice food security – Fungicides – Soybean – Seedcare – Specialty crops – Seeds – Sugar cane Grower and – Vegetables customer satisfaction – Lawn and Garden Integrated solutions for growers Sustainable production Adjacent Products technologies Development of our people and partners along the value chain – Nutrients – Financial services – Information systems Economic value shared with employees, €£$ suppliers, governments and communities Collective wellbeing of communities Stimulating research and sharing knowledge 08 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Our strategy Focused on the challenges farmers face Our crop-focused approach is now deeply Our objectives The beneﬁts of the integrated strategy embedded in the company and recognized by have been most pronounced in the our customers. By thinking like a grower, we are emerging markets, which are driven by intensiﬁcation and technology adoption. better able to meet evolving needs worldwide. We have identiﬁed the key strategy success factors in these markets and In emerging markets we are enabling technology will seek to replicate them more broadly. adoption, while in developed countries we are Importantly, we will build upon a number of new product launches to reinforce our helping growers to deal with problems such customer relationships and to expand as weed and insect resistance, as well as an the scope of our integrated solutions. increasingly demanding value chain. As awareness Accelerating operational leverage of the need to preserve ﬁnite natural resources We are now simplifying our marketing grows, we are developing solutions that can help structure to improve both efﬁciency and our ability to create distinctive new offers. to ensure the sustainability of agriculture. We will upgrade our systems thereby freeing up the sales force to spend more time with customers. This, in turn, will lead Integrate Strategy success factors to improved demand visibility and better production management. In addition, The most immediate gains from integration Create integrated offers have come through leveraging a combined signiﬁcant synergies at the global crop level in the ﬁeld supported by have been identiﬁed, to be realized through ﬁeld force to market a broad portfolio combining and simplifying management agronomic expertise and covering multiple crops. Segmentation and resources. a deep understanding of at the grower level and the reinforcement grower needs now and of strong channel partnerships have been shown to generate market share gains in the future in both Crop Protection and Seeds. Since Innovate the launch of the strategy, gains in both Syngenta has unrivaled portfolio breadth businesses have been achieved in Bring strong new products spanning crop protection, seeds, to market and combine territories representing more than seed treatment and traits. Our aim is to genetics and chemistry 40 percent of group sales. develop offers that meet differing market requirements and have demonstrable Seeds are often the grower’s ﬁrst decision to create new solutions beneﬁts in the ﬁeld. Environmental, societal point, creating a connection that can lead and business models and value chain developments have given to a broader awareness of technology. rise to a plethora of choices and decisions In sunﬂower, for example, the adoption We maintain a clear focus on bringing for the farmer. With our expertise, we can of crop protection has brought further strong new products to market. Each of help make growing crops simpler and yield beneﬁts to growers already using these products offers multiple opportunities more productive. our high-value hybrids. for combinations with the existing portfolio and for the creation of integrated solutions. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 09 Progress in 2014 Accelerating Progress in 2014 The successful launch of three new active operational leverage In 2014, the expansion of our SDHI ingredients attests to the renewed strength Actions to increase productivity will include fungicides, including ELATUS™, illustrated of our chemical innovation. ELATUS™ marks the consolidation of sites, enabling us not the potential we have to grow market a step-change in rust control in Brazil. only to reduce ﬁxed costs, but also fully to share through innovation combined with CLARIVA™, launched in the USA for the exploit the synergies between chemistry marketing excellence. The expansion control of cyst nematodes, is a further and genetics. of HYVIDO® barley in Europe, supported addition to our broad portfolio of biocontrols. by the Cashback Yield Guarantee, is And FORTENZA®, speciﬁcally developed Increased use of outsourcing for standard another leading example, with innovation as a seed treatment, provides control activities will allow our scientists to focus in seeds creating an expanded crop of Lepidoptera as well as chewing and fully on high-value innovation. A simpliﬁed protection market. sucking pests. management organization will be focused on strengthening the links with commercial Lower proﬁtability in 2014 meant that our Our objectives teams in order to ensure that our goal of creating value for our shareholders Research and Development (R&D) is the innovation pipeline is adapted to evolving was not met. While we cannot inﬂuence innovation engine of Syngenta and is crucial needs worldwide. currency and weather effects, we are fully to driving growth. We want to maintain a committed to resuming a trend of proﬁtable high rate of new product delivery to the end growth and are targeting an EBITDA margin of the decade while investing in targeted Outperform of 24 to 26 percent in 2018. early research that will deliver breakthrough Accelerating innovation post-2020. Our goal is to create value operational leverage Our broad crop knowledge will enable us for our shareholders by We are reducing ﬁxed cost overheads to maximize the value of our portfolio by ﬁrst creating value for our by moving some activities to lower-cost applying technologies across crops. By customers through higher locations. Signiﬁcant procurement and working more efﬁciently, we can generate yields and better use production savings are being targeted, greater leverage for every dollar of our R&D of resources and a more efﬁcient global logistics model investment and deliver a higher throughput is being put in place. In Seeds, efﬁciency of products into the commercial portfolio. Every day, our customers are measuring programs in ﬁeld production and processing the performance of our products in the are underway. These measures will drive Our strategy is to accelerate the pace of ﬁeld. In order to achieve our objective of gross margin improvement while continuing innovation through licensing, partnerships market share gain, we need consistently our track record of operating cost efﬁciency. and acquisition. In 2014, we expanded our cereals germplasm through acquisitions to demonstrate the beneﬁts of our and took a major step towards scaling up portfolio not only to growers, but also our PLENE® sugar cane platform through to other participants in the value chain. a licensing agreement with New Energy We also need to sustain the ﬂow of Farms for their CEEDS™ planting system innovation and to design new offers (Crop Expansion Encapsulation and that can be delivered at scale. Drilling System). 10 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 The Good Growth Plan Securing our future together Syngenta’s business serves and sustains The Good Growth Plan considers: the resource efﬁciency that must underpin one of the world’s largest industries: agriculture. current productivity; the ecosystem resilience necessary to sustain future And today that industry is grappling with one productivity; and the far-reaching of the toughest challenges on earth – feeding knowledge transfer needed to support and strengthen rural communities. the world’s fast-growing population. Each day, It focuses our attention on smallholders. And its overall mission is to improve the the world has an extra 200,000 mouths sustainability of agriculture and of to feed, and the planet’s agricultural resources our business. are already under unprecedented strain. How did we do in our ﬁrst year? The Good Growth Plan is Syngenta’s We intended our Good Growth Plan targets commitment to help the world’s growers to be ambitious, and there is no certainty that we will achieve them all. rise to that challenge in a sustainable way. In 2014, our focus was on securing ﬁrm foundations. We established networks of benchmark and reference farms, gathered baseline data and clariﬁed A central part how best to track and verify progress. of our strategy This process has itself yielded insights The Good Growth Plan is an integral part of value to our commercial and product of our strategy. It ensures that we focus development teams. our business on understanding and At the same time, we have created soil meeting our customers’ and stakeholders’ management and biodiversity programs Six commitments most pressing needs. And it aims to to improve agricultural ecosystems. make Syngenta an indispensable part And as we have extended our reach of the solution, now and for the to smallholders, we have brought our foreseeable future. customers not only our products, but also We focus our integrated capabilities access to knowledge, technologies, safeon six crucial issues shaping the future use training and markets. Make crops Empower more efﬁcient smallholders sustainability of agriculture, so that we In the following pages, we set out the Page 11 Page 14 can deliver solutions that are better, highlights of our work in year one, and more productive, and more beneﬁcial our priorities for year two, for each of to rural economies. our six commitments. Rescue Help people more farmland stay safe Page 12 Page 15 Help biodiversity Look after ﬂourish every worker Page 13 Page 16 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 11 How do we aim to do it? All the data on inputs and outputs is being collected, validated and analyzed by As well as applying our unique breadth of an independent company, Market Probe. technologies and integrated strategy, we Together, we have built data collection will collaborate with partners. Foremost tools and developed metrics and Make crops among these are the growers who work with our products every day. And we will operating procedures. These in turn more efﬁcient focus particular effort on smallholders, have been independently assessed by PwC. This data-gathering program who have the greatest potential to increase Increase the average is unprecedented in both scale and rigor, productivity and in turn improve their providing a new resource for our scientists productivity of the world’s own livelihood. and ﬁeld experts – and we are augmenting major crops by 20 percent What have we done it by seeking out new sources of data from without using more land, in year one? governments and NGOs. water or inputs To measure our progress, we have What are our priorities now? developed a network of around 850 reference Why does it matter? Initial feedback from participating growers farms. These growers are working with has been encouraging. Over the next The world needs to grow more food in our ﬁeld experts to raise productivity and year, we will analyze the huge volumes the next 50 years than it has produced demonstrate what is possible with our of data collected in 2014. Insights from in the past 10,000 while using resources solutions across all crops and regions in the analysis will then be used to further far more efﬁciently. Climate change could our key markets. To establish a baseline of reﬁne our programs and help identify make the task even harder. what growers are currently able to achieve, implementation gaps. we have also recruited a global network of just over 2,700 benchmark farms. Superior quality beans, higher yield With coffee yields worldwide up to 50 percent below potential, growers are looking to not only improve the efficiency of their crop, but also the sustainability of its production. Our NUCOFFEE® model in Brazil supports growers in the sustainable production of coffee, and ensures the traceability of the product, all while delivering up to 50 percent higher grower revenues. Recently, the model was extended to smallholders through the NUCOFFEE® SUSTENTIA™ program, which partners with UTZ Certified so that growers can earn their certification based on high standards of cultivation, working conditions and care for people and the environment. More online: www.goodgrowthplan.com 12 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 The Good Growth Plan and some 40 percent of existing farmland What have we done is already seriously degraded. Raising in year one? awareness of this issue and promoting We have designed projects and soil conservation solutions is critical for educational opportunities to help growers sustainable agriculture: rebuilding lost fertile Rescue soil can take nature hundreds of years. work the land in a way that minimizes disruption to soil. For example, crop more farmland How do we aim to do it? rotation and changes in the way crops are We are helping growers to increase soil grown from year to year are enabling them Improve the fertility fertility and productivity sustainably to counteract weeds, diseases and insect of 10 million hectares through conservation tillage, crop rotation, problems with less disturbance to the soil; of farmland on the permanent ground cover and improved and covering the soil permanently with brink of degradation fertilization, and crop protection strategies crop residue or plants can reduce erosion. that better respond to changes in Together, over time, these techniques improve soil health. They help cut nutrient Why does it matter? soil structure. We are working with loss and crop damage, and increase the Poor farming practices expose soil to wind conservation experts and partners such as the United Nations Convention soil’s fertility and ability to store water. and rain erosion, leaving millions of hectares In 2014, our programs impacted over infertile. Every year, the world loses enough to Combat Desertiﬁcation (UNCCD), to share knowledge and reach both 800,000 hectares of soil, mainly in Latin land to produce 20 million tons of grain, America and Europe. growers and policymakers. CONTIVO® for healthier soil In Hungary, the combination of recordsetting rains and severe droughts had growers looking for ways to protect their soil: too much rain can wash it away – too little can dry it out making it more susceptible to erosion. Our CONTIVO® system helps growers in Hungary to adopt conservation tillage techniques that leave at least 30 percent of the previous year’s crop remnants on the surface of the soil before planting. It combines proven conservation tillage practices with innovative seeds technology, suitable equipment and appropriate use of fertilizer together with crop protection protocols to protect soil health while still maintaining high yields. More online: www.goodgrowthplan.com Syngenta Annual Review 2014 13 We have also provided initial funding and How do we aim to do it? support for curriculum creation at the The biggest opportunity to enhance UNCCD Soil Leadership Academy, which biodiversity in agricultural landscapes is began operations in early 2014. The to increase the quality and the amount Academy aims to strengthen international policy, decision-making and frameworks Help of ﬁeld margin habitat. We are helping growers to create rich habitats on areas for soil conservation and sustainable land management. It is building a network linking biodiversity ﬂourish such as ﬁeld margins and buffer zones. Where appropriate, we are promoting research institutes, universities and key Enhance biodiversity on reforestation with particular focus on decision-makers, and will offer information and training opportunities to policymakers 5 million hectares of farmland protecting wells and water bodies. and land users worldwide. To preserve crop diversity, we are working Why does it matter? with conservation groups to conserve What are our priorities now? The sustainability of agriculture relies crop wild relatives and integrate them into We are collaborating with external on biodiversity – for plant breeding, farming practice. stakeholders – academics, policymakers, pollination and food diversity. and soil experts – to introduce these practices globally. Local managers will assess the best ways to make soil more fertile, select the most promising projects, tailor them to local conditions, and get them underway with local growers. Once projects have been launched, we need to make sure they’re working. We have designed controls to ensure that data is reported in the most accurate way, and we’ll continue to seek ways to improve the reporting process. Annual soil sample audits will track program impact. We’ll look at land where main conservation agriculture practices have been put in place and identify which land ultimately beneﬁts from improved practice. Data on the number of growers or stakeholders trained on conservation agriculture and the number of partnerships established with local stakeholders could also help us clarify the social and Restoring stream environments environmental gains. Projects may also The Prince Edward Island Stream Management Association – supports supply data on water stewardship, soil Restoration Project in Canada supports farmers in implementing practices nutrient management and farm stream environments and reduces the that enhance biodiversity and keep machinery pathways. risk of soil runoff by planting strips of the soil where it belongs. Since the vegetation along the edges of farm program started in 2012, more than properties and waterways. 21,000 trees and shrubs have been The project – conducted in partnership planted, and more than 40 kilometers with experts from the Kensington North of streams restored. Watersheds Association and the More online: Bedeque Bay Environmental www.goodgrowthplan.com 14 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 The Good Growth Plan What have we done Proactive management of uncropped areas How do we aim to do it? in year one? on commercial farms is one of the most Ensuring that farming is a viable and important ways for growers to take care We have been working with partners attractive occupation will help rural of their natural capital and the ecosystem across the world to identify priority communities to be more vibrant and services it provides: this approach is well programs, agree speciﬁc program targets productive. Supported by partners such as suited to the fragmented farming structures and deﬁne protocols for implementation. USAID, we can bring growers the products of regions such as Europe and Asia. and know-how to raise productivity and Our ﬁrst-year focus was on raising Managed forests present a viable earnings dramatically while preserving the policymakers’ and growers’ awareness approach to multifunctional landscapes long-term potential of their land. We can of the role of ﬁeld margin habitat and for large consortia of producers working also improve proﬁtability through innovative evaluating the scalability of the reforestation collectively to secure their water source business models, helping them to ﬁnance approach. We have about 50 projects and future productivity. higher-yielding products and reach markets in over 20 countries to assess a variety to sell their crops. Collaborating with many stakeholders, we of environmental and cultural factors. will continue developing research-based, In 2014, these programs impacted nearly We already have strategies for reaching practical tools and protocols adapted for 700,000 hectares of agricultural landscape. more smallholders. We have partnered local conditions and cropping systems. with the World Economic Forum’s Grow Tailoring biodiversity programs to local Our experience is showing that early support Africa and Grow Asia platforms and conditions has deepened our understanding by partners along the value chain ensures continue to seek new partnerships and of the impact that simple, pragmatic more successful implementation and allows opportunities to reach smallholders farming practices can have on landscape value capture at community level. worldwide. In 2012, we committed to quality and resilience. We are demonstrating invest $ 500 million in Africa over 10 years, how environmental management and addressing food security and poverty intensive agriculture can co-exist, and while helping to make the continent a how proactive management of relatively major world food exporter. Smallholders small areas can enhance biodiversity dominate food production on the continent signiﬁcantly. And our work with genetic conservation experts is revealing Empower and are a key target of our investment. opportunities for on-farm conservation smallholders What have we done of crop wild relatives that are currently in year one? excluded from many ofﬁcial Reach 20 million smallholders We already reach 15.3 million smallholders conservation programs. indirectly through sales, most of them and enable them to increase What are our priorities now? in Asia. productivity by 50 percent Building on the success of OPERATION Our research has given us a clearer picture POLLINATOR™ to enhance biodiversity, Why does it matter? of what we need to change in order our multifunctional approach – using ﬁeld Smallholder growers are critical to the to achieve our goals, as the issues with margins and managed forests – integrates world’s food security, yet they often face the greatest impact on smallholders protection of natural resources and high ﬁnancial risks and low returns. depend on location. Yield improvement enhancement of ecosystem services. Every day, 180,000 people leave rural is paramount, but at the same time we communities to live in cities. must ensure that our agronomy and safety training addresses local needs. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 15 And increasing yields is not the only way to boost growers’ livelihoods: while deepening our understanding of how training can raise smallholder productivity, we are also investigating how our business models can contribute. For this we have Help people stay safe developed a best-practice measurement framework with the Sustainable Food Lab, Train 20 million farm workers a consortium of business, non-proﬁt and on labor safety, especially in public organizations working together developing countries to promote sustainability. In collaboration with the non-proﬁt Why does it matter? organization Sustainable Markets Intelligence We share a responsibility to help improve Center (CIMS), we carried out a pilot occupational safety and health in agriculture. impact assessment on our FRIJOLNICA™ This applies particularly to smallholders, program in Nicaragua. CIMS interviewed especially those in developing countries, who 110 smallholders in the program and often lack access to guidance on using crop 40 smallholders as a control group, to protection efﬁciently, responsibly and safely. assess areas such as: access to and adoption of inputs and services; income How do we aim to do it? and proﬁtability; food security; and Agriculture is the world’s second largest perceived wellbeing. source of employment, often involving long hours and heavy work in harsh conditions. We found, for example, that farmers participating in our program are achieving Harvesting beyond Our training programs raise awareness subsistence of the hazards involved, and share greater net income, and investing more knowledge of how these can be effectively in their farms than the comparison group. About 70 percent of the kidney beans managed and prevented. Each year, we train Having proven the methodology in 2014, consumed in Central America are growers through our sales and stewardship we will now look to expand such produced in Nicaragua, mostly by teams, as well as in partnership with local assessments to our commercial models. smallholders on around a hectare organizations and product retailers. The lessons learned from this, and of land. subsequent research, will enable us better FRIJOLNICA™ was founded in What have we done to design market models that aim at Nicaragua to train smallholders on in year one? improving smallholder livelihoods. We established baseline data against how to improve yields through better What are our priorities now? farm practices, such as the use of which to measure our progress and crop protection products and better improved the quality of record-keeping Our focus in 2015 is on our smallholder soil management. and evidence of training activity. In 2014, reference farms. We are tailoring protocols we reached 4.7 million people – of which to enhance smallholders’ productivity, and The program has since expanded its 74 percent are smallholders – with developing our training to help them work scope to help growers gain access dedicated safety training programs or as more productively and safely. We will further to credit services, which are critical to part of our commercial activities including explore whether we need to include more fueling their businesses. FRIJOLNICA™ a section devoted to safe use. reference farms, and how best to has helped growers in the program communicate the lessons learned from double their yields, lifting many these farms to other smallholders. smallholders out of poverty, and has grown from 300 farmers trained in Insights from our benchmark and reference 2007 to 12,000 farmers in 2014. farms will inform the development of products and solutions tailored to meet More online: www.goodgrowthplan.com smallholder needs. 16 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 The Good Growth Plan Look after every worker Strive for fair labor conditions throughout our entire supply chain network Why does it matter? We recognize a responsibility to ensure that our supply chain meets the highest ethical standards, especially in developing countries. Offering workers fair and attractive conditions will also help agriculture to stem the population drift to cities that currently undermines efforts to increase production. Using crop protection safely How do we aim to do it? In the Jessore region of Bangladesh, As a result, we’re able to train more Labor standards are a priority concern Syngenta representatives have been smallholders on how to stay safe while for all our operations, both on farms and using their sales visits with smallholders supporting them to increase crop in production plants, and we expect the as opportunities to train them on the productivity. We’re now formalizing same of our suppliers. We have strict safe use of crop protection products. this approach in order to replicate contractual requirements – prohibiting With each sales pitch, a portion of the it across the region. the use of child labor, for example – and dialogue is focused on the “5 Golden More online: encourage suppliers to meet our standards www.goodgrowthplan.com through intensive training, periodic Rules” of safe use of crop protection. assessments and ﬁnancial incentives. Working with external partners, we have What are our priorities now? Since 2004, we have been working with been reﬁning our training programs and the Fair Labor Association (FLA) to address We are working with our partners to ensure concepts – drawing on the insights we are labor standards on seed farms including: child that all our training is high quality and leads gaining from our research into smallholders labor; health and safety; awareness of workers’ to measurable impacts on attitudes, and analyses from our reference farms. We rights; wages and beneﬁts; hours of work; knowledge and behavior – with a special have also begun addressing labor safety harassment; abuse; and discrimination. focus on smallholders. We are also working more actively through the sales force. Our labor standards program now includes to form new partnerships with a growing number of organizations. An important more than 28,000 suppliers in India, Eastern lesson from 2014 is that in training the Europe, and Latin America, and we are on trainers, we need greater emphasis on track to include all our suppliers by 2020. teaching knowledge transfer techniques as well as course content. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 17 What have we done in year one? Our program now has tailored approaches for our seed supply farms, ﬂowers farms and chemicals suppliers to meet safety and social goals. In 2014, we extended our seeds supplier program to the Philippines: it now covers just over half of the 50,000 supply farms. The FLA conducts independent audits and veriﬁes the number of growers participating in the program, and we are now working towards having it accredited by the FLA. We also launched a program to certify our ﬂowers farms to the standard developed by Global Good Agricultural Practice (Global GAP) to assess farm workers’ health, safety, and welfare. Leading by example Chemical suppliers play a critical role in our Twenty years ago, Renukamma Association on the eradication of ability to meet demand, and an important Umapathi and her family worked child labor, workers’ rights, and issues part of our relationship with them is to their fields in India, and yet the earnings of health and safety. Since then, her ensure they meet high standards on health, were not enough to pay school fees for children have graduated and her safety, and labor conditions. Health and her children. business has grown. Renukamma safety standards are tracked through our is now a trusted employer in her To boost her family’s income, she supplier assessment program. Building community, who motivates others to converted part of the land to seed on our experience in developing common adopt standards of fair labor and safety. production for Syngenta. In 2006, standards for the chemical industry, she participated in a training program More online: we have partnered with the China Crop initiated by Syngenta and the Fair Labor www.goodgrowthplan.com Protection Industry Association to sponsor and contribute to industry health and safety workshops in China. We also started What are our priorities now? and set clear targets for assessment of a long-term initiative with our key Asian health and safety, environment and labor Building on our experience from working chemical suppliers to develop and conditions in our supply chain and track together with the FLA and other companies implement best practice in process progress against them. to raise seed supply chain standards, safety management. we will now work with other chemical In 2014, we completed a sustainability manufacturers and our suppliers on an assessment across our direct and indirect engagement program that assesses and Measuring supply markets to identify priorities and improves chemical sustainability sourcing practices, including environmental and The Good Growth Plan review our assessment protocol for labor practices. social aspects. Read more about how we are We will further develop our supplier measuring The Good Growth Plan in assessment process to include labor the “Non-ﬁnancial information” section practices and will look for further on pages 52–54. You can also ﬁnd opportunities to develop health and more data and discussion on safety initiatives and partnerships within www.goodgrowthplan.com the chemical industry. We will also deﬁne 18 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Crops in focus Transforming the productivity of farms large and small To transform farm productivity, we need to see Cereals are the world’s largest crop by acreage and the largest food crop. They the world the way growers see it: crop by crop. are grown in more than 120 countries worldwide due to their agronomic By understanding growers’ challenges and needs adaptability and central role in our diet. more deeply, we’re ﬁnding new ways of applying With a leading seeds footprint and crop protection portfolio, breeding programs, and combining technologies to make a real and agronomic services, Syngenta is difference to crop yields, quality, and resource uniquely placed to address the challenges faced by wheat and barley growers. We are efﬁciency on farms of every size. bringing farmers integrated and compelling offers that help deliver grains of superior All crop sales in this section quality, responding to the demands of are based on Syngenta estimates. Cereals other customers in the value chain including food companies, pasta makers, brewers, Sales $m maltsters and others. $ 1,943 m Highlights for 2014 include sales growth of 67 percent (CER) for our SDHI fungicides SEGURIS® OPTI for wheat and BONTIMA® Crop Protection 1,781 for barley. These products are now Seeds 162 expanding their geographical presence across Europe. Our SDHI seed treatment, VIBRANCE® has seen an acceleration of sales, and launches are planned in Current portfolio highlights additional markets such as Germany in Leading seeds business: wheat, 2016. We are also targeting SOLATENOL™ conventional and hybrid barley launches in early 2016 for cereals in Integrated growing systems, varietyEurope and North America. speciﬁc protocols: optimizing yield We continued to develop hybrid wheat and quality delivery building on our strong global wheat SDHI fungicide technology: platform and our experience with hybrid SEGURIS®, BONTIMA® barley. We expect to make hybrid wheat Year of varieties available to growers in some key Crops in focus Pipeline highlights launch markets within a decade. SOLATENOL™: new broad Cereals 18 spectrum fungicide 2016 Corn 20 New broadleaf herbicide mixture 2017 Diverse ﬁeld crops 21 Hybrid wheat: biotic, abiotic traits 2020+ Rice 23 Soybean 24 Specialty crops 25 Sugar cane 27 Vegetables 28 Lawn and Garden 29 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 19 Protecting the grower’s investment HYVIDO® is a high-performing hybrid barley with better rooting and stress resistance than conventional barley. In 2014, we introduced an integrated offer to ensure the grower’s investment in our premium-price seeds: the Cashback Yield Guarantee powered by HYVIDO®. If HYVIDO® fails to deliver more than 0.5 t/ha yield versus conventional barley, Syngenta will pay back the price difference. The offer was launched on a total of 25,000 hectares in France and the UK. Today, the difference between HYVIDO® and conventional barley is there for all to see, with an average yield increase of 10 percent as well as more consistent yields overall. Soft and durum wheat Feed barley Syngenta also announced a malting barley and malting barley collaboration with Anheuser-Busch InBev Syngenta is already the leading global for Argentina, with the potential to be scaled seeds supplier for conventional wheat, In 2014, our hybrid barley HYVIDO® seeds to many other markets due to the global malting barley and hybrid barley. In 2014, achieved $ 65 million in sales, up 70 percent reach of both companies. We have we took an important step to expand from 2013. Since the ‘Cashback Yield leveraged our knowledge and leadership our wheat germplasm base further, Guarantee powered by HYVIDO®’ was ﬁrst in this crop to introduce a new variety in by acquiring the winter wheat business launched in France and in the UK in 2014, Argentina, combined with a protocol that of Lantmännen SW Seed in Germany. 25,000 hectares have been signed into the includes training and agronomic advice offer, in spite of a premium positioning in In order to complement our seeds portfolio to help growers meet Anheuser-Busch a low commodity price environment. On with competitive durum wheat material, InBev’s supply demands by delivering more these farms, Syngenta achieved signiﬁcant we also acquired Società Produttori yield and better grain quality. market share growth in fungicides and plant Sementi (PSB) in Italy. By combining growth regulators. The Cashback Yield PSB’s unrivaled durum wheat breeding Guarantee was extended to Germany and expertise with Syngenta’s leading-edge Belgium in the fall of 2014, and HYVIDO® cereals research and development and was also successfully launched in Spain. technologies, we will help more growers around the world sustainably to meet increasing food industry demand for high-quality pasta production. 20 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Crops in focus Although in 2014 a lower corn price resulted AGRISURE ARTESIAN® technology Corn in reduced plantings, we continued to build helps mitigate risk during dry periods on our strong foundation of genetics, traits and provides growers with a new level Sales $m and crop protection. By strengthening our of season-long drought protection. $ 3,355 m complete offering and building partnerships, Syngenta is delivering innovative and differentiated solutions that raise yields In 2014, 1 million acres were planted with AGRISURE ARTESIAN® hybrids in North America. We also launched HYDRO, the Crop Protection 2,215 and reduce crop losses, improve water ﬁrst AGRISURE ARTESIAN® hybrid in Italy Seeds 1,140 efﬁciency and make ethanol production and Iberia, selling three times more than more sustainable. usual for hybrid launch events. Changing the game Our Water+ Intelligent Irrigation platform – Current portfolio highlights for energy in partnership with Lindsay Corporation – represents a complete solution combining Water optimization native trait: With ENOGEN®, which expresses alphatop-performing crop inputs, agronomic AGRISURE ARTESIAN® amylase enzymes directly in corn, Syngenta expertise and state-of-the-art technology ENOGEN® corn offer is making ethanol production more while reducing water use. efﬁcient, cost effective and better for Integrated insect and weed resistance management solutions the environment. There are now over Managing insects and weeds 100,000 acres planted with ENOGEN® Syngenta’s broad crop protection and Pipeline highlights Year of corn, up from 5,000 acres in 2011. launch genetically modiﬁed traits portfolio provides ACURON™: new active ingredient In 2014, Syngenta launched CELLERATE™ growers with comprehensive solutions for enhanced weed control 2015 in collaboration with Cellulosic Ethanol to manage insect and weed pressures Technologies. CELLERATE™ uses ENOGEN® effectively. As standard practices and New broad spectrum fungicide 2018 corn enzyme technology to convert corn stand-alone products are increasingly Water optimization native trait: kernel ﬁbers to cellulosic ethanol, and has unable to address these challenges, 2nd generation AGRISURE been certiﬁed by the US Environmental Syngenta focuses on offering multiple ARTESIAN® 2019 Protection Agency as a cellulosic ethanol modes of action. source for Renewable Identiﬁcation Weed control mixtures such as LUMAX® Corn is the most widely produced crop in Numbers (RINs) under the Renewable Fuels EZ, LEXAR® EZ, HALEX® GT and ELUMIS® the world, and is also Syngenta’s largest Standard. CELLERATE™ has the potential enable growers conveniently and reliably single crop. Demand for corn is driven by to create two billion gallons of cellulosic to control an increasing array of weeds global meat consumption and production ethanol, without using any more corn. resistant to many herbicides. of bio-ethanol in the USA. Growers face Optimizing water use To combat devastating corn rootworm challenges such as increasing pest pressures, unpredictable environmental With our unique AGRISURE ARTESIAN® pests, Syngenta combines traits with conditions and variable commodity prices. technology and Water+ Intelligent Irrigation seed treatment and FORCE® soil platform, Syngenta is at the forefront of insecticide while promoting insect water optimization in corn, helping growers resistance management practices reduce the amount of water they use. including crop rotation. In 2014, our offer was expanded with the launch of the AGRISURE DURACADE® trait. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 21 With regard to above-the-ground pests, Diverse ﬁeld crops Sunﬂower the AGRISURE VIPTERA® trait has Record sunﬂower oil production in 2014 demonstrated major beneﬁts for growers, Sales $m and lower prices for all vegetable oils in preventing signiﬁcant yield and grain quality 2014 affected market dynamics despite losses resulting from a broad spectrum of Lepidopteran pests. In 2014, US sales of corn seed containing AGRISURE VIPTERA® $ 1,351 m the continued demand for healthier oils. Acreage declined in Argentina and South Crop Protection 707 East Europe, but increased in other continued to represent around 30 percent Seeds 644 countries, such as Turkey. In Russia of the total. and Ukraine, the largest sunﬂower Successful local solutions growing countries by acreage, the area remained constant despite political and In Brazil, Syngenta’s Grano Top solution Current portfolio highlights economic instability. integrates a unique platform of products and services to help growers deliver better High-value hybrids: NK®, SYNGENTA®, One of the main threats for sunﬂower quality grain for the poultry and pork SPS®, MARIBO®, HILLESHÖG® growers is broomrape, a parasitic weed, industry. Participating farmers achieve which depletes the crop of nutrients Integrated sunﬂower weed control system: a guaranteed premium price. and water. We believe that the best way native trait, LISTEGO®, CAPTORA® to address broomrape is by taking an In Asia, the Start Right solution combines Enhanced root health: VIBRANCE® integrated approach, through combining products, protocols and knowledgePipeline highlights Year of multiple modes of action. This approach sharing to help ensure best establishment launch includes broomrape-resistant genetics, of the crop, especially during the critical New launches: which also have tolerance to the ‘ﬁrst 45 days’. Smallholder growers are AMISTAR TOP®, CLARIVA™ 2018 imidazolinone (IMI) herbicide class. experiencing yield improvements of over Total control solutions: broomrape, In 2014, Syngenta launched IMI herbicides 10 percent. nematodes, Rhizoctonia 2019 LISTEGO® and CAPTORA® throughout In the USA, our Ethanol Grain Quality Next generation herbicide tolerance 2020+ Europe. In addition to genetics and solution raises growers’ corn yields and chemical control, it is important that drives grain quality for ethanol plants via growers follow agronomic practices such insect control, early-season weed control, Sunﬂower, oilseed rape and sugar beet as crop rotation and noor minimum-till glyphosate weed resistance management are the most important among Diverse planting, which also have beneﬁcial effects and crop enhancement. ﬁeld crops, with demand driven by food against broomrape. requirements, industrial applications and In Africa, we are continuing to explore biofuel. Productivity varies signiﬁcantly from opportunities for the white corn market country to country, and there is room for since our acquisition of MRI Seed Zambia growth through technological intensiﬁcation. Ltd. We are building our business to provide locally-tailored integrated solutions, including seeds, seed treatment, and crop protection. 22 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Crops in focus A notable launch in 2014 was SYMETRA® in Germany. A fungicide speciﬁcally designed to eliminate Sclerotinia and Alternaria, SYMETRA® is composed of two active ingredients: isopyrazam and azoxystrobin. Also in 2014, we introduced our ﬁrst glyphosate-tolerant canola seeds varieties in Canada. SY4157 and SY4114 are highyielding varieties with strong agronomic performance and built-in disease resistance. Sugar beet Although sales in 2014 were affected by seed performance issues in the USA, Syngenta continues to expand the range of technologies available. In order to provide ‘total nematode control’, we are introducing CLARIVA™, a breakthrough biological nematode seed treatment based on natural soil bacteria, for the 2014/2015 season Center of Excellence to combat broomrape in the USA. CLARIVA™ will form part of an integrated solution with seeds, seed The team at our Broomrape Center resistance genes. The Center works treatment and optimized agronomic of Excellence in Stein, Switzerland, closely with customers, informing practices, which will help stabilize yields tracks the occurrence of new species, them about the options for tackling across a range of growing conditions. works on the development of alternative broomrape, and collecting growers’ By using multiple modes of action, growers chemical controls, and tests them feedback on current offers. can slow down the build-up of resistance together with sunflower varieties to these innovative technologies. that naturally contain the broomrape Another key threat to the proﬁtability of sugar beet growers is Rhizoctonia infection, which impacts all crop stages, Oilseed rape Syngenta’s 2014 acquisition of the winter including post-harvest. Our expertise and While the total area of oilseed rape and wheat and winter oilseed rape breeding wide portfolio have been integrated into canola remained constant in 2014, there and business operations of Lantmännen a solution comprising genetics, foliar was signiﬁcant growth in winter oilseed SW Seed in Germany and Poland, provides chemistry and, as of the 2015 planting rape due to higher export demand to access to high-quality germplasm, a seeds season in the USA, the seed treatment countries such as Pakistan and Turkey. pipeline and commercial varieties. As the VIBRANCE®. This market introduction European growers, however, reported crop winter oilseed rape seed market moves will be followed by launches in Europe damage following the restrictions imposed to hybrids, this acquisition strengthens post 2016. by the European Union on the use of our breeding program and genetic pools, CRUISER®, a neonicotinoid insecticide enabling the development of highlyWith the announcement of the elimination seed treatment. High levels of insect competitive hybrids with yield stability of sugar quotas in the European Union in damage were reported in Germany and and winter hardiness as well as broader 2017, leading producer countries are taking the United Kingdom, making the crop disease resistance. measures to maintain their competitiveness more vulnerable to frost. in sugar beet. Some countries have already decided to continue their support of sugar beet post-2017 through subsidies. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 23 Rice Rice is the largest single source of calories Addressing labor shortages for many of the poorest people in the world, Traditionally, rice has required a signiﬁcant especially in Asia. It is also a source of Sales $m amount of manual labor. With increasing livelihood for almost a billion people, ranging urbanization and a relative decline in rural $ 635 m from rice farmers to many others further down the value chain. With rice regarded as the most important crop for food populations, labor cost and availability have become major concerns to rice farmers. Crop Protection 619 security in most Asian countries, many Techniﬁcation alleviates labor concerns Seeds 16 governments have tried to achieve rice and brings increased convenience and self-sufﬁciency through policy interventions. crop quality. TEGRA®, a fully integrated crop solution, provides growers with high-quality However, at a mere 1.5 percent per annum, seedlings, which can be transplanted Current portfolio highlights the current rate of productivity improvement directly into the ﬁeld through a mechanical in rice is not keeping pace with rising GROMORE™: expanding crop protection planting process. The rice plants are demand. At the same time, the availability technology footprint then treated with GROMORE™ protocols of water for this water-intensive crop is TEGRA® technology to further enhance yield. diminishing, and urbanization means Leading native trait for bacterial leaf blight that the competition for land and labor Opportunities Year of is increasing. for extended germplasm Pipeline highlights launch To meet these challenges, a comprehensive With the integration of Devgen, acquired Introduction of 2-line hybrids 2018 approach is required. Syngenta continues in 2012, Syngenta is now well placed to Elite parental lines, introduction to provide the best technology to help rice compete in the hybrid rice seeds market. of yield and quality traits 2018 farmers improve their productivity and The low level of hybridization in most Asian New native trait introductions: ultimately their return on investment. We help countries offers a signiﬁcant opportunity for brown plant hopper, rice blast, to build a foundation of good agronomic our expanded germplasm base. With our false smut 2018+ practices that take into account the impact wide range of genetics, we have established of rice farming on the environment. Farmers a good foundation for future growth. gain access to a suite of technologies In Asia Paciﬁc, sales of rice increased including seed, seed treatment, and crop reﬂecting sales from the Devgen acquisition protection, enabling them to realize the as well as expansion in India. Our crop full potential of their crop. protection footprint in Asia continued One of our ﬂagship rice solutions is to expand with the launch of CHESS® GROMORE™, which provides simple and for brown plant hopper and TASPA™ for step-by-step protocols to deliver consistent sheath blight in India, and NEWTEC® for results in each crop phase. GROMORE™ rice blast in China. Flagship brands such sets a strong yield potential in the ﬁrst as ARMURE®, AMISTAR® and VIRTAKO® 60 days and then protects the crop from also reinforced their presence. insects and diseases in the last 60 days, Syngenta is committed to bringing the best enhancing grain quality. This solution has technologies available to market in order to been demonstrated through an established sustainably increase yields and to improve system of lead farmer networks and is now the lives of rice farmers around the world. being scaled up across Asia. 24 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Crops in focus Soybean Sales $m $ 3,017 m Crop Protection 2,492 Seeds 525 Current portfolio highlights ELATUS™: market-leading soybean rust control Elite varieties with herbicide-tolerance and insect-resistance traits Broad portfolio for weed resistance and early weed management Year of Pipeline highlights launch Innovation on the fast track Integrated nematode solution, including CLARIVA™ and multiple Soy rust, a highly destructive fungus, ingredient SOLATENOL™. Binding tightly resistance genes 2015 is one of the biggest threats to farmers to the plant leaves, its innovative Stress tolerant genetics 2016 in Latin America in particular. And, as chemistry provides broad-spectrum, resistance to established fungicides long-lasting disease control. Next generation trait: is a growing concern, finding a solution multiple herbicide tolerance 2018 Successfully launched for soy in Brazil was urgent. in 2014 under the ELATUS™ brand, Syngenta rose to the challenge, SOLATENOL™ is expected to receive Soybeans produce more protein per hectare with the fast-track development, registrations for a number of crops than any other crop and more than many formulation, registration and market and geographies in 2015, including animal products. Three countries – USA, introduction of the new active corn, wheat and potatoes in the USA. Brazil and Argentina – account for over 90 percent of global production. Soybean is mostly found in animal feed, but it is also Accelerating our crop Efﬁcient weed control is essential to ensure protection offer strong plants and maximum water and present in our daily diet in the form of oil, nutrient uptake from the soil. However, ﬂour, meat and dairy alternatives, as well Growers continue to be faced with a range increasing glyphosate resistance is resulting as being used to produce biofuels. of challenges, including diseases and in a more complex weed management pests. Syngenta offers an unrivaled and In 2014, soybean production achieved challenge. We are leading the market in innovative portfolio of crop protection a record level of around 310 million tonnes, establishing the importance of sustainable products, increasingly incorporated into a 9 percent increase over the prior year. early-season weed management, using integrated solutions, which differentiate formulations containing non-selective our offer and improve return on investment herbicides alongside selective herbicides for the grower. such as PREFIX® and BOUNDARY® in the USA, and FLEX® and DUAL GOLD® in Argentina. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 25 Soybean nematodes, which are hard Seeds: the grower’s Specialty crops to detect in the soil, cause production ﬁrst choice losses of over $ 3 billion per year. In addition Growers are beneﬁting from our diverse Sales $m to AVICTA® COMPLETE for broad spectrum genetic pool, combined with leading control, we have now launched CLARIVA™ COMPLETE in the USA for biological control of cyst nematodes. In Argentina, genetically modiﬁed traits, through the launch of more than 50 soybean $ 2,110 m varieties under our NK®, SPS® and Crop Protection 2,105 FORTENZA® DUO has been speciﬁcally SYNGENTA® brands. Seeds 5 developed as a seed treatment to control Lepidoptera as well as chewing and Our global development program, for sucking pests. example, has demonstrated outperformance against Sudden Death Syndrome (SDS), In many parts of Latin America, the tropical Current portfolio highlights a devastating soil-borne disease in soybean. climate makes disease control a top priority Our varieties with SDS tolerance have Broad crop protection technology for growers. We have conﬁrmed our leading created a new standard in the USA, footprint and breadth position in the control of soybean rust with and delivered gains of around 10 bags Recent launches: ELATUS™, the launch of ELATUS™, resulting in sales per hectare. REFLECT®, DYNALI®, AMPLIGO®, in Brazil of over $ 300 million. This new chemistry further expands our integrated Expanding the scope DURIVO®, VIBRANCE® offer, which also includes PRIORI XTRA®, of our technology Commercial ramp-up of rust-tolerant genetics and seed treatment. ™ sustainability-based solutions INTEGRARE is our high-yield solution This approach sets a new standard for for Brazil, which combines a full season Pipeline highlights Year of sustainable disease control. launch portfolio offer including seeds, seed We also provide a full range of insect treatment and crop protection products Innovative cyantraniliprole management solutions adapted to the with optimized protocols, together with insecticide and seed treatment pest spectrum in different markets. In a choice of unique agronomy and yield mixtures: sucking pests 2016 Brazil, we have developed an integrated assurance. In 2014, we scaled-up the Integrated potato offer program with ENGEO® PLENO to manage program to commercial levels, enabling in emerging markets 2016 increasing stinkbug attacks. In response to growers to unlock full yield potential with New fungicides: oxathiapiprolin 2016– the growing pressure from the Helicoverpa better input efﬁciency. and broad spectrum fungicide 2018 caterpillar, we have developed AMPLIGO® QUANTIS® has reached a leading position and CURYOM®. In the USA, the AMS in the foliar nutrient segment, generating Our Specialty crops business covers over APHID MANAGEMENT SYSTEM™ proven return of more than three bags 40 diverse, high-value crops grown around combines an aphid-resistant native trait per hectare. And an example of one of the world. Four crop groups account for with CRUISERMAXX® seed treatment and our recent technologies for more efﬁcient around 80 percent of total sales: potatoes, WARRIOR® II crop protection to prevent water and nutrient uptake is the seed cotton, fruits and plantation crops such aphid damage, which can result in up to treatment VIBRANCE®. as bananas. 50 percent yield loss. Growth prospects are particularly strong in the emerging markets, driven by three main factors: shifting dietary preferences; changes in climatic conditions; and increased trade in both processed and fresh produce. In developed markets, positive trends relate to an increase in market access and strong product introductions. 26 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Crops in focus Our strategy is based on enabling growers protocols, including mechanical planting, Fruits: integrated solutions to manage complexity so that they can with leading seed treatment and crop delivering value to growers concentrate on growing the highest-quality protection products. Potato Healthy Tubers Changing regulatory and food chain crops. We do this by leveraging our can help Chinese growers increase yields requirements make it increasingly complex blockbuster chemistry as well as by at least 30 percent and earn a 3:1 return for fruit growers to access proﬁtable developing compelling integrated offers. on their investment. markets for their produce. We address Potatoes: gaining market In Europe, the fungicide REVUS® has this challenge through the Fruit Quality share in emerging and enabled product combinations that Contract program, which provides market developed markets allow growers to manage severe late access guidance and tailored crop blight pressure. This was conﬁrmed protection protocols. To date, the Fruit In 2014, Syngenta continued to demonstrate by independent data generated by Quality Contract has been applied to the beneﬁts and superior crop performance EuroBlight, a network of independent more than 10,000 hectares of wine of our full portfolio of crop protection solutions scientists, which once again ranked grapes, pome and stone fruit. and services in markets such as China. REVUS® and its combination products In 2014, the Fruit Quality Contract business Our Potato Healthy Tubers offer enables as the leading solutions for control of increased ten-fold over the previous year. growers to deliver higher marketable yields this devastating disease. A high level of repeat business shows by combining quality seed and growing strong market conﬁdence in the program. The focus for 2015 will be on reaching new markets and additional crops so that we can continue to help growers produce the highest-quality products. Cotton: improving business through technical expertise In cotton, we are underpinning growth in the business through the FAST START PERFORMANCE™ (FSP) program, which in India is bringing about a step-up in agronomic knowledge among growers. FSP is a new solution that improves early crop establishment, ensures strong plant growth and delivers greater yields and quality, resulting in increased grower satisfaction and proﬁtability. To date, FSP has been adopted by over 3,500 growers Closing the potato yield gap in India and results show yield increase in While China is the world’s leading Syngenta’s Potato Healthy Tuber excess of 20 percent. Higher cotton ﬁber potato producer in volume, yields project is set to overcome this quality has also been demonstrated. still lag behind. One reason is the challenge, supplying growers with FSP has also enabled the introduction of insufficient access to healthy seed healthy, uniform seed potatoes that more crop protection solutions including potatoes. Most growers use farm-saved are coated with our Seedcare products ALIKA® and ACTARA®, applied in the potatoes, which allow diseases already for strong crop establishment. Along initial growth phase, and ISABION®, present in the potato plants to be with targeted crop protection solutions applied through each stage of the passed on and to accumulate, leading and agronomic protocols, the offer cotton growing cycle. to significant yield drops. not only improves yields, it also saves labor costs, increasing the return In 2015, FSP will be introduced in other on investment even more. cotton-growing areas of India, as well as in the USA. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 27 Sugar cane Currently, average sugar cane yields are Crop protection: our offers 66 tons per hectare, but there is the to help improve productivity potential to reach as much as 200 tons in Sales $m In the past, sugar cane growers in Brazil the ﬁrst year of growth. Improving yield is relied on burning to keep pests under $ 275 m essential as the area of cultivation is limited: sugar cane only grows within 30 degrees of the equator and requires a substantial control. With the phasing out of this practice, the use of crop protection has Crop Protection 275 become a necessity. Our crop protection water supply. Seeds 0 portfolio offers solutions that combat weed, Our ‘integrated ﬁelds’ strategy offers disease and insect threats, as well as producers a complete portfolio of solutions improving plant quality. Products such as from seedlings to harvest. In 2014, we MODDUS®, PRIORI XTRA®, CALLISTO® Current portfolio highlights launched two new technologies. PLENE® and ACTARA® enable producers to deliver PB introduced high-quality genetics in a superior results, combining pest control, Unique chemical solutions for biotic pre-germinated bud to accelerate nursery plant vigor and higher sugar levels at stress: MODDUS®, CALLISTO®, expansion, leading to a 15 percent increase harvest time. ACTARA® in tons per hectare. PLENE® PB can also be Integrated ﬁelds During 2014, we demonstrated the used to ﬁll the gaps that occur in 20 percent efﬁciency of new integrated solutions by Nursery solution: PLENE® EVOLVE™, of Brazilian ﬁelds, leading to signiﬁcant yield applying our crop protection technology PLENE® PB loss. PLENE® EVOLVE™ introduced new in commercial-size test cane ﬁelds in Year of varieties with high-quality genetics in Pipeline highlights Brazil. Protocols combining high-quality launch a young plant offer. seedlings with crop protection solutions Commercial planting: new PLENE® 2017 Taking PLENE® used throughout the plant development Launch of proprietary genetics 2019 to the next level cycle showed a 10 percent average GM traits for herbicide and increase in productivity. In 2014, we announced an important insect resistance 2025+ milestone for the PLENE® seedlings in Although 2014 was a challenging year Brazil. Through an exclusive licensing in terms of weather, sugar prices, and While worldwide consumption of sugar agreement with New Energy Farms, constraints on Brazilian’s ethanol industry, continues to rise, sugar cane is also in Syngenta will develop an innovative we have continued to scale-up our planting demand as a feedstock for producing sugar cane planting system: CEEDS™ solutions platform. We are addressing ethanol. This is blended with gasoline as (Crop Expansion Encapsulation and producers’ need for high-quality plants vehicle fuel – particularly in Brazil, the world’s Drilling System). that enable better productivity and are leading sugar cane producer. Feedstock giving them the tools to protect and The new PLENE® offer will be based on for bioplastics is another growth market, enhance yield. high-quality encapsulated plant tissue and sugar mills increasingly use cane produced in a controlled environment residue for renewable power generation. at our Itápolis biofactory in Brazil. It offers a step-change in sugar cane planting in terms of speed and quality, with a higher multiplication rate and lower cost per ton compared with conventional planting systems. The target market is the two million hectares planted annually in Brazil, with commercialization starting in 2017. 28 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Crops in focus delivery of healthy plants to growers. New fruit sizes in melons and watermelons, Vegetables Growth in 2014, adjusted for the divestment tailored to the modern needs of families of Dulcinea, was robust, with an upturn in North America and Europe, have Sales $m in demand in Europe, Africa and the contributed to growth in both regions. $ 1,743 m Middle East. Asia Paciﬁc saw strong growth, particularly in India, with increased market penetration for key A keen understanding of the value chain and the advancement of new traits that improve the texture of fresh cut fruit and Crop Protection 1,080 crops such as tomatoes and peppers. vegetables have expanded market access Seeds 663 and delivered new beneﬁts to consumers. Innovation in vegetable breeding Boosting smallholder Projects to advance abiotic stress productivity Current portfolio highlights management through digitization, as well Smallholder productivity, particularly Innovative cyantraniliprole insecticide and as breeding for tolerant traits in the high in emerging Asia and Africa, has been seed treatment mixtures: sucking pests value pepper and tomato market, have hampered by relatively low utilization Broad seeds portfolio with leading native differentiated our offer in both developed of technology. Our objective is to increase traits: leafy and fruity vegetables, brassicas and developing markets. grower proﬁtability, and our MAXVEG™ platform has consistently generated Commercial ramp-up of MAXVEG™ productivity improvements of more than integrated smallholder offer Year of Pipeline highlights launch New fungicides: oxathiapiprolin 2016– and broad spectrum fungicide 2018 Abiotic, biotic and output traits: native trait insect resistance 2016+ Expanding emerging market seeds portfolio for hot pepper and tomato 2017+ Consumers increasingly demand vegetables that are of better quality and available all year round. As a consequence, vegetables must be grown, shipped and sold in a variety of ways. Our Vegetables business is diverse and global, with key crops including melons, peppers, sweet corn and tomatoes. Our strategy brings innovative solutions to growers worldwide to meet rising quality Digital management increases pepper yield requirements. We use our strength across genetics, chemicals and biological controls Through the combination of a digital the optimal nitrogen and water usage to develop integrated crop management app and on-the-ground agronomic levels and to offer growers specific programs, which improve the sustainability advice, pepper growers in Israel now protocols suited to each pepper variety. and productivity of vegetable production. get a more complete picture of their The result is a 25 percent increase crop needs – and can optimize input in yield, and a 25 percent reduction Crop establishment is critical to raising yield and resources. in fertilizer and water inputs. As a potential. In addition to expanding the use of seed treatment, we are collaborating with Capturing key data from the pepper next step, the expansion of digital leading young plant raisers to ensure plants and their growing environment, management to other vegetable access to new genetics and the on-time the app allows Syngenta to determine crops is planned. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 29 20 percent in key vegetable markets Revolutionizing Life uninterrupted by pests in Indonesia, India and China. the plant experience We strive to ensure that life is uninterrupted Working with growers and channel In North America and Europe, our Flowers by pests and vector-borne disease for partners, we focus on critical timings business successfully piloted a go-topeople across the world. Our customerin the production cycle, integrating market strategy based on meeting the focused approach is about monitoring, modern chemistry, agronomic advice speciﬁc needs of customer segments diagnostics, risk assessment and judicious and stewardship principles to maximize within a retail environment. For example, applications with appropriate follow-up. marketable yields through the safe and our innovative consumer branded solutions We are well placed to meet the needs effective use of crop protection. appeal to consumers who have limited time of our customers through the integration to devote to their gardens. We are also of acquired technology, and with our own In 2014, we reached more than aiming to provide an inspiring and exciting innovative products. 200,000 growers on 100,000 hectares, in-store experience for more engaged delivering signiﬁcant productivity gains. In July, we received US Environmental consumers. For the mass market, we Protection Agency registration for ZYROX®, consistently provide products that target a cyantraniliprole-based ﬂy bait, which is grower efﬁciency through greenhouse our ﬁrst new product launch for the Farm management and protocols. Pest Control segment. The global launch Lawn and Garden Driving innovative, began in the USA during the second half sustainable production of 2014. Sales $m Sustainable production is top of mind We also launched the new insecticide throughout our ﬂower production. In 2014, formulation, ACTELLIC® 300 CS. $ 693 m we introduced Global Good Agricultural Practice certiﬁcation at our Kenyan ﬂowers This indoor residual spray is one of the most effective ways to prevent malaria. Crop Protection 466 farms. This work will continue across Its long-lasting efﬁcacy eliminates the Seeds 227 our ﬂowers sites during 2015. We also need for a second round of spraying expanded our range of crop protection even in areas where the transmission products by adding alternatives such as period lasts up to nine months. biologicals and insect-barrier methods within our ﬂower farm operations. We are committed to enriching lives through the creation of healthy and inspiring living Creating and sustaining environments. With a focus on delighting a modern green oasis our customers and channel partners, we are Our Turf and Landscape business is driven meeting current and future needs through by the human need to connect with nature the introduction of new solutions, business whether in an urban or rural environment. models and go-to-market strategies. We continue to promote biodiversity on the By maximizing the potential of our elite golf course. OPERATION POLLINATOR™ genetics and high-value chemistry, we have guidelines and advice have been signiﬁcantly increased business proﬁtability developed speciﬁcally for golf courses, and are on track to maintain our target of in partnership with specialist ecologists a 20 percent EBITDA margin in 2015. and agronomists from the UK-based Sports Turf Research Institute. In Asia Paciﬁc, we introduced airport mowing solutions, which include growth retardants to reduce the amount of personnel required to care for grass within secure areas. 30 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Operational performance Delivering the strategy proﬁtably – and sustainably Our business strategy and The Good Growth Plan Stein is building new glass-walled labs designed to foster interaction and require us to be efﬁcient, proﬁtable and innovative – knowledge-sharing – and an Advanced Crop Lab opens there in 2015, with not just now but for the long term. We carefully growing areas able to simulate any consider the sustainability of our activities, our climatic conditions. products and our relationships with all Investing in talent Talent development is crucial to maintaining our stakeholders. technology leadership. We are building an organization in which cross-disciplinary teams and thinking are the norm, particularly Research Organizing to work better across crop protection and seed-related To deliver and accelerate our innovation disciplines. Our Breeding Academy is a and Development strategy, we have simpliﬁed our operating good example: over 180 people have now model under new leadership appointed beneﬁtted from its training, which helps Syngenta’s business strategy and in 2014. We now have separate R&D chemists to better understand biology The Good Growth Plan are underpinned functions, supported by common platforms and crop breeding. by our conﬁdence that we can continue in areas such as safety and regulatory, creating solutions that enable sustainable In 2014, we further improved our ranking operations and trialing. We are also looking growth. Our Research and Development in Science magazine’s annual list of the to extend our use of collaborations and (R&D) strategy aims to meet growers’ real world’s top biotech employers. After ﬁve outsourcing, which have proved their value needs, now and in the future, ahead of successive years in the top 20, we entered in areas such as the hybridization of barley. our competitors. the top 10 in ninth place. Syngenta was Productivity is not just an issue for growers particularly commended for treating To do this, we are supplementing our or our manufacturing operations. In R&D, employees with respect, being socially strength in biotic stress management we are focusing on operational excellence responsible and having values strongly with increasing capability in abiotic stress to innovate better and faster by working aligned with employees’ personal values. control. We are also embracing selected smarter. In November 2014, we introduced new technologies, notably RNA interference External recognition for excellence in 2014 lean and continuous improvement and computational biology. In 2014, we also included the Swiss Chemical Society’s programs, drawing on the expertise and invested $ 1.43 billion in R&D. prestigious Sandmeyer Award for four experience of our Production and Supply Syngenta chemists. They were cited for Investment in Research teams. Our overall aim is to be more agile innovation in discovering, developing and and Development $bn and ﬂexible – accelerating our programs producing new broad-spectrum fungicides. through improved planning, more efﬁcient 2014 1.43 ways of managing and working, focus Delivering innovation 2013 1.38 on execution, the introduction of key We have a diverse and balanced portfolio 2012 1.26 performance indicators (KPIs) and a new of chemicals, genetics and integrated platform enabling us to trial integrated solutions for all our major crops. It is solutions faster. refreshed by constant innovation – to Investing in resources solve new problems and address old for innovation problems with new solutions that are more effective, safer or add more value. While maximizing our use of existing assets, we recognize the need to maintain investment in world-class facilities. In 2014, we invested in upgrades and expansion, primarily at Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, USA, and Stein in Switzerland. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 31 Our PLCM work in 2014 focused on our In corn, our drought-resistant native trait Innovation in Crop Protection newest products: the roll-out of fungicide ARTESIAN™ sold out following its launch active ingredient SOLATENOL™ is in Europe, and we continued to ramp-up Current portfolio highlights progressing well, and second-generation sales in North America. We launched our ELATUS™ (SOLATENOL™): step formulations are in advanced development. corn rootworm trait DURACADE™ in a change in control of soybean rust refuge-in-a-bag format with E-Z REFUGE®. Our Seeds teams introduced new and FORTENZA® (cyantraniliprole): And in East Africa, we launched a corn improved disease-resistant traits to the early season insect control seed portfolio from our MRI Seed Zambia market in brassicas, peppers, tomatoes, Ltd acquisition in 2013. VIBRANCE® (sedaxane): SDHI seed and lettuces. In the Latin American soybean treatment fungicide market, we introduced a ﬁrst-generation Our HYVIDO® hybrid barley was launched CLARIVA™: biological soybean cyst native trait to combat rust and INTACTA in Spain, and the ﬁrst Syngenta-bred sugar nematode control RR2 PRO® 1 plants genetically modiﬁed cane clones advanced towards customer to resist worms. In rice, we launched trials scheduled for 2015. Year of a bacterial leaf blight-tolerant hybrid. Pipeline highlights launch Partnering to innovate ACURON™(bicyclopyrone): Complementing our internal resources Innovation in Seeds through partnerships is a key element in new mode of action for corn herbicides 2015 Current portfolio highlights our R&D strategy. In 2014, we strategically SOLATENOL™ on cereals, 2015– collaborated with universities, institutes and AGRISURE ARTESIAN®: native companies at the forefront of technology corn and specialty crops 2016 drought-tolerant trait development to solve agricultural New fungicides launches 2016– DURACADE™ trait: best-in-class challenges, and we established some 2018 corn rootworm control signiﬁcant new partnerships. HYVIDO®: hybrid barley seeds In the USA, we began a new research Among new active ingredients in collaboration with the Carnegie Institution Sugar cane nursery solutions: development, bicyclopyrone will be our of Washington. Dr Wolf B. Frommer, PLENE® EVOLVE™, PLENE® PB ﬁrst new corn herbicide in a decade when a world authority on transport biology, it is launched in the USA in 2015. Marketed Year of and his team are helping us to understand as ACURON™, it controls a broad spectrum Pipeline highlights launch how advancing sugar transport in plants of weeds including large-seeded broadNative traits for biotic can improve crop yield. leaved species. and abiotic stress 2015+ In September 2014, PlantLab formally After products are launched, our R&D New PLENE® 2017 opened its state-of-the-art research facility teams continue to support them through Next generation soybean trait: in the Netherlands. One ﬂoor is devoted to our Product Life Cycle Management multiple herbicide tolerance 2018 the company’s collaboration with Syngenta (PLCM) program – considering how best New hybrid technologies: rice on projects to accelerate breeding in multiple to maintain their long-term viability from 2-line, wheat crops and produce better quality plants. 2018+ both commercial and environmental perspectives. This work includes the registration of existing active ingredients in new markets and for new uses, improving formulations, developing new mixtures to manage resistance and pest shifts, and improving manufacturing processes – for example to reduce the generation of hazardous waste. 1 INTACTA RR2 PRO® is a trademark of Monsanto Technology LLC 32 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Operational performance People The changing nature of our business and the markets in which we operate requires us to continue to attract, develop and retain great talent. Developing people and capabilities We are committed to continuing to invest in our employees. In 2014, we invested $ 29.8 million (+10 percent) in training programs to enable employees to achieve their full potential and to develop the right capabilities for our business. All employees participate in goal setting, review and development discussions with their line managers throughout the year. These discussions enable them to take accountability for developing both Honoring a stroke of collective genius themselves and their careers. In addition, our employees have both local and global Affecting crops across geographies, discovery and development of three opportunities to develop their careers. fungal diseases jeopardize harvests new succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor We continued to have a high employee and livelihoods for growers worldwide. (SDHI) fungicides: isopyrazam, retention rate in 2014 with the number As existing crop protection solutions sedaxane and SOLATENOL™. of voluntary leavers – which excludes increasingly face resistance issues, In 2014, the Swiss Chemical Society retirement and restructuring – remaining bringing new chemistries to the market honored their efforts with the stable at 5.5 percent. There was a is paramount. prestigious Sandmeyer Award. They decrease in the total people turnover rate Syngenta scientists Hans Tobler, accepted the award on behalf of their to 9.9 percent, from 14.1 percent in 2013. Denis V. Gribkov, Camilla Corsi and many colleagues from across the Harald Walter (from left to right) rose company, who collaborated to make In November, Syngenta announced to this task, with the successful design, this achievement possible. important steps in the implementation of its Accelerating Operational Leverage During 2014, we strengthened our leadingOur ongoing partnership with Rothamsted program. This will result in job reductions edge cereals R&D by acquiring Italy’s Research in the UK involves multiple and relocations totaling around 1,800 Società Produttori Sementi. Its unrivaled projects designed to sustainably increase across the company, the majority of which durum wheat breeding expertise and links wheat productivity to yield 20 tonnes per will occur in 2015. We will carry out the to the food industry will help us accelerate hectare within 20 years. And our long-term planned job reductions and relocations innovation in quality durum wheat partnership with the Shanghai Institute of in a socially responsible way. production, in turn helping more growers Organic Chemistry gives us access to the prosper in the competitive Italian market most talented young scientists in China, and supporting international expansion. providing continuous support to our R&D programs through world-class chemical innovation and productivity. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 33 New diversity policy which we serve. We see a diverse workforce Plan is paramount. Many employees launched and an inclusive workplace as enablers of around the world were engaged in our ambition to bring greater food security business projects that speciﬁcally deliver As a leading company with operations in an environmentally sustainable way to on our commitments. Others participated in more than 90 countries, our business an increasingly populous world. in community engagement projects, which success reﬂects the quality and skill of not only contribute to our commitments, our people. We recognize that human Our diversity policy and initiatives are based but also help to open local discussions diversity is as important to our business on: attracting, recruiting, retaining and about the contribution Syngenta makes. as biodiversity. Embracing the unique engaging diverse talent; leveraging diversity perspectives and capabilities of our and inclusion as a business driver; and In October, we piloted a project in employees will help us continue to catalyze being a leader in diversity and inclusion Bangladesh designed to give leaders in innovation, maximize performance and in business and the broader community. our business an opportunity to work with create business value. VSO International and local community Engaging in leaders to understand more about the To this end, our employees should reﬂect The Good Growth Plan challenges that smallholders there are the diversity of our customers, the markets Ensuring that our employees actively facing – from growing to marketing and where we operate and the communities participate in delivering The Good Growth selling their crops. For 30 days, the Syngenta team lived and worked with smallholder farmers in Bangladesh, who grow potatoes and rice on less than a hectare of land each, to help them sustainably improve their food and economic security. Syngenta Awards This year’s Syngenta Awards received 783 entries from 50 countries, representing around 9,000 employees worldwide. These entries demonstrate the many projects underway across the company that are shaping our future, and which exemplify the outstanding achievements of teams and individuals. Five outstanding teams from around the world were honored at the Syngenta Awards 2014 winners’ ceremony. Categories include Supporting smallholders in Bangladesh the overall Purpose Award, and four awards aligned with Syngenta’s values: Innovation Turning our Good Growth Plan directly with the communities to better at scale, Health through action, Performance commitments into action, 15 Syngenta understand the multifaceted challenges to win and Intensity with choice. employees – with their skills ranging local rice and potato growers face on from agronomy and R&D to finance a daily basis. Read about the safety and security of our and business planning – traveled to people on page 34. Their work, which includes Bangladesh in October 2014, for a monthrecommendations for new business long experiential learning program. models, community projects and Together with representatives from improvements to the value chain, See detailed “People” performance data on pages 54–55 our non-profit partner VSO, they will be continued by a second group resided with local families in villages of employees in 2015. Read more about “People” in North West Bangladesh, and worked on www.syngenta.com/ar2014 34 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Operational performance Sustainable Securing our ability Our team supports suppliers, particularly to deliver proﬁtably those in China and India, in areas such operations We continue to invest in new capacity as process development and improvement; design for new manufacturing plants; Our Production and Supply strategy aims and capability at our active ingredient (AI) health, safety, and the environment. In to support growth and enable us to deliver manufacturing sites. To meet growing return, we achieve competitive long-term innovation to growers with scale and agility. demand in the Chinese market at a pricing, including a constructive approach In 2014, we have been accelerating its competitive cost, we have enlarged our to risk sharing with some suppliers. implementation to drive proﬁtable growth. Nantong site to undertake ﬁnished product processing, more than doubling its Working safely and securely As an integral part of this strategy, our formulated product output. We have also in supportive communities Production and Supply team has intensiﬁed commissioned the Shandong seeds We aim to be an industry leader in health its focus on the sustainability of our processing project, where construction and safety standards and performance. operations. Just as The Good Growth Plan work began in early 2014. seeks to increase the sustainability of our Our illness and injury rate remained low offers in the ﬁeld by 2020, this work aims In Brazil, expansion at the Formosa seed in 2014, at 0.37 recordable incidents per to secure the long-term viability of our own processing site will enable us to meet future 200,000 hours (2013: 0.41) – resuming its activities. It is based on rigorous analysis corn seed demand, and we approved downward trend after a slight increase in over a period of some 18 months, investment in the Paulínia plant to support 2013. This was a good performance in a considering our business sustainability our major new fungicide, ELATUS™. In the year of intensifying activity that included an in its broadest sense – economic and USA, we completed corn seed processing increasing proportion of ﬁeld work, where social as well as environmental. capacity expansion at the Phillips site. injury rates tend to be higher. For more All active ingredient site expansion projects detailed performance data see “People” In reporting our progress here, we review were delivered safely, on time and budget, on page 55. economic factors – the investment in new and upgraded capacity, and the effective including key projects at Monthey and Kaisten in Switzerland and Huddersﬁeld Recordable illness and injury rate management of input costs – that secure in the UK. Further expansion continues per 200,000 hours our ability to meet future market needs at Huddersﬁeld, Monthey, and Nantong. 2014 0.37 efﬁciently and proﬁtably. We consider social factors: the way we protect and care for Several of our ﬁnished product processing 2013 0.41 our own people, and the way we earn the sites have started ‘lean’ initiatives to 2012 0.39 support of our neighboring communities. enhance operational excellence. Continuing And ﬁnally, we look at environmental lean programs at all eight global AI sites factors: as our business evolves, we Sadly, we recorded two fatalities in 2014. helped maintain their ability to deliver at are refocusing our efforts to reduce our One of our employees was traveling on high capacity. impact – applying deeper analysis and business on Malaysia Airlines ﬂight MH370, understanding of our emissions and use Our global sourcing team again achieved and a member of our technical support of resources. year-on-year savings, while continuing team in India was fatally injured to develop long-term strategies and in a motorcycle accident caused by a Our suppliers are an essential, and growing, relationships with key suppliers. Its third party when leaving a customer site. part of the way we create value. So we are Supplier Relationship Management involving them directly and explicitly in our We have programs in place to continuously program is building effective partnerships sustainability efforts as part of our improve the safety of our sales force when that offer long-term value to both parties – partnership with them. driving. These focus on communication delivering cost savings, supporting and awareness raising, driver training, continuous improvement activities, and improvement of vehicle ﬂeet standards, developing customer-of-choice status and performance monitoring. with key partners. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 35 In June 2014, our largest AI plant, at Earning the support In 2014, we introduced a global Community Monthey, completed a million hours without of our neighbors Engagement Policy to formalize standards a recordable incident following renewed Our operations are an integral part of local and expectations. This expands on the focus on safety procedures. This reﬂects economies and communities, both urban community commitments set out in our local leadership’s dedication to building and rural, in more than 90 countries Code of Conduct and Health, Safety and a safety culture based on our Goal worldwide. We aim to beneﬁt them in Environment (HSE) Policy and Standards. Zero mission. a variety of ways. It aims to guide a consistent approach to proactive involvement with all our local We take the security of our people, products, We provide economic beneﬁt by paying communities – to align interests, increase assets and information extremely seriously. taxes, employing locally, and sourcing mutual understanding, build relationships, As a global organization we are exposed to goods and services locally where and take joint action for mutual beneﬁt. a signiﬁcant and complex range of potential appropriate. Each year, we report this social risks – from counterfeiting of our products contribution as “economic value shared”. We rolled out the policy with a series to cybercrime. We aim to assess and In 2014, it totaled $ 14,982 million (2013: of workshops bringing together some address emerging security risks proactively, $ 14,864 million) – there is a detailed 300 people from 87 sites worldwide, before they become live issues, and we breakdown of this ﬁgure on page 58. representing around 20,000 employees train our local security staff in how to handle and third-party workers. The aim was emergencies to safeguard our people and Economic value shared to share experiences across sites and surrounding communities. In 2014, under $m geographies, as well as to enhance local our Security 360° program, our security 2014 14,982 capability to engage effectively. professionals evaluated 105 sites to 2013 14,864 We engage with communities in many determine risk levels and help develop different ways. Common themes include site-speciﬁc risk management plans. 2012 13,866 contributing to livelihoods through Counterfeiting of our products can be employment or vocational training and hazardous to users and the public. But our economic contribution is only part education, and working to improve the We have increased our resources for of the picture. For many years, we have local environment through better waste combating it, and in 2014 played an active made it a business priority to partner management, access to safe and clean part in securing seizures of some 178 tons directly with the local communities water, or improving habitats and of counterfeit and illegally imported wherever we operate – contributing to their land management. chemicals with an estimated retail value needs and responding to their interests and concerns. Good relationships are good Some activities are linked to our own of $ 17 million. for our business; we believe our business operations. For example, our Huddersﬁeld We constantly update the security that interests are best served when we listen site won the UK Chemical Industry’s protects our IT systems and websites from to local communities, share knowledge, 2014 Reputation Award for its open and hackers and cyber-attackers. In 2014, we protect the environment, promote health, imaginative two-way communication with successfully defended our main websites and improve the quality of life. local residents. This has included open site from three substantial attacks. days and visits to farms to demonstrate the plant’s contribution to agriculture. See detailed “Health, Safety, and Wellbeing” performance data on page 55 Read more about “Health, Safety, and Wellbeing” on www.syngenta.com/ar2014 36 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Operational performance Building trust with our neighbors While good neighborly relations are essential for the quality of life, building and maintaining them can be a challenge. The team at our manufacturing site in Goa, India, started a dialogue with the local villages to understand their needs. Together with the community, they agreed an action plan that focuses on a range of priority areas including sanitation, education and employment. In 2014, Syngenta supported more than 1,000 students with supplies and scholarships, and provided local smallholders with agronomic training. Overall, more than 4,000 families have already benefited from the program, and it has received the Corporate Social Responsibility Excellence Award from the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industries. Often our engagement is a response to Managing our As the company’s business model has local needs. For example, the team at environmental impact evolved over time – with greater emphasis our Goa site in India is actively engaging on outsourcing many activities, for Our future viability depends on using with neighbors and surrounding villages example – our focus needs to change resources efﬁciently and maintaining on issues such as sanitation practices, accordingly. External suppliers now our license to operate by minimizing waste management, employment and account for a very large part of our our external impacts. Deeper analysis income generation for youth, women’s environmental footprint. So we are focusing of these impacts is driving a more focused empowerment and eradication of malaria. more attention on the way we work approach to maximize the effectiveness The program has beneﬁtted more than together, to help them manage their of our environmental programs. 4,000 local families, and Syngenta is environmental impacts to achieve now considered a true partner of the While we have over 250 sites, some acceptable operational standards. community. The program was recognized 80 percent of all our environmental impact Syngenta’s environmental impacts are with the 2014 Syngenta Award for Health. comes from our eight AI manufacturing felt mostly in the areas of hazardous plants. So a key element of our sustainable See detailed “Economic value shared” performance waste, wastewater, and energy and water data on page 58 operations strategy is to concentrate effort consumption. We report our performance on these sites, where continuous Read more about “Economic value shared” both in absolute and intensity-based terms, improvement can achieve reduced on www.syngenta.com/ar2014 the latter expressed per dollar of sales. environmental impact. A review of each of these follows: for more detailed performance data see page 56. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 37 Waste and emissions New EU legislation requires all companies In addition, we are currently running trials in One of our major impacts is hazardous above a certain size to undertake energy Hungary and Brazil to assess efﬁcient water waste, generated mostly by our audit programs or implement an energy use and the role of irrigation technology on AI manufacturing sites. We aim to reduce management standard. We have extended our seed production farms. Together, these the waste generated during product our energy audit program to all our key sites will help us to better understand ways of manufacturing, or enable it to be converted worldwide. This will give us a more detailed reducing water stress while increasing yield or reused. This requires constant attention picture of their performance to date and reliability and improving product quality. to process optimization for both new and guide target setting and action plans Though use of non-contact cooling water existing products. We are working to from 2015. increased at Monthey, Switzerland, our develop regeneration, recycling and water usage intensity remained stable In 2014, we recorded an overall 6 percent waste minimization options. at 2.5 liters/$sales. decrease in energy intensity compared Our overall hazardous waste intensity to the previous year – primarily through Raising supply chain sustainability decreased by 3 percent compared signiﬁcant decreases at our St Gabriel, Our supply chain has a signiﬁcant impact to 2013. Although our Goa, India, site USA, and Huddersﬁeld, UK, sites. Energyon our operational sustainability, and has achieved a signiﬁcant reduction of saving initiatives at our sites in Monthey, particular signiﬁcance when we extend 31 percent in absolute terms, representing Switzerland, and Nantong, China, also it into new markets that are less likely to 16,677 tonnes, this was largely offset achieved reductions. Despite a signiﬁcant share our sustainability standards. by increases at Grangemouth in the UK, reduction in energy consumption by our own operations, the total CO2e emissions We partner with our suppliers to enable where we switched from biological intensity decreased by only 2 percent – them to meet our high production and treatment to incineration, which in this case due mainly to a 6 percent increase in quality standards, by identifying efﬁciencies has a better overall environmental impact. CO2 emissions from distribution. and improving processes. An important Energy use and carbon footprint part of our relationship with them is also to We have undertaken energy reduction CO2e emissions intensity ensure they meet high standards on health, programs at all our major sites in recent CO2e g/$sales safety and labor conditions. Our substantial years, and this remains a key focus area. 2014 114 health, safety, environment and quality In 2014, we were one of 187 companies (HSEQ) audit program is an integral part 2013 116 selected from nearly 2,000 by the carbon of our supplier selection process. 2012 111 disclosure organization CDP for In 2014, we carried out 72 assessments demonstrating a superior approach to at chemical suppliers, 156 at warehouse reducing carbon emissions and mitigating Water consumption and logistics service providers and 74 at the business risks of climate change. Syngenta has been collecting detailed formulation, ﬁll, and packaging suppliers Syngenta received a disclosure score water usage data for the past ﬁve years. and seed tollers. of 97 and a performance rating of A. However, this has focused predominantly on extracted volumes from our manufacturing sites and has not considered consumption by our seed production, toll manufacturing and toll suppliers. In 2015, a comprehensive water footprint analysis will give us the data to develop a new baseline and detailed action plans. This analysis will be undertaken by a third party, to give us an independent view of our current impact. 38 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Operational performance In 2014, we brought the supplier audit For assurance of safe and fair labor program for our chemicals operations conditions at our seed suppliers, we Business integrity more closely in line with our internal audits. developed a Syngenta fair labor program; We believe that building and maintaining Where suppliers are required to make the number of suppliers worldwide covered a culture of doing the right thing is key to improvements, we now agree more by this program and within the audit scope being a sustainably successful business. detailed and prioritized action plans of the Fair Labor Association (FLA) rose It is also the essential foundation on which including follow-up to ensure that actions from 22,895 to 28,361 over the year. The Good Growth Plan is built. are progressed and completed. The India program is currently undergoing FLA accreditation to conﬁrm that our We comply with all local, national and Based on the approach we use to assess international laws, codes and conventions, methodology meets the FLA requirements our chemical suppliers, we have enhanced and uphold the principles set out in the in full. India represents about 40 percent our processes for assessing formulation, Universal Declaration of Human Rights of our total seed supplier base. ﬁll and packaging suppliers and seed and the International Labor Organization’s toll manufacturing. We have developed Seed supply farms included in Core Conventions. Our Code of Conduct a standardized approach that we will Syngenta Fair Labor Program sets out clear ethical, environmental, and progressively introduce worldwide in 2015. social responsibilities for all employees; we 2014 28,361 In Europe, we have developed a training expect them to honor these and report any 2013 22,895 program for employees who are working suspected breaches. We also monitor our 2012 17,625 suppliers’ compliance with our standards with our third-party chemical suppliers to educate them on identifying hazards at and external regulations on issues such manufacturing plants and strengthen their Our logistics operations provide the links as health and safety, the environment, role in conveying the importance of HSEQ between our factories, warehouses, fair labor practices and animal welfare. to our suppliers. We will be expanding the and customers. Global logistics projects But we don’t stop there. Business integrity program in other regions in 2015. are currently underway to analyze and goes beyond compliance and risk optimize these links, not only to reduce management – and no formal system Recognizing our role in the development our carbon footprint, but also to ensure of rules and regulations can cover all of standards across the chemical industry, the traceability of our products. For eventualities. So we are evolving from a we have partnered with an industry example, in North America and Brazil, rules-based approach to one that reaches association in China to sponsor and we aim to reduce our footprint by deeper: a values-based culture of doing contribute to health and safety workshops. consolidating warehouses and optimizing the right thing. And we are working to instill We have also started a long-term initiative transportation routes. We are also the same respect for these values in our with key Chinese chemical suppliers to reviewing our use of rail transport. partners and suppliers. develop and implement best practice in process safety management. We continue See detailed “Sustainable operations” performance Speaking up for what’s right data on pages 56–58 to look at further opportunities to partner Our Speak Up campaign aims to foster a with industry. Read more about “Sustainable operations” on www.syngenta.com/ar2014 more open culture in which people feel able to talk freely with colleagues and managers about any concerns they may have. As part of this, we relaunched our Compliance Helpline in 2014 to offer information and guidance on possible courses of action as well as a channel for raising concerns. We have also provided a comprehensive toolkit of materials on our intranet, to help employees learn more about compliance and enable leaders to build it into everyday working life. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 39 We have been enhancing our risk Compliance cases reported assessment processes to make them more Public debates through the compliance helpline forward-looking – proactively considering From time to time, events and issues arise 2014 96 future risks, mitigation and response plans. that engage public interest and have a 2013 110 Getting our suppliers direct bearing on our business. They may 2012 58 involve risks to our reputation or our license on board to operate. And the interests of our various We want our suppliers and partners to stakeholders may not be aligned; different As a result, employees are now more join us in the evolution from rules-based groups may seek different, and often comfortable about voicing a concern to values-based compliance. conﬂicting, outcomes. personally before it becomes an issue. While the number of reports of potential During 2014, suppliers to sites in Thailand In such cases, we strive to ﬁnd ways compliance incidents raised through the and the Philippines joined local training of engaging with all the relevant interest Compliance Helpline in 2014 reduced and round-table discussions, ensuring groups to seek solutions through slightly to 96 (2013: 110), we have seen an that everyone received the same messages constructive discussion. increase in employees raising compliance from Syngenta in an open and transparent questions with Group Compliance Ofﬁcers way. This approach will be extended to In 2014, three such issues stood out as or their local managers. Our more sites in other countries in 2015. particularly salient: bee health, asynchronous systematic approach has also given us genetically modiﬁed (GM) seed approvals Furthermore, we have developed a general and resistance management. a better picture of the issues our people guide for third parties that sets out our are raising and how these are addressed. Bee health key positions and values, and what we Sharing our values expect from them beyond our contractual The health of bees and other pollinators standards. After thorough testing, it will has declined signiﬁcantly over the past We aim to train all our employees in our be available online from early 2015, 10–15 years across North America and Code of Conduct and the values that helping us to engage our partners in Europe. Campaigners who attributed this underpin it. We are working to ensure deeper conversations about what we to neonicotinoid pesticides, including our that every new recruit receives a copy stand for and what we seek from them. thiamethoxam, lobbied the EU for a twoof the Code of Conduct and completes year moratorium on these chemicals in the Code of Conduct e-learning course. See detailed “Business integrity” performance data on page 58 speciﬁc applications from December 2013. Managing compliance In 2014, a Task Force on Systemic Read more about “Business integrity” risk effectively on www.syngenta.com/ar2014 Pesticides set up by the International Union We have continued to strengthen and reﬁne for Conservation of Nature purported our governance framework. Compliance to show that regulatory agencies should and Risk Management Committees in all consider applying the precautionary territories mirror our global governance principle to further tighten regulations structure. They bring together leaders on neonicotinoids. In addition, Canadian of the Commercial organization, Human beekeepers ﬁled lawsuits seeking damages Resources, Finance, Legal and Taxes, from Syngenta and another manufacturer. Syngenta Business Services, Production and Supply, and Health, Safety and Environment, so that we can take a holistic view of compliance and risk. 40 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Operational performance We are contesting these lawsuits and Asynchronous approval of Syngenta has at all times acted in claims – and challenging the EU genetically modiﬁed seeds compliance with US laws and regulations, Commission’s partial moratorium on and believes that pending lawsuits relating Farmers cannot grow seeds with a new thiamethoxam – because all our research, to the marketing of AGRISURE VIPTERA® genetically modiﬁed trait until that trait has and many years of independent monitoring, are without merit. been approved by their national regulator. have shown that neonicotinoids do not And traders cannot export grain containing We are also facilitating the adoption of damage bee health when used properly. a trait into another country until the trait has beneﬁcial new technology by working with And farmers in the EU are increasingly been approved by that country’s regulator. partners. Our AGRISURE DURACADE® concerned that the moratorium is reducing Difﬁculties can arise when approval rootworm control technology is a valuable yields and forcing them to use older, less processes are not synchronized. tool in areas experiencing heavy rootworm effective chemicals. pressure. Growers using the trait can join A recent example is our AGRISURE However, we share public concern about our Right to Grow program under which VIPTERA® corn trait. Since it was approved bee health. Bees are vital to farming; falling Gavilon Grain, LLC guarantees to buy their for US cultivation in 2010, it has been pollinator populations are detrimental grain at market prices. approved for cultivation in six more to our business interests and those of our customers. The scientiﬁc consensus countries in North and South America – Resistance management and for import into the EU and 12 other As fast as humans devise ways to combat is that the health decline is due to a mix countries from Mexico to Japan. China had threats to their crops, pests and weeds of many factors, and we are supporting been accepting corn imports pending the evolve new ways to ﬁght back. Managing further research. approval we applied for in 2010; but in late resistance is an essential part of sustainable As part of a comprehensive action plan 2013 it stopped accepting US shipments intensive agriculture. with partners, we have implemented containing the AGRISURE VIPTERA® trait. a Bee Demonstration Farm Network It’s also an important discipline for our AGRISURE VIPTERA® was approved by industry, because resistance can make in the EU in oilseed rape. Together with China’s regulatory authorities at the end of good products prematurely obsolete. It’s machinery manufacturers, we are also 2014. However, the case has highlighted in our business interests to inform and evaluating prototype solutions to reduce the importance of aligning global regulatory educate farmers on how best to inhibit dust emissions in the ﬁeld. Our processes. Prompt adoption of effective the emergence of new forms of resistance. OPERATION POLLINATOR™ program new technology is essential to farm provides ﬂower seed mixes and agronomic Diversity is the key. Resistance is closely productivity and world food security. advice to help farmers create pollinator linked to monoculture and single weed So we are committed to all efforts aimed friendly areas. Over the past decade, this or insect management approaches. at aligning global regulatory processes. has supported substantial bee population So we work with growers to develop In the case of corn, we have joined with increases in 16 European countries, and solutions that combine multiple modes grower groups from North and South we are currently extending it across of action. These solutions integrate America in the MAIZALL initiative to align North America and South Korea. sustainable agronomic practices with grain producing nations’ use of technology Read more on with the regulatory processes of importers new and established chemistries and, www.plightofthebees.com and www.operationpollinator.com such as China. if appropriate, native or engineered seed traits and refuge-in-a-bag offers. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 41 The ﬂipside of the precautionary principle Triggered by a disputable publication on bee health, in 2013 the EU suspended the use of three neonicotinoid products, among them CRUISER® from Syngenta. When the suspension took effect, it hit oilseed rape farmers in the UK particularly hard: CRUISER® offers highly effective control of the flea beetle – a pest that literally grazes the crop. Faced with a plague of flea beetles, UK growers had to resort to older chemistry to contain the damage. They sprayed pyrethroids, which not only require more applications, but also come with resistance issues and higher costs in labor and machinery. As a result of the EU intervention, both the sustainability and the economic contribution of farming have suffered. This applies even with advanced products Sustainable pest control is underpinned such as the DURACADE™ trait. Though by sound science. So we continue to DURACADE™ itself incorporates two distinct support numerous collaborations with modes of action, we promote it as just one leading academic scientists in Australia, component in a corn rootworm control the USA, and many other countries to system, which combines sustainable develop simulation models, evaluate practices such as crop rotation with scenarios and design effective resistance protocols and protection products speciﬁed management practices. for local conditions. In the same way, to combat weed resistance – particularly glyphosate resistance – we rely on access to a choice of active ingredients, including paraquat. In Australia alone, paraquat prevents yield losses estimated at $ 1.8 billion a year. 42 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Performance data Regional performance In 2014, we achieved our integrated sales Signiﬁcant price increases offset around where there was also strong insecticide target of 6 percent at constant exchange half of the currency loss following the sharp growth due to severe caterpillar pressure in rates despite lower crop prices, unfavorable depreciation of the Russian ruble and the soybean, corn and cotton. Crop protection weather conditions in North America and Ukrainian hyrvnia. New SDHI fungicides for sugar cane was lower owing to drought a deliberate reduction in low margin sales made a notable contribution to growth during the summer and to lower ethanol of glyphosate. Emerging markets registered in the region, with SEGURIS® and prices affecting the proﬁtability of sugar double digit growth for the ﬁfth consecutive VIBRANCE® both increasing sales cane mills. Corn seed sales increased year despite the geopolitical uncertainty by more than 75 percent. slightly despite lower acreage and soybean in the CIS. was up sharply. Encouragingly, growth in Western Europe was also robust, with a particularly strong North America performance from our broadened fungicide Asia Paciﬁc Sales 1 $m portfolio. In Latin America, our new fungicide 2014 3,582 Sales 1 $m ELATUS™ achieved sales of more than 2013 3,848 2014 2,033 $ 300 million following its introduction in Brazil. This is the largest product launch 2012 3,931 2013 1,935 in Syngenta’s history, resulting in 2012 1,827 widespread grower recognition of the Sales were affected by prolonged cold product’s superlative performance temperatures in the ﬁrst half of the year Performance was robust in both emerging against soybean rust. which delayed the start of the US season and developed markets, with particularly and reduced insect pressure. In Canada, strong performances in South Asia, China cereals acreage was lower and demand and Australasia. Growth in fungicides Europe, Africa was further affected by ﬂooding. Nonreﬂected increased adoption of AMISTAR® selective herbicide sales in the region were technology in China and new launches in and the Middle East down as a result of the deliberate reduction South Asia. Vegetables growth was driven in glyphosate. In Seeds, soybean sales by further adoption of MAXVEG™ protocols Sales 1 $m were up due to higher acreage and as well as sweetcorn seed growth in China 2014 4,547 increased bulk shipments under an early and South Asia. Double digit sales growth 2013 4,223 order program. Corn sales were down in in GRAMOXONE® reﬂected tight supply and a context of reduced acres but demand higher prices, particularly in ASEAN; sales 2012 3,974 for AGRISURE VIPTERA®, for which in China were sharply lower in the second A strong full year performance saw growth Chinese import approval was secured half as government restrictions on liquid in all territories. The fourth quarter was in December, was sustained. paraquat formulations took effect. driven by the rapid expansion of our HYVIDO® hybrid barley solution, the consolidation of seeds acquisitions and Latin America by strong early demand for crop protection. The CIS registered good volume growth Sales 1 $m in both Crop Protection and Seeds, 2014 4,279 with a rebound in the fourth quarter. 2013 3,991 2012 3,713 Although irregular rainfall caused some delays in planting and crop protection consumption, sales were up by 9 percent, or by 15 percent excluding glyphosate. In Crop Protection, our new fungicide ELATUS™ recorded sales of more than $ 300 million following its launch in Brazil, 1 Excluding Lawn and Garden All sales commentaries are at constant exchange rates. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 43 Product line performance Crop Protection Insecticides trait DURACADE® was planted for the ﬁrst time in the USA under the “Right to Grow” Sales1 $m program. Corn seed sales in Europe Selective herbicides 2014 2,066 showed strong growth driven by the CIS. Sales1 $m 2013 1,912 2014 3,083 2012 1,841 Diverse ﬁeld crops 2013 3,051 Sales $m 2012 2,939 Insecticides showed good growth in all 2014 827 regions except North America, where sales 2013 842 Sales in Europe, Africa and the Middle East were affected by the late season and low were strong, with the mild winter in the ﬁrst pest pressure. DURIVO® continued its rapid 2012 719 half leading to increased weed pressure: expansion with sales now exceeding the sales of AXIAL® on cereals and BICEP™ II targeted $ 400 million. Strong pest pressure Full year sales growth was helped by a strong MAGNUM on corn were up strongly. In in soybean, corn and cotton, including the fourth quarter including the consolidation of North America some pre-emergent sprays spread of the Helicoverpa caterpillar, drove acquisitions in Europe. Sunﬂower sales were were missed in the ﬁrst half due to the late sales in Brazil. affected by reduced acreage in South East season, but sales of DUAL MAGNUM® for Europe but continued to expand in the CIS, corn were up strongly in the second half. Seedcare where there was also a recovery in sugar FUSILADE®MAX and FLEX® on soybean beet. In Asia Paciﬁc sales of rice increased performed well in the USA and in Argentina, Sales1 $m reﬂecting sales from the Devgen acquisition where weed resistance is spreading. 2014 1,115 as well as expansion in India. 2013 1,228 Non-selective herbicides 2012 1,107 Vegetables Sales1 $m Sales $m VIBRANCE®, based on our SDHI fungicide 2014 663 2014 1,445 sedaxane, continued its rapid expansion 2013 1,545 2013 708 with sales up by almost 50 percent. A 2012 1,246 reduction in sales of CRUISER® following 2012 682 the EU neonicotinoid suspension was Syngenta has decided to deliberately reduce partially offset by increased sales of CELEST®/ Excluding the divestment of Dulcinea Farms, low margin sales of TOUCHDOWN® (solo MAXIM®, particularly in the CIS. Seedcare sales were up 6 percent. Asia Paciﬁc saw glyphosate) and to focus on mixtures including sales were also affected by lower sales to double digit growth driven by sweetcorn and selective herbicides which can address the other seed companies in Latin America and peppers in China and South Asia. Rapid challenge of weed resistance. The impact on the USA, where reduced corn acreage and growth in the emerging markets of Africa sales in 2014 was approximately $ 150 million. plentiful seed supply affected demand. Middle East continued with expanding melon This was partly offset by good growth in and tomato penetration. In the CIS there was GRAMOXONE® with strong demand and tight strong demand for peas and melon. Excluding supply resulting in volume and price increases, Seeds Dulcinea, sales in North America were primarily in ASEAN and Latin America. up 3 percent and the developed markets Corn and soybean in Europe also returned to solid growth. Fungicides Sales $m Sales $m1 2014 1,665 2014 3,518 2013 1,654 2013 3,035 2012 1,836 2012 3,044 Sales in both North and Latin America The main contribution to growth came from reﬂected the shift from corn to soybean; in our new product ELATUS™, based on the addition, soybean sales in Brazil beneﬁtted active ingredient SOLATENOL™, for which from a new business partner strategy. Sales the ambitious ﬁrst year sales target in Brazil of our AGRISURE VIPTERA® corn trait were was exceeded. SEGURIS®, our SDHI steady at around 30 percent of US corn fungicide for cereals, performed well in seed sales. In Brazil, VIPTERA® accounts for Europe. AMISTAR® sales were lower in around half the portfolio and has unrivaled the Americas but grew strongly in Europe. success in addressing the pest spectrum 1 Includes sales of Crop Protection products to Seeds and there. Our new proprietary corn rootworm excludes non-product line sales 44 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Performance data Financial information Financial information A summary of Syngenta’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements and other ﬁnancial information is provided on pages 44 to 50. For full details and analysis of the Group’s audited ﬁnancial results, prepared in accordance with IFRS, please refer to our comprehensive Financial Report 2014, which is available on request or on our website www.syngenta.com/ar2014 References to EBITDA in the following ﬁnancial information excludes the impact of restructuring, impairment and discontinued operations.1 Summarized ﬁnancial information 2014 and 2013 Excluding restructuring Restructuring As reported and impairment 1 and impairment under IFRS Year ended December 31 ($ m, except per share amounts) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sales 15,134 14,688 – – 15,134 14,688 Gross proﬁt 6,955 6,702 (13) – 6,942 6,702 Marketing and distribution (2,497) (2,394) – – (2,497) (2,394) Research and development (1,430) (1,376) – – (1,430) (1,376) General and administrative (717) (667) (193) (179) (910) (846) Operating income 2,311 2,265 (206) (179) 2,105 2,086 Income before taxes 2,101 2,113 (206) (179) 1,895 1,934 Income tax expense (311) (323) 38 38 (273) (285) Net income 1,790 1,790 (168) (141) 1,622 1,649 Attributable to non-controlling interests (3) (5) – – (3) (5) Attributable to Syngenta AG shareholders: 1,787 1,785 (168) (141) 1,619 1,644 Earnings/(loss) per share ($)2 Basic 19.49 19.41 (1.83) (1.53) 17.66 17.88 Diluted 19.42 19.30 (1.82) (1.52) 17.60 17.78 2014 2014 2013 CER3 Gross proﬁt margin excluding restructuring and impairment 46.0% 45.6% 46.9% EBITDA4 2,926 2,895 EBITDA margin 19.3% 19.7% Tax rate on results excluding restructuring and impairment 15% 15% Free cash ﬂow 5 1,083 385 Trade working capital to sales6 34% 35% Debt/Equity gearing 7 27% 24% Net debt 7 2,423 2,265 Cash ﬂow return on investment 8 11% 13% 1 For further discussion of restructuring and impairment charges, see page 50. Net income and earnings per share excluding restructuring and impairment are provided as additional information and not as an alternative to net income and earnings per share determined in accordance with IFRS 2 The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue used to calculate the earnings per share were as follows: For 2014 basic EPS 91,674,127 and diluted 92,007,089; for 2013 basic EPS 91,952,222 and diluted 92,459,306 3 For a description of CER, see page 50 4 EBITDA is deﬁned on page 50 5 For a description of free cash ﬂow, see page 50 6 Period end trade working capital as a percentage of 12-month sales 7 For a description of net debt and the calculation of debt/equity gearing, see page 50 8 For a description of the cash ﬂow return on investment calculation, see page 50 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 45 Full year sales 2014 2013 Actual CER Year ended December 31 ($m) ($m) % % Group sales Europe, Africa and Middle East 4,547 4,223 +8 +11 North America 3,582 3,848 -7 -6 Latin America 4,279 3,991 +7 +9 Asia Paciﬁc 2,033 1,935 +5 +10 Total integrated sales 14,441 13,997 +3 +6 Lawn and Garden 693 691 – +1 Group sales 15,134 14,688 +3 +5 Crop Protection by region Europe, Africa and Middle East 3,312 3,033 +9 +11 North America 2,578 2,762 -7 -5 Latin America 3,769 3,499 +8 +10 Asia Paciﬁc 1,722 1,629 +6 +10 Total 11,381 10,923 +4 +6 Seeds by region Europe, Africa and Middle East 1,274 1,232 +3 +9 North America 1,044 1,140 -8 -8 Latin America 522 521 – +4 Asia Paciﬁc 315 311 +1 +6 Total 3,155 3,204 -2 +2 Sales by business Crop Protection 11,381 10,923 +4 +6 Seeds 3,155 3,204 -2 +2 Elimination of Crop Protection sales to Seeds (95) (130) n/a n/a Total integrated sales 14,441 13,997 +3 +6 Lawn and Garden 693 691 – +1 Group sales 15,134 14,688 +3 +5 Full year product line sales 2014 2013 Actual CER Year ended December 31 ($m) ($m) % % Selective herbicides 3,083 3,051 +1 +3 Non-selective herbicides 1,445 1,545 -6 -4 Fungicides 3,518 3,035 +16 +17 Insecticides 2,066 1,912 +8 +10 Seedcare 1,115 1,228 -9 -6 Other crop protection 154 152 +1 +4 Total Crop Protection 11,381 10,923 +4 +6 Corn and soybean 1,665 1,654 +1 +4 Diverse ﬁeld crops 827 842 -2 +4 Vegetables 663 708 -6 -5 Total Seeds 3,155 3,204 -2 +2 Elimination of Crop Protection sales to Seeds (95) (130) n/a n/a Lawn and Garden 693 691 – +1 Group sales 15,134 14,688 +3 +5 46 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Performance data Financial information Condensed consolidated income statement Year ended December 31 ($ m, except share and per share amounts) 2014 2013 Sales 15,134 14,688 Cost of goods sold (8,192) (7,986) Gross proﬁt 6,942 6,702 Marketing and distribution (2,497) (2,394) Research and development (1,430) (1,376) General and administrative: Restructuring (193) (179) Other general and administrative (717) (667) Operating income 2,105 2,086 Income from associates and joint ventures 7 48 Financial expense, net (217) (200) Income before taxes 1,895 1,934 Income tax expense (273) (285) Net income 1,622 1,649 Attributable to: Syngenta AG shareholders 1,619 1,644 Non-controlling interests 3 5 Net income 1,622 1,649 Earnings per share ($): Basic 17.66 17.88 Diluted 17.60 17.78 Weighted average number of shares: Basic 91,674,127 91,952,222 Diluted 92,007,089 92,459,306 All activities were in respect of continuing operations. Restructuring and impairment before taxes Year ended December 31 ($ m) 2014 2013 Accelerating operational leverage programs: Cash costs 49 – Non-cash impairment costs 14 – Integrated crop strategy programs: Cash costs 61 60 Operational efﬁciency programs: Cash costs 18 33 Non-cash impairment costs – 6 Acquisition and related integration costs: Cash costs 27 30 Non-cash items Reversal of inventory step-ups 13 – Reacquired rights – 11 Divestment losses – 4 Other non-cash restructuring and impairment: Non-current asset impairments 24 35 Total restructuring and impairment before taxes1 206 179 1 $ 13 million (2013: $nil) is included within Cost of goods sold Syngenta Annual Review 2014 47 Condensed consolidated balance sheet At December 31 ($ m) 2014 2013 Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 1,638 902 Trade receivables 3,698 3,445 Other accounts receivable 747 979 Inventories 4,861 5,576 Derivative and other ﬁnancial assets 377 195 Other current assets 244 249 Total current assets 11,565 11,346 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 3,562 3,506 Intangible assets 3,186 3,381 Deferred tax assets 1,008 960 Financial and other non-current assets 420 819 Associates and joint ventures 188 204 Total non-current assets 8,364 8,870 Total assets 19,929 20,216 Liabilities and equity Current liabilities: Trade accounts payable (3,472) (3,817) Current ﬁnancial debt and other ﬁnancial liabilities (1,329) (1,591) Income taxes payable (706) (687) Other current liabilities (984) (973) Provisions (216) (288) Total current liabilities (6,707) (7,356) Non-current liabilities: Financial debt and other non-current liabilities (2,976) (1,796) Deferred tax liabilities (665) (794) Provisions (676) (766) Total non-current liabilities (4,317) (3,356) Total liabilities (11,024) (10,712) Equity: Shareholders’ equity (8,889) (9,491) Non-controlling interests (16) (13) Total equity (8,905) (9,504) Total liabilities and equity (19,929) (20,216) 48 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Performance data Financial information Condensed consolidated cash ﬂow statement Year ended December 31 ($ m) 2014 2013 Income before taxes 1,895 1,934 Reversal of non-cash items 808 910 Cash (paid)/received in respect of: Interest and other ﬁnancial receipts 277 216 Interest and other ﬁnancial payments (483) (434) Income taxes (330) (292) Restructuring costs (26) (37) Contributions to pension plans, excluding restructuring costs (184) (128) Other provisions (70) (71) Cash ﬂow before change in net working capital 1,887 2,098 Change in net working capital: Change in inventories 326 (884) Change in trade and other working capital assets (332) (365) Change in trade and other working capital liabilities 50 365 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 1,931 1,214 Additions to property, plant and equipment (600) (625) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 39 24 Purchases of intangible assets (82) (75) Purchases of investments in associates and other ﬁnancial assets (38) (27) Proceeds from disposals of intangible and ﬁnancial assets 39 21 Acquisitions and divestments, net (87) (90) Cash ﬂow used for investing activities (729) (772) Increases in third party interest-bearing debt 2,272 714 Repayments of third party interest-bearing debt (1,556) (775) (Purchases)/sales of treasury shares and options over own shares, net (104) (93) Acquisition of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries – (39) Distributions paid to shareholders (1,032) (921) Cash ﬂow used for ﬁnancing activities (420) (1,114) Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents (46) (25) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 736 (697) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 902 1,599 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,638 902 Free cash ﬂow Year ended December 31 ($ m) 2014 2013 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 1,931 1,214 Cash ﬂow used for investing activities (729) (772) Cash ﬂow (from)/used for marketable securities (1) (7) Cash ﬂow used for acquisitions of non-controlling interests – (39) Cash ﬂow (from)/used for foreign exchange movements and settlement of hedges of inter-company loans (118) (11) Free cash ﬂow 1,083 385 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 49 Full year segmental results excluding restructuring and impairment Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia NonTotal Lawn and Total 2014 ($ m) Middle East America America Paciﬁc regional integrated Garden Group Sales 4,547 3,582 4,279 2,033 – 14,441 693 15,134 Cost of goods sold (2,167) (2,003) (2,492) (1,107) (92) (7,861) (318) (8,179) Gross proﬁt 2,380 1,579 1,787 926 (92) 6,580 375 6,955 Marketing and distribution (720) (564) (615) (314) (110) (2,323) (174) (2,497) Research and development – – – – (1,376) (1,376) (54) (1,430) General and administrative (161) (92) (77) (48) (307) (685) (32) (717) Operating income/(loss) 1,499 923 1,095 564 (1,885) 2,196 115 2,311 Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia NonTotal Lawn and Total 2013 ($ m) Middle East America America Paciﬁc regional integrated Garden Group Sales 4,223 3,848 3,991 1,935 – 13,997 691 14,688 Cost of goods sold (1,958) (2,169) (2,290) (1,041) (215) (7,673) (313) (7,986) Gross proﬁt 2,265 1,679 1,701 894 (215) 6,324 378 6,702 Marketing and distribution (676) (544) (594) (300) (104) (2,218) (176) (2,394) Research and development – – – – (1,320) (1,320) (56) (1,376) General and administrative (141) (61) (87) (54) (297) (640) (27) (667) Operating income/(loss) 1,448 1,074 1,020 540 (1,936) 2,146 119 2,265 Segmental operating income reconciled to segmental results excluding restructuring and impairment Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia NonTotal Lawn and Total 2014 ($ m) Middle East America America Paciﬁc regional integrated Garden Group Operating income/(loss) 1,456 901 1,069 560 (1,981) 2,005 100 2,105 Restructuring and impairment: Cost of goods sold 1 13 – – – – 13 – 13 Expenses 30 22 26 4 96 178 15 193 Operating income excluding restructuring and impairment 1,499 923 1,095 564 (1,885) 2,196 115 2,311 Operating margin (%) 33.0 25.8 25.6 27.8 n/a 15.2 16.6 15.3 Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia NonTotal Lawn and Total 2013 ($ m) Middle East America America Paciﬁc regional integrated Garden Group Operating income/(loss) 1,430 1,047 1,015 534 (2,037) 1,989 97 2,086 Restructuring and impairment 18 27 5 6 101 157 22 179 Operating income excluding restructuring and impairment 1,448 1,074 1,020 540 (1,936) 2,146 119 2,265 Operating margin (%) 34.3 27.9 25.6 27.9 n/a 15.3 17.2 15.4 1 Reversal of inventory step-up 50 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Performance data Financial information Constant exchange rates combinations and divestments, including Net debt reconciliation (CER) related transaction costs, gains and losses. Net debt comprises total debt net Recurring costs of normal business Results in this report from one period to of related hedging derivatives, cash operations and routine asset disposal another period are, where appropriate, and cash equivalents and marketable gains and losses are excluded. compared using constant exchange rates securities. Net debt is not a measure of (CER). To present that information, current Impairment includes impairment losses ﬁnancial position under generally accepted period results for entities reporting in associated with major restructuring as accounting principles and the net debt currencies other than US dollars are well as impairment losses and reversals measure used by Syngenta may not be converted into US dollars at the prior of impairment losses resulting from major comparable to the similarly titled measure period’s exchange rates, rather than at changes in the markets in which a reported of other companies. Net debt has been the exchange rates for the current year. segment operates. included as it is used by many investors CER margin percentages for gross proﬁt as a useful measure of ﬁnancial position The incidence of these business changes and EBITDA are calculated by the ratio and risk. The following table presents the may be periodic and the effect on reported of these measures to sales after restating derivation of the debt/equity gearing ratio: performance of initiating them will vary the measures and sales at prior period ($m) 2014 2013 from period to period. Because each exchange rates. The CER presentation Net debt 2,423 2,265 such business change is different in nature indicates the underlying business Shareholders’ equity 8,889 9,491 and scope, there will be little continuity performance before taking into account Debt/Equity gearing ratio 27% 24% in the detailed composition and size currency exchange ﬂuctuations. of the reported amounts which affect EBITDA performance in successive periods. Cash ﬂow return EBITDA is deﬁned as earnings before Separate disclosure of these amounts on investment interest, tax, non-controlling interests, facilitates the understanding of performance Cash ﬂow return on investment is a depreciation, amortization, restructuring including and excluding items affecting measure used by Syngenta to compare and impairment. Information concerning comparability. Syngenta’s deﬁnition of cash returns to average invested capital. EBITDA has been included as it is used restructuring and impairment may not be Gross cash ﬂow used in the calculation by management and by investors as a comparable to similarly titled line items in comprises cash ﬂow before change in supplementary measure of operating ﬁnancial statements of other companies. net working capital, excluding interest performance. Management excludes Free cash ﬂow and other ﬁnancial receipts and payments. restructuring from EBITDA in order to Invested capital comprises: total current Free cash ﬂow comprises cash ﬂow focus on results excluding items affecting assets, excluding cash and derivative and from operating and investing activities: comparability from one period to the next. other ﬁnancial assets; total non-current excluding investments in and proceeds EBITDA is not a measure of cash liquidity assets, excluding non-current derivative from marketable securities, which are or ﬁnancial performance under generally and other ﬁnancial assets and deﬁned included in investing activities; excluding accepted accounting principles and the beneﬁt pension assets, and adjusted to cash ﬂows from and used for foreign EBITDA measures used by Syngenta may reﬂect the gross book values of property, exchange movements and settlement not be comparable to other similarly titled plant and equipment and intangible assets; of related hedges on inter-company loans, measures of other companies. EBITDA total current liabilities, excluding current which are included in operating activities; should not be construed as an alternative ﬁnancial debt and other ﬁnancial liabilities; and including cash ﬂows from acquisitions to operating income or cash ﬂow as and deferred tax liabilities. of non-controlling interests, which are determined in accordance with generally included in ﬁnancing activities. accepted accounting principles. Free cash ﬂow is not a measure of ﬁnancial Restructuring and performance under generally accepted impairment before taxes accounting principles and the free cash Restructuring represents the effect on ﬂow measure used by Syngenta may not reported performance of initiating and be identical to similarly titled measures of enabling business changes that are other companies. Free cash ﬂow has been considered major and that, in the opinion included as it is used by many investors of management, will have a material effect as a useful supplementary measure of on the nature and focus of Syngenta’s cash generation. operations, and therefore require separate disclosure to provide a more thorough understanding of business performance. Restructuring includes the incremental costs of closing, restructuring or relocating existing operations, and gains or losses from related asset disposals. Restructuring also includes the effects of completing and integrating signiﬁcant business Syngenta Annual Review 2014 51 Performance data Non-ﬁnancial information At Syngenta, non-ﬁnancial information refers to We engage with and collect feedback from stakeholders in a variety of ways. quantitative and qualitative information on strategies, We listen to the grower community through satisfaction surveys and farmers’ policies or activities pursued towards our business, direct contact with our sales teams on the environmental and social goals. ground. We also engage directly with our employees and locally with the communities close to our operations. Our interaction with Our non-ﬁnancial performance is reported Corporate Responsibility industry associations, non-governmental throughout this Annual Review, quantiﬁed governance organizations, governments and the in the non-ﬁnancial performance summary investor community enables us to gather Our Board-level Corporate Responsibility on pages 53 to 58 and explained in feedback on our activities and monitor Committee, chaired by the Syngenta further detail in the Online Annual Report. issues important to stakeholders. We also Chairman, acts as the custodian on all Corporate Responsibility CR matters for Syngenta. At senior executive conduct research to better understand level, the Corporate Responsibility Panel consumers’ perception of topics associated Corporate Responsibility (CR) is integral directs CR-related standards, strategy, with agriculture and our industry. to our business. Our ambition is to bring greater food security to an increasingly objectives and partnerships, and the In particular, our stakeholders want to populous world in an environmentally Compliance and Risk Management know how our technologies and products sustainable way by creating a worldwide Committee reviews and advises on nonwill enable growers to deliver sustainably step-change in farm productivity. In The ﬁnancial reporting and the effectiveness the quality and quantity of food needed Good Growth Plan, we have set speciﬁc, of implementation of internal policies. by a growing population. Maintaining ambitious and measurable targets, which Materiality and soil fertility, using water efﬁciently and focus on boosting resource efﬁciency, stakeholder engagement conserving biodiversity while helping rejuvenating ecosystems and strengthening people in rural communities live better lives rural communities. We are also committed We regularly assess stakeholder concerns are priorities. Other important issues for us to developing our people, reducing and expectations, as well as the issues and our stakeholders are business integrity, our environmental footprint, enhancing that we believe present the greatest risks labor rights, supply chain sustainability, our social engagement, raising supply and opportunities for our business. We use environmental efﬁciency, health and safety, chain sustainability and doing business the results to drive our strategy, determine talent attraction and retention, and responsibly. Syngenta is guided by the allocation of resources and guide community engagement. conviction that short-, mediumand longour communication. term value creation depends on the Approach to successful integration of business, social non-ﬁnancial reporting and environmental performance. Non-ﬁnancial performance data are presented in four sections in the following pages, which align with the structure of this report: The Good Growth Plan, people, sustainable operations and Corporate business integrity. The structure has been Director Board of Responsibility modiﬁed compared to previous reports level Directors Committee to better represent our CR activities and, in particular, those of The Good Growth Plan. Senior Compliance and Corporate executive Risk Management Responsibility level Committee Panel 52 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Lorem ipsum data Non-ﬁnancial information Performance Our non-ﬁnancial reporting is for the – Rescue more farmland: We report – Look after every worker: We report operations of Syngenta Group, including on the number of hectares of ‘impacted on the number of seed supply farms material interactions with selected third farmland’ – land beneﬁting from included in the Syngenta Fair Labor parties as reported in the non-ﬁnancial sustainable soil management and use Program. Speciﬁcally, we report on the performance summary. Our non-ﬁnancial practices such as conservation tillage, number of farms included in the audit reporting is guided by the Global Reporting crop rotation and permanent ground scope of the Fair Labor Association (FLA). Initiative principles and externally assured cover. These practices improve soil The program assesses labor practices by PwC. The non-ﬁnancial reporting period fertility, drawing on state-of-the-art at the farms, including health and safety, is October 1 to September 30, with the scientiﬁc knowledge and assessments child labor, awareness of workers’ rights, exceptions noted. developed jointly with third parties. wages and beneﬁts, working hours, – Help biodiversity ﬂourish: Through harassment and abuse, and discrimination. The Good Growth Plan This year, in line with past practice, we this commitment, we aim to promote reporting also report on the number of health, healthy, functional and resilient In the ﬁrst year of The Good Growth Plan ecosystems. We therefore report on safety, environment and quality (HSEQ) reporting, our focus has been on laying the the number of hectares of ‘impacted assessments conducted at suppliers. foundation for a rigorous process. We have farmland’ – land beneﬁting from identiﬁed performance indicators, designed Intensity ﬁgures biodiversity enhancement practices. reporting processes and gathered data for Examples of such practices include We report on our environmental each commitment. We anticipate publishing multifunctional ﬁeld margins, restoration performance in absolute and intensityadditional indicators in the years ahead. and maintenance of managed forests, based terms. In the past, intensity ﬁgures We report progress in our Annual Report and agro-forestry. were normalized using $EBIT excluding and on The Good Growth Plan website. restructuring and impairment. In response – Empower smallholders: We report to stakeholder feedback, we use sales To measure progress in each of on the number of smallholder farmers ﬁgures ($sales) as the normalization factor The Good Growth Plan commitments reached indirectly through sales and from this year on. in 2014, we have carried out and report directly though our ﬁeld-force activities. on the following: More online: – Help people stay safe: We report on www.syngenta.com/ar2014 www.cr.syngenta.com – Make crops more efﬁcient: We have the number of people who attended safe www.goodgrowthplan.com established a network of reference and use training activities on the responsible www.questions.syngenta.com www.gri.syngenta.com benchmark farms, grouped in clusters handling and use of crop protection of homogeneous agro-climatic conditions products; these include farm workers, and grower characteristics. Reference farm owners, product distributors, farms use one or more Syngenta employees, and others who may have product(s) or recommended protocols contact with crop protection products. and have a direct link to Syngenta. We also provide information on the Benchmark farms are randomly selected percentage of smallholders trained. by an independent company and This year, in line with past practice, represent conventional grower practice we also report on the number of for each cluster. As the baseline year is countries with established toxicovigilance 2014, all clusters are reported as “≤0%” programs through which attending in land productivity, nutrient efﬁciency physicians can receive medical advice and pesticide efﬁciency. Moving forward, on treatment for health effects following we will report the percentage increase misuse of pesticides, whether accidental achieved in reference and benchmark or intentional. farms on a cluster basis compared to the baseline year. Further details are published online. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 53 Non-ﬁnancial performance summary The Good Growth Plan 2014 2013 2012 Make crops more efﬁcient 1 Total number of reference farms 860 – – Total number of benchmark farms 2,738 – – Total number of clusters 2 205 – – Reference farms’ performance Benchmark farms’ performance compared to baseline 2014 3 compared to baseline 2014 3 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Land productivity index: ≤0% 183 – – 183 – – >0 – <5% – – – – – – 5 – <10% – – – – – – 10 – <15% – – – – – – 15 – <20% – – – – – – ≥20% – – – – – – Nutrient efﬁciency index: ≤0% 183 – – 183 – – >0 – <5% – – – – – – 5 – <10% – – – – – – 10 – <15% – – – – – – 15 – <20% – – – – – – ≥20% – – – – – – Pesticide efﬁciency index: ≤0% 183 – – 183 – – >0 – <5% – – – – – – 5 – <10% – – – – – – 10 – <15% – – – – – – 15 – <20% – – – – – – ≥20% – – – – – – 1 2014 ﬁrst year of reporting 2 Number of clusters with either reference or benchmark farms 3 Number of clusters with both reference and benchmark farms per range of percentage increase in land productivity, nutrient efﬁciency and pesticide efﬁciency since the 2014 baseline. US Department of Agriculture data are used as baseline for both reference and benchmark farms in clusters located in the USA The table above presents the number of reference farms, benchmark farms and clusters in the network. It also outlines the distribution of percentage increases in land productivity, nutrient efﬁciency and pesticide efﬁciency on a cluster basis. A cluster presents homogeneous agro-climatic conditions and contains reference and/or benchmark farms with similar grower characteristics. Reference farms use one or more Syngenta product(s) or recommended protocols and have a direct link to Syngenta. Benchmark farms are randomly selected by a third-party research agency and represent conventional grower practice for each cluster. Reference farm and benchmark farm performance compared to baseline 2014 represents the distribution of percentage increases achieved in reference and benchmark farms compared to the baseline year on a cluster basis. The table is set up to show trends over time on reference and benchmark farms. As the baseline year is 2014, all clusters are reported as “≤0%” this year. 54 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Performance data Non-ﬁnancial performance summary The Good Growth Plan continued Cumulative since baseline 2014 2014 2013 2012 Rescue more farmland 1 Hectares of impacted farmland (m) 0.8 0.8 – – Help biodiversity ﬂourish 1 Hectares of impacted farmland (m) 0.7 0.7 – – Empower smallholders 1 Smallholders reached indirectly through sales (m) 15.3 – – Smallholders reached directly through ﬁeld force activities (m) 3.3 – – Help people stay safe People trained on safe use (m) 4.7 4.7 2.8 3.0 Of which: smallholders 1 74% – – Countries with established Syngenta product toxicovigilance programs 100 100 85 Crop Protection sales represented 93% 93% 92% Look after every worker Seed supply farms included in Syngenta Fair Labor Program 2 28,361 22,895 17,625 HSEQ assessments at chemical suppliers 72 86 74 HSEQ assessments at formulation, ﬁll and packaging suppliers and seed toll manufacturing 3 74 38 35 HSEQ assessments at warehouse/logistics service providers 156 157 115 1 2014 ﬁrst year of reporting 2 Number of farms in Fair Labor Association (FLA)’s audit scope 3 Seed toll manufacturing has been included since 2014 People 2014 2013 2012 Employment Employees 1 29,340 28,149 27,262 Europe, Africa and Middle East 2 13,300 12,763 12,417 North America 4,636 4,654 4,598 Latin America 4,945 5,221 5,095 Asia Paciﬁc 6,459 5,511 5,152 Part-time employees 948 976 975 Turnover rate 3 9.9% 14.1% 12.4% of which: <35 years 43% 43% 44% 35-50 years 41% 35% 35% >50 years 16% 22% 21% Attrition rate 4 5.5% 5.5% 6.0% Senior managers 359 366 334 Headquarters 42% 47% 50% Europe, Africa and Middle East 18% 13% 13% North America 18% 18% 19% Latin America 12% 12% 10% Asia Paciﬁc 10% 10% 8% Diversity Nationalities in senior management 40 41 38 Female employees 29% 30% 31% Female employees in management roles 21% 20% 20% Female employees in senior management 13% 13% 13% 1 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) 2 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 3 Including voluntary leavers, retirees and restructuring 4 Includes only voluntary leavers Syngenta Annual Review 2014 55 People continued 2014 2013 2012 Employee development 1 Training investment ($m) 29.8 27.1 24.6 Average training investment per employee ($) 2 1,015 964 901 Reward and recognition Employees eligible to participate in Employee Share Purchase Plan (ESPP) 18,779 18,790 16,561 of which: employees participating 43% 47% 46% Employees participating in long-term equity incentive plans 1,304 1,226 1,098 Health, safety and wellbeing Recordable injury and illness rate (IIR) per 200,000 hours 3 0.37 0.41 0.39 Recordable injury rate per 200,000 hours 3 0.33 0.35 0.35 Europe, Africa and Middle East 4 0.41 0.38 0.39 North America 0.54 0.64 0.87 Latin America 0.41 0.38 0.17 Asia Paciﬁc 0.10 0.15 0.16 Recordable occupational illness rate per 200,000 hours 3 0.04 0.07 0.03 Europe, Africa and Middle East 4 0.03 0.07 0.07 North America 0.02 0.14 0.00 Latin America 0.12 0.08 0.00 Asia Paciﬁc 0.01 0.02 0.03 First aid cases 420 623 693 Recordable injuries 5 145 148 144 Bruise, strain, sprain and dislocation 52% 44% 31% Cut and abrasion 19% 22% 30% Bone fracture 11% 15% 17% Concussion and internal injury 4% 1% 3% Multiple injuries 3% – – Other 11% 18% 19% Cases of recordable occupational illness 17 28 14 Cases of work-related stress 6 35 36 127 1 Includes only training delivered by external providers 2 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) 3 According to US OSHA deﬁnition for injuries and illness 4 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 5 New reporting system and injury categories introduced in 2014. 2013 and 2012 percentages were restated to align to new breakdown 6 The high value in 2012 is due in most cases to a change in shift pattern at our Monthey site in Switzerland. Following extensive consultation, a new shift pattern was implemented early in 2013 56 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Performance data Non-ﬁnancial performance summary Sustainable operations 2014 2013 2012 Energy Energy intensity (MJ/$sales) 0.66 0.69 0.66 Energy (TJ) 9,930 10,202 9,336 Gas (TJ) 3,946 4,050 3,936 Electricity (TJ) 2,460 2,459 2,347 Steam (TJ) 1,633 1,578 1,419 Oil (TJ) 854 975 703 Other (TJ) 1,037 1,140 931 Greenhouse gases Total CO2e emissions intensity (g/$sales) 114 116 111 Total CO2e emissions (000s tonnes) 1,730 1,710 1,574 Within direct control: CO2e emissions from own operations (000s tonnes) 620 634 665 CO2 emissions from company vehicles (000s tonnes) 75 76 68 Within indirect control: CO2e emissions from purchased energy (000s tonnes) 419 417 391 CO2 emissions from business trips (000s tonnes) 43 40 45 CO2 emissions from distribution (000s tonnes) 573 543 405 Other air emissions Other air emissions intensity (g/$sales) 0.099 0.103 0.100 Other air emissions (tonnes) 1,500 1,514 1,421 NOx (tonnes) 523 440 476 Non-halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 435 427 505 Halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 32 21 13 Particulates (tonnes) 101 105 108 SO2 (tonnes) 386 494 295 NH3 (tonnes) 6 8 8 HCl (tonnes) 17 19 16 Water Water usage intensity (liters/$sales) 2.5 2.5 2.4 Water usage (million cubic meters) 37.8 36.8 33.8 Cooling (million cubic meters) 1 21.2 19.4 18.0 Irrigation (million cubic meters) 7.0 7.6 6.5 Processing and washing (million cubic meters) 7.3 7.4 7.0 Product ingredient (million cubic meters) 0.3 0.3 0.2 Sewage and sanitary (million cubic meters) 1.0 1.1 1.0 Other (million cubic meters) 1.0 1.0 1.1 Origin of water: Surface fresh water (million cubic meters) 26.7 25.6 23.9 Underground water (million cubic meters) 7.7 7.8 7.1 Drinking water from municipal network (million cubic meters) 2.9 3.0 2.7 Recovered rain water (million cubic meters) 0.1 0.1 0.1 Saline water (million cubic meters) 0.4 0.3 0.0 1 Increase in 2014 value due to 9 percent increase in non-contact cooling water use in our Monthey production site because of increased production Syngenta Annual Review 2014 57 Sustainable operations continued 2014 2013 2012 Wastewater efﬂuents Industrial wastewater discharge intensity (liters/$sales) 0.66 0.74 0.71 Industrial wastewater discharge (million cubic meters) 10.0 10.8 10.1 Total organic carbon (TOC) (tonnes) 687 879 771 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) (tonnes) 2,059 2,679 2,337 Biological oxygen demand (BOD) (tonnes) 197 225 239 Total suspended solids (tonnes) 370 345 363 Soluble salts discharged (000s tonnes) 137 143 133 Direct discharge of uncontaminated cooling water (million cubic meters) 1 21.0 19.1 17.8 Waste Hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 15.6 16.0 13.4 Hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 236 235 190 Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 114 72 60 Incinerated (000s tonnes) 106 148 118 Landﬁll (000s tonnes) 1 3 1 Other (000s tonnes) 15 12 11 Hazardous waste by type: Chemical 59% 66% 65% Solvents 33% 27% 26% Other 8% 7% 9% Non-hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 9.4 9.0 7.7 Non-hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 2 143 132 110 Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 106 101 80 Incinerated (000s tonnes) 9 8 4 Landﬁll (000s tonnes) 20 17 19 Other (000s tonnes) 8 6 7 Non-hazardous waste by type: Plant and seed waste from seed sites 65% 66% 60% Inerts 4% 3% 5% Packaging materials 6% 7% 7% Household 5% 5% 5% Other 20% 19% 23% Environmental compliance Signiﬁcant unplanned releases 3 0 1 0 Security management Evaluated sites 4 105 70 72 Of which: production sites 41% 44% 39% 1 Increase in 2014 value due to 9 percent increase in non-contact cooling water use in our Monthey production site because of increased production 2 Increase in 2014 value due mainly to increased disposal of seeds 3 Releases that escape beyond the site boundary and cause either environmental impact and/or concern from neighbors, regulators, etc 4 Policy on security management reporting was revised: 2014 includes all evaluated sites. 2013 and 2012 include only sites in medium and high-risk countries 58 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Performance data Non-ﬁnancial performance summary Sustainable operations continued 2014 2013 2012 Economic value shared Economic value shared ($m) 14,982 14,864 13,866 Payments to suppliers 9,613 9,792 8,550 Employee wages and beneﬁts 2,888 2,828 2,710 Payments to governments (taxes) 1 366 405 345 Payments to providers of capital 2, 3 1,285 1,139 971 Capital expenditure 4 805 679 662 Corporate community investment 5 25 21 19 1 Consists of income and other taxes paid, excluding VAT (included in Payments to suppliers) and employment-related taxes (included in Employee wages and beneﬁts) 2 Consists of expenditures for dividends, share repurchases (excluding those for employee share plans) and interest on debt 3 Increase in Payments to providers of capital reﬂects an increased dividend payment in 2014 4 Increase in Capital expenditure reﬂects investment in production capacity and research and development facilities to support long-term growth objectives 5 The PwC Independent Assurance Report includes in its scope only the Corporate community investment ﬁgure used in the calculation of Economic value shared Business integrity 2014 2013 2012 Corporate conduct Compliance cases reported through the compliance helpline 1 96 110 58 Animal testing compliance Management system audits performed in contract laboratories 17 13 15 Management system non-compliances found 0 0 1 Biotechnology and regulatory compliance Employees completing trial regulatory compliance training 1,711 1,228 1,559 Trial locations requiring a permit 411 420 400 Trial inspections performed by Syngenta 203 272 278 Quality management 2, 3 Quality audits performed on own sites 97 83 91 Quality audits performed on third parties 4 83 496 89 1 This does not include cases reported through line management, HR or legal processes. 2013 increase reﬂects improved communication 2 In 2014 and 2013, reporting year ended September 30. In 2012, reporting year ended December 31 3 Further reﬁnement of the “quality audit” deﬁnition has resulted in a signiﬁcant decline in the number of audits performed. Starting 2014, “assessments” are no longer included in the reported value 4 The high value in 2013 is due to 411 audits in North America due to the wider introduction of a trait technology Syngenta Annual Review 2014 59 Independent Assurance Report on the Syngenta Non-ﬁnancial Reporting To the Head of Legal and Taxes, Syngenta non-ﬁnancial information selected contained Review of the documentation AG, Basel (“Syngenta”) in the Report 2014 is not stated, in all Reviewing the relevant documentation on a material respects, in accordance with the sample basis, including management and We have been engaged to perform reporting criteria. reporting structures and documentation; assurance procedures to provide assurance on the aspects of the non-ﬁnancial reporting We planned and performed our procedures Assessment of the processes 2014 of Syngenta included in the Annual in accordance with the International Standard and data consolidation Review 2014 (“Report”). on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) Reviewing the appropriateness of the “Assurance engagements other than audits management and reporting processes Scope and Subject matter or reviews of historical ﬁnancial information”. for non-ﬁnancial reporting. Assessing the Our limited assurance engagement focused This standard requires that we comply with consolidation process of data at the on the following data and information ethical requirements and plan and perform Group level. disclosed in the non-ﬁnancial reporting of the assurance engagement to obtain limited We have neither carried out any work in Syngenta and its consolidated subsidiaries, for assurance on the identiﬁed information. respect of projections and targets nor such the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2014: For the subject matter for which we provide outside of the agreed scope and therefore – The application of the Syngenta internal limited assurance, the nature, timing restrict our conclusion to the non-ﬁnancial Health, Safety and Environment (HSE), and extent of procedures for gathering reporting 2014 of Syngenta. Corporate Community Investment (CCI) sufﬁcient appropriate evidence are We believe that the evidence we have and The Good Growth Plan reporting deliberately limited relative to a reasonable obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to guidelines in the non-ﬁnancial reporting, assurance engagement. provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. in all material aspects; We have complied with the independence – the internal reporting system and and other ethical requirements of the Code Conclusion procedures, including the control of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued Based on our work performed and environment, to collect and aggregate by the International Ethics Standards Board described in this report on the identiﬁed nonnon-ﬁnancial data; for Accountants, which is founded on ﬁnancial reporting 2014 nothing has come – the Non-ﬁnancial Performance Summary fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, to our attention causing us to believe that disclosed on pages 53 to 58 of the Report. professional competence and due care, – Syngenta’s internal non-ﬁnancial reporting Our assurance procedures do not cover conﬁdentiality and professional behavior. guidelines are not being applied in all the indicators on payments to suppliers, During 2014 we have not performed any material aspects; employee wages and beneﬁts, payments tasks or services for Syngenta that would – Syngenta’s internal reporting systems to governments and providers of capital, conﬂict with our independence, nor have to collect and aggregate non-ﬁnancial and capital expenditure presented in the we been responsible for the preparation data are not functioning as designed Non-ﬁnancial Performance Summary on of any part of the report; and therefore and provide an appropriate basis for its page 58 of the Report. qualify as independent as deﬁned by disclosure in all material aspects; and Code of Ethics and applicable legal and Criteria – data and information mentioned in the regulatory requirements. The reporting criteria used by Syngenta are subject matter and disclosed with the described in the internal non-ﬁnancial Summary of work performed non-ﬁnancial reporting in the Syngenta reporting guidelines and deﬁne those Annual Review 2014 on pages 53 to 58 Our assurance procedures included, procedures, by which the non-ﬁnancial does not give a fair picture of Syngenta’s amongst others, the following work: performance data are internally gathered, non-ﬁnancial performance. collated and aggregated. Evaluation of the application of Group guidelines The accuracy and completeness of nonReviewing the application of the Syngenta ﬁnancial performance indicators are subject internal non-ﬁnancial reporting guidelines; to inherent limitations given their nature and methods for determining, calculating and Site visits estimating such data. Our assurance report Visiting seven different sites in China, France, should therefore be read in connection with Hungary and Switzerland (Regional Ofﬁces, PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Syngenta’s internal guidelines, deﬁnitions Research and Development, Seeds, Zurich, February 16, 2015 and procedures on the reporting of its Active Ingredients and Crop Protection). Gerd Tritschler non-ﬁnancial performance. The selection was based on quantitative Jonas Buol and qualitative criteria; Responsibilities and Interviewing personnel responsible for Methodology internal reporting and data collection at The Board of Directors of Syngenta AG is the sites we visited and at the Group level; responsible for both the subject matter and the criteria as well as for the selection, Assessment of the preparation and presentation of the selected performance indicators information in accordance with the criteria. Performing tests on a sample basis of Our responsibility is to form an independent evidence supporting the Non-ﬁnancial opinion, based on our limited assurance Performance Summary relative to procedures, on whether anything has come completeness, accuracy, adequacy to our attention to indicate that the identiﬁed and consistency; 60 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Board of Directors at December 31, 2014 Syngenta is led by a strong and experienced Board of Directors. The Board includes representatives with eight nationalities, drawn from broad international business and scientiﬁc backgrounds. Its members bring diversity in expertise and perspective to the leadership of a complex, highlyMichel Demaré Michael Mack regulated, global business. Chairman of the Board, non-executive Director. Chief Executive Officer (CEO), executive Chairman of the Chairman’s & Governance Director. Member of the Chairman’s & Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Governance Committee and the Corporate Committee and the Nomination Committee. Responsibility Committee He is also Chairman of the Syngenta Born: 1960. Nationality: American. Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture Initial appointment: 2008. Born: 1956. Nationality: Belgian. Initial appointment: 2012. Jürg Witmer Vinita Bali Stefan Borgas Vice Chairman, non-executive Director. Non-executive Director. Member of the Non-executive Director. Member of the Chairman of the Compensation Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee Audit Committee member of the Chairman’s & Governance Born: 1955. Nationality: Indian. Born: 1964. Nationality: German. Committee and the Nomination Committee Initial appointment: 2012. Initial appointment: 2009. Born: 1948. Nationality: Swiss. Initial appointment: 2006. Gunnar Brock Eleni Gabre-Madhin David Lawrence Non-executive Director. Chairman of the Non-executive Director. Member of the Non-executive Director. Member of the Audit Audit Committee and member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Committee and Chairman of the Science and Nomination Committee Born: 1964. Nationality: Swiss. Technology Advisory Board Born: 1950. Nationality: Swedish. Initial appointment: 2013. Born: 1949. Nationality: British. Initial appointment: 2012. Initial appointment: 2009. Eveline Saupper Jacques Vincent Non-executive Director. Member of the Non-executive Director. Member of the Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Born: 1958. Nationality: Swiss. Born: 1946. Nationality: French. Initial appointment: 2013. Initial appointment: 2005. Syngenta Annual Review 2014 61 Executive Committee at December 31, 2014 Under the leadership of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (CEO), the Executive Committee is responsible for the active leadership and the operative management of the Company. It consists of the CEO, the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer (COO) EAME & Latin America, the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer (COO) APAC & North America, the Chief Michael Mack John Atkin Financial Ofﬁcer (CFO), the Head Chief Executive Officer (CEO), executive Chief Operating Officer Research & Development, the Head Director. Member of the Chairman’s & Global Operations, the Head Legal & Born: 1953. Nationality: British. Governance Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee Appointed: 2000. Taxes, the Head Human Resources and the Head Corporate Affairs. Born: 1960. Nationality: American. Appointed: 2008. Caroline Luscombe Christoph Mäder Patricia Malarkey Head Human Resources Head Legal & Taxes and Company Secretary Head Research & Development Born: 1960. Nationality: British. Born: 1959. Nationality: Swiss. Born: 1965. Nationality: British/American. Appointed: 2012. Appointed: 2000. Appointed: 2014. Mark Peacock Davor Pisk John Ramsay Head Global Operations Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Born: 1961. Nationality: British. Born: 1958. Nationality: British. Born: 1957. Nationality: British. Appointed: 2007. Appointed: 2008. Appointed: 2007. Jonathan Seabrook Head Corporate Affairs Born: 1969. Nationality: British. Appointed: 2013. Read full biographies: Corporate Governance Report and Compensation Report on pages 06–09 and 13–14 62 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 Shareholder information Shareholder information Syngenta shares are listed on the Syngenta share price performance January 1, 2014 – December 31, 2014 SIX Swiss Exchange and on the (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2013) Dec 31, 2014 New York Stock Exchange, where % CHF320.00 15 the shares are traded as ADS High: CHF363.00 * (American Depositary Shares).1 10 Low: CHF283.50 Trading symbols 5 New York SIX Swiss Stock 0 Exchange Exchange -5 Shares SYNN SYT -10 Shares in issue -15 At December 31, 2014 Number of shares -20 Total shares in issue 92,945,649 of which treasury shares 1,286,312 -25 -30 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Share price and market capitalization 2 Syngenta Eurotop 300 SMI * Closing high/low during the year At December 31, 2014 Share price (CHF) 320.00 Syngenta ADS price performance January 1, 2014 – December 31, 2014 Share price ($) (ADS) 64.24 (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2013) Dec 31, 2014 Market capitalization (CHF million) 29,331 % $ 64.24 15 Market capitalization ($ million) 29,654 High: $ 79.66 * Low: $ 59.27 10 Dividend history 5 CHF 0 2010 7.00 -5 2011 8.00 -10 2012 9.50 -15 2013 10.00 -20 2014 3 11.00 -25 1 1 share = 5 ADS 2 For the purposes of calculating market capitalization the -30 number of shares stood at 91.7 million Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 3 To be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Syngenta ADS S&P 500 Dow Jones * Closing high/low during the year Annual General Meeting on April 28, 2015 Reporting dates First quarter trading statement April 17, 2015 Annual General Meeting April 28, 2015 Half-year results July 23, 2015 Third quarter trading statement October 15, 2015 A full form 20-F is accessible at: www.syngenta.com/ir Investors can subscribe to media releases by email or via RSS at: www.syngenta.com/ir The full year results press release can be viewed up to six months after the event at: www.syngenta.com/fyr-2014 Syngenta Annual Review 2014 63 Syngenta share price performance January 1, 2010 – December 31, 2014 (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2009) Dec 31, 2014 % CHF320.00 CHF273.50 CHF275.00 CHF366.60 CHF355.20 50 40 30 20 10 0 -10 -20 -30 Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Syngenta Eurotop 300 SMI Syngenta ADS price performance January 1, 2010 – December 31, 2014 (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2009) Dec 31, 2014 % $64.24 $58.78 $58.94 $80.80 $79.94 90 75 60 45 30 15 0 -15 -30 Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Syngenta ADS S&P 500 Dow Jones Total shareholder return 1 January 1, 2005 – December 31, 2014 FTSE EU Chemicals Syngenta ADS Syngenta share S&P US Chemicals NASDAQ S&P 500 SMI Eurotop 300 0 50 100 150 200 250 300% 1 Share price appreciation plus reinvested dividends, indexed to closing price on December 31, 2004 Switzerland For the business year 2014, Syngenta has Investor Relations published three books: the Annual Review 2014 T +41 61 323 5883 (including information about our non-ﬁnancial F +41 61 323 5880 performance), the Financial Report 2014, E global.investor_relations@syngenta.com and the Corporate Governance Report and Compensation Report 2014. Media Relations T +41 61 323 2323 All documents were originally published F +41 61 323 9044 in English. The Annual Review 2014 and E media.relations@syngenta.com the Corporate Governance Report and Compensation Report 2014 are also Share Register available in German. T +41 41 798 4833 F +41 41 798 4849 These publications are also available E syngenta@devigus.com on the Internet: www.syngenta.com Shareholder Services © 2015 Syngenta AG, Basel, Switzerland. T +41 61 323 2121 All rights reserved. F +41 61 323 5461 Editorial completion: February 2015 E shareholder.services@syngenta.com Copywriting: KainesLang, Ordering of publications Berwick-upon-Tweed, UK T +41 61 323 2121 E shareholder.services@syngenta.com Design and production: Radley Yeldar, London, UK Syngenta switchboard T +41 61 323 1111 Printing: Stämpﬂi Ltd., Bern, Switzerland F +41 61 323 1212 E global.webmaster@syngenta.com Printed on Hello Silk, made with wood ﬁber from managed forests and manufactured at USA a mill that has achieved the ISO14001 and EMAS Investor Relations environmental management standards. T +1 202 737 3520 T +1 202 737 6521 Image on page 13 courtesy of staff E global.investor_relations@syngenta.com members, Kensington North Water Sheds Association, Canada. Media Relations T +1 202 737 8913 ® Registered trademarks of a Syngenta E media.relations_us@syngenta.com Group Company Contacts for ADS holders ™ Trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company T +1 888 269 2377 – from within the USA The SYNGENTA Wordmark, BRINGING PLANT T +1 201 680 6825 – from outside the USA POTENTIAL TO LIFE and the Purpose Icon E shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com are registered trademarks of a Syngenta Syngenta AG Group Company. Corporate Affairs Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking Schwarzwaldallee 215 statements: This document contains forwardP.O. Box looking statements, which can be identiﬁed by CH-4002 Basel terminology such as “expect”, “would”, “will”, Switzerland “potential”, “plans”, “prospects”, “estimated”, www.syngenta.com “aiming”, “on track” and similar expressions. Such statements may be subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from these statements. We refer you to Syngenta’s publicly available ﬁlings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for information about these and other risks and uncertainties. Syngenta assumes no obligation to update forwardlooking statements to reﬂect actual results, Syngenta supports the changed assumptions or other factors. 10 principles of the United This document does not constitute, or form Nations Global Compact part of, any offer or invitation to sell or issue, through an established or any solicitation of any offer, to purchase commitment to Corporate or subscribe for any ordinary shares in Responsibility and ongoing Syngenta AG, or Syngenta ADSs, nor implementation of shall it form the basis of, or be relied on policies on human rights, in connection with, any contract therefor. fair labor, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Article number 017220.040
