2014 UN Global Compact Communication 1. INTRODUCTION on Progress (CoP) 2013 TIMA GmbH is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and antiactivities in 2011. We have thus far communicated our efforts and achievements in different areas of our website, and would hereby like to call your attention to these areas according to the structure suggested by the Communication on Progress (CoP) Guidelines.  See: http://www.tima-gmbh.eu 2. LETTER OF SUPPORT TIMA International GmbH 1. INTRODUCTION TIMA GmbH is signatory to the Principles United Nations Global Compact and several initiatives as C4C, Water Mandate, B4E and since 2013 also in B4P, Business for Peace, a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate partnering with cross cultural business integrity sharing responsibility in human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. After having joined the GC in 2006, this sixth TIMA Communication on Progress (CoP) is covering our activities in 2013. We have thus far communicated our efforts and achievements in different areas of our website, and would hereby like to call your attention to these areas according to the structure suggested by the Communication on Progress (CoP) Guidelines.  See: http://www.tima-gmbh.eu 2. LETTER OF SUPPORT 2013 — DESIGNING AND DEVELOPING PARTNERSHIP PROJECTS At TIMA we are committed to the international 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Our company develops strategies and structures in our daily works for and with enterprises of all sizes and from all cultures. In our efforts to build partnerships between German and Asian companies we strive to contribute to exploring the joint challenges of market paradigms, to harmonize our solutions with the local primacy of politics, to consider and attract the international capital shift, and to deliver reliable entrepreneurial and political value strategies. Against this backdrop, TIMA has worked on several issues and in several sectors in 2013: PARTNERING TO MEET UN GLOBAL COMPACT LEAD REQUIREMENTS For fair and responsible economic participation in globalization and regionalization processes, TIMA and our clients’ enterprises offered to share sophisticated modern entrepreneurial, legal and governmental know how related to public private forms of cooperation. Large scale partnering proved pivotal in levelling GC LEAD requirements and is part of our individually tailored strategy for our clients. One example was our strategy for better health care and patients’ safety through infrastructure services via worldwide logistics for hospitals in Vietnam and other countries of Southeast Asia. The strategy was deliberately tied to the UN global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and aimed at contributing to the UN Leaders’ Summit motto, “Architects of a better world”, held in New York City, September 2013. PARTNERING TO MODERNIZE PUBLIC HEALTH CARE IN VIETNAM Throughout 2013, TIMA and one of our MNE clients continued to work on the transfer of best practice solutions on public health care modernization from the social market economy of Germany to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Operative and systemic options on how to manage public hospitals within a national PPP framework -2were used to contribute to peoples’ health security in Vietnam while striving to meet the UN Global Compact Lead requirements for responsibility on inclusion and affordability. The strategy was additionally embedded into the frameworks of the German-Vietnam strategic partnership. In order to harmonize our Western business model(s) with local legislation, rules, norms and procedures, TIMA involved the Peoples’ Committees into the exchange on its partnering strategy for the modernization of Vietnam’s public hospitals. The resulting process of in-depth discussion and decision-making – ongoing by the end of 2013 was chosen with particular regard to achieving a sustainable quality implementation later on. PARTNERING FOR CLEAN AND GREEN HOSPITALS PRIORITIES OF THE POST 2015 MDGS In our many meetings on improving public health care, we included the goals of making such hospitals cleaner and greener, with specific national mitigation and financial adaptation for a circular economy. Our strategy aims at achieving such goals via PPPs both in the rural provinces and in the big cities. Here, too, an adjustment of the current Vietnamese PPP legislation will be essential for sustainable change and success. BALANCED PARTNERING BETW EEN SMES AND MNES In September 2013, TIMA shared its balanced partnership strategies on energy mix with the energy sector from Brazil. Our strategies on ESG and sustainability in cities, states, and corporations were shared with Caribbean and Latin American participants of the Global Compact City Program. TIMA strategies on B4E in China, on lowering carbon emissions, on woman empowerment, on food waste, on labor, on corporate water stewardship and Post 2015 SDGs were discussed with the corporate sector, international foundations, issue specific UN organizations and UN GC initiatives at the UN GC Leaders’ Summit. Such expert exchanges allowed us to successfully empower and provide our SME clientele with reliable strategies for balanced partnering with global level MNE players. INTERNATIONAL PARTNERING FOR BUILDING A BIO-ECONOMY In the business communities in Germany and Malaysia, TIMA International was a vital driver and supporter of the German – Malaysian Society e.V. and its project for international partnering on bio-economy. German and Malaysian hidden champions and SMEs were offered a platform to explore and form partnerships among experts, associations and corporations specialized on biotechnology. This way TIMA contributed to accelerating the cooperation between the national and also the EU and ASEAN markets, to growth and product availability, and finally, to the benefit of the people in both regions. Our activities were appreciated by the Prime Minister of Malaysia by inviting me as International Advisor to his International Advisory Panel (IAP) on Biotechnology. -3BUSINESS PARTNERING FOR PEACE Another highlight of the New York UN GC Leaders’ Summit 2013 was the launching ceremony of the Business for Peace (B4P) initiative. As one of the first two German signatories, TIMA International joined this important initiative and decided to develop a strategy and project within the frameworks of this initiative in 2014. PARTNERING STRATEGIES FOR AFRICA I was honored to share my partnership experience with the UN Secretary-General on 20th September 2013 at the UN Private Sector Forum 2013 for Africa. With entrepreneurs and political leaders from the African Union, the UN Global Compact and the African Development Bank at the table, TIMA listened and learned on specifically African issues related to the entrepreneurial environment in the sectors of mining, raw materials trading, energy mix vitals, and engineering services. As a result, TIMA started to develop industrial strategies for the short-term decrease of capital intensity, for easing investments on higher added-value pay-offs, and for partnership management. PARTNERING WITH FOUNDATIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Finally, we also started to discover the importance of partnering for exchange with the Foundations in the UN Global Compact. Such debates have increased our awareness of the requirements and demands of the philanthropic sector and helped us create new strategies for partnerships on sustainable development that meet future global challenges to politics, enterprises and civil societies with sophisticated strategies. Our continuous development of tailor-made strategies for successful partnering is embedded in our corporate policy of integrity which is reflected in our TIMA Code of Conduct and complemented by our credo for cultural and human diversity and partnership in leadership. Dr. Achim Georg Deja – President CEO of TIMA GmbH International -43. PRACTICAL ACTIONS AND MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES FOR THE 10 PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact (UN GC) is a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The GC asks companies to embrace, support and enact 10 principles of conduct within their sphere of influence. The UN GC principles in partnerships for regionalization Businesses in partnerships should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights. Principle 2 Businesses in partnerships should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses in partnerships should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Principle 3 of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses in Partnerships should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Principle 4 labour. Principle 5 Businesses in partnerships should support the effective abolition of child labour. Businesses in partnerships should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of Principle 6 employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses in partnerships should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Businesses partnerships should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 responsibility. Businesses in partnerships should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies. Businesses in partnerships should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 10 bribery. The Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from:  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights  The International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development  The Nairobi SDG’s Report – the post-2015 development agenda and sustainable Development Goals  The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Find out more on the UN Global Compact at: http://www.unglobalcompact.org -53.1 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS (PRINCIPLES 1-6) Progress Respect for human rights and fair labor standards have been part of the corporate culture, a culture that TIMA GmbH and its staff live on a day to day basis. This is also formally reflected in our Business Guidelines. Those guidelines are mandatory for all our employees and business partners. We seek to promote these values in our sphere of influence. Through participating in the process of defining and developing standards within the ISEAL in 2012 we have been able to offer rules and guidelines to our clients in PPPs on trade, manufacturing and services thus ensuring best of communication in our new “Quadruple A” strategy, combined with “SustainMan”, on managing climate risks in value chains and partnerships. TIMA International has aimed at and will further strengthen the UN Global Compact’s credibility by developing core economic business models with explicit consideration of human rights and labor standards. In 2013, with progress in Vietnam’s decision-making process on TIMA’s 2012 partnership strategy for Vietnam’s health care sector modernization, TIMA further developed its client project and offered a new sophisticated health care management approach that integrated structures, transparency and accountability and strove to ensure affordability and inclusiveness for all Vietnamese citizens. TIMA developed its business approach/model in line with its client’s goals, capabilities and capacities while harmonizing envisaged efficiency and profitability with UN GC sustainability goals, and TIMA cross cultural practice and principles on integrity. In all steps, the Ten UN GC Principles and integrity rules were embedded, applied and realized in real time practice by our client. TIMA additionally involved the People’s Committees and ministries to share the benefits of modern regulatory guidelines as practiced in the social market of Germany and requested by the UN GC for responsible investment. The result was the TIMA Sophisticated Sustainability Services partnership package with a particular focus on capital shift and standards in response to the demands of foundations and philanthropic organizations. Beyond learning from former international projects in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Africa also within the UN GC Partnerships and National Networks (Europe, Asia, Africa, Latin America, North America, C4C, Water Mandate, Sustania, B4P, UNEP, UN DASA, UNCTAD), the Senior TIMA Management in 2013 used its own and its client’s knowledge and experience for developing a framework proposal for common business rules in the process of a German-Vietnamese partnership, for designing a transparent PPP driven by the social market economy paradigm, and for the modernization of the Vietnamese public hospitals in cooperation with the Ministry of Health of Vietnam. As regards progress on the principles 1 to 6, TIMA supported the UN GC Women’s Empowerment Principles and continued to expand the exchange in circles with executives from industry and especially family driven enterprises in Germany. Best-of-the-class-multi-diversity-management with local integrity standards is vital for the Within TIMA general commitment to advance gender equality, TIMA promulgated this goal both in its own presentations and strategy proposals for its clients and by participation in expert rounds on women in decision-6making processes and women’s leadership such as in the “Red Salon.” Multi-diversity-management with a deliberate strive for gender equality will be essential for sustainable development and success of any company with multicultural human resources and has been pushed forward within TIMA as well as in our projects with our clients. Finally, the TIMA PPP Business strategies for the emerging Asia-Pacific economy emphasized the importance of local stewardship in society and business, as well as respect and protection of human rights standards on the way towards measurable improvement. 3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS (PRINCIPLES 7-9) Progress Throughout 2013, TIMA continued to follow UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon’s special appeals to support UN efforts for sustainability and climate protection by working with national governments to adopt smart regulatory frameworks, to forge a global policy framework, to reward environmental and social performance, to support the UN GC initiative on Climate Change, and by initiating or fostering autonomous business and investors’ engagement for balanced global agreements. During the UN Corporate Sector Sustainability Forum, TIMA exchanged with UN GC LEAD on its catalogue of actions:  Striving for a coherent world with business connectivity and business contents driven by TIMA business strategies;  Sharing and publicizing TIMA strategies for individualized pathways to prosperity through entrepreneurial partnering and public – private partnerships that strengthen local autonomous enterprises;  Sharing and promoting UN B4E skill and C4C principles in all partnerships and strategies aiming to connect global regions;  Exchanging on creative added values in an architecture of the future related to marketization, monetization, commercialization with regional regulation and attractive global performance for a measurable socio-economic shift ;  Promoting industry and trade strategies that enable and foster local matching with high-tech added value provided by skilled human capital in SMEs and national hidden champions, adding high-end engineering and service skill transfer for upscaling middle class in emerging markets;  Sharing TIMA Trusted Partnership processes in trade and industry meeting the requirements of the future: paradigm management, sophisticated industrial subsidiarity, advanced infrastructure logistics services, industrial bundling for partnering with technical, social and financial data providers, global connectivity provision for real value security and safety in business projects in emerging markets benefitting governments, business and consumers;  Developing TIMA solutions for responsible partnering on advanced services in health and energy for Africa. -7We also had the privilege to become partner for expert exchange on downstream strategies, for development of large scale clean and green energy-mix in regional transformation and upcoming new energy market structures in the Trans-Pacific region. Within TIMA we have:  further detailed our sophisticated cross sector contributions, TIMA GlobalCon and TIMA Sustain Man, for individualized transformation in high efficiency infrastructures in developing countries;  continued our campaign against unsolicited advertising, faxing and mailing in order to reduce unnecessary paper consumption and CO2 emission by modernized technology and smart paperless communication;  pushed forward our social performance initiative for a comprehensive mobility managing including office use, teleand videoconferencing, rail, car, ship and airplane for TIMA internal and external communication in local, regional and transcontinental events, projects and business with clients, in an approach that will be fully introduced in 2014/15 with ongoing use of zero CO2 systems at national and international conferences;  further explored and shared industrial downstream strategies for advanced agricultural-, chemicaland medical care for food and water safety, energy security, people’s health security and patients’ safety, including sanitization, disinfection and cosmetics in national master planning and private services. 3.3 ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLE 10): Progress TIMA takes a firm stand against corruption. Mandatory guidelines for all our employees, especially our Code of Conduct Guidelines, are very specific on this subject. We have made such guidelines available on our website. In 2013, we shared our strategy proposals and best practice examples related to the guidelines for Anti-Corruption with the UN GC Anti-Corruption Working Group from Brazil, India and South Africa (Ethos, GC Network India, NBI). In Vietnam, TIMA (with its client) proposed a pilot PPP to learn and share lessons of governmental regulation and combine existing legislation with the autonomous integrity of entrepreneurial lead and the forces of the free market paradigm. Within such process, TIMA continuously pushed for a dialogue among the Peoples’ Committees with the PPP Shareholders on transparency in public procurement and investment into the local community. Finally, beyond Vietnam, TIMA shared experience with the Anti-Corruption Working Group and promoted ICMM and Transparency International Guidelines, in order to provide most current information and strategies for TIMA clients being involved in issues of eco-systems and circular economy in mining, coal, oil and gas, nuclear energy and energy intensive heavy industries. 4. INFORMATIVE LINKS TIMA has launched its new website where publications and further information on the topics and publications mentioned in this CoP can be found or are available via informative links. -8-
