24 September 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Huntsman is proud to include information regarding our integration of the UN Global Compact Ten Principles in our 2014 Sustainability Report. Upon final publication, our 2014 Sustainability Report will be freely available online to all stakeholders. In 2014, Huntsman re-introduced updated global Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) standards and procedures relating to Leadership and Management, Risk and Emergency Management, Safe Systems for Work, Process Safety, Occupational Health and Hygiene, Environment, and Product Stewardship to enable all associates to more easily understand and comply with Huntsman’s basic EHS requirements. Each global EHS standard is readily available to Huntsman associates in the company’s knowledge-sharing platform. Additionally, in 2014, we introduced language relating to compliance with our Vendor Code of Conduct (VCC) in our standard terms with suppliers doing business with us. Because our VCC specifically and clearly articulates Huntsman’s values – particularly as they relate to business, employment and regulatory matters – we feel confident that our supplier base understands the expectations we have of them while they are conducting business with us or on our behalf. A summary of our progress is available in our 2014 Sustainability Report and on the Sustainability page of our website, www.huntsman.com. As always, we welcome comments from the UN Global Compact. We continue to incorporate the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact as appropriate into our corporate policies and standards, as these principles complement our own business values and goals. I am proud to reaffirm Huntsman’s continuing support for the Ten Principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our continued commitment to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Sincerely yours, Peter R. Huntsman President and CEO HUNTSMAN 10003 Woodloch Forest Drive, The Woodlands, TX 77380, USA Tel.: +1 281 719 6000  Fax.: +1 281 719 6054  www.huntsman.com
