UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JINDAL STAINLESS LIMITED May 2014 2015 Statement of Support: GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 2 About Jindal Stainless Limited: SHAPING A STAINLESS WORLD Jindal Stainless, a part of the $ 15 billion USD, OP Jindal group is the largest integrated manufacturer of stainless steel in India and is ranked as the 8th largest in the world, with a capacity of 1.8 million tons. A leader and a name synonymous with Enterprise, Excellence and Success, the company’s ethos mirrors most characteristics similar to the metal it produces; Akin to stainless steel Jindal Stainless is innovative and versatile in its thought process; strong and unrelenting in its operations. JSL has crafted its success story by fully integrating its operations based on a strategy of both, backward and forward integration, starting from mining, melting, casting, hot rolling to cold rolling and further value additions This has been the driving philosophy of the company from its one unit presence in the early 70’s to its present multilocation presence across the globe. An ISO: 14001 compliant, JSL product range includes: Ferro Alloys, Stainless Steel Slabs, Blooms, Hot Rolled Coils, Plates and Cold Rolled Coils/ Sheets, Stainless Steel Strips for Razor Blade Steel and Coin Blanks for mints in India & EU. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 3 Jindal Stainless Limited’s philosophy on Corporate Governance envisages the alignment of the highest levels of transparency, accountability and equity, in all facets of its operations and in all its interactions with its stakeholders including shareholders, employees, government and leaders. To run the business effectively, transparently and with due accountability, the company has developed a Code of Conduct to be followed by all representatives for carrying out their duties and responsibilities as per the vision, values and guiding principles. The code of conduct has been designed by the company in line with the 8 guiding principles: 1. Value Creation 2. Transparency 3. Personal Conduct 4. Learning & development 5. Creativity and Innovation 6. Environment, Safety and Health 7. Responsible Corporate Citizen 8. Confidentiality To promote: Honest, ethical conduct and handling of conflict of interest between personal and professional relationships Full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in reports and documents and other public communication Compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations Prompt internal reporting Accountability for adherence to the policy All Directors and Employees of the Company are expected to read and understand it and uphold these standards in day to day activity. They are also expected to comply with the applicable policies and procedures and ensure that they are adhered to. Our CSR policy also reinforces the guiding principles and focuses on crucial areas like: Addressing key social issues and encouraging all stake holders to get engaged through focused sustainable programmes and initiatives Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right norms Prohibition of Child Labor Freedom of Engagement Health and Safety Collective Bargaining and Consultation Equality of Opportunity GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 4 Harassment and disciplinary practices Working Hours Compensation Supplier selection Community involvement Environment protection HIV/AIDS Workplace Natural resource management Important Policies: i. Code of Conduct: http://www.jslstainless.com/PDF/Code-of-Conduct.pdf ii. Corporate Governance Policy: http://www.jindalstainless.com/images/corporate-governance.pdf iii. Whistle Blower Policy: http://www.jslstainless.com/PDF/Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf iv. CSR Policy: http://www.jindalstainless.com/reportsanddownloads.php v. EHS Policy: http://www.jindalstainless.com/ehspolicies.php vi. Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at workplace vii. HR Policy viii. Education Policy ix. IT Policies x. Med claim Policies GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 5 Principles on Human Rights: PI: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights; and P2: Make sure that they are complicit in Human Rights abuse COMMITMENT: Jindal Stainless Limited believes in fundamental principles of Human Rights as promoted by International Instruments (UN, ILO) and Constitution of India and commits itself to adhere, protect and promote them in the context of our business operations. Jindal Stainless Limited as a member of the Global Business Initiative (GBI) for Human Rights, has taken on a leadership role to promote the principle of ‘Respect’ the second pillar of the UN Guidelines on the Human Rights ‘Protect Respect and Remedy’ Framework. SYSTEM: The Human Resource, Legal and the CSR departments are actively involved in safeguarding the fundamental principles of Human Rights. The company code of conduct clearly mentions no discrimination during hiring, promotion, training or termination on the grounds of race, color, creed, religion, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation and marital status. As a step towards our commitment to respect and protect human rights Jindal Stainless Limited conducted its first Human Rights audit on community and environment indicators. This is a first of its kind audit happening in India on Human Rights, JSL has set an example by taking a leadership role by being the first Indian Corporate to do so. The process involved the reviewing of various policies, procedures and processes concerning community and environment that are prone to human right risks and also consider the impact of those policies and procedures on the Community and Environment. The entire management and business heads cooperated in making the entire process a learning experience and a commitment to work on areas that need improvement. The CSR Team took a leading role in the Human Rights Audit and coordinated with the various departments, facilitated stakeholder engagements to successfully carry out the process. Jindal Stainless continues to be associated with the CEO Forum on Business and Human Rights, by taking a leadership role and facilitating other Corporates to be a part of the process. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 6 Jindal Stainless Limited will continue to reinforce its initiatives and ideologies on Human Rights. Efforts will be made to further share and sensitize employees about Human Rights. Over the past few years, a number of consultation and training programs, both external and internal have taken place in order to embed the UNGPs. Efforts are also on to sensitize the MSME and the supply chain on issues relating to Business and Human Rights as articulated in the UNGPs. During the reporting year, Consultations with National governments and peer learning sessions on Business and Human Rights under the aegis of member companies of Global Business Initiative on Human Rights were held at Jakarta, Indonesia and Washington, USA. The practices adopted by several stakeholders were discussed and some adopted. Several other initiatives undertaken have been as indicated below: Women Empowerment Principles JSL is streamlining the Women Empowerment Principles within the company. JSL has come up with safety guidelines for women, and is encouraging women to apply for Managerial positions. JSL also has a strong Internal Complaints Committee. A policy for prevention of sexual harassment at workplace and guidelines towards safety of women employees is in place. International Women’s Day was also celebrated at Jindal Center where the employees were given insights on how an organization can attract more women employees and make workplace more conducive for their growth. Statistics of women workforce in the present context and how an organization should have flexi hours for pregnant women and new mothers, reasonable duration for maternity leave and paternity leave for fathers were discussed during the International Women’s Day celebration. Experts who facilitated the program included the Country Director UN Women, Ms. Rebecca Tavares and Dr. Ellina Samantroy, Sr Advisor from VV Giri Labour Institute Medical Services – Regular health checkups are held at the corporate office, Jindal Center to combat lifestyle problems. In addition, a Mobile Health Dispensary project was initiated in Hisar in August 2010 jointly with the N C Jindal Hospital to provide medical services to the poor and marginalized population. This medical team caters to ten villages and visits them twice a month. Diagnosis, treatment and medicines are provided to the rural beneficiaries for Rs 5/as registration fee. The medical team also creates awareness on different health issues as Preventive Health Care. Patients with chronic problems are referred to NCJH for further treatment. Since the inception of the project, 32290 beneficiaries have been served medically. Jajpur reaches out to the rural population, especially poor women, children and the old in the communities. The health care unit comprises of one doctor, one pharmacist, one counselor and a medical van. Besides attending the static clinic every day, the medical van also moves to two villages with the medical team to conduct mobile health camps in villages every day except Saturdays. The commonly found diseases amongst the people are GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 7 fever, cold, cough, loose motion, arthritis, APD, UTI, anemia etc. This year a total of 13212 patients visited the mobile and static clinics. A total of 540 health camps were organized in the year and the patients were dispensed with free medicines. Business & Human Rights – The Company has been engaged in creating greater awareness amongst various stakeholders on issues relating to rights, especially in the domain of environment and security and has been developing internal grievance mechanism processes. This year, a strategic meeting on Business and Human Rights was held at Jindal Stainless Limited. The meeting was facilitated by Brig Rajiv Williams, Corporate Head, CSR. We had experts from different organizations in the meeting. Ms Shubha Sekhar, Human and Director, Coca Cola Workplace for shared key insights and background on the noteworthy India CEO Forum on Business and Human Rights. Ms Abha Negi, Sr. General Manager Group Corporate Communications, Jindal SAW shared the initiatives undertaken by JSL SAW towards the overall inclusion of the differentlyabled as one of the core areas within the human rights alliance. Mr. Luke Wilde, Director Twenty Fifty and Mr. Rishi Sher Singh, Director India, Twenty Fifty imparted key learning’s on the contemporary scenarios that are shaping up in the international contexts and the diverse approaches undertaken by the companies to address the human rights issues. Skill TrainingJSL CSR initiated a new project last year in partnership with the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD), with the aim of imparting skill training to the unemployed youth of Jammu & Kashmir. Himayat is a part of the Skills Empowerment and Employability (SEE) scheme of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) being implemented through the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD). Himayat has its focus on bridging the gap between the industry requirements and the skill sets of the youth, so that more employment opportunities can be generated. Through the program JSL is training over 2000 youth in two years in Electrical, IT, Stainless Steel Fabrication, Hospitality etc. Three batches of short term courses have been completed and over sixty students have completed their long term courses at different locations to include our Plant locations. Mission Education project Initiatives have benefitted over 3000 children through different approaches like formal, OP Jindal School and Vidya Devi Jindal School and non formal, remedial and education through sports programs. In Hisar and Jajpur, JSL has installed Computer Aided Learning Station with support of Hole-in-the-wall Education Ltd. Children and teachers access these learning stations to enhance their learning related to academic. In Hisar, Pre Nursery and Computer classes are held at OP JIndal Vikas Kendras. In Jajpur, Bridge Course Education Centers are running in five villages to create an environment of GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 8 education in the villages. These courses impart computer literacy to the poor students in two high schools and also bridge the digital divide by offering exciting and effective education and learning experiences through innovative technologies to the underserved groups. OUTCOME: There have been no human rights violations noticed against Jindal Stainless Limited during the reporting period. The Human Rights audit has been helpful in highlighting the good practices being implemented in JSL and also areas which need improvement. The commitment from the top management of the company has ensured that relevant steps will be taken to work on them. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 9 Principles on Labour: P3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; COMMITMENT: We believe in the rightful propagation of rights of our employees and thus broadly, in compliance with the law of the country, bestow and acknowledge freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining to our employees. SYSTEM & ACTIONS: Jindal Stainless Limited believes in the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We have a registered trade union having seven office bearers and have a cordial relation with the union. Fair and transparent process is followed while arriving to decisions. Suggestion boxes are kept at all the key locations in the plant and all are encouraged to put their suggestions and complaints to address the employee’s needs. The industrial relations cell headed by the Associate Vice President has been established to address these issues. Constructive dialogue is encouraged between the management and the union to take care of the interest of the employees. In addition to the mechanisms put in place to address grievances, JSL promotes an open culture of communication, wherein an employee can walk up to a senior official in the company to share his/her complaints. This culture has been promoted by the founder of company late Mr. OP Jindal right from the beginning and continues to be practiced. OUTCOME: No cases of union-busting or wrongful termination of employees for union activity have been reported till date. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 10 P4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; COMMITMENT: At Jindal Stainless Limited we firmly believe in complying with all statutory provisions related to the labour rules. We condemn and are strongly against forced or compulsory labour as unethical and thus support no form of it. SYSTEM & ACTIONS: Regular monitoring internally by the HR department at the plant locations and external third party audits on TPM, ISO, Quality Circle, OHSAS through certification bodies such as TUV are conducted on a regular basis. OUTCOME: Both Internal and External audits conducted during the reporting period did not have any findings of unfair labour conditions. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 11 P5: the effective abolition of child labor and COMMITMENT: JSL strongly believes in the abolition of child labor and we comply with national and international norms for it. SYSTEM & ACTIONS: The minimum age of employment in JSL is 18 years of age and this is strictly followed by the Human Resource department while recruiting and verified with documents for proof of age. At the plant level the HR department, plant in charge, supervisors conduct surprise on site visits to ensure non engagement of child labor in the plant location. The Jindal Stainless Foundation carries out programs on education encourage and mainstream out of school children and school drop outs, which also discourages child labor. OUTCOME: No instances of child labor have been found in the reporting period. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 12 P6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT: Jindal Stainless Limited’s vision is based on inspiring and unleashing creative potential. In this direction we treat all employees in all aspects of employment solely on the basis of their ability. SYSTEM & ACTIONS: The company code of conduct clearly mentions no discrimination during hiring, promotion, training or termination on the grounds of race, colour, creed, religion, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation and marital status. There is no discrimination in the hiring, promotion, training or termination of people on the basis of the factors mentioned above. The HR practices of Jindal Stainless look at developing a winning Employee Value Proposition. The existing structured systems and processes support the practices and ensure that our people grow in equal acceleration to the company’s expanding canvas. Jindal Stainless philosophy is to attract the right talent by creating an employee value proposition. Jindal Stainless offers employee value proposition in terms of supportive work climate, opportunity for learning, rewards, and ethical practices. Jindal Stainless is an equal opportunity employer and does not differentiate on the basis of gender, caste, creed, nationality and religion. Jindal Stainless follows a policy of no discrimination in its hiring, and retention program infact for us diversity is an asset broadening peoples horizons and improving team work and problem solving skilld. The only thing we value is merit, which plays a vital role in our hiring and retention program. Effective employee communication, sharing of performance and best practices and periodic dialogue with people is enabled through monthly, quarterly and annual departmental meetings, management open forums, VC&MD open houses, J-Connect-Intranet, Knowledge Centre, hr click, Jindal Stainless Pariwar, Jindal Stainless Bulletin etc. Jindal Stainless Onboarding programParichay & NJIP are focused on continual improvement through employee and manager feedback. OUTCOME: No reported instances of discriminatory behavior within the business. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 13 Principles on Environment: P7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges COMMITMENT: JSL is committed to meeting the requirements of relevant legislation in the countries and regions in which it operates, to the efficient use of natural resources and energy, and to reducing continuously the environmental impact of its operations and products through the adoption of sustainable practices. To satisfy our requirements under Environment, we require that our suppliers adopt suitable and robust management practices for environmental protection. Suppliers who have management systems accredited to ISO 14001 or equivalent will be deemed to satisfy this requirement. JSL has undertaken numerous initiatives to implement the agenda on Environment, Health and Safety. One such initiative is the company’s ‘Quality, Environment, Occupational Health and Safety’ Policy, a key highlight of which is to instill among its workforce, the motto of reduce, reuse and recycle, using a combination of innovative technologies and tools within the operating plants of JSL. The policy has been further implemented using the Environment management system (EMS) and the OHSAS, which has helped in making the Jajpur plant a zero discharge unit. SYSTEM & ACTIONS: Environmental management is one of the topmost priorities of strategy and planning at JSL. Driven by an integrated ‘quality, environmental, occupational health and safety policy, Jindal Stainless is now marching towards benchmarking its processes of quality, safety, health and environment. Internally the EHS team regularly monitors and ensures the implementation of the management systems to ensure minimum impact on the environment of the activities. The state of the art green compliance test laboratory ensures that the manufacturing process meets the green standard norms. Thrust has been laid towards enhancing resource efficiency in operations, especially for key resources such as energy and water. Additionally the philosophy of the 3-R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) is being implemented for all types of wastes towards prevention of pollution. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 14 All operations adhere to stringent ‘Green Compliances’ and processes, certified as per international environmental standards edging towards the concept of stainless-green. The Company’s plants comply with all norms set up by the competent authorities for a clean and better environment. The company undertakes regular checks/inspections including certification for the maintenance of the environment. The company has adequate effluent treatment plants to control pollution. Additionally, CSR, JSL in collaboration with Greenobin has initiated a “Paper Back project” to recycle paper waste and turn it into new paper products. The rationale behind this project is to save environment as industrialized paper making has an effect on the environment. 90% of paper pulp is created from wood and paper production accounts for 35% of felled trees. Recycling one ton of newsprint will save about 1 ton of wood while recycling 1 ton of printing or copier paper will save almost 2 tons of wood. Moreover, recycling paper also saves energy consumption. These small initiatives and collective efforts by our employees will go a long way in saving trees and energy. OUTCOME: By implementing the environment management system we have succeeded in reducing ecological footprints at our facilities through the right handling of water and energy consumption, emissions, waste, awareness and engagement of our employees and major suppliers. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 15 P8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and P9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMMITMENT: Jindal Stainless Limited being a manufacturing company is cognizant of the use of natural resources the environmental concerns related to it in terms of air, water and land pollution due to its action. We are conscious about our environmental footprints and conduct of our business in an environmentally sustainable manner. Therefore we have separate environment department at the plant locations to look into the issue and also to reduce our carbon footprints and save energy in economically sustainable way. SYSTEM & ACTIONS: Jindal Stainless Limited has adopted the Global Compact Principles relevant to environment. We are committed to go beyond legal compliances and actions to ensure the implementation. The company is committed to purchasing and using environmentally friendly technologies like recovery type coke oven plant, waste heat recovery boilers reduce emission, conserve water and are energy efficient. State of the art ‘Centre for Environmental Excellence”, with sophisticated and well equipped Environmental Laboratory and R&D has been set-up. Efficient use of resources is being practiced through effective management practices, technological measures and employee engagement process to make them environmentally aware and technically competent. The operations are dependent on the use of natural resources and have consequently incorporated energy management into its ISO 9001, Quality Management Systems (QMS) and Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) initiatives. As a corporate also individual environment awareness and awareness is promoted in the Company. Soft copies of reports and documents are promoted as compared to hard copies, official travel is clubbed for different people travelling to one location to save fuel and reduce pollution. At the Corporate office video and audio conferencing is promoted to save on air travel and reduce carbon foot prints. Employees are encouraged to complete their work within office hours to save and conserve energy. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 16 OUTCOME: With the various initiatives being taken at the Corporate level and the individual level there is growing awareness and reduction of ecological footprints GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 17 Principles on Anti Corruption: P10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. COMMITMENT: Jindal Stainless Limited requires its employees to adhere to high ethical standards in business conduct and comply with laws and regulations, as well as with company policies, practices and procedures. Ethical behavior in the areas of business conduct is of utmost priority to the company. The company is committed to developing a culture where it is safe for all employees and business partners to raise concerns about the unethical or improper activity, malpractice and any event of misconduct. The guiding principles of JSL ensure that business is conducted with honesty and integrity and in accordance with the moral, ethical and legal standards of the country. The Company has been engaged in various consultations on Siemen’s Anti Corruption project, which is being undertaken by Global Compact Network India. SYSTEM & ACTIONS: Any irregularities detected or suspected or fraud shall be taken up in line with the enforcement process of the whistleblower policy. OUTCOME: In the reporting period no instances of bribery or anti-corruption was witnessed nor was any such case investigated at Jindal Stainless Limited. GCN COP – Jindal Stainless Limited (2014-15) Page | 18
