ASN Bank Report 2014 Sustainability report and financial results ASN Bank Report 2014 Sustainability report and financial results Contents Preface by the Management Board 3 Report5 A Supervision 9 Report of the Supervisory Board 10 Report of the Advisory Council 12 B Sustainability 17 1 Sustainability mission and objectives 18 2 Sustainability in practice 20 3 Human rights 23 4 Climate change 25 5 Biodiversity 27 6 Sustainable office 28 C Stakeholders 33 7 Consultation and engagement 34 8 Customers 35 9 Shareholder 39 10 Partnering NGOs 40 11 Society 42 12 Staff 45 D Economic performance 51 13 Raising capital 52 14 Exposures: loans and other investments 56 E Financial accounts 65 15 Financial results 66 16 Risk management organisation 79 17 Corporate governance 81 Independent Assurance Report 84 Appendices 89 1 ASN Bank’s exposures 90 2 Donations to partnering NGOs 96 3 Sustainability performance of the office 97 4 Organisation 98 5 History 100 6 Materiality analysis 102 7 Personal details 104 In the event of discrepancies between different versions of the ASN Bank Report 2014, the Dutch version shall prevail. Preface by the Management Board ASN Bank exists by the grace of its over 600,000 customers, who enable us to build tomorrow’s fair, sustainable world. We often hear customers say: ‘I am a member of ASN Bank’. It shows how committed they are to our bank. It is a commitment we cherish, not only by living up to our promise of sustainably managing our customers’ funds, but also by engaging with them about our common ideals through panels and during events and other meetings. For example, we consulted customers in 2014 about our new animal welfare policy. We went ‘on tour’ with inspiring meetings of ASN Live in Zwolle and Nijmegen and TomorrowToday (MorgenVandaag) at the Westergasfabriek in Amsterdam. There, we met many customers and others who were interested – people who are dedicated to our common ideals and who inspire us to take new steps. 3 Long-term goals In 2014, we invested considerable time and resources in setting our course for the long term both as regards our sustainability policy and in terms of our objectives as a bank. It is an ongoing process that we are continuously working on as a bank and also as a ‘driving force’ in collaboration with our partnering NGOs, our customers and our community For the World of Tomorrow (Voor de Wereld van Morgen). The object is first of all to find a sound purpose for the funds entrusted to us and to assess our banking activities in their own right. On top of that, however, it is also most certainly important to consider the many other activities we initiate and support, as well as the coalitions we enter into. In 2014, we devoted particular attention to ASN Bank’s ambition to be carbon neutral by 2030. We were the first bank to issue and specifically pursue such a long-term goal. We also formulated long-term banking goals: our aims are one million satisfied customers as well as controlled growth of both the assets under management and the funding of sustainable sectors. 2014 was a good year in financial terms. Assets under management increased: growth was seen in savings as well as in the ASN Investment Funds and ASN Asset Management. The growth in the number of new customers was again encouraging in 2014 and in line with expectations, as we were happy to welcome almost forty thousand new customers. The total customer base showed a limited drop following an administrative clean-up. Climate change ambition In 2013, we formulated our climate change ambition: ASN Bank is to achieve net carbon neutrality by 2030. This target applies both to our office and – having a much larger impact – to all our loans and investments. We aim to achieve this ambition by valuing all our loans and investments in terms of their carbon footprint. Then, we work towards reducing that footprint. Given the relatively small size of our bank, our impact on the climate is limited. Still, our ambition tranASN Bank Report 2014 scends its importance to ASN Bank. We want to show the financial sector that this ambition is possible and feasible, for which we were greeted with interest and appreciation on many locations in 2014. The major climate conference is set to take place in Paris at the end of 2015. We will be present there to highlight the importance of ambitious climate change targets for financial institutions to as many relevant parties as possible. New sector: care & welfare In ASN Bank’s view, a sustainable society is also a caring society. It is fitting for our bank to finance the healthcare sector in this context. Despite having done so ever since our incorporation, we have decided to step up our lending efforts to the healthcare sector. An extensive, fundamental investigation has been completed that will guide our future healthcare funding activities. A caring society is explicitly about more than just ‘white coat care’. We believe that solidarity, social cohesion and an eye for people’s well-being in the broadest sense of the word are the building blocks of a safe and optimistic society. We also stay true to this view in our partnerships with organisations including the Royal Dutch Guide Dog Foundation (KNGF Geleidehonden) and the National Foundation for the Elderly (Nationaal Ouderenfonds), as well as in how we wish to treat our customers. Plans for 2015 Last year, we announced here the launch of our new current account for small business clients. Sadly, though, we had to disappoint these customers as the work pressure from all our projects on legislation and regulations forced us to postpone this introduction. We are aware of the urgent need for this account, so we are making every effort to introduce it in 2015. In 2015, we will again aim for controlled growth of our customer base and assets under management. Our perpetual challenge is to attract customers and to convince them of the benefits of banking with ASN Bank while at the same time capitalising on profitable, sound funding opportunities. We will again devote much attention in 2015 to further improving the quality, and our customers’ appreciation, of our services. In addition, we will intensify and stimulate the direct engagement with our customers in 2015. To meet, sound out, inspire and surprise customers lies at the heart of our heightened dedication. Lastly, we wish to set long-term human rights and biodiversity goals to complement our climate change target. In memoriam: Piet Boef Piet Boef died on 19 September 2014. He became Director of Algemene Spaarbank voor Nederland, as ASN Bank was called at the time, on 1 January 1980 and was the Managing Director of our bank 4 from 1986 until his retirement in 1992. Piet was one of the persons responsible for formulating the general aspects of our investment policy and the mission of ASN Bank. Piet was characterised by his solidarity with people who suffered injustice, which drove his strong commitment to the anti-apartheid movement and Nelson Mandela’s release. His dedication and enthusiasm became the voice of ASN Bank. It was a special moment for him when he had the opportunity to meet Nelson Mandela during the latter’s visit to the Netherlands. It marked the achievement of the ‘long-term goal’ of Piet and ASN Bank at the time. As Piet put it in ZAM Magazine: ‘ASN sprang from socialist circles. The Catholics and Protestants had their own banks; we were there for the working class. That changed in the 1970s and 1980s. The fight against apartheid was very widely supported – maybe it was in fact our commitment that enabled us to rise above the compartmentalisation of society and to keep on growing.’ We are grateful to Piet Boef for his contribution to the bank and the personal example he set by showing compassion and engagement. We would like to thank all those who, as ASN Bank’s customers, ‘members’ or partnering NGOs, put their trust in us. Many thanks go out to our staff, who commit themselves to our customers and our ideals with such whole-hearted enthusiasm and dedication. Together, we will continue to build the just, sustainable world of tomorrow in 2015. Ewoud Goudswaard Jeroen Jansen Joyce van der Est Report ASN Bank wants to be transparent about its objectives, methods and performance, both in the area of sustainability and with regard to its financial and economic results. The annual report is an important link in that process. In this report, we report on how we implement our sustainability policy in our banking services and products, our operations and our engagement with diverse parties on matters of sustainability. In addition, in this report we render account of ASN Bank’s financial results. These results are also incorporated in the consolidated financial statements of SNS Bank N.V. This report is intended for our customers, staff and other stakeholders we work with, such as our associates, partnering NGOs, regulators, shareholder and all other individuals and organisations interested in ASN Bank’s performance in 2014 and its plans for the future. Chapters 7 to 12, inclusive, give more details about our stakeholders. GRI ASN Bank reports in accordance with the new G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI table is available at www.asnbank.nl. The G4 Guidelines place an emphasis on the materiality analysis, which means that we must answer the following questions: • Which sustainability issues are important to ASN Bank in particular? • To what extent do we let our stakeholders influence the choice for these issues? • Does our report render account of the issues important to our stakeholders? The materiality analysis answers these questions. More information can be found in Chapter 7 and in Appendix 6. The analysis reveals that all issues that we consider to be of material importance are sufficiently reflected in our reports and policy pillars. Assurance Report This is a sustainability report, supplemented with relevant financial information. We asked KPMG Sustainability to review the information about our sustainability performance included in this report. You will find the scope of the engagement and the conclusions in the independent Assurance Report. Please refer to the SNS Bank N.V. Annual Report 2014 for the audited financial statements. 5 ASN Bank Report 2014 Key performance in 2014 Operations Operating profit € 58,6 m -12,3% compared to 2013 Costs / Assets under management Employee satisfaction 7,8 0,54% in 2013: 0.32% target ≥ 8,0 CO2 per FTE Paper Availability of consumption online/mobile 1,15 per client account banking target ≤ 1.34 tonnes of CO2 per FTE 0,31 99,7% target≥ 99% target ≤ 0.28 kg per client account Provisions Brand awareness among primary 0,04% target group 26% compared to 23% in November 2013 6 Customers Customer base Customer contact at year-end 2014 284.349 603.496 +10,2% compared to 2013 NPS 9.790 12% New customers -4,1% compared to 2013 ambition is 25% 39.896 77.385 +33,0% compared to 2013 Appreciation of Social media customer events contact 4.489 1.335 12% INDUSTRY WINNER BANK 4% 8,2 Most customerfriendly business in the Netherlands 30.365 2014 84% Sustainability Assets under GS EN TS Carbon-neutrality ambition Investment universe 102 + N M 45% T ES VI management SA I NV T O TA L € 12.821 m +7,9% compared to 2013 2013: 34% CO2 27 Sustainability AGM voting Recognitions assessments 567 220 AGM’s • Fair Bank Guide • International recognition 167 countries, companies for climate change ambition and organisations Companies • Green Bull assessed Donations to partnering Applications 176 NGOs Participants 100 € 2,8 mln Finalists 8 Winners 4 176 partners Voters 29.997 7 8 A Supervision 9 ASN Bank Report 2014 Report of the Supervisory Board To the General Meeting of Shareholders of ASN Bank N.V. Preliminary advice We are presenting you with the company’s financial statements for the 2014 financial year as prepared by the Management Board, as well as the report of the Management Board. We propose that you approve these financial statements as presented, which will entail that: • the total profit of € 58.6 million generated in 2014 will be added to the shareholders’ equity; • the Management and Supervisory Boards will be discharged from liability in respect of their managerial and supervisory work during the past financial year. Introduction We fully endorse ASN Bank’s sustainability mission and the ensuing policy. Consequently, we feel closely connected to ASN Bank’s commercial, financial and sustainable development. The ASN Bank Supervisory Board and Management Board met four times in 2014. On those occasions, we discussed the financial and commercial reports, which give us clear insight into how ASN Bank is managed, how it achieves its results, the resources it deploys to that end, and how risks are controlled. Some of the other topics discussed in the course of 2014 were the following. Annual Report 2013 We adopted the 2013 Annual Report and approved the corresponding press release, which was issued on 19 March 2014. Customer integrity Throughout 2014, much attention was devoted to two customer integrity projects, focusing on corporate clients and retail customers. In the course of 2014, ASN Bank went through the files of all its corporate clients and retail customers, supplementing the incomplete files after contacting the relevant clients and customers. We followed the progress of the two projects with interest. 10 Appointment of ACTIAM N.V. as AIF manager Following the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD), the ASN Bank Management Board appointed ACTIAM N.V. (formerly SNS Asset Management N.V.) as the AIF manager of the ASN Investment Funds. The Supervisory Board gave its consent to this. The AIFMD imposes more detailed requirements on the management of investment institutions like ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. (ABB), the manager of the ASN Investment Funds. If ABB were to perform the management itself according to the AIFMD rules, this would necessitate a modification of its organisational model and a considerable increase of scale and the available expertise of ABB. This does not fit in with the preferred organisational model and ASN Bank’s strategy. That is why ASN Bank decided to appoint ACTIAM, a professional party, as its operational fund manager with effect from 22 July 2014. ABB will continue to conduct the management of the ASN Investment Funds. Bank balance sheet and risk management We discussed ASN Bank’s bank balance sheet together with the Management Boards of SNS Bank N.V. and ASN Bank. ASN Bank works from the principle of a sustainable society when building its balance sheet. This requires both a clear plan with assumptions about potential returns and risks and proper risk control. ASN Bank drafted a plan in 2014 to optimise the management of the loan and investment portfolio in terms of achieving sustainability objectives, so that its balance sheet will reflect even better the sustainable society it is pursuing. ASN Bank strives for controlled growth of its corporate loans and investments in the next five years. Market conditions will remain a challenging factor in our efforts to strike the right balance between sustainability objectives, risks and returns. A Supervision New focus area: care We spoke at length with the Management Board about how ASN Bank wishes to expand its (funding) activities in the (health)care sector. We recognise that the theme ‘care’ is fitting for ASN Bank and meets a great social need. However, we did explicitly point out the risks and the need to opt for a gradual, well-thought-out approach. Advisory Council We were informed of the departure of Femke Halsema as the Chair of ASN Bank’s Advisory Council. Her successor is Jan van der Kolk, who was already a member of the Council. In addition, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board extensively talked with the new Chairman of the Advisory Council, including about long-term policy, the governance structure, the climate change ambitions and the common points of departure on various sustainability issues and how the various brands within SNS Bank N.V. (ASN Bank, SNS, Regiobank, BLG Wonen) can collaborate and learn from each other in this respect. Operational plan for 2015-2017 We discussed the 2015-2017 operational plan with the Management Board. The key objective is: sustainable banking that meets the customer needs of today and contributes to the world of tomorrow. Important elements of the plan include ASN Bank’s goal to grow to one million satisfied customers, increase its assets under management and ensure controlled growth of its loans and investments. In addition, ASN Bank sees a clear role for itself as a driver of sustainable choices. Report on Banking Code monitoring The Banking Code lays down guidelines to be complied with by all Dutch banks, unless they can explain their noncompliance on specific points. The monitoring conducted by Compliance has shown that, with a few exceptions, the Banking Code is fully applied at SNS Bank N.V. The website of SNS Bank N.V. provides information on these exceptions. Performance and composition of the Supervisory Board We discussed the Supervisory Board regulations, which are in part based on and further elaborate on the Banking Code. The regulations have been adopted. By the end of the year under review, we evaluated our own performance and shared our findings with the ASN Bank Management Board. 11 The Supervisory Board’s membership was as follows during the 2014 financial year: • Rob Langezaal, Chairman • Annemiek van Melick • Bart de Ruigh (until 1 September) Bart de Ruigh left the employment of SNS Bank N.V. on 1 September, thereby effectively giving up his seat on the Supervisory Board of ASN Bank. In 2015, three new members joined the ranks of the Supervisory Board: Dick Okhuijsen, Alexander Baas and Martijn Wissels. We would like to thank our customers and other stakeholders for their confidence in ASN Bank. We express our appreciation of the efforts made by the employees and Management Board. We have every confidence that ASN Bank, demonstrating commitment, will successfully achieve its mission of being a sustainable bank in 2015 as well. The Hague, 10 April 2015 On behalf of the Supervisory Board Rob Langezaal, Chairman ASN Bank Report 2014 Report of the Advisory Council ASN Bank’s Advisory Council comprises representatives with a wide range of social backgrounds. Created in 1993, the Council acts as the advisory body for ASN Bank. The Council critically monitors ASN Bank’s sustainability mission and provides the Management Board with solicited or unsolicited advice. The Management Board and the Advisory Council regularly consult about the bank’s activities and results, as well as its sustainability course. They met twice in 2014. They also met once with the ASN Bank Supervisory Board. Some of the topics discussed during the Advisory Council meetings were the following. Draft animal welfare policy Introducing ASN Bank’s draft policy on animal welfare, the Management Board met a need the bank had felt for a long time. Once an initial draft had been drawn up, the agency Schuttelaar & Partners assisted in the consultation of stakeholders. The Management Board also asked the Council for its input. This gave rise to the question whether ASN Bank has any views on excessive animal consumption. According to the Management Board, this is one of the many aspects of animal welfare; the talks might lead to the conclusion that they can be combined to form policy. The policy will be rediscussed in the Council once the stakeholders have been heard. Care and welfare The Management Board discussed the intention to make a care & welfare policy and answered the Council’s questions and comments in this respect regarding the object, the depth of analysis, the focus and innovation. It is about promoting a caring society, about caring for each other. This might become one of ASN Bank’s sustain­ability pillars. The draft policy will be discussed in 2015. Vision for the future of the sustainable bank balance sheet The Management Board reported that it had talked with the Supervisory Board about ASN Bank’s vision for the future of its sustainable bank balance sheet. The Supervisory Board endorsed the analysis, but was cautious about ASN Bank’s ambition for growth within the group of SNS Bank N.V. The Advisory Council emphasised the importance of sustainability in relation to funding via the balance sheet. The Management Board indicated that ASN Bank will have to strike a balance between the risks it is taking as a bank and the returns generated, while taking account of the interests of all stakeholders, including SNS Bank N.V. 12 ASN Bank governance The Council and the Management Board discussed the governance of ASN Bank, in particular the position and composition of the Supervisory Board, and especially the level of independence. At the Advisory Council’s request, a list was made of the formal requirements for the position and composition of the Supervisory Board. It will be used as a basis for ongoing talks with the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. Operational plan for 2015-2017 The Council and the Management Board discussed the draft operational plan for the years ahead. The basic premise is for ASN Bank to pursue controlled growth and have one million satisfied customers ten years from now, and at the same time to increase the assets under management and the share of sustainable loans on its balance sheet. In addition, ASN Bank wants to exert influence in the area of sustainability as part of, as well as independently from, its banking activities. Extensive talks were held about the ambition to achieve healthy growth using corporate loans and investments, and about the consequences this ambition will have in today’s market conditions. The Council drew attention to the importance of innovation in relation to the loans and investments. The final plan will be adopted in early January 2015. Composition and powers of the Advisory Council The draft of the updated version of the Advisory Council’s regulations was adopted at the beginning of 2014. Once the Council’s profile has been added, the final version will be formally adopted in early 2015. Halfway through the year, Femke Halsema decided to retire from the Council for personal reasons. Jan van der Kolk took over her position as Chair with the Supervisory Board’s consent. No new members joined the Council in 2014. However, the Management Board is looking for a new member. A Supervision The Council’s membership was therefore as follows in 2014: • Femke Halsema, Chair until 29 September 2014 • Maarten van Huijstee • Hans Kamps • Jan van der Kolk, Chairman as from 29 September 2014 • Willemijn Verloop The Council believes that ASN Bank acted in line with its sustainability mission in 2014. We would like to express our appreciation for the manner in which the bank’s Management Board and staff performed their duties in 2014. The Hague, 10 April 2015 On behalf of the Advisory Council, Jan van der Kolk, Chairman 13 ASN Bank Report 2014 Climate change Climate stability is under heavy pressure from greenhouse gas emissions. These emissions are creating rapid global warming, which is harmful to nature and biodiversity as well as human rights and world peace. That is why we contribute to a safe, stable and liveable climate in a variety of ways. Attention for climate change ambition ASN Bank has an ambitious climate change objective: we want to be carbon neutral by 2030. The key challenge is to reduce the net carbon footprint of all our investments and loans to zero. We received much attention for this ambition in 2014, including during the annual meeting of the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in Geneva. WakaWaka lamp for women The ASN Foundation supported the WakaWaka Foundation, which provides the very poorest around the world with safe, sustainable, self-sufficient sources 14 of energy and light. The donation was made to a project that supplies women in developing countries with solar lamps, enabling them to work at night. The solar lamps are safer, better, healthier and cheaper than traditional lighting. Photo: Josje Deekens Scouting Solar Battle Introducing children and their parents to renewable energy in a positive way: that was the goal of the Scouting Solar Battle (Scouting Zonnestrijd) organised by Natuur & Milieu with ASN Bank’s support. As many as 250 scouting clubs wanted to win free solar panels for their base. After an exciting round of voting, the first prize of ten panels went to the Albert Schweitzer Group from Woerden. Climate Photo: Josje Deekens Voice for young people Via National Youth Council NJR we sponsored the young sustainability ambassadors, enabling them to give young people a voice at the climate change conferences and organise workshops at schools. One of the young ambassadors, Ralien Bekkers, already has some great achievements to her name: she addressed the United Nations and ranked in the Sustainable 100 of Trouw newspaper. Westermeerwind Wind farm Westermeerwind will emerge from the IJsselmeer waters alongside the Noordoostpolder dikes in the next few years. Due to be completed in 2016, the 4815 turbine wind farm is expected to produce wind power for 160,000 households. ASN Bank is contributing 36.5 million euros to the funding. Photo: Hollandse Hoogte/Wiebe Kiestra Dutch Climate Coalition In 2014 ASN Bank joined Nederlandse Klimaatcoalitie (the Dutch Climate Coalition), an initiative of MVO Nederland, Klimaatverbond Nederland and Stichting Natuur & Milieu, in collaboration with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. This coalition brings together companies, governments, public institutions and NGOs to build a carbon-neutral society. 16 B Sustainability 17 ASN Bank Report 2014 1 Sustainability mission and objectives that the policy needs to be updated, we implement Sustainability is the guiding principle in all of such updates on the basis of extensive stakeholder ASN Bank’s activities. We subscribe to the generally consultation (crowdsourcing). accepted definition set out in the 1987 United Nations report Our Common Future: ‘sustainable development Objectives means development that meets the needs of the present We formulate objectives for the sustainability perforwithout compromising the ability of future generations mance of the office organisation, ASN Bank’s banking to meet their own needs’. activities and the activities of the ASN Investment Funds. For the short term, we define quantitative and ASN Bank’s mission is in line with this definition. qualitative goals. In addition, we set long-term goals. Our mission is: ‘Our economic conduct is aimed at promoting sustainability in society. We help to secure Long-term goals changes that are intended to put an end to processes As a sustainable bank, ASN Bank wants to make an whose harmful effects are shifted to future generations ­active contribution to processes that promote the or foisted onto the environment, nature and vulnerable ­sustainability of society. We achieve this ambition communities. In doing so, we do not lose sight of the by means of our activities in the areas of selection, necessity to yield returns in the long run that safeguard ­engagement and voting (see Chapter 2). The next, the continued existence of our bank. We manage the unique step in the development of our sustainability funds that our customers entrust to us in a manner that policy is the definition of long-term goals at the does justice to their expectations.’ strategic level for the three pillars of our sustainability policy: human rights, climate change and biodiversity. Sustainable bank The climate change target has now been set; goals for Sustainability is about more than just having a human rights and biodiversity are under development. ­sustainable office or sustainable production site: The formulation of these goals is unique as no other it is also vital to impose sustainability requirements bank has as yet set such sustainability objectives for on suppliers. This also holds true for banks. A bank the long run. We want to define goals that will allow may make its office organisation more sustainable us to incorporate our mission in all our activities (see – ASN Bank has already done so – but the influence it Chapters 3, 4 and 5 for more information about these can exercise through its lending and investing activities activities). In order to achieve our long-term goals we is many times larger. That is why ASN Bank aims to prefer to team up with others, including customers, achieve its mission by pursuing a higher level of sus­civil society, companies, the government and other tainability in both its office organisation and its bank­financial institutions. 18 ing activities, i.e. the loans provided by ASN Bank and the investments made by the ASN Investment Funds Human rights and ASN Asset Management. In 2014, we discussed a possible long-term objective in the area of human rights. We do not wish it to take The three pillars of our policy: human rights, climate the form of references to international conventions, change and biodiversity but rather that of the clear-cut performance of our Sustainability and sustainable development are fre­human rights investments and activities. quently only regarded as environmental objectives. We apply strict human rights criteria when selecting To ASN Bank, however, the aim for sustainable our investments and loans. We actively engage with development is first of all inspired by a sense of companies about human rights issues such as child­ justice. The purpose of sustainable actions is to labour and working conditions. Furthermore, we wish arrive at a fair distribution of wealth, now and in to define a specific long-term goal to further expand the future. Sustainability thus includes a social our influence on the improvement of human rights. aspect, which is why we build our sustainability We do so without pursuing a quantitative goal, howpolicy on three pillars: ever, as experience has taught us that this is imprac­ • human rights; ticable for us. Due to the complexity of the methods, • climate change; more emphasis should be placed on measurement • biodiversity. rather than results. That is why we will adopt a specific long-term objective All issues that matter to our customers and to us can on a vital but clear segment in 2015 and implement it in be grouped under the umbrella of these three pillars. an activist kind of way. Our goal is to drive demonstrable We regularly review our policy based on our day-to-day changes leading to identifiable, better performance in experiences. Is it still correct? Do we specify clearly the area of human rights. Our activist attitude towards what people mean? Are we seeing any new developthe pharmaceutical industry is in line with that approach. ments? If our insights or those of customers indicate B Sustainability Climate change Contrary to human rights and biodiversity, our In 2013, we formulated our climate change target as ­sus­tainability pillar ‘climate change’ does allow us our first long-term goal in the area of sustainability. to determine a long-term goal based on a clear, The problem of climate change is highly urgent, requiring objectively quantifiable performance. After all, there everyone to contribute to a solution. We aim for a maxiis an international, unambiguous unit for measuring mum contribution by ASN Bank, if only because we want this performance: the emission of CO2 equivalents. to set an example to other companies and financial Increasingly better data has become available in recent institutions. For that reason, we included a fundamental years. Measurement is not easy, but it is possible. goal for the longer term as we revised our ­climate change policy: we want both our organisation and all Biodiversity of our investments on the ASN Bank balance sheet and In our search for a long-term biodiversity goal, we under management at the ASN Investment Funds to be encountered the same kind of objections as with carbon neutral by 2030. This works as follows. Our direct human rights. Again, as we are a financial institution, and indirect investments that emit greenhouse gases we would have to consider too many factors and indi­ are offset by our direct and indirect investments that cators to measure our biodiversity performance. We do prevent greenhouse gas emissions. Our goal is that the believe that measurement within a subarea is possible, sum of the emissions and the prevention of emissions however, for example the amount of nature preserved will be zero in 2030, resulting in a net zero effect on or newly created. In 2015, we will explore how we can the climate. Our office organisation is already carbon define a goal that is important both to ourselves and neutral. This is why the long-term climate goal is: to our customers. See Short-term goals Long-term goal 2030 2014 Chapter For the short term, we define quantitative and qualitaNet zero carbon footprint tive goals. We express our quantitative goals in figures 100% 45% 4 of all investments and our qualitative goals in ‘achieved or not achieved’. Target for 2014 Achieved in 2014 Target for 2015 See Chapter Qualitative short-term goals Implementation of strategic Climate change policy objective ‘ASN Bank carbon Implementation progress 4 neutral by 2030’ 19 Living and working policy Completed Policy is in its completion Animal welfare policy Completion in early 2015 5 phase Implementation of ISO 14001 for the office Certification received in early Maintain certification 6 organisation 2014 Formulate long-term human 3 rights goal Formulate long-term 5 biodiversity goal Short-term qualitative goals Net Promoter Score (NPS)* 12% 20% 8 Social and environmental goals of the office organisation Carbon emissions ≤ 1.34 tonnes 1,15 Target unchanged 6 per FTE (scopes 1 and 2** Paper consumption ≤ 0.28 kilos per account 0,31 Target unchanged 6 Employee satisfaction ≥ 8.0 7,8 Target unchanged 12 * See Chapter 8 ** See Chapter 6 ASN Bank Report 2014 2 Sustainability in practice and biodiversity – has been elaborated in ­separate polSustainability is part and parcel of all of ASN Bank’s icy papers. Sector-specific policy papers describe how activities. This chapter explains how we are actually we implement these policies in the v ­ arious sectors. All bringing the sustainable world closer using our banking policy papers are published on our website, asnbank.nl. activities, such as our loans and investments, as well as all sorts of activities outside our role as a bank, often in Instruments for sustainable choices collaboration with like-minded people. We implement the concept of sustainable investment and lending using three tools: Policy papers A. the selection of loans, companies, institutions and ASN Bank’s sustainability policy has been laid down in national governments; policy papers containing the sustainability criteria for B. engagement, or the dialogue with the companies or the selection of all direct and indirect investments, and institutions in which we invest or may wish to invest; the choice of suppliers, sponsor projects and projects C. exercising the voting rights associated with equity for the ASN Bank World Award. The criteria apply to investments. all loans extended by ASN Bank (see Chapter 14). ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. (ABB), Each of these activities is performed according to a the director of ASN Beleggingsfondsen N.V. and standard procedure, ultimately leading to a specific the ­manager of ASN-Novib Microkredietfonds and result, i.e. approval or disapproval of a company, ASN Groen­projecten­fonds, has adopted these sustain­project, institution or national government, the casting ability ­criteria in full as the basis for its investment of a vote at a meeting of shareholders, or completion of ­policy. The same goes for ASN Asset Management. engagement with a company. We will explain these The policy for each pillar – human rights, climate change procedures below. Assessed in 2014: companies for the equity universe and countries for the government bond universe ASN Milieu & ASN Duurzaam ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds Waterfonds Small & MidcapASN Duurzaam Obligatiefonds 242 80 fonds 64 199 Approved Disapproved and Disapproved and 6 47 21 removed from the 17 not admitted to 27 11 ASN Investment the ASN Investment Universes Universes 210 17 20 182 37 10 * 14 companies were assessed for more than one fund. Engagement in 2014 Companies in the equity universe 42 Voting in 2014 Number of companies where votes were cast 196* Number of shareholders’ meetings where votes were cast 220* Number of companies in which the ASN Investment Funds invested at year-end 2014 167 * These figures are different because: some companies have several shareholders’ meetings; we voted at meetings of companies that were no longer included in the fund portfolio at the end of the year, and vice versa. B Sustainability The Sustainability & Research (S&R) Department is responsible for sustainability policy formulation, the Engagement in 2014: Bangladesh assessments, the dialogue with companies and the In 2013, we started an engagement process execution of the voting policy. In addition, employees of following the catastrophe in the Rana Plaza this department regularly take part in (public) debates garment factory in Bangladesh on 14 April 2013. on a range of sustainability issues. None of the fifteen clothing manufacturers included in the ASN Investment Universe at that A. Selection time were involved in Rana Plaza, but they are The selection process is one of the key procedures active in low-wage countries. We have seen in that we use to implement ASN Bank’s mission for our practice that the chance of accidents happening customers. It is an intensive and thorough process is substantial there. That is why we asked them, that takes place according to a standard procedure. together with other investors, to take their We continuously verify whether investments meet our responsibility. Most companies answered sustainability criteria. In that process, we use infor­ sufficiently to extensively. Seven of them signed mation from the companies or countries themselves, the Bangladesh Safety Accord, others took their as well as information provided by specialised research own measures. We contacted the five companies institutes, the media and NGOs. We discuss the assessthat had not responded sufficiently or at all ments in the ASN Selection Committee after completion. again in 2014. Three of those could sufficiently The Committee consists of representatives of the explain their position. Two clothing companies Management Board of ASN Bank and of the Manageresponded insufficiently and require further ment Board of ASN Beleggings­instellingen Beheer B.V. engagement. If an adequate response is not and the Head of S&R. The latter has a right of veto. forthcoming, they will be removed from the The Committee is advised by the S&R Department. universe. It met six times in 2014. The ASN Selection Committee In 2014, ASN Bank also signed a declaration of is the only body that has the power to approve or dis­ investors urging the companies concerned to approve a company, government or ­institution for the actively implement the Bangladesh Safety investment universe. Accord and to contribute money to the victims’ It is our goal to review every company and institution compensation fund. in the universe within three years. If new information shows that the review should be performed earlier, we will do so. them to understand better what ­­­we – on behalf of Companies, institutions and national governments that our customers – expect of them. We primarily avail meet our sustainability criteria have been included in ourselves of this engagement in the following cases: 21 the ASN Investment Universes. This way, we create 1. If we suspect that a company in the investment a list of investment opportunities that have been universe no longer meets our investment criteria. approved for their contribution to a sustainable s­ ociety. We will contact the company about this. If the When structuring their portfolios, the asset managers desired response is not obtained, the ASN Selection of the ASN Investment Funds, the managers investing Committee decides whether the company should be the ASN Bank savings, and ASN Asset Management removed from the universe. make a selection from these lists of approved companies 2. ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds may invest in and institutions. In 2014, many and diverse investments companies that meet our absolute sustainability were assessed for their compliance with our sustain­criteria but that do not yet score sufficiently on all ability criteria. The table presents the numbers of listed relative sustainability criteria. By actively engaging companies that were assessed. Another substantial them in dialogue, we steer them towards improvecategory is the government bond category, for which ment. we assessed approximately two hundred countries in 3. Companies and institutions appreciate it if they are 2014. We approved seventeen of them. selected for our universe. We encourage them by informing them of their admission where possible. B. Engagement We regularly contact the companies and institutions that In 2015, we will define a long-term goal for human rights. we finance or that our funds invest in, with a question Engagement will be an important tool to achieve this or a request. Our aim is to make them more aware of goal. In the years ahead, our engagement with companies their performance in the areas of human rights, ­climate will be less frequent but more in-depth and effective. change and biodiversity and to improve this performance. It also gives us even better insight into the choices that companies face in practice. This regular contact helps ASN Bank Report 2014 C. Voting Lobbying activities, advocacy and declarations The ASN Investment Funds are entitled to vote at As an advocate, we participate in national and inter­ shareholders’ meetings of the companies in which they national forums, such as the Carbon Disclosure Project, invest, which enables them to influence the policies UNEP FI, Global Compact, Caring for Climate Initiative, and management of those companies. The funds cast De Groene Zaak, and Duurzame Energie Koepel. We their votes according to the mission and sustainability promote climate-saving measures among all sorts of criteria of ASN Bank and ASN Beleggingsinstellingen target groups and are a PRI member. Please refer to Beheer B.V. Chapters 3, 4 and 5 for more information. Sharing knowledge Sustainability dilemma: the pharmaceutical We actively participate in platforms, working groups, industry seminars and a range of other meetings where we share The concept of ‘sustainability’ is very compre­ our knowledge of sustainable banking. Our mission is hensive, which sometimes leads to discussion to make society more sustainable, and we are happy to when we translate the concept into practice. help other banks and financial institutions with similar Do we invest in a solar panel manufacturer aims. Conversely, we also want to learn from the ideas without a human rights policy? What do we do and initiatives of stakeholders. For this reason, we take if a company is accused of corruption that is not part in the Dutch Banking Association’s Sustainability proven? By formulating our sustainability policy Platform (Platform Duurzaamheid) and in meetings as clearly as possible, we attempt to obviate about subjects like renewable energy and energy such dilemmas. conservation measures in residential construction, One specific dilemma is posed by investments healthcare funding and climate change. We ourselves in the pharmaceutical industry. This industry regularly take the initiative to share knowledge, for is in part responsible for the availability and example in the areas of biodiversity (see Chapter 5) accessibility of medicines. Medicines raise the and energy conservation measures in residential standard of living and improve health, which construction (see Chapter 11). We do this both in the means that pharmaceutical companies are part Netherlands and at the international level, in 2014 of a sustainable world. Yet they are frequently mainly about the issues of climate change and human a source of scandal, for example on account rights. of malpractices in clinical trial procedures in developing countries, falsification of test results Promoting sustainability and illegal medicine marketing. To increase We have various ways to initiate sustainable develop22 our effectiveness, we want to add focus to ments in society and support other people’s initiatives our engagement by convincing pharmaceutical in this field, for example via our partnering NGOs, the companies to implement their human rights ASN Foundation and our community For the World of policy – they usually have a good policy in place Tomorrow. More information can be found in Chapters but fail to properly execute it. 10 and 11. B Sustainability 3 Human rights Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Human rights are universal values that apply every­ In 2010, we signed the United Nations Principles for where, always and to everyone. Giving paramount Responsible Investment (PRI). These principles were importance to human dignity, justice, freedom and introduced in 2006 as a set of voluntary best practice equality, the purpose of human rights is to protect standards for wealthy individuals and asset managers the human dignity of all. who want to consider the environment, society and governance in their investment procedures. The PRI Our interpretation of ‘human rights’ includes every provide investors with a platform to jointly engage type of human rights: civil rights, political rights and with companies, giving them more power to make a economic, social and cultural rights. Human rights difference. In that context, we took part in an engageprotect people against abuse of power by governments ment programme about labour rights in the chain of and organisations, which may take the form of discrimifood companies in 2014. Members can also jointly nation, privacy violations and torture. Human rights submit agenda items, or shareholder resolutions, to also impose obligations on governments, for example shareholders’ meetings, for example about climate the obligations to provide education and healthcare, change and human rights. freedom of speech and equal treatment. Human rights We published PRI reports in 2014. The purpose of the are laid down in international conventions. reports is to be transparent about how ESG factors are part of our operations and how they are reflected in our In our human rights policy paper, we answer the quespolicy, our procedures and our arrangements with the tion: how does ASN Bank treat people via its loans, managers implementing our sustainability policy. investments and activities? The foundations of our human rights policy are the 1948 Universal Declaration Arms Trade Treaty of Human Rights and the international standards based On 2 April 2013, a historic step was taken for human on it. We are also referring here to the Guiding Principles rights: the United Nations adopted the Arms Trade on Business & Human Rights adopted by the UN Human Treaty. On 24 December 2014, the Treaty took effect Rights Council in June 2011. These principles are based in all ratifying countries. Each year, every country must on the work performed by the American Professor provide a statement of the import, export and transit John Ruggie as the UN’s Special Representative of the of arms. This step marked a huge change in the level of Secretary-General and have been incorporated in our transparency, providing a much better understanding policy paper. of the world’s arms flows. The Treaty also lays down In this document, we set strict criteria for assessing clear standards on when a country may export weapons the companies and institutions in which ASN Bank, and when it may not. Countries must prevent ‘the risk the ASN Investment Funds and ASN Asset Management of diversion’, i.e. weapons ultimately ending up in the 23 invest. These companies are required to make considerwrong hands. Weapons export is subject to a mandaable efforts to prevent any violations of human rights. tory risk analysis. We analyse companies and institutions on a range of ASN Bank supported Control Arms Netherlands, a issues, such as non-discrimination, child labour, freecoalition of Amnesty International Netherlands, PAX dom of speech and privacy, freedom of association, and Oxfam Novib, in its fight for a strong arms trade respect for local society and the local population, treaty. We lobbied actively and also urged customers and consumer safety. via our website to sign the global petition for a strong treaty. Global Compact Social development goals after 2015 The Global Compact is an initiative of the United In 2000, 189 United Nations member states adopted Nations that encourages companies to include the eight Millennium Development Goals for 2015, and abide by ten principles in the areas of human which were to end extreme poverty, inequality, disease rights, employment, the environment and corrupand hunger in the world. Much has been achieved, but tion. As Ewoud Goudswaard, our Managing many of the goals are yet to be reached. On a positive Director, puts it: ‘In 2007 ASN Bank signed the note, the goals have had a major impact on the efforts Global Compact to express its long-standing and undertaken by the international community for sustaincontinuous commitment to the ten goals of this able development. This sparked the initiative to define international UN initiative. That commitment goals to succeed the Millennium Development Goals: continues with full intensity. This report shows the Sustainable Development Goals, focusing on social how we implemented it in 2014.’ development and an equal distribution of wealth in the world. ASN Bank Report 2014 Their novel aspect lies in the fact that not only countries cross-sector partnerships in the Post-2015 Development are committed to these goals, but also companies and Agenda. With this Charter, over fifty Dutch companies non-governmental organisations (NGOs). We believe and NGOs wish to show that a joint approach is effective. that collaboration between companies and NGOs – like ASN Bank is one of the signatories. The Dutch governASN Bank itself is doing – can make a ­significant contriment will submit the Charter to the negotiations about bution towards achieving the goals. The talks resulted the new agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals. in the Charter on the role of business, civil society and 24 B Sustainability 4 Climate Carbon neutral by 2030 Convinced of the urgency of the problem of climate ASN Bank wants to take the lead by being the bank that change, we have defined an ambitious long-term climate makes a maximum contribution to reducing emissions. change target. We are working to achieve this target For this reason, we have made it our goal to achieve full first of all as a financier and investor, but also as an net carbon neutrality in all our loans and investments ­activist and driving force, advocate and employer. (banking activities) by 2030. External experts have helped us calculate to what extent we have already reached To climate scientists, it is beyond any doubt that the this target for the years 2011 to 2014. In this respect, emission of greenhouse gases, mainly CO2 (carbon we distinguish between the investments of ASN Bank dioxide), is causing today’s rapid global warming. This and those of investment company ASN Beleggings­ climate change adversely affects nature and people’s instellingen Beheer B.V. (ABB). well-being. Floods, long periods of drought and other extreme weather conditions can lead to regional food We reduce the carbon emissions of our banking insecurity and the displacement of large groups of activities as follows: ­people, creating refugee flows that may jeopardise • We do not invest in the extraction and processing peace, public order and safety. The poorest regions of of fossil energy sources. the world will be hit the hardest. It is absolutely vital • We invest as much as possible in energy taken that the world reaches a turning point in its emissions from renewable energy sources, as well as in energyby 2030 at the latest if we are to prevent the global saving measures, low-energy buildings and energy warming from assuming disastrous proportions. After efficiency. that, as soon as possible – but definitely no later than • We avoid investments in energy-intensive around 2050 – a net carbon-neutral situation must have companies and prefer companies delivering been created, which means that no additional CO2 is energy-­extensive solutions. released into the atmosphere. • We have a climate change objective for ASN Duur­ zaam Aandelenfonds: the more CO2 companies emit, the lower our investments in those companies. Achieved portion of the carbon-neutrality objective in % Credits 2011 2012 2013 2014 2030 ambition and charges Achieved Achieved Achieved Achieved 25 in kilotonnes 24.4% 23.1% 34.1% 45.1% 100% of CO2 equivalents 300 NEGATIVE POSITIVE 200 ASN Bank ASN ASN Bank 100 ASN Bank Bank ABB ABB* ABB ABB IMPACTS IMPACTS 0 ABB ABB ABB ABB 100 200 300 ASN Bank ASN ASN ASN 400 Bank Bank Bank 500 * ABB is ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. 600 ASN Bank Report 2014 When the positive CO2 impacts equal the negative, great deal of interest in our approach, which is con­ we have fully achieved the objective. Together with sidered to push the boundaries of the difference that Ecofys, we further developed the methods used to banks can make in reducing global warming. calculate this in 2014 in as well. This produced the following data for the years 2011 to 2014, inclusive: Dedication to the climate We are also dedicated to the climate outside of our In 2014 we achieved a substantial net improvement. lending and investing activities. With Facebook posts, Both the bank and the ASN Investment Funds produced tweets, customer meetings and articles in Ideaal, we aim higher positive CO2 impacts, while the net negative to heighten people’s awareness about the importance impacts rose only to a limited extent. The rise in negaof carbon-neutral living. In 2014, for example, we tive CO2 impacts at the investment funds is mainly the denounced the effects that the use of coal has on the result of the absolute growth of the size of the funds. climate and human rights. The same Ideaal issue also Although the bank also grew, its negative impacts discussed Urgenda’s website www.thuisbaas.nl, which dropped limitedly. The main reason for the net helps consumers make their homes energy neutral. improvement is the increase of positive CO2 impacts Together with Natuur & Milieu, we organised a compeat the bank and, to a lesser extent, at the funds. tition in which scouting groups could win solar panels This increase was driven by the growth of investment for their base. At ASN Live in Nijmegen on 9 September, v­olume in renewable energy projects and green bonds we discussed the climate with people like weather with a focus on renewable energy and energy conser­ forecaster Reinier van den Berg, journalist Olaf Koens, vation. Timmo Terpstra of Koffiebranderij Peeze, and attending customers and other interested people. Sharing knowledge On Thursday 16 October 2014, we presented the Climate Coalition ­carbon-neutrality objective during the annual meeting In November we joined the partnership Nederlandse of the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Klimaatcoalitie (the Dutch Climate Coalition), an initiaInitiative (UNEP FI) in Geneva. We hope this will inspire tive of MVO Nederland, Klimaatverbond Nederland other financial institutions, governments and policyand Stichting Natuur & Milieu in collaboration with makers to follow our example. Charles Anderson, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. Director of UNEP FI, referred to ASN Bank as an imporThe companies, governments, public institutions and tant example of how things can be – and should be – NGOs in the coalition take initiatives to help build a done differently. We will continue to talk with UNEP FI carbon-neutral society. The coalition is pooling all representatives about how we can play our role as a initiatives in the run-up to the UN Climate Change 26 driving force even better. Conference in Paris in December 2015, in order for We also shared our knowledge in this area with many the Netherlands to serve as an example and a source individual parties, including various financial institutions of inspiration for other countries on the road to a from the Netherlands and other countries. There is a carbon-neutral society. B Sustainability 5 Biodiversity The Netherlands: Community of Practice Biodiversity is the diversity of living organisms and the We have been a member of the Business and Bio­diversity variety of their interrelationships in ecosystems. As a Community of Practice (CoP) of the Netherlands Entersustainable bank, we hope to contribute to maintaining prise Agency (Rijksdienst voor Onder­nemend Nederland; and strengthening biodiversity and ecosystems. RVO) for some years now. In this community we exchange ideas about the question what to do with this subject Biodiversity contributes to our prosperity, but only and forge new partnerships as a result. As companies part of that contribution can be expressed in monetary share knowledge and embark on joint initiatives, the terms. Many people enjoy nature, or value it from an transition to policy and actions taking account of bio­ aesthetic, religious or cultural point of view. But bio­ diversity is gathering pace. The CoP’s insights resulted diversity also offers valuable economic services in the publication Bedrijven en Biodiversiteit, issued in through ecosystems, for example in the production of 2014 and available at www.duurzaamdoor.nl. oxygen, water purification, food, fuels, raw materials, ASN Bank also contributed to this publication. medicines, protection and recreation. As a bank has no physical products, we can only indirectly A balance between the various animals, plants and microinfluence biodiversity by means of our loans and investorganisms exists in the ecosystems. Upsetting that ments. However, the CoP does help us understand balance can have serious consequences. It is therefore how companies deal with this issue. At our initiative, important to protect biodiversity so that this ­balance is RVO facilitated the start of a biodiversity Community not disrupted. of Practice for the financial sector in 2014. In that comThe protection of biodiversity and ecosystems is not munity, financial institutions meet four times per year only desirable for moral reasons, but even necessary to discuss biodiversity and share their experiences. from an economic perspective. Many services and Apart from a few frontrunners, most banks only just products, such as food, strongly depend on bio­diversity, started considering this issue. in particular those for the poorest people. Over one billion people are directly dependent on ­natural resources Animal welfare policy like food, clean water and wood. Animal welfare is very important to both our customers and ASN Bank. That is why we presented our updated As a sustainable bank, we hope to contribute to maindraft animal welfare policy to customers and experts in taining and strengthening biodiversity and ecosystems. 2014. In several sessions, we had intensive talks with For that reason, we specified our biodiversity investment them about the policy itself and the underlying dilemmas criteria in our biodiversity policy paper. We apply these and choices. These talks produced some interesting criteria when selecting companies, projects and countries points of view, which we have incorporated into the for our investing and lending activities. policy. 27 Subtitled ‘For respectful interaction between people International cooperation and animals’, the policy document deals with the We have endorsed the Natural Capital Declaration (NCD). company selection criteria in respect of animal testing, In this declaration, banks, investors and insurance comgenetic engineering, fur, livestock farming, fishery, panies undertake to integrate natural capital into the wild animals and animals in captivity. The policy was financial sector’s business model. The NCD is developing approved at the beginning of 2015. a method for the financial sector to measure biodiversity, in the absence of any ready-made, usable measurement method. We want to further develop our criteria for pollution, change of land use and overexploitation in order to provide insight into the impact on biodiversity. ASN Bank Report 2014 6 Sustainable office sions resulting from our own activities, such as In our office in The Hague we have over 140 people the generation of electricity we use. working with a passion to achieve a sustainable, • scope 3 emissions: the emissions of greenhouse liveable world. We are also faithful to our mission as gases in the supply chain, such as the paper we an office organisation, which drives us to improve use and the investments we make. our direct sustainability performance in many ways. ASN Bank’s office is carbon neutral for scope 1 and scope 2; our activities are carbon neutral for part of ASN Bank is located in a sustainably renovated office scope 3. building. In 2014, the building was assigned EPBD energy label A (see Appendix 3) for reasons including Our office activities lead to carbon emissions as we use the solar energy system installed on the roof. We also fossil fuels for transporting employees, use gas through installed a thermal storage system in 2014, which is used district heating, and consume electricity. We are reducing to heat and cool the building. Thanks to the reduction in the net emission levels of greenhouse gases in ­various energy consumption this is set to produce, we are likely ways. Firstly, all our electricity is generated in sustainto receive an even higher energy label in 2015. The office able ways, partly because we installed solar p ­ anels on building has a greywater sanitary system, and the comthe roof of our new building and use a supplier that gene­ pany restaurant uses sustainable products. rates electricity in a fully sustainable manner. Secondly, The main environmental impact of our office is created we are continuously working on a reduction of energy by the carbon emissions of our (office) activities, such as consumption, both in the office and in the transport of heating and travel, and paper consumption. Appendix 3 employees. For example, we annually finetune our lease gives a comprehensive overview of our consumption in policy by tightening emission requirements for the purthe past five years. pose of lowering the average carbon emissions per lease car in use. Effective 2014, we have again tightened the Greenhouse gas emissions requirements in this respect. All new models were We distinguish various types of greenhouse gas required to have emissions of less than 125 grams per ­emission: kilometre. For 2015, the maximum will be 115 grams per • scope 1 emissions: direct greenhouse gas emissions kilometre. Our restrained use of airlines also translates by our own activities. into low carbon emissions per FTE. • scope 2 emissions: indirect greenhouse gas emisSustainable office ASN Bank CO2 emissions: Electricity: 28 tonnes per FTE kWh per FTE 2,0 3500 2800 1,5 2100 1,0 1400 0,5 700 0,0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gas equivalents: Paper consumption Water consumption: m3 per square metre per client account m3 per FTE 15 9 8 12 0,4 7 6 9 0,3 5 4 6 0,2 3 0,1 2 3 1 0 0,0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 B Sustainability The office’s absolute CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) dropped from 183 to 153 in 2014, for two important reasons. Car emissions from commuting were substantially reduced as employees now drive cars with lower emissions. In addition, energy consumed for heating purposes fell sharply as 2014 was a warm year. Energy c­ onsumption in 2014 was much lower than in 2013 both in absolute terms and per FTE thanks to the use of more energy-­ efficient equipment. A lot of water was needed for the installation of the thermal storage system, which meant that water consumption was higher than usual in 2014. We offset our remaining carbon emissions by supporting projects with a broader object than climate protection. Since 2013, we have done this via the Trees for All p ­ roject in Bolivia. Certified by the CarbonFix Gold ­Standard, this project aims for the local population in Bolivia to plant new forest. The farmers involved use it as productive forest. Improved agricultural and livestock farming practices under the trees (including fruit trees) allow the farmers to increase their income and protect and connect natural forests. With this project, we offset Solar panels on the roof 348 tonnes of CO2 for heating and transport in 2014, of our building. as well as the carbon emissions related to the office’s paper consumption, waste and water consumption. Customers were given an option in 2014 to disable Reduction of paper consumption these statements by e-mailing a request to that end to It takes a lot of paper to inform all of ASN Bank’s cusASN Bank. tomers (more than 600,000) through bank statements, Since early 2012, we offer an online version of Ideaal in letters, flyers and our customer magazine Ideaal. Our order to further reduce paper consumption together strategy is to continually reduce paper and envelope with our customers. Almost everyone subscribing to consumption in part by further developing as an Internet the online version cancels the printed version. bank, so that customers require fewer paper bank stateThe ASN Bank report is published in hard copy in small 29 ments. At the same time, we wish to meet the request of numbers. customers who prefer to receive information in writing. We encourage customers – in Ideaal, for example – to Supplier policy bank by laptop, tablet or mobile telephone. They themThe third important way to accomplish our mission at the selves can reduce the number of bank statements they office is purchasing. We assess suppliers in terms of our receive. In 2014 as well, investment customers were consupplier policy. The social and environmental impact of fronted with the large number of statements per transthe hundreds of products we purchase is highly varied, action generated by Binck’s administrative systems. which is why we divided products into three categories. Category Comprises Policy Products that we purchase in large quantities and that We examine these products on the basis of our A: high priority involve a high risk or are easy to make sustainable sustainability criteria. Products that have a large purchasing volume but Companies must endorse our sustainability B: average priority do not involve high risks or are difficult to make declaration. sustainable, such as IT services and postal delivery Products representing small quantities, with low cost C: low priority Basic assessment of purchase or low risks, such as office supplies ASN Bank Report 2014 Human rights ‘Human rights’ is a broad concept, including civil rights, political rights and economic, social and cultural rights. We critically analyse the institutions, companies and governments in which we invest in terms of how they deal with human rights. We are committed to human rights in other ways as well, as you will read below. Arms trade treaty In April 2014 the United Nations adopted the Arms Trade Treaty, which took effect on 24 December. The Control Arms Coalition – in the Netherlands consisting of Amnesty International Netherlands, PAX and Oxfam Novib – had fought hard for this treaty. ASN Bank supported them with a letter co-signed by a range of parties. Better Life Option Program In the context of our sustainability issue ‘anti-child labour’, we have been an active supporter of Plan’s Better Life Option Program in Nepal since mid-2014. This 30 project focuses on Kamaiya children working on the land. With ASN Bank’s support, Plan aims to make 6,000 young people – especially girls – more assertive and more motivated to stay in school. Photo: Sven Torfinn van Enckevort / Hollandse Hoogte Hall of Fame In 2014, PAX published two reports about the multi-billion investments made by financial institutions in nuclear weapons and in cluster munitions. As ASN Bank does not invest in any weapons whatsoever, the bank was given a place in the ‘Hall of Fame’ in both reports. Human rights 25 years of children’s rights 20 November 2014 marked the 25th anniversary of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In that context, all ASN customers could download a free copy of the e-book Kinderen die de wereld hebben veranderd (Children who changed the world). The book contains 22 stories of children like Malala Yousafzai, Anne Frank and Kim Phuc, who underline the importance of children’s rights and point out that the battle is far from over. © Amnesty International Nuclear weapons from the Netherlands As many as 115 countries around the world have banned nuclear weapons. The Netherlands is not yet among them. PAX has organised a citizens’ initiative to 31 put the ban on nuclear weapons on the political agenda in the Netherlands. Via our website and our magazine Ideaal, we called on our customers to sign the petition to this end. Nelson Mandela memorial magazine Nelson Mandela died on 5 December 2013. In a special edition, Nelson Mandela’s future, ZAM Magazine sketched a picture of him as a human rights advocate, person and politician. It also highlighted the anti-apartheid movement that ASN Bank supported. We gave free special copies of the magazine to all of our customers. 32 C Stakeholders 33 ASN Bank Report 2014 7 Consultation and engagement important in the drafting of our policy and in the For 2014, we report for the first time according to assessment of existing policy. One example in 2014 the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. was the crowdsourcing initiative for the animal welfare The G4 Guidelines place an emphasis on the materiality policy (see Chapter 5). analysis: the methods we used to determine which ­sustainability issues are of material importance to us. Below is a brief description of the topics we are currently discussing with the various groups of Investigation stake­holders: In our materiality analysis, we identified how we engage • Our vision of a sustainable society is ASN Bank’s with stakeholders in relation to our sustaina­bility mission. raison d’être. This vision is the subject of discusA diagram of the outcome, reflecting the hierarchy of sion between the Management Board and the our sustainability policy, can be found in Appendix 6. Supervisory Board and Advisory Council. It shows the objective at each level and the role played • Our mission indicates how we aim to achieve our by external stakeholders in that regard. vision. We discuss this mission with customers, In 2014, we conducted an internal investigation to management boards, employees, partnering ­better identify our stakeholders. As part of that invesNGOs, the Supervisory Board and the Advisory tigation, the ASN Bank employees – a major group of Council. stakeholders – also talked about their knowledge of • Our sustainability policy provides guidelines and and involvement in our sustainability policy and its assessment criteria for our activities, investments ­significance in contacts with their stakeholders. and loans. Consisting of policies for our three sustainability pillars – human rights, climate Stakeholders change and biodiversity – the policy is applicable We distinguish the following stakeholders: to ASN Bank, the ASN Investment Funds and • Customers and ambassadors ASN Asset Management. It is tailored to specific • The shareholder: SNS Bank N.V. sectors and issues, and is the subject of discussion • The ASN Bank employees and Management Board with all our stakeholders. • Partnering NGOs • The sustainability issues enable us to play a broader • Experts and expert organisations role in creating a more sustainable society, for • Companies, industries, projects example through our support to partnering NGOs • Advisory Council and our support of social objectives. The four issues • Supervisory Board – fair trade, renewable energy, anti-child labour and • Government anti-arms – were chosen on the basis of customer 34 surveys. We communicate about these issues with Stakeholder influence all our stakeholders, except those belonging to Consultation with stakeholders plays a central role in the ‘companies, projects and industries’ category. developing and implementing our policy and our activities. During our regular contacts with stakeholders we The following chapters (8 to 12) provide more informahave raised the question of materiality as a structural tion about our communication with the main groups of issue. Their opinions and comments are extremely stakeholders. C Stakeholders 8 Customers Products and services The more than 600,000 retail customers and corporate Retail customers can pay, save and invest at ASN Bank; clients of ASN Bank are our most important stake­ corporate clients can save and invest. We devoted holders. They make our existence possible and they much attention to the development of mobile banking enable us to contribute to a more sustainable society. in 2014, in part prompted by customer comments and suggestions. The ASN Mobile Banking app was As a financial services provider, ASN Bank wants to do enhanced with a cash book, allowing users to keep its part in achieving a sustainable society. In this spirit, track of payments made from their current accounts. we not only actively promote sustainability but also This feature offers customers insight into how much impose strict requirements on ourselves in terms of money they spend each month in each category, and how we treat our customers. Integrity, transparency, will be made available for online banking as well in expertise and reliability are paramount in that regard. 2015. The app now also enables users to schedule We offer easy-to-understand banking products and ­periodic payment orders and make transfers to good service, and communicate clearly about this. But unknown third parties. The daily limit for transfers customer communication is certainly not a one-way using the mobile PIN was increased. At the request of street, as we set great store by our customers’ opinions customers, we provided the app with a balance check, and involve them in our mission and the development which enables users to check the balance in a selected of our sustainability policy. We call on them during account without logging on. meetings, surveys and discussions about specific susOpening new accounts online was improved. Customers tainability issues. We also consider signals received via can now easily open a new account after logging on, our customer service and webcare when drawing up our without having to re-enter all their details. sustainability policy and giving shape to our banking The number of payment system disruptions was higher services. We greatly appreciate the engagement of cusin 2014 than in previous years, causing negative ex­pe­ tomers who enter into discussions with us, whom we riences for customers. The availability of ASN Online meet at events and who send us their comments. Banking was 99.7% in 2014, well above the 99.0% target. A key indicator of customers’ intention to recommend After a start-up period, the Netherlands switched from a company is the Net Promoter Score (NPS). To calcuthe traditional account numbers to IBAN (International late this score, customers are asked: What is the likeliBank Account Number) on 1 August. It took some gethood, on a scale from 0 to 10, that you will recommend ting used to for many customers, as was evident from ASN Bank to family, friends or colleagues? ASN Bank the responses received by the ASN Customer Service achieved an NPS of +12% at the end of 2014. This Department. The major advantage of IBAN is that means that the share of customers giving 9 or 10 European payments are now just as easy as domestic 35 exceeds the share of customers giving 0 to 6 by 12%. At payments. the end of 2013, this percentage was 15%. Although it is not easy to give a clear explanation for this modest Legislation and regulations decline, some reasons can be discerned: continuous Throughout 2014, much attention was devoted to the interest rate drops on savings, payment system disrupcustomer integrity of retail customers and corporate tions, paper bank statements for investments and the clients. The purpose of customer integrity policy is to tightening of administrative processes. ensure that the bank knows who its customers are and protects itself against being abused for criminal activiService ties, such as money laundering and terrorism. It has to Our customers can take their questions and comments know its customers at the door: what are their wishes to the staff of the ASN Customer Service Department. and characteristics, and which risks will the relationship In 2014, they dealt with over 284,000 incoming phone entail? Banks are required not only to answer all these calls through the free service number, 77,000 e-mails questions, but also to demonstrably record this. To this and 9,000 letters. A large part of customers’ questions end, the administrative process in relation to new cusconcerned their accounts, for example relating to tomers was tightened. In addition, we asked some of online banking, transfer orders, contra account our current retail customers and corporate clients to changes and activating the ASN Wereldpas. The ASN re-identify themselves in the framework of legislation Customer Service Department helped around 4,500 and regulations. Thanks to our customers’ cooperation, people transfer their current account to ASN Bank. only a small number of corporate clients and retail Unfortunately, waiting times for customers were somecustomers still required further identification at the end times longer than desired. We are taking measures to of 2014. We are well aware of the inconvenience, and better respond to peaks in 2015. sometimes – rightly – irritation, this process caused to ASN Bank Report 2014 the customers concerned, especially to those who had In December we passed the 10,000-follower mark on been our customers for many years. We were happy to Twitter. We ended 2014 with 37,000 Facebook fans. also receive a great deal of understanding for the legal We complemented our commercial campaigns with necessity underlying this request, for which we are Facebook campaigns. One example of a successful grateful. Facebook campaign was ‘Take the puppy exam and win a (dog) guided tour’, in the context of our savings Customer consultation campaign with the Royal Dutch Guide Dog Foundation. ASN Bank aims to act in its customers’ interests. By The campaign yielded 13,000 interactions and 4,800 seeking frequent contact with our customers, we can people participated. In December 2013, we launched hear from them how they think about issues where their the Facebook campaign Newspaper for tomorrow. interests are at stake. We are already actively consul­ Together with and for Facebook fans, we created a ting customers, but not yet structurally in every area. ­digital newspaper containing fictitious but positive That is why we developed policy on the basis of which and inspiring news. The newspaper was published we consult our customers in a responsible, ­structured online early in 2014. manner about: Our online platform For the World of Tomorrow has • ASN Bank’s priorities in the development of its over 9,000 followers on Twitter and almost 24,000 services; fans on Facebook. • new products and services that customers need; • the completeness of information about products Customer magazine and services and how easy it is to find and underOur customer magazine Ideaal appeared five times in stand this information. 2014, both as a hard copy and online. The contents of We will introduce these processes in 2015. We also these two versions are practically the same. Customers consult customers about our sustainability policy, may choose which of these two versions they prefer; but that falls outside the scope of these processes. they may also choose both. The online version is also available to interested people who are not, or not yet, Communication ASN Bank customers. By year-end 2014 the online verWe aim to be in touch with all our customers, irrespecsion had approximately 15,000 subscribers, 14,000 of tive of whether they prefer paper, the Internet, telephone whom have cancelled the hard copy version. or mobile banking. At the same time, we are looking for new ways to draw attention to information. We let ‘old’ Annual and other reports and ‘new’ media exist side by side wherever possible, The annual and other reports of ASN Bank, the such as paper and the Internet. Our main online medium ASN Investment Funds and the ASN Foundation are 36 is our website, asnbank.nl, where customers can use used to inform customers and stakeholders about our the online banking facility and find information about policies and activities. ASN Bank. The information about savings, payments and investments on our website was much better orga­ Meetings with customers nised in 2014 by the use of different tabs per product. We are convinced that we can only be successful if we keep up the dialogue with our customers and frankly Online: webcare and social media discuss with them the choices associated with sustainSocial media such as Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn able banking. This is why we intensified our face-toare playing an increasingly prominent role in our comface contact with customers in 2014. We organised munications with customers and other stakeholders. various meetings for customers and others who were Communication through these media is brief and direct interested. There, persons including customers and as well as reciprocal. Interested persons post positive, employees, young social entrepreneurs and people but also critical messages about ASN Bank. As these from the worlds of business, science, journalism, messages are repeated, they can reach very far. That is politics and from civil society gave their views on a why we actively monitor all message traffic and answer sustainable society in a relaxed setting. questions about our services and the bank. The number of messages about ASN Bank was up 32% in 2014, rising ASN Live from over 36,000 to 48,000. 91% more messages Under the title ASN Live, meetings were held in required a response as customers asked questions or ­Nijmegen and Zwolle. The meeting in Nijmegen was all made comments. In addition, we initiate messages, about the subject of clothing, while in Zwolle we talked discussions and campaigns of our own on social media. about the climate. One Nijmegen visitor said: ‘One of the most inspiring meetings I’ve been to. I went home with the book by Marieke Eyskoot (Talking Dress, ed.) and all sorts of ideas for living even more sustainably.’ C Stakeholders André Kuipers speaking at TomorrowToday TomorrowToday Shareholders’ meetings After thirteen editions of Ethical Investment Day, Like every year, we received hundreds of investment we embarked on a new course with TomorrowToday customers at the shareholders’ meetings and meetings 37 ­(MorgenVandaag). The background of this name is as of unitholders of the ASN Investment Funds on Friday follows: ASN Bank strives for a liveable world of tomor25 April. In a separate Q&A session the Management row for future generations; to achieve this, we have to Board of ASN Bank answered questions about the make the right choices today. During TomorrowToday, bank. This proved to fill a great need. we initiated discussions about this using issues that we and our customers and business contacts greatly care ASN Asset Management about. This meeting on Saturday 11 October at the ASN Asset Management regularly organises small-­ Westergasfabriek in Amsterdam attracted some 1,000 scale events for its customers. In addition, ASN Asset visitors, both customers and other interested persons. Manage­ment started organising meetings about s­ pecific Speakers included scientist and astronaut André sustainability issues, with much room for ­discussion. ­Kuipers, economist Bas Jacobs, Peerby initiator Daan The first meeting was held on 24 October and centred Weddepohl, journalist Rena Netjes and presenter Eric on the issue of climate change. Corton. We posted reports and video compilations of the Value on the Map meetings on the website morgen-vandaag.nl. On social In 2013 we launched the web page WAAR(de) op de kaart media (#morgenvandaag), we are fuelling a positive (‘Value on the Map’). It shows how ASN Bank puts its flow of messages around the events to create an online mission into practice and what it does with the money audience and, with it, inform a larger target group about that its customers have entrusted to it. The map is ASN Bank and its themes. This was very successful in available on asnbank.nl, the website of our online com2014. During TomorrowToday, the hashtag munity For the World of Tomorrow, and also appeared #morgenvandaag was in Twitter’s top 5 of trending on our Facebook page in the course of 2014. The map topics for a major part of the afternoon. At its peak, shows a selection of activities: loans provided by 350,000 Twitter users were reached. ASN Bank, investments made by the ASN Investment ASN Bank Report 2014 Funds and projects we support through sponsoring, This sustainability supports communication about these collaboration, For the World of Tomorrow and the issue: pillars of our sustainability policy: ASN Foundation. At the end of 2014, 200 activities Fair trade human rights, biodiversity were on the map. The website attracted an average Anti-child labour human rights of at least 1,300 visitors each month. Renewable energy climate change Anti-arms human rights Four sustainability issues ‘Sustainability’ is a broad concept. More than half of all people in the Netherlands do not have a specific understanding of sustainable and social investment. The issues give our customers an opportunity to voice When they hear ‘sustainability’, they mainly think their personal preferences. The issues are linked to the ‘the environment’ and ‘green’. Other aspects, such ASN Credit Card and ASN Ideaalsparen. Customers as human rights, follow at a great distance, although who purchase these products may opt for one or more people did find it an equally important issue when they of the issues. A failure to make a selection automatically were asked to give their opinion. The social, human indicates a preference for all four of the issues. Each aspect of sustainability is essential to ASN Bank and issue has two partnering NGOs linked to it, along with a its customers. project in the context of the issue. The projects receive a Since 2010, we have made the concept of ‘sustainability’ share of the fee that ASN Bank receives from Interchange more tangible for our current and prospective customers for each payment customers make with the ASN Credit by focusing on four issues in our communi­cations. Card. The total contribution made on behalf of customers Surveys have revealed that our customers find these with an ASN Ideaalsparen account is a fixed amount; issues to be of greatest relevance to their savings. The higher savings balances of customers who have chosen four issues make the pillars of our sustainability policy to focus on a particular issue raise higher contributions more specific for customers and other stakeholders: from ASN Bank for the corresponding projects. Through Ideaal, social media and our website, we keep our customers up to date of the results of our support of these projects. At year-end 2014, we supported the following projects on behalf of our customers: Issue Organisation Project Fair trade Solidaridad Textile industry in Asia Oxfam Novib Sustainable cocoa from Nigeria 38 A future for house slaves in Bangladesh (until mid-2014) Anti-child labour Plan Nederland and Plan Bangladesh End child labour in Nepal’s rural areas (from mid-2014) Cordaid Kinderstem Help to children in Uganda and Congo Renewable energy Natuur & Milieu ‘Shine a light on scouting’ and the wind energy campaign Urgenda Energy-neutral Texel Anti-arms industry Amnesty International Nederland Special Programme on Africa War Child Help to war children in Congo C Stakeholders 9 Shareholder ‘good housing’ accessible and uphold personal contact ASN Bank is part of SNS Bank N.V., which is thus the as the cornerstone of banking. In addition, each brand, sole shareholder of ASN Bank. yet each in its own way, chooses to build a future based on the principle of sustainability. Please refer to the 2014 SNS Bank disentanglement Annual Report of SNS Bank N.V. for more information The disentanglement of the holding company and about SNS Bank N.V.’s principles and strategy. the Banking and Insurance activities of SNS REAAL required organisational adjustments in 2014. For Sustainability at SNS Bank N.V. ­example, the Group’s senior management structure Together – yet each in its own way – the five SNS Bank was changed, a new Management Board was appointed N.V. brands choose to build a future based on the prinfor the Bank and part of the employees of SNS REAAL ciple of sustainability. To SNS Bank N.V., sustainability transferred to the Bank in the course of 2014. Mutual means that it does what is right, now and for future connections still exist between the Bank and the generations, such as sustainable investment and finance, Insurer, including in the areas of loans, solvency, monitoring the customer’s interests by means of mortfinance and IT. The disentanglement is due to be gage checks, and encouraging sustainable ­housing. ­completed in the course of 2015. ASN Bank leads the way within SNS Bank N.V. where In February 2015, SNS REAAL reached agreement on sustainability is concerned. In 2014, for example, we the conditional sale of the Insurance activities to the spoke at length about making the collaborating banks’ Chinese insurance company Anbang. The sale, which is mortgage portfolio more sustainable. As ASN Bank expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2015 invests in these mortgages, it is of major concern to subject to approval from the regulatory authorities, us to make them as sustainable as possible. We expect will be followed by the transfer of SNS Bank from that specific plans will be made in 2015 to achieve this SNS REAAL to the Dutch State. After that, SNS Bank in due course. An important result of our collaboration will no longer be part of SNS REAAL. In due course is that SNS Bank N.V. will adopt ASN Bank’s ambition SNS Bank will be privatised. to arrive at a carbon-neutral balance sheet. Manifesto Collaboration with SNS Bank N.V. Five SNS brands work together under the flag of SNS Bank N.V. is not only ASN Bank’s shareholder, but SNS Bank N.V.: ASN Bank, BLG Wonen, RegioBank, also its close partner in various areas. We are cutting SNS and Zwitserleven Bank. These five brands share costs by using the same IT infrastructure and corres­ the same principles and common values. Their essence ponding security and by working together with the is: ‘people to people’ – banking with a human touch. IT experts and with staff departments such as Legal 39 The brands have laid this down in their Manifesto. Affairs and Tax Affairs. As ASN Bank operates within Reaching back to our social roots, we are taking our SNS Bank N.V.’s risk management organisation, it is responsibility to shape our financial services based on also assured of its continuous compliance with regulawhat customers truly need. We want to help customers tory authorities’ ever more stringent requirements. to be financially resilient. This means that our financial The organisation of ASN Bank itself is kept relatively services must focus on benefit rather than return. small and transparent as a result, allowing us to keep The five brands of SNS Bank N.V. offer people insight, all our attention focused on our sustainability mission. clarity and prospects in finance. We want to make rtner AA ASN Bank Report 2014 10 Partnering NGOs In 2013, we contributed financially to the film Dapper in n h e t wo In order to achieve our mission, we cooperate with de kinderschoenen, which deals with child labour in the partnering NGOs as much as possible. We make a Turkish leather industry. The film made a great impression positive contribution to each other’s objectives and during the shareholders’ meeting of the ASN Investment thus enhance our effectiveness. Funds on 25 April 2014. ord Our partners are primarily NGOs, but also sustainably Stichting Goed Bezig operating companies. We also frequently consult with In 2014 we supported Stichting Goed Bezig for the NGOs in a wide range of forums and are present at second year in a row, which foundation places bubbleevents and seminars. We work together with partners gum machines filled with ‘Goed Bezig’ (‘Well Done’) in a variety of ways. The following organisations are badges at primary schools. Children may use the badges strategic partners with which we also collaborate to pay each other compliments, which encourages posiwithin the framework of the four sustainability issues tive behaviour and discourages harassment. Ultimately, (see Chapter 8): Amnesty International, Cordaid we want to achieve that children give each other Kinderstem and Cordaid Memisa, Natuur & Milieu, 25,000 compliments. Primary school CBS de Borg Oxfam Novib, Plan, Solidaridad, Urgenda and War won the National Education Award of the Province Child. We temporarily team up with other partners in of Groningen with the compliments machine. the context of marketing campaigns; in 2014 those partners were FNV Mondiaal, the Royal Dutch Guide Children who changed the world Dog Foundation and Stichting Goed Bezig. Two part20 November marked the 25th anniversary of the UN ners are linked to interest donations via savings pro­ Convention on the Rights of the Child. On this occasion, ducts: Cordaid Microkrediet and Waddenvereniging. ASN Bank sponsored the book Kinderen die de wereld gen hebben veranderd (‘Children Who Changed the World’) op te New partner: Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp by photographer and publisher Peter de Ruiter. The staan We support Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp on behalf of book portrays twenty children who drew the public’s ASN Jeugdsparen savings customers with effect from attention to serious violations of children’s rights, thus 2014. Almost 400,000 children in the Netherlands making the world a little bit better, like Malala and Anne grow up in poverty. With modest financial contribuFrank. We highlighted this injustice together with our tions, Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp creates a little more h e t K in d 25 jaar. five theme partners that are also committed to ­children’s n happiness for these children, so they can join a sports e n d e Rechten va rights: Amnesty International, War Child, ­Cordaid o v e club, for example. Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp receives m b e r jl. best o n d ld h e b b e n veranderd Kinderstem, Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp and Plan Op 20 n K in d e re n die de were donations from us in the form of an amount for each d e aandacht Nederland. ASN Bank customers and the supporters of 40 e rd o o k o n newly opened ASN Jeugdsparen account and a percentd e r these five NGOs were given the e-book version of the Die dag w e k d a t k in derrechten age of the total deposits on these accounts. Nationaal n d e re k in deren, book. ASN Bank also sponsored the exhibition of the . Een b o o gelanceerd n van 22 bijz N-klanten! Fonds Kinderhulp is the second organisation we support photographs and stories from the book, which is n d e ve r h a le S a n g rij p e with ASN Jeugdsparen. As the number of accounts and is v o o r A travelling along libraries. de a book is gra t brengt via the balances on those accounts grow, the financial h ú c . H e t e o a ls M a la la en Kim P contribution becoming available via ASN Jeugdsparen z every year is increasing. Until 2014, this contribution was donated entirely to Cordaid children’s projects. ld in a a n d e ord e, bijvoorbee The support we givein n todNationaal re Fonds Kinderhulp ere e n o gsk e rlouse owe o k o m t h ij op een integ k toen ik e means that ASN Z Jeugdsparen ht. to contribute film Wit Licboth dedevelopment is’,children’s e rr e c h . Ik hoop dat tenabroad. ne Fran k Huto r k inat d home oo and e r e n manier op v ij n b o ek – en daarm der ee h ri jv o rd m f, sc zijn voorwo ensen on e e n M a la FNV la c h te n – b ij nog meer m n ASN Bank has e with Dutch trade union FNV. derrties kinclose geopend vooWe continued r rengt.’ rn a a r d e aan acht bwith FNV Voordeel that the d campaign n. Toen ik ewe launched in 2012. Each FNV member who opened or voan t komenbonus. e re n d ie in actie with ASN Bankereceived account c t in a c ti a e € w 15 ilwelcome n d Als u dir es op aan. vindt u sugge€sti10. werd aangedFor each newkcustomer, ind e rr e FNV c h te n , Mondiaal received webtosite die l, deways e a a n d a c h t. Combating school drop-out ra is n one d e rm e ofethe .nbest rde. der d prevent d e re n child w ww.iFNV labour. kve Mondiaal e t d and e A the S N Bank lancee General k in eten we Unionnof Education m de RuiterOnderwijsbond; et te ll e Peter(Algemene lfi e e liceert die m n pubAOb) of Twitter.• ra a g s e e n s e ? De v fum aakt unions in countries m o e te nwork ie tstogetherOwith teachers’ d e rm e e o p Facebooklike nen Morocco, eran and Uganda to prevent #ikvTurkey Albania, n o g s te e d s lijden children from dropping out of school to go to work. n. Wij moe ten nten i s o o r As n ­K l A ld hebben v eranderd creë re n . H e t is G r a t v d ie d e w e re r r d e e -b o o k v a n Kinderen o n e e n c o mputer – te elprijs vo o Het t, smartp h nloaden . M a a r v o o r e -r e ader, table A S N -k la n t gratis dow nen – als 6. C Stakeholders Contributions to society Appendix 2 gives a list of ASN Bank’s donations and We offer two deposit accounts that have the option sponsorship, which amounted to € 2.8 million in total. of donating the interest, which is 0.25% higher than The biggest donation went to the eight theme partners, the rate for similar deposits. Customers holding an which jointly received € 1.5 million for their p ­ rojects in ASN Vrouwenspaardeposito donate to Cordaid the areas of fair trade, renewable energy, the fight Microkrediet; customers holding an ASN Wadden­ against child labour and the fight against weapons. deposito donate to Waddenvereniging. Since 5 June In the context of ASN Jeugdsparen, Cordaid Kinderstem, 2014, for administrative reasons it has not been Cordaid Memisa and Nationaal Fonds K ­ inderhulp ­possible – and it will be impossible for the time received over € 330,000 for children’s p ­ rojects. We being – to open a new ASN Vrouwenspaardeposito ­contributed € 210,000 to the upbringing of pups of or Wadden­deposito. the Royal Dutch Guide Dog Foundation and donated € 300,000 to the ASN Foundation. The winners of the ASN Bank World Award jointly received € 40,000. 41 ASN Bank Report 2014 11 Society Meeting with experts on more sustainable housing and Broadly promoting our mission, we aim to spur others real estate to dedicate themselves to a just, sustainable world. On 26 June, the second meeting was held about how Other methods we deploy are our support to and the financial sector can make an effective contribution sponsoring of green and social initiatives. to making residential development and the real estate sector more sustainable. It followed up on the meeting Hearing at the Dutch House of Representatives of April 2013. Organised by SNS and ASN Bank together On 3 September, a hearing was held at the Dutch House with Rabobank and the Fair Bank Guide, the meeting of Representatives about sustainable banking. Banks, was attended by more than sixty representatives of the investors, scientists and experts talked with the members financial sector, construction industry, energy sector, of the House of Representatives about the characterisreal estate brokerage, housing corporations, indepentics and importance of sustainable banking. Ewoud dent research agencies, mortgage brokers, NGOs and Goudswaard told the House of Representatives that, other parties. The emphasis was on the progress made to ASN Bank, sustainable banking is about stability, in making the sector more sustainable in order to inform service and reliability; about putting customers’ and and inspire each other. society’s interests first. He also explained that sustainable banking takes account of what is sustainable in the For the World of Tomorrow long run in social and ecological terms. ASN Bank puts Using our online community For the World of Tomorrow, this into practice by: we are intensifying our focus on sustainable start-ups: • using sustainability criteria in the selection of people who take action to contribute to solving a social loans granted and investments made by the bank problem in the Netherlands or abroad. The community and the ASN Investment Funds; helps them to develop initiatives and execute ideas, • involving customers in the sustainability policy to share information and meet new people. At year-end help them understand what we do and so that we 2014, For the World of Tomorrow had more than do what they want; 55,000 members (year-end 2013: approx. 53,000). • setting the right example by awarding moderate We also use the For the World of Tomorrow platform remuneration, not striving for profit maximisation to launch campaigns that help us flesh out our mission. and by providing easy-to-understand products Members of the site and strategic partners of and absolute transparency. ASN Bank can launch campaigns and post messages. Ewoud Goudswaard asked politicians to contribute to We support these campaigns through the network sites building a sustainable society by assigning a key role Facebook and Twitter to reach an increasingly large to the circular economy in a new tax system. In such a audience. 42 system, use would take precedence over possession and the use of raw materials would be taxed more than The ASN Bank World Award labour. He emphasised the importance of long-term For the World of Tomorrow organised the ASN Bank rather than short-term thinking, and of social return World Award for the seventh time. From the one h ­ undred in addition to financial return. best entries, the jury selected ten projects on each issue that went through to the next round. These initiators Involvement in sustainable development received coaching and workshops to further develop Almost sixty Dutch companies and NGOs signed their plans. The jury chose the winners after a round the Charter on the role of business, civil society and of voting by 25,000 people. cross-­sector partnerships in the Post-2015 Development We would like to thank the members of the jury, who Agenda on 29 September 2014, committing themselves have been major contributors to the ASN Bank World to more collaboration and efforts in order to achieve Award for several years: Jeroen Jansen (ASN Bank the new development goals. Managing Director Ewoud Gouds­waard signed the covenant on behalf of ASN Bank. The signatories believe that companies and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) play an important role in sustainable development. The covenant describes what companies and NGOs can contribute. The signatories undertake to take a common stance in the form of collaboration between different sectors. It makes our country a global frontrunner. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs uses this signal in negotiations in the United Nations. C Stakeholders Winners of the 2014 ASN Bank World Award Sustainability issue: SlimBreken makes new cement from old concrete, which prevents much carbon Renewable energy, nature and the environment emission. FoodSharing wants to create a community to encourage food sharing. Safety and social cohesion Yoni is going to offer an organic – and therefore healthier and more Fair trade, fair fashion and fair food environmentally friendly – alternative to sanitary towels and tampons. IK circuLEER translates sustainability experiences from actual practice and higher Children’s rights, education and the fight against child education for vocational education. labour Director and chairman of the jury), Ineke van Zanten Polar expedition (Greenwish and IdealenKompas), Ynzo van Zanten The Netherlands’ most famous polar explorer and (GreenInc.), Olof van der Gaag (Natuur & Milieu), climate journalist Bernice Notenboom tried to reach Lisette Kreischer (Veggie in Pumps), Rudolf Scheffer the North Pole on skis last spring. Her goal was to (Oxfam Novib), Tom van de Beek (Butch & Sundance docu­ment the visible consequences of climate changes Media and Stichting Tipping Point), Gerd Junne (War and release a film about this. We supported Bernice, Child), Davina Feelus (Plan Nederland) and Marieke who impressed during TomorrowToday with her story Eyskoot (Talking Dress). about the rough journey. Sponsorship Bernice Notenboom talking about her journey ASN Bank sponsors special projects that match our to the North Pole at TomorrowToday vision and that we want to stimulate. In doing so, we aim to increase our brand awareness and bring sustainability to the attention of a broader and, if possible, young audience. That is why we sponsor special ­projects each year, both small and large ones. A few examples: Movies that Matter In 2014 we again sponsored the annual Movies that Matter Festival. Amnesty International organises this festival to open people’s eyes to human rights Welkom namens de ASN Bank bij 43 by means of films, documentaries and debates. We received customers at the showing of Inequality for all, a documentary about the enormous income Movies that Matter gap in the United States. Inequality for All Festival Mundial waste project Festival Mundial in Tilburg aims to be a completely waste-free festival within three years, in part through the effortsLet ofop! Bereikbaarheid Den Haag its visitors. ASN Bank sponsored this Op 24 en 25 maart is Nederland gastland van een internationale top over nucleaire veiligproject. Out of the ten tonnes of waste produced heid. In Den Haag zijn voorafgaand aan en tijdens deze dagen een groot aantal veiligheidsen verkeersmaatregelen van kracht. De stad zelf en bepaalde stadsdelen zijn dan moeilijk beat the festival in June, reikbaar. Wanneer u vanseven tonnes buiten Den Haag ofu het komt, kunt beste met were plastic het openbaar vervoer reizen. Het theater is op loopafstand van Centraal Station Den Haag. collected for recycling thanks to playful initiatives Vriendelijk verzoek: like the Waste Tower. Bent u toch verhinderd op 23 maart of komt u alleen in plaats van met zijn tweeën? Laat dat ons dan even weten via telefoon 0800 0380 of een e-mail naar marketing@asnbank.nl. We kunnen dan iemand anders een plezier doen met uw plaats(en). Smiles4Sale Dit programma is uw entreebewijs; vergeet dus niet het mee te nemen! People who seemingly have little to offer sell good deeds on the website Smiles4Sale. ASN Bank As the recipients of the good deeds are also poor, the ‘smiles’ are paid Postbus 93514 2509 AM Den Haag Telefoon 0800 03 80 (gratis) by people who do havewww.asnbank.nl money. The buyer gives a informatie@asnbank.nl good deed by one vulnerable person to another. As a thank-you, he receives a report about it. ASN Bank Report 2014 ASN Foundation we show that things need to change. Even though it is For many years, ASN Bank has been making donations not yet entirely clear how exactly we are to reach the to projects and organisations that contribute to our target, we will not let that stop us. Our ‘can-do mentality’ mission. We make these donations through Stichting is unique in the financial sector, says the jury. ASN Foundation, which makes money available to organisations and projects to realise sustainable Most customer-friendly bank initiatives. We support projects across the globe. ASN Bank was elected the most customer-friendly bank The organisation requesting the donation must be in the Netherlands for the fifth time in a row. This news based in the Netherlands. In 2014, ASN Bank donated was announced on 23 September 2014 by research € 300,000 to the ASN Foundation, which used the agency Marketresponse, which annually conducts a money to support 109 projects for a total amount of representative online survey among more than 4,000 € 295,571. The donations ranged from € 100 to € 25,000. Dutch consumers. In 2014, large gifts were sent to foundations including Movies that Matter, Stichting Gered Gereedschap and Financial website of the year 2014 Vereniging Nederlands Cultuurland. You will find more We were awarded the prize for Best Financial Website information in the ASN Foundation’s annual report and of the Year for the fourth year in a row. This public award on our website. is presented every year and the election is organised by MetrixLab in collaboration with Emerce. They measure Recognition both the popularity and the quality of the nominated In 2014, we received various honourable mentions and websites. awards. We would like to thank everyone who contributed to this. Green Bull award for ASN Milieu & Waterfonds On 13 November, ASN Milieu & Waterfonds was Good overall score in the Fair Bank Guide awarded the Groene Stier (‘Green Bull’) for the most On 22 April, the Fair Bank Guide published the fourteenth sustainable investment fund in the Netherlands. The updated version of the sustainability policies of Dutch fund had won this award five times before, from 2007 banks. ASN Bank was awarded good scores again this to 2011. The jury praised the fund and ASN Bank for year. We received 10 points out of 10 for our policy in their clear criteria, transparency, focus on the website the fields of human rights, labour rights and arms, and investments in the real economy. The jury also nature (biodiversity), taxation and corruption. Our score lauded ASN Bank’s ambition to have a net zero carbon on ‘Housing and Real Estate’ was considerably better footprint by 2030, which it aims to achieve partly than in 2013 thanks to our new ‘Living and Working’ through ASN Milieu & Waterfonds. 44 policy. This sector policy contains our choices for the investment in and financing of homes and ­buildings. Morningstar nominations On 4 February, Morningstar nominated two ASN funds PAX Hall of Fame for the annual Morningstar Awards: ASN Duurzaam In 2014, PAX published a report about the multi-billion Aandelenfonds in the ‘global equity’ category and investments made by financial institutions in nuclear ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds in the ‘neutral mixed funds’ weapons and a report about the financing of cluster category. Even though we did not win the awards, these munitions. As ASN Bank does not invest in any weapons nominations are of great significance as Morningstar is whatsoever, the bank was given a place in the ‘Hall of the world’s leading authority in independent investor Fame’ in both reports. information about investment funds. Marketing award for ‘ASN Bank carbon neutral by 2030’ Tree on leadership lane ASN Bank won the Knight/Amazon Award (‘Ridder/ Trees for All invited directors of Dutch companies to Amazone Award’) with its objective to have a net zero plant trees at the end of November as a symbol of their carbon footprint by 2030. This award is presented to a dedication to a sustainable world. On behalf of ASN Bank, person or organisation doing groundbreaking work in Jeroen Jansen planted a tree on ‘leadership lane’ in the the financial sector – making people sit up and take Bentwoud sponsor forest. Extended every year, the lane notice, identifying challenges and presenting solutions. will grow into a path to be enjoyed for generations According to the jury, with our climate change target to come. C Stakeholders 12 Staff Agreement, which contains good primary and secondary In our office in The Hague we have over 140 people benefits that comply with the market standard, also working with a passion to achieve a sustainable, applies to our bank. liveable world. We provide our staff with proper development oppor­ tunities and aim to be an accessible organisation for Each in their own area of expertise, the ASN Bank everyone in the labour market. The human resources employees are actively working to create a sustainable policy is based on mature labour relations: on principles society. They execute ASN Bank’s sustainability mission of mutual responsibility, equality and due care. This is and spread this mission among customers and other expressed, for example, in the performance and com­ stakeholders. This makes them important ambassadors petency assessment cycle. During the annual planning of ASN Bank and the ideals we jointly stand for. meeting, employees provide specific targets that they Our mission is also reflected in the way management and aim to achieve in the year ahead, how they aim to staff treat each other. At the basis lie mutual concern, achieve them and which training courses are necessary open dialogue and interaction, both vertically and to that end. They also focus on the development of horizontally in the organisation. We create a positive competencies in view of the employee’s current position environment in which people are given development and ambitions. opportunities and responsibilities. Where possible, we Our performance and competency assessment cycle also encourage staff to make their own contributions to a partly focuses on generic competencies and partly on sustainable society by doing voluntary work, for example. competencies specifically aimed at the individual employees. As a business, ASN Bank is using a specific Remuneration, objectives, competencies and competency: cooperation. We can deliver better per­ development formance if we cooperate, both within departments ASN Bank’s remuneration policy is grafted onto that of and between the bank’s various departments. SNS Bank N.V. The SNS Bank N.V. Collective Labour Staff 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 150 Number of new staff 45 Leavers 120 Number of employees as at 31 December 90 60 39,6% Part-time staff 39,3% Part-time staff 38,6% Part-time staff 33,6% Part-time staff 31,9% Part-time staff 30 0 Fte’s 80.9 96.0 102.3 125.4 133.3 Fte (fulltime-equivalent): converted to the number of full-time staff. ASN Bank Report 2014 Employee satisfaction Inter­national. Arvind Ganesan of Human Rights Watch SNS Bank N.V. conducts an employee survey every year. gave an inspiring lecture and UN Young Ambassadors In 2014, almost 85% of the ASN employees completed spoke about the work they do. In November, around this survey. General satisfaction was 7.8 (on a scale of fifteen colleagues went for a walk with a forester in the 1 to 10): a good score, but lower than the 8.6 of 2013. Haagse Bos forest near our office building and learned Accordingly, we did not achieve the Management about the history of this ancient woodland. Attention Board’s permanent target, i.e. a score of at least 8 out of was also given to the colleagues supporting Fairfood 10. Employees indicate that they are satisfied with their International by running the ‘Damloop by Night’. work, are proud of ASN Bank and know much about the Lastly, we started an introduction programme for new sustainability mission. Lower scores were given to effiemployees in 2014. cient working methods, collaboration within the bank and the open discussion of mistakes and feedback. The Staff meetings results were discussed in the teams. The management Four meetings for all staff members were held in 2014. team will implement the improvements in 2015. At two meetings, colleagues including the Management Board shared topical issues with the entire organisation. The matters addressed included the results, current Nine points for the company restaurant issues regarding the investment operations, the climate In the context of a series of articles about company change ambition and volunteering activities. canteens, a journalist from NRC Handelsblad At a special meeting entitled A look to the future, the visited ASN Bank’s canteen. She praised the good Management Board and employees discussed ASN Bank’s atmos­phere and the tasty dishes, and gave the long-term objectives and plans for the future. canteen 9 points out of 10. It is a well-deserved compliment to our permanent staff, Bas of Bastien­ Representation foods and Ada, who make healthy lunches using The SNS Bank N.V. works council also represents the fair, sustainable ingredients every working day. ASN Bank employees. Three members of the works council have ASN Bank as their area of attention. In-house workforce Communication with employees The number of employees increased by 7 to 144. An Internal Communications Programme was introThe number of FTEs increased to 133.3. duced at the end of 2013. The programme states our Absenteeism was low in 2014: 2.7%. Absenteeism definition of internal communications, identifies the meetings and, where necessary, proper support from 46 relevant responsibilities and the persons to whom the occupational physician take centre stage in our these are assigned and describes our focus for the time sick leave policy. ahead. The key purpose of internal communications is to retain the ASN culture by sharing knowledge and Formally, there is no balanced distribution of seats nourishing experience and inspiration. between men and women on the ASN Bank ManageIn 2014 we did so, for example, in seven lunch sessions ment Board. However, as the Management Board does including presentations held by colleagues and include one woman, there is a balanced distribution in ­strategic partners such as Oxfam Novib and Amnesty material terms. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Number of new staff 15 25 14 22 7 Number of employees as at 31 December 144 137 114 107 91 Number of FTEs* as at 31 December 133.3 125.4 102.3 96.0 80.9 Part-time staff (in %) 8 2 7 6 5 Absenteeism (in %) 2.7% 3.9% 2.6% 3.2% 2.9% Workplace health and safety costs (in euros) 39,520 33,262 24,273 25,530 27,316 Training costs (in euros) 140,801 104,981 79,256 68,208 87,592 * FTE (full-time equivalent): converted to the number of full-time staff. C Stakeholders Composition of personnel: FOR THE WORLD OF TODAY ASN Bank employees performed voluntary work 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 by the name ‘VOOR DE WERELD VAN VANDAAG’ (FOR THE WORLD OF TODAY) in and around Male The Hague, where the bank is based. In 2014, too, we were active with the volunteering 34% 32% 32% 37% 40% Female ­programme for residential care centre Het Anker in Voorburg. Sixty employees took part in this programme in 2014. They went out for the day with their ‘buddies’ from Het Anker to the Dutch Parliament, Keukenhof, Avifauna, Blijdorp, ­Madurodam and Museon. These were unforgettable days for the elderly, but for us as well. In 2015, we will dedicate ourselves to the Surfrider Foundation, making a Hague contribution to the reduction of the garbage patch in the oceans. 66% 68% 68% 63% 60% 47 ASN Bank Report 2014 Biodiversity Biodiversity – the variety of living organisms and their correlations within ecosystems – contributes to our well-being and our welfare. It is vital to valuable matters such as oxygen, drinking water and food. This page provides some examples of the efforts we made in 2014 to maintain biodiversity. Photo: Immeke Urban beekeeping course Our platform For the World of Tomorrow organised an introductory urban bee­ keeping course for customers in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. We were surprised by the many applications and the participants’ enthusiasm. Photo: Walter Sietinga Seepje The project got to the finals of the ASN Bank World Award but only just failed to win: Seepje. A fully natural detergent made of peels of the fruit of the 48 Sapindus tree from Nepal, hypoallergenic and without chemicals. Participating in the World Award was a step towards the launch of Seepje Vloeibaar. A Seed Europe The ASN Foundation donated to A Seed Europe in 2014. The goal of this annual ‘seed weekend’ is to involve people in the fight for agricultural biodiversity. The weekend’s organisers, Reclaim the Seeds, aim for robust, sustainable agriculture that is independent from the concentration of power in the seed trade. Biodiversity Photo: Cor Kuyvenhoven Plastic Whale Building a boat of plastic litter to high­ light and tackle the ‘plastic soup’ problem – that was the challenge that Marius Smit had set himself. He mobilised people to dredge up plastic in the Amsterdam canals. It was such a success that the boat became a reality – the Plastic Whale – with financial support from ASN Bank. Support to the squirrel 2014 was the Year of the Squirrel, the symbol of ASN Bank. That is why the ASN Foundation made a donation to the Dutch Mammal Society in 2013 to help it pay more attention to squirrels. 49 The Society put together a learning module and an identification sheet and showed citizens and governments what they can do for squirrels. Photo: Hielco Kuipers Naturalis after dark Biodiversity, evolution, climate change, animal welfare: these subjects fascinate not only biologists but also other scientists. Six of them were given the floor in a series of ‘flash lectures’. The goal: to get new ideas by viewing familiar themes from a whole new perspective. ASN Bank sponsored the series of lectures. 50 D Economic performance 51 ASN Bank Report 2014 13 Raising capital files that are in compliance with statutory requireWe want to grow in order to contribute more money to ments. This means that the records must be accurate sustainable businesses, governments and projects, as and up to date. In 2014, we contacted all customers well as to maintain a healthy financial basis as a bank whose identification was not properly recorded or that safeguards our continued existence. whose files were incomplete. The relationship with ­customers who were unable to identify themselves We welcomed 39,896 new customers in 2014, bringing after repeated requests – in many cases ‘dormant the total customer base to 603,496. This is a drop of accounts’ – was terminated. As a result, 15,496 4,177 customers compared to the number reported at ­customer relationships were terminated and 7,641 year-end 2013, as a substantial number of customers ­customers are not included in the number of customers left us. The Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing at year-end 2014. Finally, we lost 20,936 customers (Prevention) Act (Wet ter voorkoming van witwassen en because they terminated their contractual relationship financieren van terrorisme; Wwft) obliges banks to or passed away. As from 2014, the files of customers on veri­fy their customers’ identities and to keep customer whom we report meet all requirements. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Customer base 603,496 607,673 587,549 575,344 516,902 Sustainable savings and investments market share market for sustainable investments was 26.7%. These The 2014 figures on the Dutch sustainable savings and figures were provided by the Dutch Association of investment markets were not yet known at the time Investors for Sustainable Development (Vereniging van this report was written. In 2013, the total retail market Beleggers voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling; VBDO). VBDO for sustainable savings and investment products rose to expanded the definition of sustainable savings and € 25.1 billion. Our share in the total sustainable savings investment in 2013. For this reason, we do not present market stood at 63.5% in 2013. Our share in the total the comparative figures for 2012 and earlier here. Assets under management (in millions of euros) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 13 52 Funds and asset management 12 2,097 ASN Bank 11 1,760 1,377 10 41 3 2 1,296 9 1,375 8 7 7,992 8,969 9,811 10,122 10,724 6 5 0 Total assets under 9,367 10,265 11,188 11,882 12,821 management D Economic performance Savings instant-access savings products for the retail market Despite stagnation in the Dutch savings market, (ASN ­Ideaalsparen) and the commercial market savings at ASN Bank rose by 4.9% from € 9.3 billion to (ASN Sparen Zakelijk). ASN Jeugdsparen also showed € 9.7 b ­ illion. This growth was mainly achieved in our solid growth again. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Savings market share 2.9% 2.8% 2.8% 2.7% 2.5% Source: CBS ASN Ideaalsparen KNGF pups. More than 10,000 customers opted for With ASN Ideaalsparen, we actively support four susthe donation. tainability issues, promoting fair trade and renewable energy and fighting child labour and the arms industry ASN Jeugdsparen (see Chapters 8 and 10). In 2014, 4,464 new ASN Jeugdsparen accounts were opened. Deposits grew by 16.9% from € 222 million to Puppy campaign € 259 million. Using ASN Jeugdsparen, our customers From 1 February to 15 April, we organised the campaign invest in the future of their children and grandchildren ‘Help raise KNGF pups’. For every new ASN I­ deaal­sparen and the future of many children who are less fortunate, account or € 1,000 deposit on an existing ASN Ideaalas ASN Bank donates € 5 to Cordaid and € 5 to Nationaal sparen account, we supported the upbringing of KNGF Fonds Kinderhulp for every new ASN Jeugdsparen guide dogs. The campaign yielded € 130,000 for KNGF account. Each year, we also donate an amount to Geleidehonden, sufficient for the upbringing of 26 pups. these two organisations that is based on the total Another 16 pups were raised thanks to customers we savings balance of all ASN Jeugdsparen accounts. contacted with the request to re-identify themselves The donation in 2014 totalled € 330,000. Since the (see Chapter 8). As compensation, they could choose start of ASN Jeugdsparen in 2002, we have donated between a sum of money, a DVD or a donation for the more than € 2.5 million for vulnerable children in this 53 From left to right: Karlijne Kuipers and Peter van der Heijden of the Royal Dutch Guide Dog Foundation receiving the donation from Micky Bakker and Henk de Ligt of ASN Bank. ASN Bank Report 2014 way. Cordaid invests this money in children’s projects our investment campaigns, strong investment perforin the Central African Republic and Congo that ensure mance and the recognisable sustainability profile of that children can go to school and stay in school. Cordaid our investment funds. We closed 2014 on a high with also ensures that children have a home and receive total fund growth of over € 348 million, or 21.7%. medical care and adequate nutrition. On 1 January 2014, we also teamed up with Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp as Sustainable investment campaign our partner for ASN Jeugdsparen. The fund helps child­ In November 2014, we introduced the website ren in the Netherlands who are growing up in poverty eenanderrendement.nl to support our investment and are therefore on the sidelines of society. campaigns. This site explains to investors and other interested people the difference that sustainable Current accounts investment in the ASN Investment Funds can make for At the beginning of 2009, we introduced our current them. Key in this respect is that the ASN Investment account for private customers, the ASN Bank Account. Funds offer an opportunity for ‘different returns’: This is a comprehensive, inexpensive online current returns earned while respecting people, planet and account for customers from the age of 18. Customers climate. receive interest on positive balances and pay only low In the context of this campaign, we placed an app on monthly costs. In 2014, the (net) number of accounts our Facebook page in November and December that increased by 11,372. In part as a result of this, a total assessed brands in terms of their sustainability. This of 120,425 ASN Bank Accounts were recorded in our way, we made clear that the ASN Investment Funds books at year-end 2014. In addition, since May 2011 only invest in companies that meet all criteria. The we offer the ASN Jongerenrekening account especially game was visited 60,000 times, introducing many for young people aged 12 to 25. This account allows people to our sustainability criteria. young people to make payments without providing an overdraft facility. The account is free of charge. ASN Groenprojectenfonds At year-end 2014, 17,029 of these accounts were ASN Groenprojectenfonds is the only ASN Investment registered. Fund that is tax efficient. At the end of 2014, it expe­ The total number of customers holding one or more rienced an unexpectedly large inflow of money. As a current accounts as sole or joint account holders was result, the portion of the investment portfolio that was 157,271 by year-end 2014. invested in green projects threatened to be reduced to less than 70 percent. If this were to happen, the fund ASN Credit Card might lose its status of green institution. This is why, The ASN Credit Card is a Visa Card administered by on 25 November, we had to temporarily close the fund 54 credit card expert ICS. Almost 27,000 cards were in to new investments. use at the end of 2014. As with ASN Ideaalsparen, ASN Credit Card holders have a choice of supporting Asset management the sustainability issues that ASN Bank is aiming to ASN Asset Management is intended for private indivi­ advance, promoting fair trade and renewable energy duals, foundations, associations and social institutions and fighting child labour and the arms industry. A small that do not want to manage their investment portfolios percentage of each payment made with the card is themselves. The services are aimed at customers with donated to the themed projects of our partnering NGOs. investable assets of € 250,000 or more. ASN Asset This amount is deducted from ASN Bank’s revenue; Management invests these assets on the basis of customers do not have to pay anything extra. This ASN Bank’s sustainability policy. brought in € 129,282 for the relevant projects for the 2014 was a good year for ASN Asset Management. full year 2014. Its customer base grew to 214 private individuals and institutions at year-end 2014. Assets under manageASN Investment Funds ment also showed good growth. The investment Our investment funds achieved strong growth in 2014, performance was satisfactory. in part thanks to historically low interest rates on savings, D Economic performance Development of ASN Investment Funds (amounts x 1,000/€ 1,000) Net assets Total net assets of investment funds 600 2013 € 1.602.670 2014 € 1.950.655 500 400 ASN Duurzaam ASN Duurzaam ASN Duurzaam ASN Milieu & ASN Duurzaam ASN GroenASN-Novib Aandelenfonds Obligatiefonds Mixfonds Waterfonds Small & Midcapprojectenfonds Microkredietfonds 300 fonds 200 100 0 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 (amounts x 1,000/€ 1,000) Number of shares/units 15 12 9 ASN Duurzaam ASN Duurzaam ASN Duurzaam ASN Milieu & ASN Duurzaam ASN GroenASN-Novib Aandelenfonds Obligatiefonds Mixfonds Waterfonds Small & Midcapprojectenfonds Microkredietfonds 6 fonds 3 55 0 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 ASN Bank Report 2014 14 Exposures: loans and other We particularly focus on investing in the renewable investments energy sector. Taking account of our low risk profile, It ensues from ASN Bank’s mission that we help we can finance a limited number of projects directly in create a social, just and sustainable society. this sector every year. As we value renewable energy projects, in addition to these project loans we are lookASN Bank exists by the grace of its customers and their ing for other types of financing that keep the financial trust. The bank invests customers’ savings, while the risks under control, such as green bonds. Green bonds ASN Investment Funds invest customers’ investment entail lower risks and at the same time form an investmoney. Our customers must be able to depend on us to ment in renewable energy. invest their money in a careful, risk-averse manner. Key categories of ASN Bank are bonds and private loans to Quality review governments (countries, provinces and municipalities), In preparation of the transition to European banking as well as residential mortgages, water boards, energy supervision, an asset quality review was conducted to companies, healthcare institutions, housing corporaanalyse the quality of all loans on the balance sheet. tions, education, culture and leisure, and renewable The project plan for this, which applied to SNS Bank energy. This spread creates a good balance between N.V. as a whole, was first submitted to the Dutch the various sectors and a diversification of risks. ­Central Bank. In the course of 2014, ASN Bank went Appendix 1 to this report shows where we invest your through the files of all its corporate clients and sup­ money; Chapter 15, in the Notes to the balance sheet, plemented them where necessary. shows the spread across sectors of our investments and loans. Here, you will find notes to the main categories. Developments in 2014 Our loans and investments increased by € 569 million Principles and policy in 2014, from € 10,299 million to € 10,868 million. Our objective as a bank is to contribute to a just, ASN Bank’s exposures consist of loans and advances to ­sustainable society. This means that we act within customers and investments (bonds and a small equity the parameters imposed on us as a bank. We base portfolio). Investments increased by € 749 million in our actions on two key principles. First, we invest our 2014, while loans and advances to customers dropped ­customers’ money only in ways acceptable to them. by € 180 million. Second, we must satisfy the requirements set by ­regulatory bodies. Loans and advances to customers The capital requirements set by regulators determine Loans and advances to customers consist of business the parameters of our policy to a great extent. loans, private loans, mortgage loans, and loans and 56 advances to private individuals. As shown by the list of our loans and investments, ­private home loans are the main category. This is Change in loans and advances to customers (in millions of euros) because, through Woonhuishypotheken B.V., Business loans + 8 we finance mortgages that meet our sustainability Private loans 181 ­criteria (see the ASN Bank Living and Working policy Loans and advances to private individuals 7 paper). By financing such mortgages, we ensure that Residential mortgages people can buy a home of their own – as with financing Change in loans and advances to customers 180 in the social housing sector. In doing so, we are increa­ singly focusing on the reduction of energy consumption and the use of renewable energy for these homes. This ­benefits both the climate and the occupants’ disposable Business loans income. In collaboration with third parties, we measured We provide business loans for ASN Bank itself and, on the energy consumption of the homes in our portfolio the instructions of ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer in 2014. Based on this baseline measurement, we drew B.V., for ASN Groenprojectenfonds and Energiefonds up plans to start making the homes more ­sustainable Overijssel. in 2015. (in millions of euros) 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Change Loans and advances to customers 6,414 6,594 180 Investments 4,454 3,705 + 749 Total loans and investments 10,868 10,299 + 569 D Economic performance Market developments •S  tichting Beheer Gebouw 3X Factoren In ASN Bank’s view, a sustainable society is also a We entered into a loan agreement with Stichting ­caring society. It is therefore fitting for our bank to Beheer Gebouw 3X Factoren, affiliated with the finance this sector. Despite having done so ever since university hospital in Maastricht (Academisch our incorporation, we have decided to step up our Ziekenhuis Maastricht; AZM). The contract conlending efforts to the healthcare sector. That is why we cerns a € 4.8 million loan to expand the building, developed our own proposition for this sector in 2014. which is owned by 3X Factoren and located on the We also provided various loans to healthcare institutions. Maastricht Health Campus. 90% of the building is The aim is to expand the number of loans to this sector used by the AZM’s Clinical Genetics Department in 2015. and 10% by the Maastricht Thrombosis Clinic. • RW OG BV We were experiencing some difficulties from falling In Almere, a former office building is being coninterest rates and narrow margins in 2014. In addition, verted into a care home. Private entrepreneurs and we faced fierce competition between banks, especially healthcare provider Reedewaard work to­gether in in the case of sustainable projects that are also finanthis new healthcare institution for the elderly. The cially feasible, which created immense pressure on loan amounts to € 3.2 million. ­margins. On top of that, certain sectors like housing • Stichting Eemhoven Beheer corporations feel the need for loans with extremely Verpleegen Gasthuis St. Elisabeth in Amersfoort long terms. Combined with today’s low interest rates, is operated in Stichting Eemhoven Beheer. In 2014 this sometimes meant that we were unable to meet the we extended the loan, which was about to expire, demand for finance. by a few years after consultation. The amount involved is more than € 2.6 million. ASN Bank’s new loans In 2014, ASN Bank signed loan agreements represen­ ting more than € 98 million. In all, investments in Equator Principles business loans rose by € 8.4 million to € 348.4 million. The Equator Principles for large project loans In addition, outstanding commitments amount to over require the loans to meet the social and € 74 million. Important new loans in 2014 were: environmental criteria set by the International • Nationaal Energiebespaarfonds Finance Corporation (IFC). ASN Bank has ASN Bank undertook to fund € 50 million for adopted the Equator Principles, which reaffirms ­Nationaal Energiebespaarfonds. This fund was our policy to provide loans only to projects that created to enable private home owners to take are developed in a socially responsible manner ­energy-saving measures with an inexpensive loan. and are in line with the requirements for sound 57 The costs saved on the energy bill as a result must sustainability policies. In addition to our own be at least equal to the costs of the loan. The State sustainability criteria, we apply the Equator and Rabobank also take part in this fund, which Principles to all the projects we finance whose has a total of € 300 million in cash. Unfortunately, total value exceeds $ 10 million (we apply the private borrowers have made little use of the fund converted amount of € 8 million as a limit). so far. The Equator Principles distinguish three project • Westermeerwind BV categories, ranging from a high possible adverse ASN Bank takes part in a consortium of five financial effect on the environment and human rights institutions that, together, enable the construction (category A) to a low effect (C). and operation of the largest near­shore wind project in the Netherlands: Wester­meer­wind. The project As we apply our own sustainability criteria, consists of 48 Siemens wind ­turbines, which will be we do not finance and assess any projects placed 520 metres from the coast in the IJsselmeer. from category A. We did assess one project Siemens is to supply, install and maintain the wind in category B in 2014, which we approved. turbines. The share of the funding that ASN Bank undertook to provide amounts to more than € 36.5 million. More than € 12 million of this amount was paid in 2014. ASN Bank Report 2014 Private loans •H ousing corporations In 2014, a total sum of € 181 million was repaid on Housing corporations have a social objective: ­ the private loan portfolio. No new private loans were they provide good, affordable housing, specifi­ provided in 2014. By means of such private loans, cally for low-income households. They increasingly ASN Bank finances companies and institutions in add environmental goals to this social objective, project categories including the following: which makes them eligible for financing by • Water management ASN Bank. In the Netherlands, water management is very important indeed. Water plays a key role in the Residential mortgages development of our living environment, for example We use a substantial portion of the savings entrusted with regard to housing, working, nature conservato us to finance residential mortgages. This is in line tion and leisure. As far as the environment is conwith our vision of a sustainable future, when people cerned, since 2007 some water boards have been will want to live in high-quality, affordable and energyintensifying their activities in the areas of climate efficient homes. As ASN Bank itself does not offer any change, water quality, nature conservation and residential mortgages, we finance mortgage portfolios biodiversity, and exporting knowledge to Third via private loans to Woonhuishypotheken B.V., which World countries. As the water boards’ activities are manages mortgages provided by Regiobank, SNS and highly harmonised, we assess the sector as a whole BLG Wonen. Together with them, we create a more in terms of ­human rights and the environment. sustainable portfolio. We select these portfolios on the • Healthcare and old-age care basis of our own criteria, which are currently mostly of We consider good healthcare to be an essential a social nature. element of a just society. It is a key human right to which we wish to contribute with our financing acWe prefer to finance energy-efficient homes built of tivities. Healthcare institutions play a major social sustainable materials. In practice, however, this is not role as they provide healthcare with due attention possible on a large scale, which is why we also contri­ to quality and safety for patients and staff. We bute in other ways to making homes in the Netherlands verify whether the organisation of the healthcare more sustainable. We contribute to initiatives under institutions is such that they contribute to good which mortgage lenders offer their customers the healthcare, now and in the future. opportunity to make their homes more sustainable. 58 Water boards are responsible for water quantity and quality and dike maintenance. D Economic performance To this end we provided a loan to Nationaal Energiebeproviding a private loan to Woonhuishypotheken B.V. spaarfonds, which assumed its work in 2014. The fund Together with SNS Bank N.V., we are making this portallows home owners to take out cheap loans to finance folio more sustainable. energy-saving measures in their homes. Investments In the third quarter of 2013, we changed the manner The cost of investments rose by € 460 million in 2014. in which ASN Bank finances residential mortgages. Investments are measured at market value in accordance We set up a separate legal entity to this effect, named with IFRS guidelines. The market value of investments Woonhuishypotheken B.V. Only residential mortgages rose by € 289 million in 2014. Together, this translates that meet our criteria have been transferred to this into an increase of investments by € 749 million. private company. We finance these mortgages by Change in investments (in millions of euros) Change in cost Change in market value Government bonds + 304 + 239 Green bonds and sustainable bonds + 141 + 10 Other investments + 15 + 40 Total + 460 + 289 Government bonds country’s government bonds based on the criteria laid The Dutch Central Bank requires all banks to maintain down in the ASN Bank Government Bonds Issue Paper, part of their assets in readily marketable investments the local governments have also automatically been such as government bonds. Government bonds are approved. In this category, we invest mainly in bonds loans extended to countries’ governments, which play of Dutch municipalities and provinces. an important role in promoting sustainability and in the functioning of a just society. They provide basic faciliGreen bonds and sustainable bonds ties such as housing, education and healthcare and ‘Green bonds’ allow us to invest in fixed-income securirules to protect nature, for example. We invest in the ties in the fields of renewable energy, energy reduction government bonds of countries that meet our sustainand biodiversity. This fairly new category is a welcome ability criteria. addition to the bank’s balance sheet. These bonds conAs we do not wish to run any currency risk on our tribute considerably to achieving the objective of being go­vernment bond investments, only government bonds fully carbon neutral by 2030. 59 denominated in euros qualify for inclusion in our In 2014, ASN Bank spent an amount of € 141 million investment universe. We assess the countries that on the purchase of green bonds and sustainable bonds issue these bonds first on the basis of our absolute from NRW Bank and the European Investment Bank criteria for human rights, climate change and biodiver(EIB) in particular. Owned by the 28 European Member sity. A number of countries are excluded automatically. States, the AAA-rated EIB finances projects that tackle We assess the sustainability performance of the counclimate change, such as projects in the areas of wind, tries that meet our absolute criteria on the basis of tidal and solar energy and energy efficiency. NRW Bank sixteen relative indicators. is a development bank of the German state North The Government Bonds policy paper, published on our Rhine-Westphalia. NRW Bank uses the green bonds to website, contains an explanation of these indicators. finance environmentally friendly water and energy The countries of which ASN Bank owned government projects. bonds as at 31 December 2014 are stated in Appendix 1. In 2014 the government bond portfolio grew by over ASN Investment Funds € 300 million. We mainly expanded the stakes in The assets of the seven ASN Investment Funds, managed ­Belgium (+ € 113 million), Germany (+ € 94 million), by ACTIAM N.V. as AIF manager, are regarded as part France (+ € 72 million) and the Netherlands (+ € 96 of ASN Bank’s assets under management. ASN Beleg­million). In addition, we spent € 20 million on the purgingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. (ABB) adopts relevant chase of Swedish government loans. We reduced our policy, including the sustainability guidelines and critestake in Austria by approximately € 89 million. ria. Below, we describe how these funds’ investments contribute to a sustainable society. More information Local and regional governments about the funds can be found in the annual reports of Just like national governments, they play an important ASN Beleggingsfondsen N.V., ASN Groenprojectenrole in a society’s functioning. If we have approved a fonds and ASN-Novib Microkredietfonds. ASN Bank Report 2014 ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds 45% equities. The manager may deviate from this to a ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds invests in equities of limited extent according to current market conditions. around 150, primarily listed, companies across the globe. ABB selects companies that meet the sustainASN Milieu & Waterfonds ability criteria and have sound financial prospects. ASN Milieu & Waterfonds is a sector fund investing Its policy’s main focus is on rising equity prices. worldwide in around sixty equities of listed companies The manager is also guided by companies’ climate that primarily offer technologically advanced solutions to change performance: it determines the size of its environmental problems. The fund invests in companies stake in sustainable companies in part on the basis operating in the water, waste and renewable energy of their CO2 emissions. sectors. Examples include companies that ­produce solar cells and LED lights, purify water, make buildings ASN Duurzaam Obligatiefonds more energy efficient and produce renewable energy. ASN Duurzaam Obligatiefonds invests in euro bonds issued by governments that meet the sustainability ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds ­criteria of the ASN Investment Funds. The fund is ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds invests in equities unique as governments are assessed both in terms of of small to medium-sized listed European companies. their social and environmental performance and on These companies meet the sustainability criteria of the basis of a fundamental financial criterion, which is the ASN Investment Funds or are required to meet their repayment capacity (the ratio between a country’s these criteria within three years of admission to the tax revenues and interest payment commitments). ASN Investment Universe. The fund manager actively For example, governments are assessed on aspects encourages businesses to put corporate social responincluding the amount of protected natural areas, sibility on the agenda. The portfolio includes a diverse carbon emissions per capita and the country’s income range of companies, such as transport companies, in­equality. healthcare providers, electronics manufacturers and IT companies. ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds The portfolio of ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds consists ASN-Novib Microkredietfonds of equities from the ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds In developing countries, regular banks generally make universe and bonds from ASN Duurzaam Obligatie­ hardly any funds available to finance small-scale p ­ rojects fonds, which meet the sustainability criteria of the in the informal sector. ASN-Novib Micro­kredietfonds ASN Investment Funds. The spread between the two lends monies to, or participates in, microfinance instiinvestment categories is, in principle, 55% bonds and tutions (MFIs), allowing the MFIs to provide loans to 60 Bioenergy project Overijssel, Empyro BV. D Economic performance small and medium-sized local businesses. This way, In 2014 the management was transferred to ASN Bank the fund helps to combat poverty. Special attention is on account of an organisational change as a result of the devoted to the social aspects of the loans that the fund new European Directive for investment fund managers, provides. the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD). The Province of Overijssel uses this fund to ASN Groenprojectenfonds work towards its ambition that renewable energy ASN Groenprojectenfonds makes a significant contrisources should provide for 20% of the province’s total bution to our climate change objective. It provides energy requirement by 2020. Energiefonds Overijssel loans in the fields of sustainable construction and offers entrepreneurs, housing corporations and other renewable energy, e.g. energy generated by wind social organisations the opportunity to finance their turbines and decentralised energy supplies (thermal projects in the areas of energy saving and producing ­storage, cogeneration and solar energy). new energy. Not in the traditional way with subsidies, but by means of participating interests, loans and Energiefonds Overijssel guarantees. ASN Bank manages Energiefonds Overijssel ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. (ABB), together with Royal HaskoningDHV and Start Green ASN Bank’s investment business, has been the manager Venture Capital. of Energiefonds Overijssel of € 250 million since 2012. 61 ASN Bank Report 2014 Care and welfare A sustainable society is also a caring society. We believe that solidarity, taking care of each other, social cohesion and an eye for people’s well-being in the broadest sense of the word are the building blocks of a caring society. We contribute to this in a variety of ways. 42 pups for the Royal Dutch Guide Dog Foundation Thanks to ASN customers, the Royal Dutch Guide Dog Foundation is raising 42 pups. We donated money for 26 pups in connection with a successful ASN Ideaalsparen campaign. Another 16 pups can be raised as over ten thousand customers preferred a donation to the Royal Dutch Guide Dog Foundation over a small personal reward as a thank-you for their response to our administrative request. ZorgSaam Twenterand The ASN Foundation donated a sum to ZorgSaam Twenterand for Eetmee. Under the motto ‘Eating together is fun’, Eetmee provides healthy, inexpensive meals at 62 four locations in the Municipality of Twenterand. The project is run by volunteers. The donation was used, among other things, for the Eetmee vegetable gardens in Vroomshoop and the Village Garden in Den Ham. Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp With effect from 2014, ASN Bank makes a yearly donation to Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp on behalf of ASN Jeugdsparen account holders. Close to 400,000 children in the Netherlands are at risk of becoming marginalised due to poverty and serious problems at home. With modest financial contributions, Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp creates a little more happiness for these children. Care and welfare Photo: Walter Sietinga Yoni Yoni turns the world of tampons, sanitary towels and pantyliners upside down with organic cotton products, made without plastic or other synthetic materials, chlorine and traces of pesticides. It offers women a healthier, more environmentally friendly alternative to the standard products. Yoni was one of the winners of the ASN Bank World Award 2014. Photo: Josje Deekens Compliments machine Complimenting students contributes to a positive school climate and counters bullying. That is why Stichting Collectief Goedbezig places bubblegum machines filled with ‘Well Done’ badges at primary 63 schools, as tangible tokens of compliments paid. ASN Bank sponsored ten thousand Well Done badges in 2014 and will continue its sponsorship in 2015. Photo: Josje Deekens Residential care centre Het Anker In 2014, a total of sixty ASN Bank employees volunteered at residential care centre Het Anker in Voorburg. They undertook six day trips with residents of Het Anker to Avifauna, Madurodam and Blijdorp, among other places. Each volunteer was matched with a care centre resident. This intensive contact created engagement and a beautiful day for both of them. 64 E Financial accounts 65 ASN Bank Report 2014 15 Financial results Balance sheet In thousands of euros before profit distribution Notes 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 1 677,017 329,448 Loans and advances to customers 2 6,413,991 6,594,030 Investments 3 4,453,749 3,705,135 Property and equipment 4 9,883 9,973 Associates 5 1,101 Deferred tax assets 6 1,887 3,935 Other assets 7 78,576 106,378 Total assets 11,636,204 10,748,899 Liabilities Savings 8 9,708,491 9,255,867 Other amounts due to customers 9 951,194 886,138 Deferred tax liabilities 6 65,396 49 Other liabilities 10 232,884 205,861 Other provisions 121 Share capital 11,350 11,350 Other reserves 608,187 322,817 Profit for the year 58,582 66,817 Shareholders’ equity 11 678,119 400,984 Total equity and liabilities 11,636,204 10,748,899 Income statement 66 In thousands of euros Notes 2014 2013 Income Net interest income 13 137,348 113,030 Net commission income 14 15,946 14,483 Investment income 403 57 Exceptional income 344 Total income 154,041 127,570 Expenses Staff costs 15 13,106 11,464 Depreciation of property and equipment 4 528 503 Other operating expenses 16 31,665 24,060 Impairment charge 17 1,266 1,112 Other expenses 18 22,025 1,287 Total expenses 68,590 38,426 Result before taxation 85,451 89,144 Taxation 19 26,869 22,298 Net result for the period 58,582 66,846 Minority interests 29 Net result attributable to shareholders 58,582 66,817 D Economic performance Statement of changes in equity Share RevaluaShare Other Profit for Minority In thousands of euros premium tion Total capital reserves the year interests reserve reserve Balance as at 1 January 2013 11,350 115,886 99,054 154,927 34,920 -125 416,012 Transfer of net result 2012 34,920 -34,920 Transfers 2012 34,920 -34,920 Change in revaluation reserve -81,970 -81,970 Other movements 125 125 Amounts charged directly to total -81,970 125 -81,845 equity Net result 2013 66,817 66,817 Total result 2013 66,817 66,817 Total changes in equity 2013 -81,970 34,920 31,897 125 -15,028 Balance as at 31 December 2013 11,350 115,886 17,084 189,847 66,817 400,984 Balance as at 1 January 2014 11,350 115,886 17,084 189,847 66,817 400,984 Transfer of net result 2013 66,817 -66,817 Transfers 2013 66,817 -66,817 Change in revaluation reserve 218,553 218,553 Other movements Amounts charged directly to total 218,553 218,553 equity Net result 2014 58,582 58,582 Total result 2014 58,582 58,582 Total changes in equity 2014 218,553 66,817 -8,235 277,135 Balance as at 31 December 2014 11,350 115,886 235,637 256,664 58,582 678,119 67 ASN Bank Report 2014 Cash flow statement In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Cash flow from operating activities Operating profit before tax 85,451 89,144 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 528 503 Changes in other provisions 121 Impairment charges 1,266 1,112 Tax (paid)/received 42,952 -41,438 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Change in advances and liabilities to customers 244,495 -4,530,093 Change in advances to banks 4,453,027 Change in savings 452,624 310,645 Change in investments -94,798 28,654 Change in other operating activities 52,397 6,349 Net cash flow from operating activities 785,036 317,902 Cash flow from investment activities Sale and redemption of investments 1,480,183 1,328,576 Purchase of investments -1,917,212 -1,935,328 Purchase of intangible assets -323 Purchase of property and equipment -438 -179 Net cash flow from investment activities -437,467 -607,254 Cash flow from finance activities Minority interests 96 Net cash flow from finance activities 96 Cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January 329,448 618,704 Change in cash and cash equivalents 347,569 -289,256 Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 677,017 329,448 68 Accounting principles for the financial The following subsidiaries have been consolidated results in the financial results of ASN Bank N.V.: • ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. (100%) General information • ASN Vermogensbeheer B.V. (100%) ASN Bank N.V., incorporated and established in the Netherlands, is a public limited liability company incorAny reference in this report to ASN Bank also includes porated under the laws of the Netherlands. ASN Bank its subsidiaries. N.V.’s registered office is located at Bezuidenhoutse­ weg 153, 2594 AG The Hague. Basis of preparation ASN Bank’s figures have been incorporated in the Since 5 January 1998, ASN Bank N.V. has been a consolidated financial statements of SNS Bank N.V. wholly-owned subsidiary of SNS Bank N.V., whose The consolidated financial statements of SNS Bank financial statements are filed with the Trade Register N.V. have been prepared in accordance with the in Utrecht. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted within the European Union (EU). The company’s figures have been incorporated in the The information included in the consolidated financial consolidated financial statements of SNS Bank N.V. statements of SNS Bank N.V. has been used for the Based on a guarantee issued by SNS Bank N.V. in accorseparate financial results of ASN Bank N.V. ASN Bank’s dance with Book 2, Section 403 of the Dutch Civil Code, separate financial results include the most important the company financial statements of ASN Bank N.V. information. Please refer to the consolidated financial have not been audited. statements of SNS Bank N.V. for the comprehensive financial results. D Economic performance The ASN Bank Management Board released ASN Bank’s Functional currency and reporting currency financial results for the year ended 31 December 2014 The financial results have been prepared in thousands after approval by the Supervisory Board on 10 April of euros (€). The euro is the functional currency of 2015. ASN Bank N.V. All financial data presented in euros are rounded off to the nearest million, unless stated Changes in principles, estimates and presentation otherwise. Below, only the changes relevant for ASN Bank are set out. Main accounting principles, estimates and assumptions Changes in presentation A few changes were made to the classification of The use of estimates and assumptions in the ­balance sheet items. preparation of the financial results • Amounts due to banks were recognised separately The preparation of the financial results requires on last year’s balance sheet and pertain to a curASN Bank to make estimates and assumptions based rent account with SNS. This year this balance on complex and subjective opinions and estimates. sheet item has been offset against the cash and These estimates have a significant impact on the cash equivalents item, which also includes the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the con­other current account relationships with SNS. tingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, The 2013 figures have been adjusted accordingly. and the reported income and expenses for the financial • Last year a balance sheet item called funds entrus­ year. In this regard, management judges situations on ted was included, comprising savings and other the basis of available information and financial data funds entrusted. The savings item is a separate which is subject to change in the future. Although the balance sheet item this year. The other funds enestimates are made to the best of management’s trusted are now incorporated in the balance sheet knowledge, actual results may differ from these item other amounts due to customers, under demand estimates and the use of other propositions or data deposits. The 2013 figures have been adjusted can lead to materially different results. accordingly. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed Accounting principles used in the on a regular basis. The resulting impact is recognised preparation of the financial results in the period in which the estimate is revised or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision Below, only the principles that are most important for impacts both the reporting period and future periods. ASN Bank are set out. Please refer to the consolidated The main accounting principles involving the use of 69 financial statements of SNS Bank N.V. for a complete estimates concern the methods for determining the overview of the accounting principles. provisions for bad debts, determining the fair value of financial assets and liabilities and determining The accounting principles set out below have been impairments. applied consistently to all the periods presented in these financial results. For detailed information and disclosure of the accoun­ ting estimates and assumptions we refer to the next Accounting principles applied to balance sheet items sections and the notes to the financial results. In preparing the financial results, the accounting ­principles ‘fair value’, ‘amortised cost’ and ‘historical Provision for bad debts cost’ are used. Fair value is used for: A provision for impairment is made for loans and • land and buildings in own use; advances if there are objective indications that • investments classified as available for sale ASN Bank will not be able to collect all the amounts to be received in accordance with the original contract. All other financial assets (including loans and advances) For loans and advances that are individually significant, and liabilities are measured at amortised cost. the provision made equals the difference between the book value and the recoverable value. The recoverable Non-financial assets and liabilities are generally value equals the expected future cash flows, including measured at historical cost. Except for the cash flow the amounts realised by virtue of guarantees and colinformation, the financial results have been prepared lateral, discounted at the initial effective interest rate on an accrual basis. of the loans and advances. ASN Bank Report 2014 The criteria for impairment are applied to the entire Impairment of investments in financial instruments loan portfolio. Homogenous groups of loans and Each reporting date, ASN Bank assesses whether there advances with smaller amounts per individual loan are objective indications of impairment of investments or advance (and corresponding credit risk) are tested classified as available for sale. Impairment losses are collectively for impairment. The provision with respect recognised directly in the income statement under to the collective approach is calculated using models. ‘impairment charges’. With investments available for The loss factors developed using these models are sale, any positive revaluation reserve of shareholders’ based on historical loss data of ASN Bank and are equity is first deducted. adjusted according to current information that, in the opinion of management, can affect the recoverability Specific balance sheet principles of the portfolio on the assessment date. Cash and cash equivalents The provision for impairment also covers losses where Cash and cash equivalents include loans and advances there are objective indications of losses likely to be to credit institutions with a remaining term to maturity incurred in the loan portfolio. These losses are estiof less than one month. mated on the basis of historical loss patterns and the creditworthiness of the borrowers. Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances are measured at amortised cost If the amount of the impairment subsequently decreases using the effective interest method. due to an event occurring after the impairment, the provision is released to the income statement. When a A provision for impairment is made if there are objective loan is uncollectible, it is written off against the relevant indications that ASN Bank will not be able to collect all provision for impairment. Amounts that are subsequently the amounts due in accordance with the original contract. collected are deducted from the addition to the proviFor loans and advances that are individually significant, sion for impairment in the income statement. the provision made equals the difference between the book value and the recoverable value. Homogenous Fair value of financial assets and liabilities groups of loans and advances with smaller amounts per The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is deterindividual loan or advance (and corresponding credit mined on the basis of quoted list prices where available. risk) are tested collectively for impairment. Such quoted list prices are primarily derived from transaction prices for listed instruments. If transaction Investments prices are not available, market prices from indepenASN Bank only has investments classified as ‘available 70 dent market participants or other experts are used. for sale’. ASN Bank applies a transfer price when determining After initial recognition, investments available for sale fair value; therefore financial assets are initially recogare restated at fair value in the balance sheet. Unrealised nised at their bid prices and financial liabilities at their gains and losses resulting from fair value adjustments of offer prices. these investments are recognised in the other reserves In markets where activity has decreased or in inactive (shareholders’ equity), taking account of deferred markets, the range of prices from different sources can taxes. The investments are recognised at fair value. be significant for a certain investment. Selecting the When the investments are sold, the related fair value most appropriate price requires judgement. Available adjustments are recognised in the income statement as market information on the fair value of the instrument ‘investment income’. ASN Bank uses the average cost is taken into account. method to determine the results. For certain financial assets and liabilities, no market Interest income earned on securities is recognised as price is available. The fair value of these financial assets interest income under ‘net interest income’. Dividend and liabilities is determined using valuation techniques, received is recorded under ‘investment income’. which vary from discounted cash flow calculation to valuation models that use accepted economic methodo­ Property and equipment logies. Input into the models is as far as possible based on observable market information. All valuation methods Land and buildings in own use used are assessed and approved in-house according to Property in own use comprises ASN Bank’s office, SNS Bank N.V. governance procedures. which is measured at fair value (revaluation model) based on yearly valuations performed by external, independent valuators with sufficient professional D Economic performance expertise and experience in the specific location and Deferred tax liabilities category of the property. Deferred tax liabilities concern tax payable in future Any increase in the fair value exceeding the cost price periods in connection with taxable temporary differis added to the revaluation reserve in shareholders’ ences. The treatment is in accordance with the dis­closure equity, less deferred taxes. Positive revaluations, insofar in the previous section. as these result in the reversal of earlier write-downs on the same asset, are credited to the income statement. Other assets Decreases in the fair value, insofar as these result in the Other assets consist of VAT, other receivables and reversal of prior positive revaluations of the same asset, accrued assets. The net amount of advances and proviare charged to the revaluation reserve. The revaluation sions in relation to the Deposit Guarantee Scheme (DGS) reserve cannot be negative. All other decreases in the is accounted for under other receivables. fair value are accounted for in the income statement. Buildings are depreciated over their economic life using Savings, amounts due to customers and amounts due the straight-line method, with a maximum of fifty to banks years, taking into account the possible residual value. Savings consist of balances on (bank) savings accounts, Land is not depreciated. Regular impairment tests are savings deposits and term deposits of retail clients. carried out on land and buildings. Amounts due to customers primarily represent demand Repairs and maintenance expenses are recognised deposits and cash of business customers insofar as it under ‘other operating expenses’ at the moment the does not concern credit institutions. expenses are incurred. Expenses incurred after the Upon initial recognition, savings, amounts due to cusacquisition of an asset that increase or extend the tomers and amounts due to banks are measured at fair future economic benefits of land and buildings in own value, including transaction costs incurred. Thereafter, use in relation to their original use are capitalised and they are measured at amortised cost. Any difference then amortised. between the measurement at initial recognition and Upon the sale of a property, the part of the revaluation the redemption value based on the effective interest reserve related to the sold property is transferred to method is recognised under ‘interest expenses’ in the ‘other reserves’ within equity. income statement during the term of these savings and amounts owed. IT equipment and property and equipment All other assets included in this item are measured at Other liabilities cost net of accumulated depreciation and, if applicable, Other liabilities primarily consist of interest accrued on accumulated impairment losses. financial instruments that are stated at amortised cost. The cost price comprises the expenses directly attributThis item also includes creditors, other taxes and 71 able to the acquisition of the assets and is depreciated accrued liabilities. on a straight-line basis over the useful life, taking into account any residual value. The estimated useful life Specific income statement accounting can vary from 3 to 10 years. principles Periodic impairment tests are performed on the other assets. Income and expenses are allocated to the period to which they relate. Costs are recognised in the cost Taxes ­category to which they relate. Deferred tax assets Interest Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for tax Interest income comprises interest earned on losses carried forward and for temporary differences recei­vables and investments that is attributable to between the tax base of assets and liabilities and the the period. Interest expenses comprises interest paid book value. This is based on the tax rates applicable as on savings and other amounts due to customers attri­ at the balance sheet date and the tax rates that will butable to the period. SNS Bank N.V. hedges interest apply in the period in which the deferred tax assets or rate risks for ASN Bank. The settlement of the costs for tax liabilities are settled. Deferred taxes are carried at hedging interest rate risks is charged to the interest face value. Deferred tax assets are only recognised if income. sufficient tax profits are expected to be realised in the near future to compensate these temporary differences. ASN Bank Report 2014 Fee and commission income tractual obligations and that all the existing collateral Fee and commission income includes income from is without value. securities transactions for clients, fund management and asset management. This is recognised in the Cash flow statement reporting period in which the services are performed. The cash flow statement is prepared according to the Commission and management fees due are included indirect method, and distinguishes between cash flows under ‘fee and commission expense’. These costs are from operational, investment and finance activities. recognised in the reporting period in which the services With regard to cash flow from operating activities, the are acquired. operating profit before tax is adjusted for gains and losses that did not result in income and payments in the Investment income same financial year and for movements in provisions Investment income consists of dividend and capital and accrued and deferred items. gains realised. Investments in (consolidated) subsidiaries and associates are stated under cash flow from investment activities. Expenses The cash and cash equivalents available here at the Expenses are recognised in the income statement on acquisition date are deducted from the purchase price. the basis of a direct relationship between the costs In the context of the cash flow statement, cash and incurred and the corresponding economic benefits. If cash equivalents are equal to the balance sheet item future economic benefits are expected to be derived cash and cash equivalents. across different reporting periods, expenses are recognised in the income statement using a systematic Notes to the balance sheet method of allocation. Expenses are directly included in the income statement if they do not generate any 1. Cash and cash equivalents future economic benefits. Cash and cash equivalents consist entirely of demand deposits. Off-balance sheet liabilities Contingent liabilities are liabilities not recognised in 2. Loans and advances to customers the balance sheet because their existence is contingent Loans and advances to customers are broken down on one or more uncertain events that may or may not in two ways: occur in the future not wholly within the control of • by counterparty: this breakdown is based on ASN Bank. It is not possible to make a reliable estimate the nature or core business of the enterprise or of such liabilities. organisation; 72 The maximum potential credit risk arising from pledges • by funded activity: this breakdown is based on and guarantees is stated in the notes. In determining the nature of the project. This nature is generally the maximum potential credit risk, it is assumed that equivalent to the nature of the company or instituall the counterparties will no longer live up to their contion, but there are a few exceptions. Breakdown by counterparty In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Financial institutions 4,509,142 4,510,005 Local governments 443,558 543,389 Health and welfare services 357,438 395,050 Residential construction 469,905 472,012 Water extraction and management 290,083 322,311 Energy 250,399 246,151 Retail customers 35,877 43,050 Education, culture and leisure 14,911 19,280 Other 42,678 42,782 Total loans and advances to customers 6,413,991 6,594,030 D Economic performance Breakdown by funded activity In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Home loans 4,535,878 4,541,826 Residential construction 475,893 478,226 Local governments 443,558 543,389 Health and welfare services 360,373 398,289 Water extraction and management 290,297 322,525 Renewable energy 271,406 252,859 Education, culture and leisure 16,371 20,800 Other 20,215 36,116 Total loans and advances to customers 6,413,991 6,594,030 The home loans include a € 4.5 billion private loan that Movements in loans and advances to customers are as ASN Bank has provided to Woonhuishypotheken B.V., follows: involving mortgage collateral with a value of € 4.5 billion. In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Balance as at 1 January 6,594,030 2,073,274 Advances 34,184 4,707,497 Disposals/redemptions -210,655 -182,909 Amortisation -3,050 -2,661 Other movements -518 -1,171 Balance as at 31 December 6,413,991 6,594,030 3. Investments Just like loans and advances to customers, investments are broken down both by counterparty and by funded ­activity. 73 Breakdown by counterparty In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Government bonds 3,649,759 3,106,119 Financial institutions 385,153 240,156 Local governments 190,391 148,898 Rail transport 202,666 186,384 Energy 25,780 23,578 Total investments 4,453,749 3,705,135 ASN Bank Report 2014 Breakdown by funded activity In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Government bonds 3,649,759 3,106,119 Local governments 162,039 148,898 Rail transport 202,666 186,384 Renewable energy 242,127 109,468 Development assistance 87,221 70,873 Other 109,937 83,393 Total investments 4,453,749 3,705,135 Investment listings In thousands of euros Shares Fixed-income investments Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Listed 4,445,041 3,694,066 4,445,041 3,694,066 Unlisted 8,708 11,069 8,708 11,069 Total 8,708 11,069 4,445,041 3,694,066 4,453,749 3,705,135 Valuation of investments In thousands of euros Shares Fixed-income investments Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Amortised cost 10,096 9,845 4,079,931 3,619,827 4,090,027 3,629,672 Revaluation -1,388 1,224 312,926 21,555 311,538 22,779 Accrued interest 52,184 52,684 52,184 52,684 Total 8,708 11,069 4,445,041 3,694,066 4,453,749 3,705,135 74 Movements in investments In thousands of euros Shares Fixed-income investments Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Balance as at 1 January 11,069 10,350 3,694,066 3,199,423 3,705,135 3,209,773 Investments 541 814 1,916,671 1,934,514 1,917,212 1,935,328 Disposals -1,168 -1,480,183 -1,328,576 -1,481,350 -1,328,576 Revaluations 33 672 324,847 -109,965 324,879 -109,293 Impairment -665 -767 -665 -767 Amortisation -9,860 -10,065 -9,860 -10,065 Other movements -1,102 -500 8,735 -1,602 8,735 Balance as at 31 December 8,708 11,069 4,445,041 3,694,066 4,453,749 3,705,135 D Economic performance 4. Property and equipment In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Buildings 7,532 7,664 IT equipment 46 11 Other property and equipment 2,305 2,298 9,883 9,973 At the end of March 2012, ASN Bank relocated to the renovated building at Bezuidenhoutseweg 153. The building is being depreciated as from April 2012. In last year’s report, the costs of renovation and costs of installations were included in the ‘buildings’ item. This year, these costs are recognised in other property and equipment. The 2013 figures have been adjusted accordingly. Movements in property and equipment In thousands of euros Buildings IT equipment Other Accumulated acquisition costs 7,895 74 3,260 Accumulated depreciation -363 -28 -955 7,532 46 2,305 Balance as at 1 January 7,664 11 2,298 Investments 61 384 Divestments -7 Depreciation -132 -19 -377 Balance as at 31 December 7,532 46 2,305 5. Associates ASN Bank has a 25% interest in Triple Jump. This participating interest was included in the investments until 2013. 75 6. Deferred tax assets and liabilities In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Deferred tax asset 1,887 3,935 Deferred tax liability 65,396 49 Total -63,509 3,886 Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from differences between balance sheet value and tax value are carried at face value. 7. Other assets In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Accrued interest 27,649 31,076 Other accrued assets 29,022 67,898 Accrued assets 56,671 98,974 Other receivables 21,905 7,404 Total 78,576 106,378 Total 78.576 106.378 ASN Bank Report 2014 8. Savings In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Due on demand 9,305,907 8,864,774 Other 402,584 391,093 Total 9,708,491 9,255,867 Savings consist of balances on savings accounts, bank savings accounts, savings deposits and term deposits of retail clients. The interest payable on savings is included under other liabilities. 9. Other amounts due to customers In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Non-current debt 50 100 Demand deposits 932,572 866,214 Mortgage deposits 11,795 13,014 Savings deposits 6,777 6,810 Total 951,194 886,138 The demand deposits comprise deposits of business customers insofar as it does not concern credit institutions. 10. Other liabilities In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Other liabilities 74,004 25,281 Accrued interest 158,880 180,580 Total 232,884 205,861 76 11. Shareholders’ equity For notes to shareholders’ equity, see the ‘statement of changes in equity’ earlier in this chapter. The changes comprise the net result 2014 and the change in revaluation reserve. Unrealised gains and losses as a result of changes in the fair value of assets that are classified as available for sale are recorded in this reserve, net of taxes. 12. Off-balance sheet liabilities In thousands of euros 2014 Liabilities from pledges and guarantees given 29,598 Liabilities from committed facilities 74,373 ASN Bank offers products such as pledges and guarantees in order to meet its finance customers’ wishes. We do not recognise the underlying values of these products as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet. The aforementioned amount is ASN Bank’s maximum potential credit risk for these products, assuming that all parties to contracts with ASN Bank cease to comply with their contractual obligations and all existing securities have no value. The committed facilities mainly consist of credit facilities pledged to customers, but against which no claim has yet been made. These facilities are pledged for a fixed term and at a variable interest rate. Collateral has been secured for the majority of the committed credit facilities. D Economic performance 13. Net interest income In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Interest income 308,212 307,108 Interest expenses 170,864 194,078 Total net interest income 137,348 113,030 Interest income includes the proceeds derived from lending money and related transactions, as well as related commissions and other interest-related income. Interest expenses comprises interest paid on savings and other amounts due to customers attributable to the period. Interest rate risks are fully hedged at group level. 14. Fee and commission income Fee and commission income In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Money transfer, payment and investment charges 3,371 2,166 Management fees 24,851 23,832 Total fee and commission income 28,222 25,998 Fee and commission expense 12,276 11,515 Total 15,946 14,483 Total 15.946 14.483 Income from money transfer, payment and investment charges includes income from customers’ current and investment accounts. Management fees comprise income from the management of investment funds. 15. Staff costs In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Salaries 7,682 6,807 77 Pension costs 1,393 1,231 Social security 1,119 910 Other staff costs 2,912 2,516 Total staff costs 13,106 11,464 Staff costs increased due to the larger number of FTEs. The average number of FTEs was 132.6 in 2014 (2013: 117.1). All staff members work in the Netherlands. Other staff costs consist largely of the costs of temporary staff, fleet, travel costs and education and training costs. The remuneration of individual members of the ASN Bank Management Board and Supervisory Board is set out in the ‘Remuneration report’ section of Chapter 17. ASN Bank Report 2014 16. Other operating expenses In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Business accommodation costs 1,132 1,207 Information technology costs 5,083 4,978 Marketing and public relations costs 7,227 6,575 Consultancy costs 617 694 Other costs 17,606 10,606 Total other operating expenses 31,665 24,060 The increase in other costs is mainly attributable to an increase in cost allocations from staff departments. In addition, the other costs rose due to ASN Bank’s increased activities. 17. Impairment charges / (reversals) In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Goodwill 323 Investments 665 767 Loans and advances to customers 601 23 Total 1,266 1,112 18. Other expenses In thousands of euros 2014 2013 Bank tax 1,109 1,287 Resolution levy 20,916 Total 22,025 1,287 78 Bank tax has been charged to banking institutions operating in the Netherlands since 2012. The resolution levy was charged in 2014 by way of a contribution made by the industry towards the bailout of SNS REAAL. 19. Taxes ASN Bank N.V. and its subsidiaries constitute part of the SNS REAAL N.V. tax unit and pay the relevant corporate tax thus calculated each year. The bank tax and resolution levy are not deductible expenses for corporation tax purposes. D Economic performance 16 Risk management Third line – Internal Audit ASN Bank’s activities involve risks. ASN Bank recogInternal Audit periodically reviews the organisation and nises these risks, which are controlled by the risk functioning of the first and second lines. Internal Audit ­management organisation of SNS Bank N.V. also evaluates the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control processes and presents an indepenGovernance dent opinion in this regard to the Management Boards of ASN Bank is an integral part of SNS Bank N.V.’s risk manASN Bank N.V. and SNS Bank N.V. agement organisation. As a result of SNS Bank N.V.’s new organisational structure, a new risk governance and risk Risk committees management organisation was set up in July 2014, geared As ASN Bank is under consolidated supervision, the risk entirely to the Bank. SNS REAAL’s risk management committees have been set up centrally: organisation was organised on the basis of the three lines • The Bank BRC (Bank Risk Committee) defines the of defence model. This structure has been improved and desired risk profile for financial and non-financial translated into the risk management organisation of risks and determines the risk appetite, risk policy SNS Bank N.V. ASN Bank received what is known as a ‘solo frameworks and risk management framework for waiver’ from the Dutch Central Bank on the basis of Article SNS Bank N.V. and all legal entities that come 7 CRR, giving it an exemption from solo supervision under the Bank. (exemption from independent obligation to report on • The purpose of the Bank PARC (Product Approval ­solvency requirements, stress tests, etc.). Please refer and Review Committee) is to approve and periodito the annual report of SNS Bank N.V. for a complete cally evaluate the products that we offer to our description of risk management, liquidity and capital customers. In this process, the PARC also assesses ­management. This chapter contains a concise summary whether the products are in compliance with the of a few relevant topics. Manifesto (see Chapter 9). • The Bank NFRC (Non-Financial Risk Committee) is Risk governance – Three lines of defence responsible for controlling the risk frameworks Risk governance was restructured last year based on the and risk appetite for non-financial risks. three lines of defence model. In this model, ASN Bank is • The Bank ALCO (Asset & Liability Committee) responsible for the risk control of its own processes. It is identifies, monitors and manages ALM risks with supported by the second line, which provides frameworks, a view to controlled long-term value growth of issues advice to ASN Bank and monitors whether ASN Bank SNS Bank N.V.’s balance sheet. operates within these frameworks. The third line is the • The Bank CC (Credit Committee) is responsible audit function, which determines whether interaction for controlling credit risks. between the first and second lines functions properly. • The Bank MPC (Management Pricing Committee) 79 aims for a sustainably profitable portfolio by First line – ASN Bank weighing volume, risk and return within the frameASN Bank is responsible for structuring and executing its works of external regulations and risk policy; the own processes, for the risks it is taking and for the ensuing MPC also assesses whether the Manifesto is being results. This is done within the parameters of the risk complied with. ­management policy and the risk appetite agreed. • The Bank MGC (Model Governance Committee) monitors the quality and uniformity of all financial Second line – Risk Management / Compliance risk and valuation models. Risk Management and Compliance determine, each for their own focus area, the boundaries for the first line by The Managing Director of ASN Bank, Mr Goudswaard, developing the details of policy frameworks and concrete is a member of the Bank ALCO and the Bank CC. policy. In addition, the second line supports, advises, coordinates and monitors whether management is taking In addition to the risk committee structure, a Regulatory its responsibilities, and reports on this. ASN Bank closely Board was formed in 2014. Its purpose is to identify and collaborates with the second line and has its own local implement new legislation and regulations and to ensure compliance officer, for example, who reports to the Comtheir correct implementation. An Information Board was pliance Director of SNS Bank N.V. In addition, ASN Bank’s also set up, which adopts data management policies and first-line credit analysts work closely with the second-line monitors their implementation. risk managers appointed specifically for ASN Bank but The Regulatory Board and the Information Board are both hierarchically coming under the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) supervised by the CRO and the CFO and are formed by of SNS Bank N.V. representatives from the Risk domain, the Finance domain and the IT Department for the Information Board. ASN Bank Report 2014 At ASN Bank, the ASN Credit Committee is responsible for Risk classification taking decisions aimed at controlling credit risks (including: This section provides an overview of the various risks that debtor risk, counterparty risk, transfer risk and concentrahave been identified and brought together in a risk classition risk). The ASN Credit Committee works closely with, fication. The structure of the risk classification forms the and is supervised by, the Bank CC. The ASN Investment framework for the risk control and risk appetite organisaCommittee monitors the development of ASN Bank’s tion. Each type of risk is further detailed in underlying subbalance sheet and advises the Bank ALCO on transactions risks and in measures. The risk classification is evaluated with the aim of achieving controlled value growth of a susevery year to determine whether all relevant risks have tainable ASN Bank balance sheet. Its scope is ASN Bank, been identified and specified in the risk profile. excluding the ASN Investment Funds. Strategic risk Capitalisation Liquidity risk Credit risk Market risk Operational risk risk Reputation risk • Reporting risk • Compliance risk • Legal risk The table below lists the definitions used for these types of risk: Type of risk Definition Strategic risk is the risk that strategic objectives are not achieved due to lack of response or inadequate or late Strategic risk response to changes in the environment and the business climate. Capitalisation risk is the risk that the capital position is insufficient to serve as a buffer for unexpected losses that Capitalisation risk may arise if one or more risks to which the company is exposed manifest themselves. Liquidity risk is the risk that there are insufficient liquid assets available in the short term to meet financial obligations, whether under normal circumstances or in times of stress. In addition, liquidity risk is understood to Liquidity risk mean the likelihood that the balance sheet structure will develop in such a way that the company is excessively exposed to disruptions in its funding sources. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a borrower/counterparty does not meet a financial or other contractual obligation. 80 Market risk is the risk that equity, the result or continuity is threatened by movements in the level and/or volatility Market risk of market prices to which the company is exposed. Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from inadequate or deficient internal processes and Operational risk systems, from inadequate human behaviour or human error, or from external events (such as fraud and crime risks manifesting themselves). Reporting risk is the risk that the company provides its internal and external stakeholders and the regulatory Reporting risk authorities with unreliable information. Compliance risk is the risk that the company’s integrity is harmed by actions (or omissions) that are contrary to its Compliance risk internal (core) values, social standards and value-related or behavioural laws and regulations or requirements to be observed by the company when providing its financial services or translating these into internal rules. Legal risk Legal risk is the risk that the company is held liable for current and future losses. Reputation risk is the risk that objectives are not achieved or cannot be achieved because insufficient account is Reputation risk taken of the picture and opinion that external parties (including customers, counterparties, shareholders and regulatory bodies) have of the company. Please refer to the annual report of SNS Bank N.V. for a description of how the risk appetite is prepared and how it influences our decisions. D Economic performance 17 Corporate governance Capital structure The simplified legal structure was as follows on ASN Bank N.V. (ASN Bank) is an independent legal 31 December 2014:: entity. All ASN Bank shares are held by SNS Bank N.V. SNS REAAL N.V. SNS Bank N.V. ASN Bank N.V. 100% 100% 25% ASN ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Vermogensbeheer B.V. Triple Jump B.V Beheer B.V. Since 22 July 2014 ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer Corporate governance B.V. (ABB) has to comply with a new European directive for managers of investment institutions, the Alternative Banking Code Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD), as imple­ On 9 September 2009, the Board of the Dutch Banking mented in Dutch regulations. Association (NVB) adopted the Banking Code. In doing These new regulations had such a tremendous impact so, the NVB built on the findings and recommendations 81 on the organisation of ASN Bank (and ABB as fund of the report entitled Restoring Trust. This report was ­manager) that ASN Bank took the strategic decision published by the Advisory Committee on the Future of to transfer the management function to an external Banks in the Netherlands on 7 April 2009. The Banking manager. ACTIAM N.V. (ACTIAM) was selected for this Code contains principles that relate to the supervisory function because, being a sustainable asset and fund committee and the executive board, risk management, manager, this licensed entity fits ASN Bank’s profile audit and remuneration policies. The Code came into and ASN Bank and ABB had positive experiences with effect on 1 January 2010. ACTIAM’s services. Following the implementation of this decision, The Banking Code applies to all banks with a banking ACTIAM now manages the investment funds offered licence. Banks that are part of a group can apply parts by ASN Bank in close collaboration with ABB. of the Banking Code at group or consolidated level. At SNS Bank N.V. the Banking Code applies to all legal ASN Vermogensbeheer B.V. provides asset manageentities with a banking licence, including ASN Bank. ment services to ASN Bank customers. Right after the publication of the Restoring Trust report in April 2009, SNS Bank N.V. started implementing the ASN Bank holds 25% of the shares of Triple Jump B.V., recommendations from the report within its organisawhich is responsible for the loans and investments of tion where necessary. ASN-Novib Microkredietfonds in its capacity as project manager. Oxfam Novib, NOTS Foundation and manageSNS Bank N.V. aims to contribute to restoring trust in ment are the other shareholders. The participating the Dutch financial sector by implementing the Maniinterest in Triple Jump is not included in the consoli­ festo and its strategy and, in doing so, to stabilise and dation. improve the functioning of the financial sector. ASN Bank Report 2014 The Banking Code uses the ‘comply or explain’ princiASN Bank Advisory Council ple, which means that banks shall, theoretically, apply ASN Bank has an Advisory Council that – solely in the the principles of the Banking Code. However, applying interests of ASN Bank and its customers – provides the principles also depends on the activities and other requested and unrequested advice to its Management specific characteristics of the bank and the group of Board on policy in relation to the bank’s mission and which it is part. Departures from the Code, if substan­ the investment criteria derived from this mission. tiated, can therefore be justified. The name of the Council is ‘raad van advies ASN Bank’. In 2014, SNS Bank N.V. made great strides in monitorThe composition, (re)appointment and methods of the ing compliance with the Banking Code by the first line. Council are laid down in rules. This has provided more insight into the way in which the Code’s principles were implemented. These The Chairman of the Advisory Council receives an insights were used as a basis for internal monitoring annual fee of € 9,000, and the members of the Advisory by the second line. Monitoring has shown that, with a Council each receive € 6,000 per year. few exceptions, the Banking Code is fully applied at SNS Bank N.V. The website of SNS Bank N.V. provides Remuneration report information on these exceptions. The remuneration report deals with the remuneration, remuneration policy and developments in the remunerDutch Corporate Governance Code ation policy of the ASN Bank Management Board in The Dutch Corporate Governance Code is a code of 2014. The members of ASN Bank’s Supervisory Board conduct for listed companies. The aim of this Code is perform their duties by virtue of their position at to promote good corporate governance in Dutch listed SNS Bank N.V. They do not receive a separate fee for companies through increased transparency in financial these duties and, therefore, are not included in this reporting, improved accountability to the supervisory remuneration report. board and strengthened shareholder influence and ­protection. The remuneration policy of the ASN Bank Management Board is in line with SNS REAAL’s remuneration policy. Although the shares of SNS Bank N.V. are not listed on The remuneration is composed of a fixed annual any stock exchange, SNS REAAL N.V., parent company income, a pension scheme, a variable remuneration of SNS Bank N.V., applies the Dutch Corporate Goverscheme and other remuneration components. nance Code, rendering account of its compliance in its annual report according to the ‘comply or explain’ The highest gross salary at ASN Bank is 5.9 times higher 82 ­principle. For more relevant information on the way in than the lowest gross salary. which SNS REAAL N.V. applies the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, please refer to the website of SNS REAAL N.V. Remuneration of the ASN Bank Management Board Variable In thousands of euros Fixed Pension Total remuneration salary 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Ewoud Goudswaard 198 190 33 32 0 0 231 222 Jeroen Jansen 164 160 27 27 0 0 191 187 Joyce van der Est 132 130 22 24 0 5 154 159 Total 494 480 82 83 0 5 576 568 D Economic performance Fixed annual income s­ uccess for ASN Bank, with due regard to the desired The fixed annual income of the ASN Bank Management risk profile. The standards for sustainability perforBoard members consists of twelve monthly salaries, mance are related to the qualitative sustainability holiday allowance, a thirteenth month’s salary and a objectives described in Chapter 1. They also include contribution to health insurance premiums. The table other objectives, for example with regard to customer presents the fixed annual income, including social satisfaction and employee satisfaction. ­security charges and contribution to health insurance. As SNS REAAL is now a state-owned bank, no variable Pension remuneration is paid to members of the ASN Bank ManThe Management Board of ASN Bank participates in the agement Board. This means that no variable remuneration pension scheme included in the SNS REAAL Collective has been, or will be, granted to the ASN Bank ManageLabour Agreement. The member’s contribution to the ment Board for 2014 (as was also the case for 2012 and pension premium, which is charged on the pensionable 2013). This variable remuneration scheme did not yet earnings, is 4.5%. Pensions are not awarded on a disapply to deputy Director Joyce van der Est in 2013; cretionary basis. she received a result-related bonus in 2013. No variable remuneration components relating to previous years Variable remuneration are yet to be distributed. A variable remuneration scheme was in place for the ASN Bank Management Board until the end of 2014, Other remuneration components under which up to 15% of the fixed annual income For business travel (including commuting), the Managecould be earned in variable remuneration. At least 30% ment Board members are allocated a company car, for of the variable remuneration is linked partly to sustainwhich they pay a personal contribution. The other fringe ability targets. benefits are in line with the sector and the conditions that apply to the majority of the employees. When setting the targets, the various stakeholders are borne in mind. The targets are aimed at long-term 83 ASN Bank Report 2014 Independent Assurance Report To the readers of the ASN Bank Report 2014 We were engaged by the Management Board of ASN Bank to provide assurance on Chapters 1 to 14 and the Appendices 2 and 3 (further also: the Sustainability Information) of the ASN Bank Report 2014 (further also: The Report). The Management Board is responsible for preparing The Report, including the identification of material issues. Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report based on the engagement outlined below. What was included in the scope of our Assurance Report Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether the Sustainability Information is presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of ASN Bank. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance. Which reporting criteria did ASN Bank use? For the Sustainability Information ASN Bank applies the ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines’ (G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in conjunction with internally developed guidelines as described on page 5 of The Report. It is important to view the Sustainability Information in the context of these criteria. Which assurance standard did we use? We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N: “Assurance engagements relating ­ to sustainability reports”. This standard requires, among others, that the assurance team possesses the specific ­knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to provide assurance on sustainability information, and that they comply with the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants to ensure their independence. What did we do? Our procedures included the following: 84 • A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant issues for ASN Bank in the reporting period; • Reviewing the suitability of the internal reporting guidelines; • Evaluating the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection and processing of the Sustainability Information in The Report; • Interviewing relevant management and staff responsible for the sustainability strategy and sustainability information; • Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether the Sustainability Information is supported by sufficient evidence. Additionally we determined, as far as possible, whether the information concerning sustainability in the other ­sections of The Report is consistent with the Sustainability Information. During the assurance process we discussed the necessary changes to The Report with ASN Bank and we determined that these changes have been included in the final version. What are our conclusions? Based on our procedures, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Sustainability Information is not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Independent Assurance Report Comparative information included in relation to the long term Climate Goal not examined We have not conducted an assurance engagement on the comparative information for 2011 and 2012 as presented in chapter 4 in the paragraph “Climate neutral in 2030”. Therefore, we do not provide assurance on this comparative information. Amstelveen, 8 April 2015 KPMG Sustainability, part of KPMG Advisory N.V. W.J. Bartels RA, Partner 85 ASN Bank Report 2014 Living and working This is our vision: in the sustainable future, we will live in good, affordable homes and work in pleasant buildings. These homes and buildings will be energy efficient and use renewable energy. They will be built of responsible materials in a sustainably used environment. What did we do in 2014 to contribute to this future? Photo: Josje Deekens Zorgboerderij Dijkgatshoeve Wooncompagnie in the Province of Noord­Holland received a loan from ASN Groenprojectenfonds to add sustai­ nability measures to the shop and the care and meeting rooms of Zorgboerderij Dijkgatshoeve. This care farm is a small­ scale living and working community in the Wieringermeer polder, providing work to 25 people with intellectual disabilities or psychosocial needs. SlimBreken Concrete is flexible and versatile, can be shaped in any form and is resistant to external influences. However, its produc­ tion causes a high level of carbon emissions. 86 With the SlimBreek technique, cement can be produced from concrete rubble in a carbon­neutral way. SlimBreken wants to introduce this technology all over the world. SlimBreken won the ASN Bank World Award 2014 with this idea. Nationaal Energiebespaarfonds On 21 January 2014, Nationaal Energie­ bespaarfonds kicked off. This public fund provides cheap loans that enable private homeowners to finance energy­saving measures in their homes. The fund holds 300 million euros, 50 million euros of which were contributed by ASN Bank. Living and working Homeplan The ASN Foundation again supported a Homeplan project in 2014: the construc­ tion of wooden houses for the very poorest in the slumps of Managua, Leon and Chinandega (Nicaragua). Families living in appalling conditions, without electricity, sewerage or sanitary facilities, are thus given a safe home. Green Sustainability Bond The French region Île de France issued a green bond with a social component in April 2014. The bond is used to finance projects aimed at, for example, protecting biodiversity, renovating buildings, 87 developing public transport and promoting social housing. ASN Bank invested 25 million euros in this bond. Photo: Josje Deekens Carbon-neutral school in Haarlem ASN Groenprojectenfonds financed a climate­friendly new building for primary school M.L. King and special school for primary education Hildebrand in Haarlem. The school generates its own energy with five hundred solar panels, solar collectors for domestic hot water and thermal storage for heating and cooling. It is a light, fresh building providing an enjoyable learning and working environment. 88 Appendices 89 ASN Bank Report 2014 Appendix 1 ASN Bank’s exposures Accounts Receivable amounts x € 1,000 Government bonds 3,649,759 Germany 1,224,811 The Netherlands 1,153,206 France 585,759 Belgium 448,842 Austria 216,506 Sweden 20,635 Home loans and other loans and advances to customers 4,535,878 Woonhuishypotheken B.V. 4,500,000 Various retail customers 35,878 Local governments 605,597 UNEDIC (France) 110,207 Caisse d’Amortissement de la Dette Sociale (France) 51,833 Gemeente Enschede 45,000 Gemeente Venlo 40,445 Gemeente ‘s-Hertogenbosch 30,000 Gemeente Zwolle 27,500 Gemeente Middelburg 26,495 Gemeente Nieuwegein 26,000 Gemeente Rotterdam 25,000 Gemeente Apeldoorn 20,000 Gemeente Zevenaar 15,000 Gemeente Hengelo 12,000 Gemeente Kampen 10,500 Gemeente Kaag & Braassem 10,000 Gemeente Pijnacker 10,000 Gemeente Zwolle 8,000 90 Gemeente Weststellingwerf 7,500 Gemeente Leeuwarden 7,500 Gemeente Schijndel 7,167 Gemeente Boxmeer 6,800 Gemeente Heusden 6,667 Gemeente Maassluis 6,500 Gemeente Leiden 6,000 Gemeente Haaksbergen 6,000 Gemeente De Ronde Venen 6,000 Gemeente Montfoort 6,000 Gemeente Oosterhout 6,000 Gemeente Veldhoven 5,714 Gemeente Sluis 5,333 Gemeente Oldenzaal 5,333 Gemeente Vlissingen 5,000 Gemeente Vlaardingen 5,000 Gemeente Gorinchem 5,000 Gemeente Papendrecht 5,000 Gemeente Rijn & IJssel 5,000 Gemeente Bunschoten 4,320 Gemeente Culemborg 4,000 Gemeente Nijkerk 3,600 Gemeente Elburg 3,400 Appendix 1 ASN Bank’s exposures Accounts Receivable amounts x € 1,000 Local governments (continuation) Gemeente Krimpen 3,333 Gemeente Renkum 1,700 Gemeente Hoogezand 1,600 Gemeente Groningen 1,500 Gemeente Hellendoorn 650 Renewable energy 513,533 Wind energy 123,668 Northwind N.V. 28,993 Global Tech I Offshore Wind GmbH 27,046 Belwind N.V. 22,643 C-Power N.V. 19,184 Westermeerwind B.V. 12,151 SFE-Parc Eolien de Leffincourt 8,962 Trianel Windkraftwerk Borkum GmbH & Co. KG 3,838 VAANSTER XIV BV Terras aan de Maas 760 VAANSTER SERVICES BV Green Packages 91 Solar energy 126,202 Sonnedix Rosières 22,976 Centrale Photovoltaïque de Toul-Rosières 2 21,472 Lavansol II SAS 14,327 Centrale Photovoltaïque du Gabardan 2 14,216 Newsolar SAS 11,570 Belfuture 2 CVBA 8,622 Lavansol M7 SAS 7,747 SECP OLMO SAS 6,913 FPV Pascialone SAS 6,852 NPG Willebroek N.V. 6,248 91 FPV Santa Lucia SAS 5,259 Other renewable energy 263,663 Europese Investeringsbank (Greenbond) 123,140 NRW Bank (Sustainable bond) 82,012 IDF 28,352 Energiefonds Overijssel I B.V. 12,000 Unica Financial Services B.V. 6,677 Dif Infrastructure Fund 4,501 Dif Renewable Energy Fund 2,727 Eteck B.V. 2,274 Impax New Energy Investors II 1,395 BTES Art Court BV 585 Residential construction 475,893 Woonstichting SSW 46,245 Stichting Eigen Bouw 25,395 Stichting Ymere 25,000 Stichting Duwo 25,000 Woningcorporatie R&B Wonen 20,000 Woningstichting Rochdale 20,000 Woonstichting Domesta 16,112 Woningcorporatie Eigen Haard 15,904 Stichting De Woonmensen 15,000 ASN Bank Report 2014 Accounts Receivable amounts x € 1,000 Residential construction (continuation) Stichting de Alliantie 14,951 Stichting Area Wonen 13,888 Stichting Woonbeheer Betuwe 13,000 Stichting Woongroep Holland 13,000 Woningbouwvereniging Bergopwaarts 11,300 Stichting Waterweg Wonen 11,000 Woningcorporatie Acantus Groep 10,505 Stichting Portaal 10,000 Woningstichting Servatius 10,000 Stichting Woonbedrijf SWS 10,000 Woningbouwvereniging St. Laurentius 10,000 Woningstichting Leusden 9,600 Stichting Trivire 9,091 Stichting Woonstede 8,500 Bouwvereniging Onze Woning 8,000 Woningstichting Goede Stede 7,755 Stichting Woondiensten Enkhuizen 7,680 Woonstichting Triada 7,500 Woningstichting SWZ 7,500 Stichting De Leeuw van Putten 6,364 Stichting Woonvisie 5,386 Woonstichting Groninger Huis 5,000 Stichting Weller Wonen 5,000 Woningstichting Weststellingwerf 5,000 Stichting Steelande Wonen 5,000 Intervolve Credit B.V. 4,975 Stichting Beheer Gebouw Drie-X-Factoren 4,800 Stichting Volkshuisvestingsgroep Wooncompagnie 4,683 Woningstichting Omnivera 4,675 Mijande Wonen 4,500 Woonstichting Vaals 4,000 92 Stichting Woonzorg West Zeeuws-Vlaanderen 3,600 Stichting Wonen Wierden 3,500 RW OG BV 3,150 Woningbouwvereniging Ons Doel 2,051 Stichting Digh 1,013 Stichting Woon & Zorgcentrum ‘Herfstzon’ 959 Stichting Habion 311 Health and welfare services 360,373 Ziekenhuis Maastricht 38,584 Universitair Medisch Centrum Groningen 29,973 Academisch Medisch Centrum Amsterdam 20,000 Stichting Zorggroep Noorden Midden Limburg 17,745 St Volkaert SBO 14,825 GGZ Noord-midden Limburg 12,600 Stichting Antonius Ziekenhuis 12,285 Stichting Arduin 12,123 Stichting Sint Elisabeth Ziekenhuis 10,500 Stichting Ziekenhuis Bethesda 10,418 GGZ Breburg 10,160 Stichting ZorgSaam Zeeuws-Vlaanderen 10,000 Stichting Dimence v.h. Adhesie GGZ Midden-Overijssel 9,200 Stichting Zorg en Verpleging Goeree Overflakkee 9,000 Appendix 1 ASN Bank’s exposures Accounts Receivable amounts x € 1,000 Health and welfare services (continuation) Stichting Magenta zorg 8,739 Ziekenhuis Ikazia 7,800 Stichting Zeevesta 7,700 Christelijke Zorgcombinatie Zwolle 7,560 VieCuri Medisch Centrum 7,500 Stichting Parnassia Bavo Groep 7,334 Stichting Argos Zorggroep 6,800 Catharina Ziekenhuis 6,667 Stichting Franciscus Gasthuis 6,250 Stichting Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Ziekenhuis 6,250 Haga Ziekenhuis Den Haag 6,244 Kempen Zorgcentrum 5,775 Stichting Tragel 5,475 Stichting De Blink 5,280 Stichting Dr. Bernhard Verbeet Instituut 4,442 Maastro Clinic 4,050 Stichting Revalidatie-Centrum ‘De Hoogstraat’ 3,970 Stichting Amphia 3,850 Stichting Saxenburgh Groep 2,999 Stichting Verbeeten fonds 2,500 Stichting Eemhoven Beheer 2,465 Stichting De Stromen 2,042 GGZ Oost-Brabant 2,000 Stichting Zorgpalet 1,846 Stichting Reinaerde 1,840 Stichting Woonen Leefcentra Lichamelijk Gehandicapten West-Brabant 1,689 Stichting Kinderopvang 2 Samen 1,552 Stichting De Vlasborch 1,446 Promens Care 1,391 Stichting Het GORS 1,253 Stichting Interakt 1,166 93 Stichting Rode Kruis Ziekenhuis 1,000 Stichting Odion 925 D.A.G. Friesland 876 Medisch Spectrum Twente 770 Stichting Zorgverlening ‘s Heeren Loo 578 Zorgpartners Friesland 500 Radar 470 Koetsveld 420 Stichting Heliomare 386 Adhesie 315 Stichting Blixembosch 295 De Driestroom 232 Stichting Aveleijn/SDT 208 Stichting Wende 71 Brabantzorg 39 Water extraction and management 290,297 Waterschap Scheldestromen 30,000 Waterschap Rivierenland 30,000 Waterschap Breda 21,600 Waterschap Hollandse Delta 21,000 Waterschap Aa & Maas 16,250 Hoogheemraadschap Amstel, Gooi en Vecht 16,000 ASN Bank Report 2014 Accounts Receivable amounts x € 1,000 Water extraction and management (continuation) Waterschap Schieland & Krim 15,600 Waterschap Rijn en IJssel 15,000 Wetterskip Fryslân 15,000 Waterschap de Dommel 15,000 Hoogheemraadschap Rijnland 14,000 Waterschap Brabantse Delta 12,750 Hoogheemraadschap Hollands Noorderkwartier 12,600 Waterschap Reest en Wieden 10,500 Waterschap Limburg 9,000 Waterschap Roer en Overmaas 7,680 Waterschap Zuiderzeeland 7,000 Waterschap Noorderzijlvest 6,500 Waterschap Regge en Dinkel 5,000 Waterschap Veluwe 3,250 Noord kwartier 2,667 Hoogheemraadschap de Stichtse Rijnlanden 2,667 Waterleidingmaatschappij Limburg 457 Drenthe watermaatschappij 343 Vitens, formerly Hydron Midden-Nederland 219 PT Air Manado 214 Rail transport 202,666 OEBB-Infrastruktur Bau AG 108,888 Eurofirma 61,349 Réseau Ferré de France 32,429 Development assistance 87,221 Nederlandse Financieringsmaatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden (Sustainable bond) 87,135 Oikocredit International 59 Oikocredit Nederland 27 94 Development assistance 16,371 Erasmus Academie 5,250 Nationaal Groenfonds 3,702 Universiteit Twente 2,407 Stichting Texels Museum 1,518 Stichting Vrijburg 1,500 Vlissingen Bibliotheek 1,461 Stichting Scarabee Centrum voor Kunst Cultuur en Politiek 282 Stichting Chizone 251 Other 130,152 Council of Europe Development Bank 84,157 Tennet 25,780 CAI Westland 10,500 Stichting Dimence v.h. Adhesie GGZ Midden-Overijssel 7,600 Eteck B.V. 529 Stichting Watertoren Buitenlust 344 Monumentenfonds Brabant N.V. 264 Wereldwinkels 210 Stichting Aktie en Informatiecentrum Lelystad 156 Stichting Ideële winkel 139 VOF Yuan 134 Woonvereniging Regina 130 Appendix 1 ASN Bank’s exposures Accounts Receivable amounts x € 1,000 Other (continuation) Algemeen Verbond van Volkstuinders Verenigingen in Nederland 75 Basic water needs B.V. 64 Smit Hergebruik en Veehouderij B.V. 61 Stichting Shri Sanatan Dharm-Sabha 9 Eindtotaal 10,867,740 95 ASN Bank Report 2014 Appendix 2 Donations to partnering NGOs ASN Bank made the following donations to NGOs in 2014: Organisation Amount Details Eight theme partners 1,400,000 On behalf of customers with an ASN Ideaalsparen account Donation of the Interchange fees that ASN Bank receives from credit card Eight theme partners 129,282 organisation ICS for payments made with the ASN Credit Card Cordaid Kinderstem and Cordaid 333,191 On behalf of customers with an ASN Jeugdsparen account Memisa Nationaal Fonds Kinderhulp ASN Foundation 300,000 Miscellaneous donations 257,623 48 recipients, including Serious Request and Giro 555 Contribution in the context of the savings campaign and customer KNGF Geleidehonden 210,000 identification Contribution to the book Kinderen die de wereld hebben veranderd by De Ruiter Communicatie 45,110 PixelPerfect Publications ASN Bank World Award 40,000 Four winners received € 10,000 each ZAM Magazine 36,570 Special edition about Nelson Mandela Festival Mundial 18,150 Sponsoring of the waste project of this Tilburg festival Strawberry Earth 18,150 Sponsoring of Strawberry Academy for sustainable young fashion designers Movies that Matter 12,100 Sponsoring of the annual human rights film festival Stichting Goed Bezig 8,113 Compliments machine for schools Combating school drop-out and child labour in countries including Morocco, FNV Mondiaal 4,800 Albania, Turkey and Uganda Total 2,813,089 96 Appendix 3 Sustainability performance of the office Appendix 3 Sustainability performance of the office ASN Bank moved into a sustainably renovated office building in March 2012. In 2014. the building was given EPBD energy label A. EPBD is the European Energy Performance of Buildings Directive. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 CO2 emissions1: tonnes CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) 153 183 138 140 143 CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2): tonnes per FTE2 1.15 1.58 1.38 1.61 1.75 CO2 emissions (scope 3)3 195 Energy consumption Electricity: kWh4 296.999 314.723 314.6965 6 198.126 181.101 Electricity: kWh per FTE 4 2 2.235 2.705 3.139 2.284 2.217 Gas5: m3 21.867 33.903 34.7095 6 27.053 29.434 Gas5: m3 per m2 7 11 14 13 15 Paper consumption in kilograms Total paper consumption 244.032 288.276 215.721 249.766 258.919 Paper consumption per client account 0.31 0.37 0.28 0.33 0.36 Water consumption Water: m3 1.166 786 642 677 637 Water: m3 per FTE2 8.8 6.3 6.3 7.8 7.8 Waste Paper waste: tonnes 13.6 12.8 19.3 13.0 14.8 1 This figure comprises all transport (commuting and business mileage, including car, train, bus and air mileage) and heating of ASN Bank. 2 FTE (full-time equivalent): converted to the number of full-time staff. 3 This figure comprises the CO2 emissions related to the paper consumption, waste and water consumption. This is calculated for the first time in 2014. 4 Electricity consumption is expressed in kWh (kilowatt hours). 1 kWh equals 0.0036 gigajoules. 5 The building uses district heating, which is expressed in gigajoules. These gigajoules have been converted into m3 of gas according to the power company’s statement: 1 gigajoule is 25.85 m3 of gas. 6 Including the consumption during the renovation period, consequently the energy consumption in our old and new buildings jointly. Excluding the energy consumption of the renovation, these figures are as follows: kWh of electricity: 273,581; kWh per FTE: 2,694; m3 of gas: 27,945; m3 of gas per m2: 11. 97 ASN Bank Report 2014 Appendix 4 Organisation Management Board Controlling & Executive Secretariat Compliance Marketing & Sustainability Communication & Research Operations ASN Asset Sustainable Loans Management ASN Investment Customer & Customer Service Services DevelopmentS Account Management Explanation Customer & Account Management processes •C  ontrolling & Compliance is responsible for all ­customer and account details and sends out ­financial information flows, including financial ­requests for information. ASN Customer Service ­reporting and analyses, and the report of the provides services to customers by telephone, bank. Controlling also supervises regulatory come-mail and correspondence. Finally, Services 98 pliance, risk management, accounting procedures makes sure that all ASN staff have the space and internal control. and resources they need for their work. •M  arketing & Communication is responsible for •A  SN Investment is responsible for the developcommunicating ASN Bank’s policy and sustainable ment and sale of investment products. In addition, values, and for customer acquisition and retention this department is responsible for implementing through campaigns. The department develops and legislation and regulations to the extent that they creates distribution channels for the ASN products. relate to customers and products. It manages the It is responsible for payments and savings and affairs of the ASN Investment Funds. maintains relations with our partnering NGOs. •A  SN Asset Management works closely with ASN •S  ustainability & Research is responsible for formuInvestment; this department manages capital of lating and implementing ASN Bank’s sustainability € 250,000 or more for private customers and instipolicy. The department writes policy papers in that tutions based on ASN Bank’s sustainability criteria. respect, conducts research with regard to countries, projects and companies in which ASN Bank •S  ustainable Loans lends money on behalf of and the ASN Investment Funds may invest, carries ASN Groenprojectenfonds, ASN Bank and Energie­ out the voting policy and engages in dialogue with fonds Overijssel, and manages those loans. companies. It also advises on the bank’s sustainable operations. Triple Jump ASN Bank holds 25% of the shares of Triple Jump, • Operations comprises several components. Develwhich is responsible for the loans and investments of opment’s activities include making systems and ASN-Novib Microkredietfonds in its capacity as project resources available to customers and employees. manager. Oxfam Novib, NOTS Foundation and manageAppendix 4 Organisation ment are the other shareholders. The aim of Triple ASN Foundation Jump is to invest capital in developing countries mainly Our commitment goes beyond sustainable banking. through microfinance institutions (MFIs) to facilitate Every year, ASN Bank donates part of its earnings the fight against poverty. Triple Jump: to projects and organisations that contribute to its • supports MFI start-ups by providing expertise and mission. The ASN Foundation was established in loan capital; 2004 in order to standardise our donation policy. • provides high-risk loan capital and equity to MFIs The Foundation publishes its own annual report. that are growing from start-up to maturity; • provides low-risk loan capital and equity to mature, stable MFIs. In addition to the loans and investments of ASN-Novib Microkredietfonds, Triple Jump manages the loan ­portfolios of Oxfam Novib, Calvert Social Investment Foundation and SNS Institutional Microfinance Fund. At year-end 2014, Triple Jump managed an equity and loan portfolio of approximately € 267.5 million. 99 ASN Bank Report 2014 Appendix 5 History On 21 January 1960, ASN was established as the bank the bank introduced several successful savings of the socialist workers’ movement. Its main object accounts. It also developed considerable expertise was to provide socially responsible employee savings in financing sustainable construction and renewable schemes. However, from the outset the inflow of energy production. ­private savings exceeded the inflow of savings schemes. In order to absorb that inflow, ASN – as the first savings The website www.asnbank.nl went live in late 2000, bank in the Netherlands – introduced ­saving by funds which included ASN Online Banking. The use of online transfer in 1960. banking increased substantially with the introduction of the current account, the ASN Bank Account, in early From the very start, the bank invested the savings 2009. The range of payment services was enhanced deposits in accordance with trade union principles as with the ASN Credit Card in 2010 and with the much as possible, for example in the public sector and ASN Jongerenrekening in early 2011. ASN Mobile in the socio-cultural field. Nevertheless, it never Banking was introduced in the course of 2013 to meet became the ‘bank for the trade union movement’ the growing demand of customers to bank using their envisaged by its founders. That is why in the 1970s smartphones or iPads. ASN shifted its focus to a new target group: people involved in issues such as war and peace, human rights In 2010, the bank acquired a majority interest in and discrimination, international economic relationASN Asset Management, which manages capital ships and the environment. ASN’s vision appealed to starting from € 250,000 on the basis of ASN Bank’s them. Knowing where their money was invested was sustainability criteria. As a result, ASN Bank has posiimportant to them and ASN was open about this: tioned itself as a comprehensive financial services no investments in Pinochet’s Chile, but investments in provider for customers who look for simplicity, transsocial housing. ASN Bank continued along this course parency and ideals. In 2013, the bank became the sole in the 1980s. In its advertisements it drew attention to shareholder of ASN Asset Management. the environment, which suffered from a lack of policy, and emphasised that it was not investing in South In 2011, ASN Bank expanded its expertise and capaciAfrica. This was the bank’s way of expressing the ties in the field of sustainability. It formulated its own boycott against the Krugerrand, a symbol of apartheid. sustainability policy and participated in social debates. Since 2011, it has also been conducting its own investi100 In 1993 ASN launched ASN Aandelenfonds, the first gations into the sustainability of countries, companies listed sustainable equity fund. ASN’s ‘special investment and projects, as well as the engagement with companies criteria’ in the areas of human rights and the environment and the voting policy. In 2012 a new activity was added: were formulated as a point of departure in the selection ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. acquired the of the fund’s investments. Later, these criteria also management of Energiefonds Overijssel, which was applied to the other investment funds set up by the introduced in early 2013. bank and to the investment of savings. Its continuous growth forced ASN Bank to relocate to a In 1996, ASN changed its name to ASN Bank. The closer new building. It decided not to construct a new building, collaboration with the financial institutions affiliated but to opt for a sustainable solution: to purchase and with the trade union movement had resulted in the sustainably renovate an existing, vacated office building. REAAL Group in 1990, in which ASN held an indepenOn 31 March 2012, the bank relocated to this building dent position. In 1997, the REAAL Group merged at Bezuidenhoutseweg 153 in The Hague. with SNS Group and ASN Bank became a subsidiary of SNS Bank N.V. On 1 February 2013, the Dutch State became the sole shareholder of SNS REAAL. ASN Bank will stay on its In the second half of the 1990s and in the 2000s, own sustainable course, collaborating with BLG Wonen, ASN Bank increased the number of investment funds RegioBank, SNS and Zwitserleven Bank under the flag to seven, including a green fund and a microcredit fund. of SNS Bank N.V. For more information, please refer to However, the main emphasis was still on saving, and Chapter 9. Appendix 5 History 101 ASN Bank Report 2014 Appendix 6 Materiality analysis Objective Hierarchy of sustainability policy Reason of existence Vision Ever since its establishment in 1960, ASN Bank has been working towards a sustainable and just society in which people are free to make their own choices without harming others. A society without poverty, in which everyone has access to education, good housing and medical care. Mission Implementing the vision Our economic conduct is aimed at promoting sustainability in society. That is why we contribute to changes that are intended to put an end to processes whose harmful effects: • are shifted to future generations, or • are foisted onto the environment, nature and vulnerable communities. In doing so, we do not lose sight of the necessity to yield returns for our customers. And, as a bank, we want to achieve a financial result that safeguards the continued sound existence of our bank in the long run. Sustainability policy Guideline and assessment criteria for the activities and investments of (three pillars underpinning all sustainability issues) Biodiversity Climate change Human rights (criteria regarding (vision of climate change and CO2 (social and ethical criteria) maintaining and objectives) strengthening biodiversity and ecosystems) Other policies and memoranda (tailoring pillars to specific sectors and issues): 102 Sectors Issues Other ASN Bank, the ASN Investment Funds and ASN Asset Management Transport and mobility Living and working Supply chain policy High-risk countries Government bonds Waste processing Banks & insurers Supranationals Water boards Animal welfare Microfinance Voting policy Governance Care Assessment manual (guidelines and procedures for assessments based on the above policies) Sustainability issues: Implementing broader role in (are determined based on customer surveys and are a specification and selection of issues falling under the sustainability pillars) society (supporting social development and objectives, In favour of fair In favour of renewable lobbying, etc. in order to achieve a Anti-child labour Anti-arms industry Care and welfare trade energy sustainable society) Version 26 juni 2014 Appendix 6 Materiality analysis Stakeholders involved in creation/elaboration Partnering Customers & Bank & Experts / Companies / NGOs / Advisory Supervisory fans / investment Employees expert industries / Government strategic Council Council ambassadors fund boards organisations projects partners x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 103 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x ASN Bank Report 2014 Appendix 7 Personal details Supervisory Board appointed Chief Financial & Risk Officer of SNS Bank in Rob Langezaal (chairman) 2012. Previously employed by, for instance, Goldman Annemiek van Melick Sachs in London, Van Melick has extensive experience in the financial sector. She is also a member of the Super­ The following members joined in 2015: visory Boards of RegioBank N.V., ASN Bank N.V. and Dick Okhuijsen SNS Securities N.V. In addition to her work at SNS Bank, Martijn Wissels she is a member of the Supervisory Council of Radio Alexander Baas Netherlands Worldwide and a member of the Regulatory ­Matters Committee of the Dutch Banking Association Advisory Council (NVB). Hans Kamps Jan van der Kolk (chairman) Dick Okhuijsen Willemijn Verloop Dick Okhuijsen (1965) is Chief Executive Officer of SNS Maarten van Huijstee Bank N.V. He joined the SNS REAAL Executive Board in 2009. Prior to this, he held several national and inter­ Management Board of ASN Bank N.V. national positions at ING and Nationale Nederlanden. Ewoud Goudswaard At ING, Okhuijsen’s positions included CEO in Japan, the Jeroen Jansen Czech Republic and Slovakia. In addition to his work at Joyce van der Est SNS Bank, he is a board member of the Dutch Banking The Management Board of ASN Bank consists of Ewoud Association (NVB), Vice-Chairman of Stichting ManageGoudswaard and Jeroen Jansen; Joyce van der Est is ment Studies, Chairman of the Supervisory Council of ­deputy Director. PPI Zwitserleven, Chairman of the Stichting Geldinzicht and Ambassador of the University of Twente. Supervisory Board Martijn Wissels Rob Langezaal Martijn Wissels (1958) has been Chief Risk Officer and Rob Langezaal (1958) is the Chief Commercial Officer of a member of the Management Board of SNS Bank N.V. SNS Bank N.V. After the change in governance structure since 1 July 2014. He was appointed Director of Group at SNS REAAL in 2014, he joined the Management Board Risk Management of SNS REAAL in November 2013, a 104 of SNS Bank N.V. He is responsible for the retail activities position that he still holds. Wissels previously worked for of ASN Bank, BLG Wonen, RegioBank, SNS and ZwitserAchmea in the position of CFRO of Achmea Bank. He was levenBank. He became a member of the Management also Director of Credit and Market Risk at Fortis Bank Board of SNS Bank in 2007. As a Director/Management Nederland and worked for Fortis and MeesPierson in Board member, he was responsible for the marketing, ­Singapore and New York. In addition to his work at SNS sales and product management portfolios. Langezaal is Bank, he is a member of the Programme Advisory Council also Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of ASN Bank of the Nyenrode Supervisory Board Member Cycle. N.V., RegioBank N.V. and SNS Beleggingsfondsen N.V. Before joining SNS Bank in 2007, he worked at KPN. In Alexander Baas addition to his work at SNS Bank, he is a member of the Alexander Baas (1966) is the Chief Operations Officer Consumer Matters Committee of the Dutch Banking Assoof SNS Bank N.V. He has been a member of the Manageciation (NVB) and board member/Treasurer of Stichting ment Board since July 2014, focusing on the service cenWeet Wat Je Besteedt. tres for payments, savings, mortgages, investments and SMEs. He is also responsible for IT & Change and Facility Annemiek van Melick Management. He was appointed CIO of SNS Bank in Annemiek van Melick (1976) is Chief Financial Officer of 2005, having previously held various IT positions at SNS Bank N.V. She was appointed Chief Financial Officer SNS Bank and an engineering firm. of SNS Bank under the articles of association in July 2014. In addition to his work for SNS Bank N.V., he is also Annemiek van Melick joined SNS REAAL in 2008, first a board member of Betaalvereniging Nederland and in the position of Director of Corporate Strategy and Chairman of the Advisory Council of Stichting HBO-I. ­Mergers & Acquisitions of SNS REAAL. She was Appendix 7 Personal details Advisory Council evolved into Ottonico in 2008, an independent adverti­ sing agency acquired by TAXI in 2009. Maarten continued Jan van der Kolk to work there as a Creative Director. Maarten is also one Jan van der Kolk (1953) studied environmental science of the owners of The Playing Circle, a series of inspiring and management consultancy at university. Over a period meeting locations, and co-founder of Return to Sender, a of twenty years, he held various positions at KPMG, fair trade brand that creates markets for special products including member of the KPMG Consulting Board of made in the world’s poorest regions. He uses Delight Directors and managing partner of KPMG Sustainability. Agency, incorporated in early 2012, to develop ideas, He is currently an independent consultant, executing strategies and campaigns – as much as possible – for many projects for major companies in the areas of sustainbrands that change the world for the better. Based on ability strategy and reporting, management systems and the same belief he founded Delight Yoga, a yoga and sustainable investing by financial institutions. He holds medi­tation school that has several studios in Amsterdam. several other positions, including Chairman of the investment advisory committee for church social welfare work Management Board of ASN Bank N.V. of the Protestant church in The Hague, Chairman of the jury for the Verantwoord Ketenbeheer Award of the Ewoud Goudswaard Vereniging van Beleggers in Duurzame Ondernemingen Ewoud Goudswaard (1958) has been ASN Bank’s (VBDO), member of the Advisory Council of Holland Managing Director since 2001. He is also a member of the Quaestor, member of the Environmental Advisory Council Supervisory Board of Triple Jump B.V., the project advisor of Studiecentrum voor Bedrijf en Overheid, Board memof ASN-Novib Microkredietfonds. Ewoud Goudswaard ber of Stichting Mores and member of the Environment & started his career at NMB Bank, progressing to ING Bank, Natural Areas Advisory Committee for Soest. in credit risk management for (large) corporate clients. He held management positions in Haarlemmermeer, Hans Kamps Amsterdam and Rotterdam starting in 1989 and became Hans Kamps (1952) combines several positions. He is a Chairman of the Management Board of the Midden-­ Director of B&A Groep and Chairman of Jeugdzorg NedHolland district in 1997. Ewoud Goudswaard has several erland. His other positions focus on – but are not limited external positions: he is a member of the Advisory Council to – youth, the labour market and business acumen. He is for the Dutch Association of the Club of Rome and the a Supervisory Board member at ONVZ Zorgverzekeringen Advisory Council of Plan Nederland, and treasurer of the and a member of the Advisory Council or Supervisory Museums Association and Stichting Museumkaart. Council of companies including KPC Groep and Staats­ loterij. Jeroen Jansen Jeroen Jansen (1962) has been Director of ASN Bank since 105 Willemijn Verloop 2005, primarily focusing on marketing, communication, Willemijn Verloop (1970) started her career at The Europublic relations, asset management and sustainability pean Action Council for Peace in the Balkans. In 1994 she policy and research. Jeroen Jansen started his banking founded War Child, which she managed until 2010. In career at Triodos Bank. He joined Hollandse Koopmans2012 she set up Social Enterprise NL, a Dutch platform bank (currently ACTIAM) in 1995, where he developed for social entrepreneurs. In 2013 she also initiated Social asset management services and sustainability research for Impact Ventures NL, a hands-on investment & venture institutional investors, social institutions and ASN Bank. assistance organisation for social enterprises. In 2014, He took up his position as manager of Social Strategy at Willemijn Verloop was Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory SNS REAAL Corporate Communications in 2000. He was Council of War Child, Board member of the Achmea Founalso part of the ASN Bank Management Board’s support dation and supervisor of Stadsschouwburg Amsterdam. staff. He was appointed deputy Director of ASN Bank in 2001. Among other positions, Jeroen Jansen is treasurer Maarten van Huijstee of Stichting Avondster and a member of the programme Maarten van Huijstee is always busy linking his passion council of CSR Netherlands. for art and culture to people and brands. He started his marketing career with Unilever in South Africa. Then he Joyce van der Est worked for Heineken, where he developed strategic and Joyce van der Est (1965) has been deputy Director of creative concepts. In 2005 he founded ON, an agency ASN Bank since 2011 and is responsible for the bank’s developing creative content and sending this through its operations, which includes service to our customers, own network of high-end catering establishments. This customer and account management, all customer ASN Bank Report 2014 products and services, and facilities support and workstatinued her career at Bank Labouchere, where she also protion support at ASN Bank. In this position, she creates the fessionalised customer and IT processes. Since 2003, she conditions for professional services to customers. Joyce has managed ASN Bank’s operations. Her focus is on the van der Est has years of experience in managing operacontinuous development, professionalisation and inno­ tional and IT processes in branch banking. She started her vation of the internal organisation with the objective of career at Robeco in 1988. After nearly ten years, she conachieving high-quality service and transparent products. 106 107 ASN Bank Report 2014 108 Colophon Design MissionFromMars, in collaboration with SBDD Layout/DTP Quantes, in collaboration with Elan Theme spreads and infographics: Katja Visser Photographs 109 Joost van der Vleuten Printing Quantes This annual report is printed on Cocoon 100% FSC Recycled ASN Bank Bezuidenhoutseweg 153 2594 AG The Hague P.O. Box 93514 2509 AM The Hague ASN Customer Service 0800 – 03 80 (freephone) ASN Bank 070 – 356 93 33 Fax 070 – 361 79 48 E-mail informatie@asnbank.nl A PDF of this annual report is available for download at www.asnbank.nl.
