2 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / Highlights and Key Figures Highlights and Key Figures / technotrans Annual Report 2013 3 „2013 was another Key data of the technotrans Group (IFRS) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 year of change for Earnings Revenue  € ’000 105,207 90,662 97,265 85,887 82,210 Technology  € ’000 65,988 53,733 61,673 51,388 48,808 technotrans. Even Services  € ’000 39,219 36,929 35,592 34,499 33,402 Gross profit  € ’000 33,124 31,652 30,779 25,457 16,657 EBITDA  1 € ’000 7,815 8,319 7,980 6,585 – 4,284 Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)  € ’000 4,626 5,357 4,787 3,036 – 11,929 though the waters were Net profit for the period 2  € ’000 3,016 3,094 3,019 1,517 – 10,347 as % of revenue % 2.9 3.4 3.1 1.8 – 12.6 Net profit per share (IFRS)  € ’000 0.47 0.48 0.47 0.24 – 1.65 occasionally choppy or Dividend per share  € ’000 0.20* 0.12 0 0 0 Balance sheet Issued capital  € ’000 6,908 6,908 6,908 6,908 6,908 we sometimes didn’t Equity  € ’000 43,743 40,865 37,291 33,884 31,287 Equity ratio % 59.9 63.2 55.5 50.0 45.2 Return on equity % 7.1 7.9 8.5 4.7 – 29.6 have enough wind in Balance sheet total  € ’000 73,019 64,705 67,215 67,779 69,242 Net debt  3 € ’000 – 887 – 8,462 4,890 5,895 12,374 Working Capital 4  € ’000 28,254 27,087 18,527 17,126 7,847 ROCE 5 % 8.4 10.1 8.9 5.7 – 21.3 our sails, we held our Employees Number of employees (average) 763 646 659 620 676 course and are Personal expenses  € ’000 37,022 32,651 33,224 30,843 31,975 as % of revenue  % 35.2 36.0 34.2 35.9 38.9 Revenue per employee  € ’000 138 140 148 139 122 confident we will Cashflow Cashflow 6 € ’000 2,693 10,979 5,868 7,418 3,640 Free Cashflow  7 € ’000 – 3,433 13,172 3,606 6,287 2,435 ultimately be able to Shares Number of shares at end of period 6,493,474 6,455,404 6,432,775 6,340,035 6,311,415 Share price (max)  € ’000 10.35 7.20 7.51 7.25 6.10 steer technotrans into Share price (min) € ’000 6.90 4.10 4.01 4.40 2.97 1 EBITDA = EBIT + depreciation on intangible and tangible assets. 2 Net profit for the period = profit attributable to technotrans AG shareholders. the right harbour.“ 3 Net debt = financial liabilities + non-current provisions – cash and cash equivalents. 4 Working Capital = current assets – current liabilities. 5 ROCE = EBIT/Capital employed. 6 Cashflow = cash from operating activities acc. to cash flow statement. 7 Free Cashflow = cash from operating activities + cash used for investments acc. to cash flow statement. * Proposal to the Shareholder Meeting. Henry Brickenkamp Board of Management Spokesman 4 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / contents contents / technotrans Annual Report 2013 5 Table of contents temperature editorial control 6 36 social at a responsiglance bility 10 42 INFORMATION print FOR solutions SHAREHOLDERS 12 49 GROUP laser MANAGEMENT industry REPORT 18 55 service FINANCIAL Solutions STATEMENT 24 87 industrial further solutions information 30 142 6 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / editorial editorial / technotrans Annual Report 2013 7 Transfer – or how to achieve more with experience Henry Brickenkamp Board of Management Spokesman / Dirk Engel Finance Director / Dr. Christof Soest Technical Director / The technotrans Group never stands still. Nor does it run headlong into something new. Because we make sure we look in the right direction whenever we seek to broaden our horizons. That way, we transfer ever ything we can to new areas and into the future. / I n 2013, too, the technotrans Group demonsother areas, too. For that approach to work longtrated that it is capable not just of changing, term, you have to be very focused about exploibut also of systematically accessing new marting and applying the various aspects of transfer. kets and potential. It thus remained on its successful course and received a resounding endorCould you explain more? sement of its direction. One reason for the comCertainly. Transfer is all about sharing. With pany’s success is its ability in every area to acothers within the company, with customers, and complish transfer. Henry Brickenkamp, member with other partners. At technotrans, that means of the Board of Management and its Spokesman, making sure we regularly share our experience. explains what that means in this interview. Since 2009, we have been pooling the technical knowledge that underpins our core skills throughout technotrans: using its own Mr Brickenkamp, the 2013 Annual Report the entire company. Also, in 2009 we launched skills for success in established and new markets. takes the theme of “Transfer”. Why is that topic technotrans industrial system solutions (ttis) alongso important for you? side the Print Solutions area to bring together all technotrans has changed dramatically in the various customer-specific requirements efficirecent years. Not only have we uncovered fresh ently under one roof. That helped us make sure the market potential in our divisions operating within systems we supply for different markets are actually the printing industry; we have also used our core similar in technical terms. And all customers beneskills to successfully gain a foothold in other infit from that in equal measure. By combining volume dustries. Transfer, in all its facets, was not merely with broader technological expertise, we can offer an essential part of this process; it also proved a sophisticated, innovative technologies at competivery valuable asset. We always reflected on how tive prices. If we want to keep it that way, continually we could use our core skills to be successful in sharing is absolutely essential. 8 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / editorial editorial / technotrans Annual Report 2013 9 Sharing At technotrans, people talk to one another. Because we believe regularly sharing knowledge and Experience ideas is one of our most precious If you can rely on your accumulated assets. It helps us move forward expertise, you will keep uncovering together. new possibilities. That’s why experience is our most proven tool Using past experience to look to the future: for success. the technotrans Board of Management. What else, apart from sharing, does effective transfer involve? company forward. This desire for openness unlocks further opportunities, and that in turn brings us new transfer I’d say another essential feature is experience. It helps prevent mistakes, because mistakes cost strategic options. So we transform change into something we can perpetually use to our benefit. within the money and also, in the worst case, your customers’ How do you see technotrans’ future, and what Performance To mingle with the very best, you technotrans group confidence in you. We can’t afford that in either the always have to give 100 %. That print area or in other markets. That’s why we are role will transfer play in it? is part of technotrans’ corporate systematically concentrating on our core skills. Transfer will continue to be a core element at philosophy. And it guarantees us We have put a robust knowledge management systechnotrans. We believe it is also about staying a competitive edge. tem and professional project procedures in place power. The new markets not only have a complex Transfer, in all its facets, to cover that. They also for instance help us to product spectrum, they often also feature lengthy is the key to our success familiarise apprentices or new employees with pardevelopment cycles. Without staying power, we ticular tasks. At the same time, experience is the wouldn’t be able to operate in them successfully. basis for future ventures by the group. We get inThe good thing is we have such staying power and volved wherever we see scope for using our knoware reaping its rewards, year after year. ledge and skills to bring us success, and for applying our experience productively. Corporate responsibility has become an increasingly important topic in recent years. What role How does that impact your day-to-day work? In does it have at technotrans, and what does transother words, what are the key practical issues? fer mean for you in that context? Openness Performance is definitely important. technoAs an international group of companies, we Change is simply part of life. Those trans operates in exciting markets with sophisticaare mindful that we bear responsibility wherever who fail to embrace it will simply ted customers. To succeed there in the long term, we operate. In that respect social aspects are fail. Reason enough for us always to we need to keep up the company’s performance in every inch as important as environmental factors. welcome the new. Because it brings new potential. every area. Our challenge is to complete projects We at technotrans signed up to the Global Comwithin the given timescale, to premium quality stanpact initiative quite some years ago; it places the Responsibility As a company, you should act in a dards, and in an economically efficient way. We are spotlight on important issues such as human way that causes no harm to humans trying to build that level of performance into techrights and sustainability. We also launch and supor the environment. Whether locally Staying power notrans’ DNA and make it part and parcel of how we port projects that seek to make the world a better Success is normally not something or globally. That is our contribution do things. It will then ensure we are able to maintain place in the long run. Not because we want to be that comes overnight. That is why to a better future. the competitive edge that we have secured. a force for good per se, but because we believe at technotrans we are always on that in the future economic success will only be the ball. To guarantee the success of our projects. Anyone who has been watching technotrans possible if the worldwide conditions are right. over the past few years will have seen a company that has been successfully transformed. Thank you for the interview. What do you see as the reasons for this success? One of our strengths is openness. We are not satisfied to leave things the way they are, we are actively on the lookout for fresh opportunities. That approach has enabled us to tap into a great many projects and markets. It is also why it is a big priority for our employees to be open. We encourage everyone to use their ideas and skills to take our 10 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / At a Glance At a Glance / technotrans Annual Report 2013 11 technotrans at a glance baden-baden germany Dampening Solution Systems bad doberan Industrial Cooling Systems germany Filtration Systems Ink Supply Cooling Systems for sassenberg taicang mt. prospect Energy Storage Devices Cooling Lubricant Preparation Spray Lubrication germany china USA Production technology locations temperature Fluid ink and fluid control Conditioning technology Printing Industry Laser Industry Stamping and Forming Technology technotrans Machine Tools europe asia america group Energy Storage Technology scanner and medical technology, etc. Industrial other services services sales and services Service locations Technical Support Technical Documentation sassenberg dubai são paulo germany Uae brazil Parts (editing, translations, software) hünfeld Beijing Repairs germany china Jülich hongkong germany china Langenburg singapore 5 germany singapore gersthofen melbourne germany australia colchester tokyo T uk japan he technotrans Group is a technology and service systems supplier to the printing industry, the machine tool legnano chennai company that concentrates successfully on appliengineering sector, the laser industry, and the field of stamItaly india cations derived from its core skill of liquid technoping and forming technology. In future, we will also increast. maximin divisions logy. With 22 locations and over 770 employees, we enjoy singly turn our attention to other markets and new applicafrance 22 a presence in all major markets worldwide. The biggest custions such as scanner and medical technology, and energy madrid spain tomers of the technotrans Group come from the printing and storage technology. regensdorf laser industries. Its strategy is to seek sustainable, profitswitzerland driven corporate development. The Technology segment is complemented by the Services segment. The technotrans business model is rounded technotrans’ business is divided into two segments: off by an extensive range of services. These include installocations Technology and Services. The Technology segment generalation work, in-situ maintenance and a worldwide parts sup777 tes just under two-thirds of total revenue. Its three business ply with technical support, as well as customer-specific serunits bring together the core skills of cooling/temperature vice concepts and training. Activities in the field of Technical control, filtering/separating and spraying/pumping of liquids, Documentation are another key area of activity for the group, along with the corresponding control and process engineewith its practical services, software solutions and translaring. The focus is on customer-specific systems that techtions used by a diverse portfolio of customers from many notrans develops and sells in its capacity as the leading different sectors. employees 12 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / print solutions print solutions / technotrans Annual Report 2013 13 flexo / print solutions / Flexographic printinG: a sophisticated technology. KNOWOur heritage, offset printing. Keeping up the tradition. LEDGE / For all its successful evolution, technotrans’ core area of business is still the printing industr y. It is not only continually changing; the rapid emergence of f lexographic printing is also presenting technotrans with a succession of fresh challenges to use its expertise innovatively and f lexibly. The question we are confronted with is always the same: how can we transfer our core skills to other areas? / Experience makes you good 14 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / print solutions print solutions / technotrans Annual Report 2013 15 PETER BÖCKER He has held positions of responsibility at technotrans since 1995. As worldwide Head of Sales, he knows the printing industry inside out and believes its future prospects are anything but dim. Transfer = knowledge synergy + success We learn with each other and from each other; that puts our expertise on a broad footing. SHARING Sharing helps us all move forward together. T he main task for 2013 in the Print Solufer potential that our innovative products and techtions area was to optimise and increase nologies offer, we pay a great deal of attention to the market share. Not just in offset and environmental aspects, such as energy efficiency flexographic printing, but also in digital printing. or the ecological footprint of our products; we are Customers are wanting greater efficiency and higtherefore well placed to handle the challenges of her performance from printing presses. In other the future in every arena. words, even fewer printing presses are being used to print even more. On top of which, there is a shift The market movements in the printing industowards large printing houses capable of signifitry are also challenging technotrans as a supplier cantly higher output; this is ousting smaller printo adopt new approaches and processes. With its ters from the market. Another important developexpertise and international outlook, the company ment is the gradual supplanting of newspaper has a valuable springboard on which to build. Our printing by digital media. Packaging is a notable subsidiaries worldwide, effective group-wide comsuccess story for the Print Solutions area. Steamunication and a well-oiled service network put dily rising worldwide demand for all types of paus in a position to keep achieving new goals and ckaging brings opportunities for technotrans in results. With transfer playing a decisive role. virtually all printing methods. Alongside the trans16 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / print solutions print solutions / technotrans Annual Report 2013 17 For technotrans, sharing experience across the divisions and disciplines is a major priority. Such an approach ensures the company’s full knowledge remains available to all. Our apprentices are already instructed in the internal processes and procedures that span the various disciplines. One task that involves all divisions is the ting press manufacturers show technotrans to be vital transfer of knowledge to potential new busia very attractive partner on the strength of its proness areas. All this has engendered a culture of duct portfolio and market experience, and one that high flexibility and responsiveness. It means techis capable of developing and supplying new, apnotrans delivers what the market wants, and can propriate product solutions through its transfer satisfy existing and new customers in the printing strategy. In this area, too, we are active worldwide industry. and are systematically unlocking new applications and markets. The printing industry is in a state of change. Good to know that we are so flexible. Measures and innovative technologies that have been launched or already implemented in “I learn a lot from my colleagues. Print Solutions thus offer a promising basis for the future in the printing press market and also “Print will change, and we will change And they do from me.” for expansion into new business areas. We yet again increased our market share here in 2013. with it, thanks One milestone was undoubtedly the clinching of to our innovative another single-source agreement with one of the oldest manufacturers of offset printing presses. technologies.” technotrans has been supplying dampening solution circulators and ink roller temperature control units for over 20 years, and has now secured this The prospects for 2014 are uninspiring and blanket agreement on the back of a long-standing to some extent difficult to predict, because of conpartnership. By increasing the volume of standard flicting currents. On the one hand some areas of business, it provides a high degree of sales and the printing press industry will grow, such as direvenue stability, which is tantamount to lasting gital printing as portrayed above, but also flexosuccess for the Print Solutions area. An existing graphic and packaging printing. On the other hand single-source agreement with another major printhere are segments of the printing industry that ting press manufacturer has moreover been exwill remain flat or will shrink. We have adjusted to tended. This exclusive business relationship dethese changing conditions and continue to plan monstrates both the huge confidence that major on increased market shares and above-average machinery manufacturers have in technotrans, growth within those market segments that are and its commitment to excellence in service, priexpanding, in order to remain a firm, reliable partce and quality. ner as a systems supplier for all areas of the printing industry. But technotrans would not be true to itself if the company did not also seek out fresh potential. The proof: it has actively acquired new printing 12.6 % press manufacturers and clients among representatives and end customers. It has been focusing especially on the growing markets in Brazil, India, Southeast Asia and China. International cooperation in the domain of digital printing is proving equally successful. This printing technology calls for new technological solutions in the supply inOur high proportion of apprentices safeguards dustry, too. A great many projects with digital prinour long-term success. 18 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / laser industry laser industry / technotrans Annual Report 2013 19 metal / laser industry / Industrial lasers remain on the advance. And we're part of that progress. sciMedical lasers are all about precision. Cooling technology from technotrans gives a helping hand. ence / To make a name for yourself in a new market, you need to have something real to offer. Such as experience and expertise that will prove useful in the new task area. A nd the courage to look beyond your own horizons. technotrans has supplied ample evidence of all these virtues in its successful entr y into the laser industr y. / Scaling technologies 20 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / laser industry laser industry / technotrans Annual Report 2013 21 EXPERIENCE Our accumulated knowledge is our most proven tool for success. T he laser industry is one of the fastestgrowing markets around, and is continually finding new areas of application. It ranges from the micro to macro scale, and is an innovation driver. For many applications, it will see its volume double over the next ten years. The growth rates, across areas as diverse as medical technology and machine tool engineering, average around 7 % annually. In the field of production engineering, laser technology already accounts for about 12 % of the machine tool industry. Tendency rising. Using familiar knowledge to build new success It is hard to avoid superlatives when talking about the laser industry. Not just based on the experience of recent years, but also on the forecasts for the future. Reason enough for technotrans to tap fresh potential in this business area – and successfully so. Through the takeover of KLH and Termotek, as well as a large number of development projects, it has rapidly gained a foothold in this new market. Transfer has played a decisive role throughout. More than simply wanting to buy up other companies, we have specifically been on the lookout for options that will allow Lasers everywhere from heavy industry to medical technology stay cool because we are successfully applying our experience in new markets. 22 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / laser industry laser industry / technotrans Annual Report 2013 23 us to apply technotrans’ wealth of experience. At We are consequently operating in a very prothe same time it was important to us to integrate mising niche area – one in which we have already companies that are already known quantities in achieved a substantial market share that we now the laser market into the technotrans Group, as intend to increase. As well as offering customers a reliable basis for future success. innovative, individual solutions, we have the advantage of a well-established international service In many areas, laser technology is redefining network, plus production locations in Germany, the the benchmark for industrial production. The reliUSA and China, guaranteeing swift local deliveries. ability, speed and versatility of lasers are hugely relevant. The sheer diversity of applications is an With its setup, technotrans is well placed to equally important part of this market’s present tap directly into industry trends. On the one hand and future shape. Alongside established uses in customers increasingly want to realise applications metalworking, the electronics industry, medicine at project level. Such projects enable us to profile and research or in optical storage media, lasers ourselves as a successful development partner will become increasingly common in the textile that will be an asset for production supplies. On and food industry, as well as in process engineethe other hand there is a trend towards knowledgering sectors such as fine chemicals and pharbased systems and solutions in every area. maceuticals. This is delivering average growth rates of more than 5 % per year. In Germany, the technotrans can tap into its resources of exrevenue volume will soar from EUR 17 billion in pertise to develop and supply practical, synergyOur strength: Developing efficient systems in tandem with 2011 to potentially EUR 44 billion in 2020. Anyone based products for its customers. We have alreaindividual solutions. wanting to operate successfully in this highly fragdy been able to demonstrate in a large number of mented competitive environment needs to fulfil a customer projects that we can successfully supply number of important criteria, which technotrans both customised and standard products for the does with verve. laser industry, whatever the laser source. As a full-line supplier we can supply appropriate cooling systems for all beam sources, from gas to solid “The laser market lasers. From standalone to integrated systems featuring varying levels of intelligence, we geneis revolutionising rally discuss our customers’ needs with them and industrial production.” provide a solution tailored to what they want. Ob“Our results are achieved through viously we also treat forward-looking issues such The customer structure in the laser industry as efficiency and the total cost of ownership over the entire life cycle as major priorities here. genuine team work.” is similar to that in the printing industry, for which the technotrans Group acts as systems supplier. Developing, expanding and continually optimiWhat this means for us is that here, too, we can sing the technology is also very much in our focus, exploit the global corporate structure of our comalong with the pioneering make-up of this techprehensive range of products and services, such notrans product range. For instance, we are woras our international service network, and that cusking on a platform concept that clearly differentitomers benefit from working with a reliable partner. ates between the performance ranges and embraces the common-part principle for both mechaAnother advantage is technotrans’ many yenical and electronic subsystems. Offering both ars of experience in the sphere of industrial cooclear performance ranges and modular assemling. In alliance with our subsidiaries Termotek blies means we can respond flexibly to individual and KLH, we build devices for low, medium or high customer requests. cooling performance and therefore present ourselves as a full-line supplier for laser cooling. 24 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / service solutions service solutions / technotrans Annual Report 2013 25 global / service solutions / Technical editing from gds ensures that our customers’ products are understood properly everywhere. loOur support at work for our customers – fast, efficient and practical. cals / W hen it comes to Ser vice Solutions, technotrans is in the top f light internationally. Not just with its slick network of technicians and locations all over the world, but also through the products of gds, which promote understanding worldwide. Making ever ything run even more smoothly. / A worldwide presence is our strength 26 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / service solutions service solutions / technotrans Annual Report 2013 27 HENDIRK NIESTERT As Head of the Service Solutions area, he is always in tune with what customers need and knows that services will become increaA phone call singly important in the future. from out in the field PERFORMANCE The reason for our competitive edge: we always give 100 %. I t is Thursday. The phone rings in the Customer In the area of smaller diode lasers, too, Service department in Sassenberg. The calfor which Termotek makes cooling deler is a customer working on the world’s bigvices, a leading weather institute was gest container ship, and needs assistance. Quickly. impressed by our service. The automoThe converter cabinet cooling system made by KLH tive industry was another area of actineeds to be modified to meet the customer’s revity. Although the applications here were Regular servicing and rapid assistance quirements. One day later, we receive the plans of a more standard nature, it was very ensure customers do not need to worry of the ship; by Sunday, one of our technicians from exciting to get to know the production about machinery breakdowns. Singapore is boarding the ship in Malaysia and process and its requirements, then add gets to work. One of many success stories. Alongit to our portfolio of services. side its innovative products, the technotrans Group is especially renowned for its services. Quick response, short distances and efficient solutions are “Over 12,000 service what make us so highly valued by our customers worldwide. Both long-standing and new ones. call-outs a year help us to keep improving In 2013, for instance, the research laser of our products.” an astrophysics institute was equipped with a central cooling system from KLH. The challenge here was to run the leads to the laser in such a way that Internationally in particular, leading it can operate without any vibration whatsoever. suppliers and car manufacturers know they can rely on technotrans’ service. The printing industry still accounts for the bulk of service work. There, too, we increased our market shares. Many printing houses are adding digital printing presses to their machine park. technotrans has been able to help here thanks to its well-established project planning and commissioning services. 28 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / service solutions service solutions / technotrans Annual Report 2013 29 All this has been made possible by the way Service Solutions continually redefines how it does things. Just like its professional processes, its experience and expertise can easily be transferred to other areas, among other reasons because many familiar technologies are suitable for use in other industries, too. By expanding our portfolio of services, we can help our customers swiftly, efficiently and individually. To maintain these standards, the Service Solutions area underwent further optimisation in 2013. The spotlight was on fine-tuning and adding to the range of services for Termotek and KLH products. The international network was further expantechnotrans is continually working ded, information flows were improved and new on improving its services in order to support its customers optimally. products were integrated. In addition, the training programme for employees and customers was extended to ensure steady growth in the transfer of expertise. The same approach will be taken in 2014. In all this, technotrans remains true to the principle of “rather do 1,000 things 1 % better than dabble in a few things”. That is part of our corporate philosophy of delivering maximum customer satisfaction. It makes us more competitive and enables us to offer customers what they expect from us: excellent products and excellent service. “Our customers are delighted if they find people everywhere who can understand them easily.” Be in good hands with our network I n addition to our service network, our subsiplatform for handling support cases and docudiary gds AG has contributed to the Service mentation projects through docuportal. In additiSolutions success story. gds not only provion, gds offers professional translations and comdes its customers with a mature tool for technical prehensive training courses on all aspects of documentation in all languages in the shape of technical documentation, and is constantly wordocuglobe, but also with an efficient web-based king to identify and set market trends. gds makes information available on multimedia – for the simplest solution. 30 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / industrial solutions industrial solutions / technotrans Annual Report 2013 31 LIQUID / industrial solutions / Our products are in use on virtually every newspaper web press. proRecent development: innovative spray lubrication for the automotive world. gress / technotrans does not believe in standing still. That is why we launched the Industrial Solutions area in 2009. Here, we draw on the knowledge and f indings that are available throughout the entire company to access new business areas and keep creating fresh potential, in order to safeguard the success of the group’s international operations. / The active, creative way to discover potential 32 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / industrial solutions industrial solutions / technotrans Annual Report 2013 33 christian walczyk The Head of Sales for the Industrial Solutions area knows the challenges of new industries and sees technotrans continuing to apply its expertise successfully in new projects. Cooperation works OPENNESS Because we anticipate change, we can exploit new potential. P Because we at technotrans are always receptive to the new, we are constantly taking on new challenges. anta rhei – as the Ancient Greeks realised, ducts; the commissioning work and support ser“everything flows”, i.e. is in a constant stavice provided by technotrans also played a part. te of change. We at technotrans know exactly what they meant – after all, liquid technoloThe transfer worked, and new projects degy is our speciality. So what could be more obvious monstrate why we were right to take such a recepfor us than to contribute our expertise from the tive stance. 2013 saw us venture into further new print area in other industries, too? The key prinareas of business. These include cooling for batWhat can we achieve by applying ciple was to be receptive to new ideas and techtery systems, which involves exacting requireour experience in other industries? This is the question that drives the nologies. We actively sought out opportunities and ments in terms of environment and function. Industrial Solutions area. partners who share our vision. As a result, we have Through our project work, we secured the status been able to embark on a whole array of highly of systems supplier among our partners. There is promising projects. Since 2012 we have had a supa similarly promising partnership with a manufacply agreement with Sauer (DMG MORI SEIKI), with turer of medical technology in China, with which we which we have launched our successful toolsmart are developing temperature control systems for series. Within the framework of this cooperation magnetic resonance and computer tomography the product range was gradually extended, and (MRT and CRT) in Asia. It enables us to exploit the technotrans is now already regarded as the spegroup’s entire synergy potential, spanning the sacialist for sophisticated filtration solutions for les, service, purchasing, development and producspecial materials such as carbon fibre and ceration areas. mic. But this success came not just from the pro34 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / industrial solutions industrial solutions / technotrans Annual Report 2013 35 Our international setup is a particularly imthis product is a true innovation for the oiling of portant asset here. For this project, the customer coils and is a prime example of successful techtalks and the initial technical expositions took nology transfer by technotrans. place in China. The design and the final technical exposition were then developed in Sassenberg. This broad range of applications constantly Meanwhile purchasing of the components and the throws up new production, technical and sales chalproduction are taking place over in China. That is lenges. It highlights how important technotrans’ what we call international cooperation. It shows well-rehearsed network is to our success. Our flat that we can meet customer requests very flexibly hierarchies are conducive to rapid decisions and by handling the various project stages – whether mean responsibility is extensively delegated to product idea, product design/qualification, seriesindividuals. At the same time, high standards of production procurement or manufacturing – on an quality and technical performance guarantee our international scale at a variety of locations. long-term success. We intend to keep the Industrial Solutions area moving along this course in Our new “spray.xact” product was another suc2014, building on long-term customer relationcess story in 2013. This product is used for spray ships, new system partnerships and pioneering lubrication in stamping and forming technology projects that stem from the core capabilities of and has proved a real crowd-puller at industry exthe group. hibitions such as the Blechexpo. A large number of new and potential customers have been able to witness the practical advantages of this innovative technotrans technology. “spray.xact” is based on mechatronic valve technology that technotrans has already used very effectively for performing spraying functions in the printing press industry. By refining it for this specific application and reflecting the specific requirements of spray lubrication, we have succeeded in developing a new generation that achieves precise, economical oil coatings. Without question it offers many benefits 7 ms for customers. With its wide range of advantages, Seven milliseconds is the fastest opening time of our spray.xact nozzle – about the time it takes for a bee to flap its wings. We are continually using our core business area of the printing industry as a springboard to venture into new territory. We like to send our developers into the lab from time to time, because testing and simulating early on saves precious time. The result is prototypes, new technologies and innovative ideas for our core business areas and wherever else we can use our technologies and developments to impress. 36 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / temperature control temperature control / technotrans Annual Report 2013 37 cool / temperature control / New and exciting: technotrans in biotechnology. poElectric mobility: a challenge laden with future promise. wer / Keeping things hot when they need to be hot and cold when they need to be cold is all about temperature control – another core skill of technotrans. Thanks to our ability to combine a variety of core skills, we can generate special product characteristics and therefore benef its for our customers. / Staying power: one step at a time towards our goal 38 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / temperature control temperature control / technotrans Annual Report 2013 39 Development: where the building blocks of our success take shape. 01 IdeA 02 Project Outline some 03 Development like it hot 04 Prototype Construction 05 Product Qualification STAYING POWER We make our projects succeed by always staying on the ball. 06 Field Tests T emperature control in the printing industomers to good use when taking on development technotrans effectively applies its try is one of the most crucial core skills projects that present new challenges. At the same skills and strengths in the area of temperature control in other of technotrans, and the basis of our extime, we make optimum use of the available caindustries. pertise. We have successfully transferred this pacities. 07 Pilot Production expertise to other industries and built up a reputation as a specialist for temperature control in In every area of the company, this approach 08 Production other areas, too. Our big advantage: we can put has led to exciting projects that have helped us our many years of experience in dealing with cusincrease and consolidate our market presence. 40 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / temperature control temperature control / technotrans Annual Report 2013 41 50,000m of copper piping were fitted in our cooling systems in 2013. ency, for example, is becoming increasingly important. By drawing on its relevant expertise from a wide range of application areas, technotrans is able to offer innovative products that tick all the boxes. As in the printing industry, these projects have a multi-year horizon and pass through various phases until production readiness. After the brainstor“Whatever we learn and ming, construction, design and feasibility study phases, a prototype is built. It is then put through wherever we learn it, a series of tests and qualifications internally, and we use that knowledge next sent out to customers for field tests, possibin every area.” ly with intensive backup from the service technicians. In this project stage, the prototype is observed in operation and modified as necessary. How do our products react in diffeThen production of the pilot run begins, with further rent conditions, e.g. as part of technotests conducted before volume production can logies in the mobility sector, when mostart. But this sequence is no more than the basic vement and vibrations are the norm? The outline of a project – it is often tailored to the various ways in which our products inspecific needs and requirements of a customer. teract in new application areas are obviously also of huge interest. Efficiency, KLH has developed modular cooling concepts noise emissions and climatic conditions that for example feature different cooling circuits are just some of the relevant topics. to cool four components on the same machine. These and other questions continually Termotek, too, was able to realise an array of new arise in our projects and keep yielding projects that called for customer-specific applicanew findings. We then use them as gatetions. As well as its lasers, Termotek developed ways to new applications and systems, products such as temperature control systems for for instance in the printing industry. This innovative cooling/heating sleeves for the medical completes the transfer cycle, highlighand sport sectors, a new design of IT cabinet for ting the importance of endurance and servers and computers requiring ultra-space-sadiscipline as success factors. ving solutions, and coolers for airport scanners. Termotek has thus unlocked new areas of activity in the field of temperature control. The same is true of technotrans, which impressed various customers with projects in the machine tool sector (industrial cooling), for energy storage systems, for laser systems and in medical technology. All these achievements are not down to pure chance – they reflect the ability of the technotrans Group to attract customers through innovation, experience and ongoing support. And in everything that we do, we demonstrate conspicuous staying “Our customers and project partners power because we always strive for the best solution, whatever the area, and because we are exare the prime movers behind innovations perts at transferring our knowledge. Energy efficiand development.” 42 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / social responsibility social responsibility / technotrans Annual Report 2013 43 The human factor euros. That is why corruption is a crime, not a mere technotrans promotes and protects human peccadillo. To protect our group against potential We act consistently to protect rights. We advocate compliance with worldwide losses, we maintain transparency and implement human rights. labour standards, and are involved in the fight aginternal control mechanisms. In particular, we ainst child and forced labour, as well as against have adopted a worldwide, binding set of antidiscrimination in employment. Our employees are corruption guidelines. appointed solely on the basis of their qualifications – and nothing else. Checks are regularly Much remains to be done, all over the world. carried out to assess whether the guidance to that For that reason, we will continue to do all in our effect, as laid down for instance in management power to support the Global Compact through our manuals or compliance guidelines, has been folbusiness activities and strategies, which we will lowed. This audit of our group again brought to adjust as necessary to bring them into line with light no departures from the application of the these principles. principles in respect of labour standards and human rights in 2013. On behalf of the Board of Management Entirely natural In its economic activity, technotrans consciously seeks to advance and support the Global Compact principles from an environmental viewRESPONSIBILITY Respecting people and the environment everywhere Environmental protection and point, too. Our technology is all about the use of sustainability govern our actions. energy-saving components and pollution-cutting Henry Brickenkamp is our contribution to a better future. solutions. We will continue to give environmental protection and sustainability primacy throughout Our mission – our development of products and use of resources. We are currently exploring a highly promising solution for sustainable energy storage technology in today, tomorrow stationary and mobile applications. Transparency wins and beyond Corruption is a danger to everyone. It hampers development, deepens poverty and has a devastating effect on society, both economically and socially. It causes legal uncertainty, distorts competition and inflates costs. According to the European Commission, every year it costs the / European Union economy alone some 120 million Ever y company bears responsibility. Towards its employees, the environment and society. At technotrans we accept that responsibility worldwide in a variety of ways, for instance through our commitment to the Global Compact initiative, or by supporting Friedensdorf International e.V. We always remain faithful to the THINK – LEAR N – ACT philosophy that is actively practised throughout the entire group. / T he Global Compact of the United Nations technotrans has been a member of the initiis a strategic initiative that seeks to proative since 2006 because we want to play an acThe ten principles of the Global Compact mote corporate social responsibility and tive role in furthering its long-term goal – defining technotrans is proud to operate according to these ten principles: Principle 1: businesses should support and sustainability in organisations and enterprises. the social and ecological aspects of globalisation respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence, and Prin– while also consciously measuring our activities ciple 2: they should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: businesses should Its centrepiece is ten universally acknowand strategies against these standards. Impleuphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, as well as technotrans bears responsibility ledged principles spanning human rights, labour menting the ten principles is a permanent challenPrinciple 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, Principle 5: the effective abolition for people and the environment. standards, environmental protection and anti-corge in our day-to-day work. In view of the group’s of child labour and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Wherever we are. ruption measures. Over 12,000 signatories repreinternational operations, we continually need to Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, Principle 8: senting industry and key stakeholders in 145 counreassess whether we are meeting the standards should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and Principle 9: should encoutries have already made a commitment to uphold of the Global Compact and what we need to do to rage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: businesses should these principles. further its aims. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 44 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / social responsibility social responsibility / technotrans Annual Report 2013 45 That would probably have been the end of the stoThe whole scheme relies on donations and ry if her uncle had not heard on the radio that a voluntary assistance. While the clinics cover the team from Friedensdorf International was coming cost of the treatment, Friedensdorf International to Kabul, to take sick children to Germany for treatpays for the flights, transport, personnel, accomment free of charge. So the family embarked on modation, meals and care. technotrans is an acanother long journey and showed Tamana to the tive supporter of Friedensdorf International beteam. It quickly became clear the girl needed mecause it performs constructive work with long-term dical treatment in Germany. Along with 60 other benefits for the future. We – technotrans – are children, she landed in Düsseldorf and was transsuccessful internationally, but all over the world ferred directly to a children’s hospital. The doctors there are the weak, who will have no future prosthere removed part of her thigh bone, and also the pects if we do not join together to support them. source of the inflammation. That banished her pain Children and young people are in an even precaand the swelling. An initial success. But she was rious position – which is why they need our help now left with a gap between her hip and her thigh particularly urgently. bone. The doctors believed Tamana would never be able to walk properly. Tamana was sent to the Friedensdorf for rehabilitation, where she met other children she already knew. Six weeks on, and her progress was astonishing: Tamana was running, laughing and playing with her friends. Although she will never be able to run without problems or walk long distances, as of early 2014 she is ready to return to her family in Afghanistan. Friedensdorf is a place where children with no future are given a new tomorrow. Filled with life, laughter and learning. So that the world does not stay the way it is Y ou can change the world. One step at a pain in her leg, which was ulcerating. The diagnosis time. That is why technotrans again lent of the doctors at the provincial clinic: inflammation its support to the Friedensdorf Internatiof the bone with ulceration. Medical support and onal project in 2013. This charity attends to childmedicines were in short supply. A familiar story for ren from war-torn and crisis zones, supporting Friedensdorf children. But the parents did not give They said Tamana would never walk. Today there is them with medical and psychological help, educaup, and took their daughter to the paediatric clinic scarcely any stopping her. tion, projects and relief supplies. Whether on the in Kabul, from where she was transferred to a speground or at the Friedensdorf in Oberhausen. Tacial clinic in Pakistan. But after six operations, her mana’s story illustrates how this approach to recondition still did not improve. The doctors, belielief works. The four-year-old girl was growing up in ving they had done all they could, sent Tamana a small Afghan village close to the Uzbekistan border. At some point Tamana started feeling severe and her parents home. “It’s nice to achieve something together.” 46 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / social responsibility social responsibility / technotrans Annual Report 2013 47 / Seven hundred and “Only if the company performs in every department will you succeed long-term.” seventy seven times thank you! To our employees The Board of Management: Dirk Engel, Henry Brickenkamp, Dr Christof Soest for their commitment and enthusiasm. / Technology TABLE OF CONTENTS INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS 49 50 GROUP MANAGEMENT LETTER FROM THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT technotrans CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 51 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD 52 REPORT 55 56 THE 2013 FINANCIAL YEAR AT A GLANCE 57 BASIC PROFILE OF THE GROUP 63 ECONOMIC REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, FINANCIAL POSITION 64 AND NET WORTH NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 73 AND OTHER PARTICULARS 78 REPORT ON POST-BALANCE SHEET DATE EVENTS EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS, OPPORTUNITIES 79 AND RISKS REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL FINANCIAL 82 CONTROL SYSTEM DISCLOSURES AND EXPLANATORY NOTES STATEMENT 84 RELATING TO TAKEOVER 87 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 88 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 90 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE 91 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 92 FURTHER STATEMENT OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY 94 NOTES 96 CORPORATE BODIES 140 INFORMATION 142 Services 142 PROPOSAL OF THE APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT 143 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT BY THE MANAGEMENT 144 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 146 THE SUCCESS STORY 148 CORPORATE CALENDAR 50 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS / technotrans Annual Report 2013 51 DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY AND CORPORATE DEAR BUSINESS ASSOCIATES, GOVERNANCE REPORT A challenging year lies behind us – one in which our attention was focused on solutions in the doubThe German Corporate Governance Code contains the recognised standards of responsible corporle sense of the word. The 2013 financial year saw the technotrans Group achieve its goal of increasing ate management. Once a year, the Code is updated by the government commission to reflect national its revenue share from outside the printing industry initially to 30 percent. The key factor behind this and international developments. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board report below on development was the acquisition of a majority interest in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH (Bad Doberan) and corporate governance at technotrans AG and explain departures from the recommendations and sugits Asian sister companies at the start of the year. Following the takeover of Termotek AG in 2011, we gestions of the Code. have thus added considerable breadth to our presence in the growing market of the laser industry. Responsible corporate management is a high priority at technotrans. The Board of Management Unfortunately our expectations of a more dynamic development in the past financial year went and Supervisory Board of technotrans AG again gave in-depth consideration to the fulfilment of the unrealised. The muted framework conditions had an impact on most target markets of the technotrans requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code, and in particular to the amendments deGroup that extended into the second half of the year, because industry’s propensity to invest remained cided upon by the government commission responsible on May 13, 2013. Both bodies submitted a very restrained. Even demand from the Chinese market, normally a growth driver for exports, lost mojoint Declaration of Conformity in September 2013 pursuant to Section 161 (1) of the German Stock mentum. However this short-term weaker business performance must not be allowed to mask the fact Corporation Act (AktG): that the company’s medium and long-term prospects remain positive. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board declare that the recommendations of the Implementing our strategy is increasingly bearing fruit, not just through the acquisitions but also Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code as set forth in the version dated through the internal and external projects that seek to identify applications for our own core skills May 13, 2013 have been complied with in the 2013 financial year and will be complied with in the outside the printing press industry. Various projects that in some cases had lead times of three to four future, years are now beginning to bring in revenue. For instance, our spray lubrication systems for stamping and forming technology have now been successfully introduced at OEMs (the machinery manufacturwith the exception of the following recommendations: ers) and in the retail market. In addition, we have further increased our activities in the area of energy storage technology (e.g. battery cooling) and tapped fresh potential in the field of medical and scanner  rticles 5.1.2. and 5.4.1. A technology. (Composition of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board) The integration of our latest acquisition KLH is making good progress. Both it and our subsidiary Termotek have already been detecting a slight upturn in the laser sales market since the fourth quarW  hen deciding on the appointment of new members of corporate bodies, in future the emphasis ter. We therefore also expect to see correspondingly positive effects for the 2014 financial year from will be on the qualifications of the candidates and not on their gender. implementing the synergy potential we had previously identified. Our business with customers from the printing industry continues to be dominated by the general Article 5.4.6 economic fortunes of that sector; judging by the latest announcements by our clients in the offset (Remuneration of Supervisory Board members) printing area, no rise in the market volume can be expected any time soon. Nevertheless, 2013 saw us build on our position as the leading systems supplier for liquid technology in the printing industry. In accordance with the articles of incorporation, the members of the Supervisory Board receive This market-leading position gives our company a sound basis on which to develop and expand into a variable remuneration component that does not expressly reflect sustainable corporate perfornew markets for technotrans. mance. The success of the past year is down to the efforts of a large team. The Board of Management of technotrans AG therefore takes this opportunity to thank not just its management personnel, but also The first departure concerns the recommendation also to achieve diversity in the composition of all employees for their exceptional commitment. the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and in particular to strive for adequate represenIn line with the general business cycle, we expect the coming year to bring a noticeable revival tation of women. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board are convinced that the principle and fresh impetus. All the same, we continue to take a rather more sober view of the development of of equality is observed when filling posts and will therefore continue to consider potential candidates various sub-segments, in the printing industry in particular. We intend to see technotrans grow, both first and foremost on the strength of their qualifications. Targets, for example for certain quotas to be organically through actively developing new products, and non-organically through further targeted acmet in the boards’ composition, have therefore deliberately not been adopted in view of the specific quisitions. Our focus in this respect is on companies which make technological niche products and give situation of the company. us an attractive gateway to target markets such as the metalworking/machine tool industry, energy The second departure relates to the Supervisory Board’s remuneration. The total remuneration of storage technology, and medical and scanner technology. members of the Supervisory Board is divided into fixed and variable components, in accordance with Our strategic focus is on companies that have their own value chain and offer a high standard of the articles of incorporation. The variable remuneration component has not expressly been determined technical expertise. That is the only way we can secure sustained growth of a calibre that will maintain to reflect sustainable corporate performance. and progressively enhance our profitability. In addition to the recommendations, the Corporate Governance Code contains suggestions, comThe recent business results have confirmed our resolve to press ahead with addressing new custopliance with which is not binding. Nor are explanations for departures from the suggestions required. mers in different markets. We will therefore continue to invest in building up the necessary expertise technotrans does not depart from these suggestions. and capacities, in an effort to progress along technotrans’ growth pathway. The recommendations and suggestions of the Corporate Governance Code as well as the statutory We will be delighted to see you accompany us in our quest for a successful 2014 for technotrans, requirements form an integral part of the day-to-day working practices of the Board of Management and and we thank you for your confidence in us. Supervisory Board. The committees examine compliance with the standards at regular intervals, to ensure that the issues at stake are always observed in the interests of the shareholders, the employees and not least the company itself. On behalf of the Board of Management Henry Brickenkamp 52 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS / technotrans Annual Report 2013 53 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Board resolved to propose our re-election to the Supervisory Board at the next Shareholders’ Meeting. Dr Norbert Bröcker and I were both re-elected to the Supervisory Board by large majorities at this year’s Shareholders’ Meeting as representatives of the shareholders. The Supervisory Board of the company again regularly advised the Board of Management on the The composition of the Supervisory Board changed in 2013 in terms of the employees’ representarunning of the company and monitored its activities in the 2013 financial year, in accordance with the tives. There were corresponding elections at the German establishments in April for two employees’ restatutory provisions and articles of incorporation. We were involved directly and at an early stage in all presentatives. At the constituent meeting of the Supervisory Board following the Shareholders’ Meeting, decisions that were of considerable significance to the company. the employees’ representatives Reinhard Aufderheide and Thomas Poppenberg were welcomed as new The Board of Management regularly briefed us orally and in writing, both promptly and comprehenmembers of the Supervisory Board; the Supervisory Board then proceeded to elect me as its Chairman. sively, on the situation of the company and its subsidiaries, in particular on the business and financial The Supervisory Board would like to thank Klaus Beike and Matthias Laudick, who had belonged to position and on fundamental issues of corporate planning and strategy. Deviations in business progress the supervisory body as the employees’ representatives since 2008, for their dedication and constructive from the plans and targets and the corresponding countermeasures were explained to us in detail and support for the company’s development over the past five years. An Audit Committee has, in addition, the strategic direction of the company was coordinated with us. In addition to myself, other Supervisory been formed (members: Dieter Schäfer, Helmut Ruwisch and Heinz Harling) as well as a Committee for Board members maintained regular contact with the Board of Management, both outside the context Board of Management Affairs (Personnel Committee; members: Heinz Harling, Dr Norbert Bröcker and of meetings and after the end of the financial year, in order to become acquainted with the current Helmut Ruwisch). The latter met twice and dealt in particular with the composition of the Management progress of business and to support the Board of Management in an advisory capacity. In addition, I Board and with drawing up the contracts and agreeing the remuneration of the members of the Board of held separate discussions with the Board of Management on the prospects for, and future direction Management. At the committee’s proposal, the full Supervisory Board unanimously approved the extensiof, the divisions. I was informed in a timely manner by the Spokesman of the Board of Management on of the contract (three years) for Dr Christof Soest at its meeting in December 2013. of important occurrences that are of material significance for evaluating the situation, progress and The Audit Committee met twice, in the presence of the auditors and the members of the Board of management of the company. Management, and concerned itself with matters relating to the annual financial statements, the preDuring the 2013 financial year, the Supervisory Board considered the economic position and opersentation of the accounts, controlling and risk management, fiscal matters, compliance, assuring the ational and strategic development of the company and its divisions at length in five meetings, which took independence of the auditors, mandating the auditors to perform the audit task, identifying the priority place on March 11, May 15 and 16, September 25 and December 13, 2013, on the basis of the written areas for the audit, and agreeing the fee. The interim reports to be published were discussed in advance and oral reports by the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board was informed of and discussed by the members of this committee. In preparing its recommendation to the Supervisory Board on the significant business occurrences within the company, as well as its strategy and the implementation election of the auditors, the Audit Committee moreover considered at length a possible change of auditor. thereof, and also its approach to risk management. The economic development of the company and of To that end, it for example conducted discussions with several potential alternative candidates. However its subsidiaries was discussed in depth. All members of the Supervisory Board and Board of Managefollowing extensive consultations the Audit Committee ultimately decided to recommend that the Sument were present at all meetings. pervisory Board re-elect KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Bielefeld, as auditors of the annual The Supervisory Board approved those transactions which require its approval in accordance with financial statements and Consolidated Financial Statements for the 2014 financial year the statutory provisions and the articles of incorporation. These include decisions and measures which The audit reports and documents for the accounts as well as the Board of Management’s proposal are of fundamental significance for the financial position and financial performance of the company. on the appropriation of profit for the 2013 financial year were sent to all Supervisory Board members in good time. They were discussed in depth by the Audit Committee and at the Supervisory Board meeting Important topics in 2013 were: on March 10, 2014. The firm of auditors, represented by the two independent auditors appointed to carry • T he economic development (revenue and profit) of the company, but also in particular of Termotek AG out the task, also attended both meetings. They reported on the principal findings of their audit and were and of the newest majority interest KLH Kältetechnik GmbH, as well as possible measures to shore available to answer further questions and provide supplementary information. The annual financial stateup earnings in view of the structural problems of the printing industry ments of the parent company and the Consolidated Financial Statements for the 2013 financial year have • Discussing the financial statements for 2012 and passing the appropriate resolution both been granted an unqualified audit certificate. Following our own examination of the annual financial • The proposals for resolutions and the agenda items for the Shareholders’ Meeting, in particular statements, the Consolidated Financial Statements, the management report for the parent company the proposal on the shareholders’ representatives who were to be put forward to the Shareholders’ and the Group Management Report, we approved the auditor’s findings and signed off the annual and Meeting for re-election Consolidated Financial Statements at the meeting on March 10, 2014. The annual financial statements • The strategic positioning and development of the company’s divisions are thus established. The Supervisory Board endorses the proposal by the Board of Management on the • Liquidity planning and the new financing concept appropriation of profit. • Examination of the remuneration system and of the appropriateness of the Board of Management’s In accordance with the corresponding recommendation In the German Corporate Governance Code, remuneration the Supervisory Board members of technotrans AG disclose any conflicts of interest to the Supervisory • The general acquisitions strategy and the integration of KLH Kältetechnik Board without delay. The Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr Norbert Bröcker is partner in • Budgeting for the 2014 financial year, which encompassed revenue, cost, earnings, investment and the law firm Hoffmann Liebs Fritsch & Partner. The law firm Hoffmann Liebs Fritsch & Partner provided personnel targets, as well as rough targets for subsequent years legal advice for technotrans AG on a variety of topics in the past financial year. The Supervisory Board of • Aspects of risk management, compliance and corporate governance technotrans AG approved the involvement of Hoffmann Liebs Fritsch & Partner as well as the consultancy fees arising. To avoid any conflicts of interest, Dr Bröcker abstained from these votes. No other potential The members of the Supervisory Board are sufficiently independent and have sufficient time to act conflicts of interest that are to be disclosed to the Supervisory Board and would need to be reported at as non-executive directors. No conflicts of interest arose during the period under review. Pursuant to the Shareholders’ Meeting arose in the year under review. Article 5.6 of the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board conducted an efficiency The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Board of Management and all employees of the group audit by means of a structured approach. It reached the conclusion that the Supervisory Board exercises for their commendable dedication. Together, they showed great dedication in shaping the company’s deits role efficiently, though it is to be noted that this examination regularly suggests details that could be velopment in the 2013 financial year. Our particular thanks are due to the employees’ representatives, improved upon. who yet again cooperated constructively and openly with the company’s corporate bodies, and to the To enable it to fulfil its duties more efficiently, the Supervisory Board formed three committees. The shareholders, many of who have now been involved in technotrans AG for quite a number of years. Nominating Committee (members: the shareholders’ representatives on the Supervisory Board) proposes suitable candidates for elections to the Supervisory Board. The term of office on the Supervisory On behalf of the Supervisory Board, Board of Dr Norbert Bröcker and myself ended with the close of the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2013. Based on the proposal of the Nominating Committee, at its meeting in March the Supervisory Heinz Harling Chairman of the Supervisory Board Ink and Fluid Technology TABLE OF CONTENTS GROUP MANAGEMENT Temperature REPORT Control 55 THE 2013 FINANCIAL YEAR AT A GLANCE 56 BASIC PROFILE OF THE GROUP 57 ECONOMIC REPORT 63 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, FINANCIAL POSITION AND NET WORTH 64 Fluid Conditioning NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND OTHER PARTICULARS 73 / PURCHASING AND PROCUREMENT / PRODUCTION, TECHNOLOGY AND LOGISTICS / EMPLOYEES / CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS Industrial / SHARES Services REPORT ON POST-BALANCE SHEET DATE EVENTS 78 EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS, OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS REPORT 79 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM 82 DISCLOSURES AND EXPLANATORY NOTES Other RELATING TO TAKEOVER 84 Services 56 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 57 THE 2013 FINANCIAL YEAR AT A GLANCE BASIC PROFILE OF THE GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OF THE GROUP The 2013 financial year saw the technotrans Group achieve its goal of increasing the revenue share from outside the printing industry initially to 30 percent. The key factor behind this development was Organisational Structure of the Group the acquisition of a majority interest in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH (Bad Doberan) and its Asian sister The technotrans Group comprises technotrans AG and 14 subsidiaries in which it has an interest dicompanies at the start of the year. Following the takeover of Termotek AG in 2011, we have thus added rectly, as well as five companies in which it holds an interest indirectly. The parent company, technotrans considerable breadth to our presence in the growing market of the laser industry. AG, with its registered office in Sassenberg (Westphalia), directly or indirectly has a majority interest in The printing industry, on the other hand – still technotrans’ most important sales market – again all subsidiaries. The companies in the group and their locations are listed in the Notes section, under performed more weakly than expected in the past financial year. In consequence, revenue of € 105.2 “Consolidated Companies”. million ultimately came in merely at the bottom end of the target range for the year as a whole (€ 110 million, +/– 5 percent). The 16.0 percent growth is first and foremost attributable to the takeover of Segments KLH. The below-target revenue volume affected exclusively the Technology segment, which in turn expThe group’s business is divided into two segments: Technology and Services. The Technology seglained why the revenue targets for the 2013 financial year were not achieved, the actual EBIT margin of ment generates just under two-thirds of total revenue. In this business area, technotrans develops and 4.4 percent (previous year: 5.9 percent) contrasting with the target of 6 to 7 percent. sells equipment and systems based on its core skills of temperature control, filtering and separating, Developments in the 2013 financial year confirmed our resolve to maintain our assertive pursuit of spraying and pumping liquids, along with the corresponding control and process engineering. It supplies a course of strategic reorientation. The process of tapping new sales markets with the goal of actively these to customers in a variety of industries such as the printing industry, machine tool engineering, the taking control of organic growth again made good progress in 2013. However it is taking longer than we laser industry, stamping and forming technology; in the future it will increasingly also supply customers anticipated to realise the revenue potential of a number of projects. We therefore view the 2013 finanin other markets such as medical technology and energy storage technology. cial year as a year of transition, and will continue following our chosen course consequently. The Technology segment is complemented by the Services segment. technotrans’ activities are rounded off by an extensive range of services. These include providing customer support for the installation, maintenance and operation of systems. The subsidiary gds AG, which likewise comes under this segment, mainly produces technical documentation, including in translation, and sells self-developed software, which is used to generate that documentation. Locations With 22 locations, numerous joint undertakings and 777 employees (December 31, 2013), the technotrans Group enjoys a presence in all major markets worldwide. Products and Services The core skills of technotrans AG in liquid technology are organised into three business units. Its special knowledge of temperature control as well as filtering, separating, spraying and pumping liquids is the result of many years of experience. The focus is on customer-specific equipment and systems that technotrans develops as a leading systems supplier for performing essential functions as part of a specific application, therefore contributing towards optimising the overall quality and efficiency of the user’s processes. The company is steadily broadening its product range in close collaboration with existing and potential customers, including many renowned industrial enterprises, with a view to opening up new application areas in order to safeguard its long-term growth. Activities outside the printing industry already brought in 30 percent of revenue in 2013. Business Processes The principal business processes encompass the development, assembly, testing and sale of equipment, along with providing various services for major customers and their end users. The low manufacturing penetration is needed in order to respond flexibly and cost-effectively to the requirements of customers. technotrans therefore generally sources the components for its systems and equipment from specialist suppliers. Sales Markets The biggest customers of the technotrans Group come from the printing and laser industries. In the sphere of the printing industry, we supply all leading printing press manufacturers worldwide. The technotrans market share here is well over 50 percent. The large installed base and the cyclical nature of the propensity to invest mean that in addition to service business in the narrower sense, modernisation and retrofit business directly with end customers also generates a significant proportion of revenue. The largest customer of the technotrans Group from the laser industry is Trumpf Laser GmbH. In addition, there are long-standing business and supplier relationships with almost all laser suppliers, in particular via the group companies Termotek AG and KLH Kältetechnik GmbH. As well as the laser industry, major companies in the machine tool industry such as DMG Mori Seiki AG and INDEX are customers of the technotrans Group. 58 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 59 Alongside technotrans AG, the market for suppliers of peripheral equipment to the printing industry worldwide are given growth targets to realise. essentially includes a large number of smaller companies, predominantly with a regional focus. In the As part of this strategy, three goals (milestones) were defined. The first milestone specified that the other lines of industry in which technotrans is active, the supplier market is highly fragmented. The main share of revenue from outside the printing industry is to rise initially to 30 percent. That goal was achievsuccess factor for technotrans is the approach of positioning itself as a systems supplier of complex, ed in the 2013 financial year, thanks in part to targeted acquisitions. The next milestone is to return “in custom-made solutions with its own international service network, unlike out-and-out component supthe medium term to the levels of revenue and earnings last seen before the global economic crisis”. The pliers. benchmark figures here are from the 2007 financial year. Last but not least, various activities focus on increasing revenue and earnings in the long term. To achieve these goals, appropriate measures have External Factors Influencing Business been taken to align volume growth with a corresponding improvement in profitability. The investment propensity of the target industries in which the technotrans Group is active has a major influence on the group’s business performance. That propensity is in turn determined by the INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM present and anticipated economic situation. In view of its focus on the German mechanical and plant engineering sectors, cyclical fluctuations there have a strong influence on its business performance. The The purpose of the technotrans Group’s internal control system is to oversee implementation of the specific branching-out of business activities into high-growth industries such as laser/machine tool or corporate strategy. The system seeks to identify deviations as early as possible so that swift action medical technology, and also into Asia, is designed to significantly reduce that correlation in the future, can be taken as appropriate. The strategy is implemented in such a way as to serve the best interests along with loosening the group’s exposure to structural difficulties that have been a major feature of the of customers, suppliers, employees and investors. printing industry for some time now. technotrans AG and its group companies are controlled, first and foremost, on the basis of revenue and earnings ratios (EBIT margin). Corporate planning as a whole is furthermore based on cash flow. Acquisitions At group level, the plan for the 2013 financial year was to generate revenue in the region of € 110 As well as organically accessing new markets, technotrans’ growth strategy also includes the acquisimillion, +/– 5 percent. The corresponding EBIT margin was to reach between 6 and 7 percent. Another tion of companies with core skills that usefully complement those present in every area of the group. For weaker-than-expected performance by the printing industry – still technotrans’ most important sales example, the takeover of Termotek AG, the company’s own range of refrigeration and temperature control market – and higher start-up costs in the new markets meant that revenue for the full year ultimately solutions and the product portfolio of KLH Kältetechnik have transformed the company into a highcame in at € 105.2 million, at the bottom end of this target range. The below-target revenue volume in performance supplier of customer-specific industrial refrigeration technology for all performance ranges. the 2013 financial year affected exclusively the Technology segment, which in turn explained why the With regard to the core skills of filtration and separation as well as spraying and pumping liquids, the revenue targets were not achieved, with the EBIT margin reaching 4.4 percent. company likewise targets the acquisition of technology and/or market access as options for accelerating The operating performance overall therefore fell short of expectations. growth. Acquisitions are fundamentally structured in such a way that they directly deliver increased value REMUNERATION REPORT added. Wherever possible and advisable, the form of participation is moreover designed to ensure that the holders of critical expertise continue to share in the benefits of the acquisition into the medium term. The Board of Management is in charge of operations. It comprises three members and is overseen by the Supervisory Board in accordance with the statutory requirements and the articles of incorporation. The members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are listed in the “Corporate GOALS AND STRATEGIES Bodies” section. The Declaration of Conformity pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock CorpoThe goal of the technotrans Group is sustained growth coupled with optimum profitability. To achieve ration Act, as well as further explanatory notes, can be found in the separate Corporate Governance that goal, the company concentrates on its core skills in the sphere of liquid technology, while focusing Report, which forms part of this Annual Report. The Remuneration Report contains the itemised remuinvestment on measures that enable it to expand its product range further and gain a foothold in new neration by individual member of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of technotrans AG, areas of application for its technologies. Organic growth is rounded off by partnerships in areas where as well as particulars of fringe benefits provided by the company for each individual member. The basic its core skills are called for, and also by targeted acquisitions. Its strategy is to seek sustainable, profitfeatures of the remuneration system are also explained there. driven development. technotrans mostly concentrates on niche markets where it is possible to achieve a market share in Report on the Remuneration System of the Board of Management the region of 50 percent, taking into account the scale of its own business and the available resources. The remuneration system of the Board of Management reflects the current standards and statutory This is the key to being able to capitalise on economies of scale in offering customers benchmark techrequirements. The total cash remuneration of a Board of Management member comprises a fixed basic nology and prices. technotrans is well placed to realise such goals thanks to its clear focus on system remuneration and a variable remuneration component (management bonus). The variable remunerapartnerships with major industrial clients (OEM) which operate worldwide and expect their suppliers to tion component is equivalent to the fixed remuneration if the targets are fully met; in other words, in have a similar organisation. that instance the total cash remuneration comprises equal amounts of fixed and variable remuneratiAs a systems supplier to the printing industry, technotrans has held a leading position in its product on. The precise level of the variable remuneration component is determined by target attainment in a areas for many years. Based on its close ties with the manufacturers of offset printing presses and its given financial year. Revenue and consolidated net income for the year serve as the basis for the tarunique expertise, the company intends to consolidate its role as technology partner in that industry and gets for budgeting purposes. If the agreed targets are exceeded, the variable remuneration component – wherever possible – build on it. is increased, this increase being capped at a multiple of 2.5. The variable remuneration component It is, however, assumed that this basis for offset printing business is likely to involve a broadly flat is paid out over a three-year period in instalments of 50, 30 and 20 percent, and in relation to actual future market volume, with moderate growth limited to individual areas (such as emerging markets). target attainment. There is no entitlement to a management bonus in the event of a net loss for the In order to achieve its ambitious growth targets, technotrans has therefore been paying considerable year or if target attainment is less than 50 percent in the assessment year. The sustainability-oriented attention to applications outside the printing industry since 2010. The focus of the activities that are management bonus is only paid out to the extent that the respective targets for the assessment bracketed together in the technotrans industrial system solutions (ttis) sales division is on the use of year are attained in subsequent years. The deferred management bonus component may therefore technotrans core skills in industries with long-term growth potential, such as machine tool engineering, fall, but it can no longer rise. If target attainment falls below 80 percent of the level achieved in the stamping and forming technology, laser and medical technology, and the area of energy storage technolassessment year, the sustainability-oriented management bonus component lapses. If a Board of Maogy. Alongside these, the company is also increasingly active in digital and flexographic printing – both nagement member leaves the company, their entitlement to a management bonus from previous years areas that likewise still have potential for considerable growth. does not automatically lapse. The growth strategy’s implementation is supported by the corporate structure in that both the busiThe company moreover provides fringe benefits (insurance premiums) in the form of contributions ness units – in which the core skills are concentrated – and the international sales and service locations to a provident fund and a group accident insurance policy. In addition, company cars are available 60 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 61 to the members of the Board of Management and they are reimbursed travel and other allowable In accordance with the articles of incorporation, the Supervisory Board members received the folexpenses. The policies for the D&O insurance cover taken out by the company for the Board of Manlowing remuneration for the year under review of 2013: agement members envisage an excess amounting to one and a half times the fixed annual income. There is also a cap on termination indemnities amounting to a maximum of one year’s salary. 2013 2012 The overall remuneration of each Board of Management member is approved by the Supervisory Total remuof which of which Total remuof which of which Board. No share-based payment components were envisaged for the 2013 financial year. Only in the neration fixed variable neration fixed variable event of exceptional occurrences is the Supervisory Board authorised to adjust the remuneration par€ ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 ameters in the course of a given year. The members of the Board of Management received the following remuneration in the past Heinz Harling 33 22 11 34 22 12 financial year: Reinhard Aufderheide 1 8 5 3 0 0 0 Henry Brickenkamp Dirk Engel Dr Christof Soest Klaus Beike 2 5 3 2 13 8 5 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dr. Norbert Bröcker 23 15 8 23 15 8 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Matthias Laudick 2 5 3 2 13 8 5 Thomas Poppenberg 1 8 5 3 0 0 0 Fixed basic remuneration 200 200 160 160 160 160 Helmut Ruwisch 20 15 5 21 15 6 Fringe benefits 48 33 46 31 43 28 Dieter Schäfer 17 11 6 17 11 6 Management bonus, year under review 145 168 116 134 94 79 Total 119 79 40 121 79 42 Total remuneration 393 401 322 325 297 267 1 since May 16, 2013. 2 until May 16, 2013. Entitlement dependent on the attainment of future performance targets 100 126 80 101 80 79 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Remuneration of the Supervisory Board Research and development naturally plays a crucial role in unlocking new sales markets and In accordance with the articles of incorporation approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting, the memaccomplishing the related transfer of expertise for technologies and core skills. The task involved bers of the Supervisory Board receive remuneration comprising a fixed and a variable component, in is broad in scope: as a service provider, the company takes on projects that, on the one hand, the addition to reimbursement of their expenses. The level of the variable remuneration component is business units and technotrans industrial system solutions (ttis) sales area bring to it. On the other based on the consolidated net income declared in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under the hand, it conducts technology monitoring and deals with future trends that can influence technotrans’ articles of incorporation, this variable remuneration component is not expressly a reflection of sustaintechnologies in future years. Both an effective technology network with research establishments and able corporate performance. Both the fixed and the variable remuneration component are higher for the close cooperation with and in external work groups produce a continuing dialogue on innovations and Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board than for the remaining members. Membership technologies, thus offering fresh scope for further transfer opportunities. of the committees formed by the Supervisory Board is likewise remunerated, in accordance with the The spotlight of activities in 2013 was on projects that exemplify the transfer of expertise bearticles of incorporation. The members of the Supervisory Board do not receive any stock options for tween technologies that have previously been used within the printing industry, and on their applitheir activities as non-executive directors. The company has taken out D&O insurance cover for the cation in other industry sectors that are new to technotrans. The focus here is on the machine tool members of the Supervisory Board. There is an excess equivalent to the variable remuneration commarket, metal forming, energy storage systems, laser systems and medical technology, etc. The ponent in the year in which a claim is established. broadening of the spectrum of filtration solutions for cooling lubricant used on machine tools is just In addition to the total remuneration stated for the Supervisory Board, the employees’ representaone example. Different combinations of components are used for the various contaminant loads; this tives on the Supervisory Board receive remuneration in their capacity as employees, on the basis of is, in effect, a toolkit approach to offering custom-made solutions in order to cover specific sets of their contracts of employment, and also receive share-based payments. requirements. Methods of filtration and separation for innovative materials (e.g. carbon fibre) that will become increasingly important in industrial manufacturing over the next few years are a particular area of interest. The development of cooling systems for energy storage is a priority task area. technotrans is using these activities to gain a foothold in the mobility area, in other words systems for mobile or movable applications. One major challenge here is the vastly different operating parameters for such systems. Component qualification is a correspondingly complex process; as well as having to comply with all the relevant regulations, the components need to withstand unconventional testing procedures. Aspects such as vibration, acoustics and varying ambient temperatures need to be taken into account. These projects are being taken forward in partnership with leading manufacturers such as Siemens, Saft and ACTIA, with a view to securing a high profile for technotrans as a specialist for battery cooling in emerging mobility solutions in the foreseeable future. Spray lubrication, a still-nascent area of application, presented further development challenges. Different applications in stamping and forming technology mean different sets of requirements concerning the amount of oil needed, its specific properties such as its individual viscosity, and the appropriate control engineering for each application. Both here and in other projects, the key to success is to supply the customer with the best solution for any given task, in the most efficient way, for instance by standardising early on and by using common parts. This then almost inevitably has a positive knock-on effect for development work on other applications of the same technologies. New findings, experience and lessons learned from the projects thus 62 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 63 also filter through into the development projects for the printing industry. One conspicuous example ECONOMIC REPORT of this is the filtration and separation area, where innovations from other projects can yield direct benefits. GENERAL AND INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT Innovation workshops were again held in the 2013 financial year both for customers and internally, to make sure technotrans sets the right market and technology trends in the long term. According to the Institute for the World Economy (IfW), the global economy gained considerable moTo build on the link between theory and practice in day-to-day business, technotrans regularly acts mentum over the course of 2013. However, after its very slow growth in the latter half of 2012, the global as a partner for exchanges between the spheres of theory and research. Project studies, graduate economy continued to perform weakly at the start of 2013. The IfW experts therefore expect the average theses, placements and dual courses of study provide welcome opportunities to engender enthusiincrease in gross domestic product globally to reach only 2.9 percent in 2013, making for an even slower asm for the company among young talents and future specialists. rate of growth than in the previous year, when growth was merely a very modest 3.1 percent. The Research and Development offices and laboratories are located predominantly at the group’s According to the IfW the health of the German economy improved in the course of 2013, but without main base in Sassenberg. In all, there are over 30 employees working on new products, nurturing the anticipated onset of an economic recovery. In the final months of the year, the mood indicators sigthem from the initial idea, through the prototype stage and product qualification tests, to production nalled a very favourable outlook. The business climate has palpably improved, bolstered by the upturn in maturity. the relevant performance indicators elsewhere in the eurozone. Meanwhile economic activity has not yet Development spending is fundamentally shown in the Income Statement. If the appropriate refirmed up, with the order backlog and industrial output remaining on the weak side. The Munich-based Ifo quirements are satisfied, development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset pursuant Institute calculated the growth rate for gross domestic product as just 0.4 percent in 2013. to IAS 38 and reported as such on the Balance Sheet. Development expenditure recognised as an The German mechanical engineering industry was forced to abandon all hopes of growth – however intangible asset at December 31, 2013 came to € 1.6 million (previous year: € 0.9 million). The slight – as early as summer 2013. According to the German Engineering Federation VDMA, the downR&D ratio (development spending in relation to revenue) was 2.8 percent in the past financial year graded production forecast for 2013 of minus 1 percent can be confirmed. In nominal terms, the VDMA (previous year: 2.5 percent). estimates that the German mechanical and plant engineering sector flatlined in 2013. In rare instances, external capacity is called upon for special development tasks – normally focusThe printing industry again performed significantly worse than the mechanical engineering sector ing on specific components – and equally rarely, development work is financed in part with external overall. Revenue from printing presses after the full twelve months was 10 percent down on the previous support, usually by the party that will eventually be the customer. Once again, no public funds were year, and incoming orders were 9 percent below the figure for 2012. This represents an overproportional taken in 2013. downturn, given that incoming orders had risen by 2 percent in the drupa year 2012. technotrans owns a large number of patents, licences and similar rights. It again filed several The general expectation is that the volume of investment in the printing industry – for the time being patent applications in 2013, though in sheer numerical terms fewer than in previous years. This destill technotrans’ largest sales market – will, at best, stabilise at current levels. velopment reflects a careful weighing-up of the advantages to be gained from such protection and the disadvantages arising from their disclosure and, not least, the costs involved in doing so. BUSINESS PERFORMANCE The 2013 financial year saw the technotrans Group achieve its goal of increasing the revenue share from outside the printing industry initially to 30 percent. The key factor behind this development was the acquisition of a majority interest in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH (Bad Doberan) and its Asian sister companies at the start of the year. On the other hand, the printing industry, still technotrans’ most important sales market, again performed more weakly than expected in the past financial year. In consequence, revenue of € 105.2 million ultimately came in merely at the bottom end of the target range for the year as a whole (€ 110 million, +/– 5 percent). The 16.0 percent growth is, first and foremost, attributable to the takeover of KLH. The below-target revenue volume affected exclusively the Technology segment, which in turn explained why the revenue targets for the 2013 financial year were not achieved, the actual EBIT margin of 4.4 percent (previous year: 5.9 percent) contrasting with the target of 6 to 7 percent. The lower revenue volume was a major factor in the poorer-than-forecast earnings. Our expectations for 2013 in the markets that are relevant for technotrans, especially the printing industry but also the laser sector, were not fulfilled. At the same time, we continued to add to our product pipeline for future revenue mainstays. There is a time lapse between this outlay and realising revenue and profit as a result of it. The integration of KLH is making very good progress, and the planned effects on improved profitability derived from synergy potential identified in the purchasing and production areas, but also in sales and service, will materialise as the year progresses. Developments in the 2013 financial year confirmed our resolve to maintain our assertive pursuit of a course of strategic reorientation. The process of tapping new sales markets with the goal of actively taking control of organic growth again made good progress in 2013. However it is taking longer than we anticipated to realise the revenue potential of a number of projects. Exchange Rate Developments In view of the company’s structure and markets, exchange rates traditionally have only a limited impact on the performance of the technotrans Group because the overwhelming portion of its business is settled in euros. Effects on the Income Statement are mainly the result of measurements of intragroup assets and liabilities, and constitute unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses. On the other hand, exchange rate movements may be a help or a hindrance to the competitiveness of customers from the mechanical engineering sector. 64 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 65 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, FINANCIAL POSITION AND Information on Order Backlog, Incoming Orders and Order Reach NET WORTH technotrans’ standard business with industrial customers is based on release orders. Equipping of certain machine models with technotrans technology is usually agreed in advance. The time frame between the release order and delivery is rarely more than two weeks. Because of these master REVENUE agreements, information on incoming orders and order backlogs would not be particularly meaningful. The technotrans Group generated revenue of € 105.2 million, which represents an increase of 16.0 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE percent compared with the previous year (previous year: € 90.7 million). The goal for the full year of taking revenue back over the € 100 million threshold was achieved, as was the goal of increasing the Despite the year-on-year revenue growth, the financial performance of the technotrans Group did not share of revenue from outside the printing industry to initially 30 percent. Because the printing industry improve. The (organic and non-organic) expansion of activities in other sales markets, as well as the weak – still technotrans’ most important sales market – again performed more weakly than expected in the business performance with customers from the printing industry, weighed more heavily on net profit for past financial year, full-year revenue nevertheless ultimately came in merely at the bottom end of the 2013 than originally expected. target range (€ 110 million, +/– 5 percent). Revenue growth was driven primarily by the acquisition of KLH and its impact was mainly limited Gross Profit to the Technology segment. Revenue here climbed from € 53.7 million in the previous year to € 66.0 Gross profit – in other words, revenue less cost of sales – reached € 33.1 million (previous year: million, an increase of 22.8 percent over the year. After a weak third quarter, revenue for the segments € 31.7 million). The growth of 4.7 percent compared with the previous year reflects both the impact of recovered to healthy levels in the fourth quarter, making a substantial contribution to the overall result. the Technology segment’s higher revenue share and the effects of a change in the product mix following Activities away from the printing industry in particular contributed towards revenue as expected. the takeover of KLH. Hand in hand with this development, there was a rise in the cost of purchased The Services segment made good progress in the 2013 financial year, too. Revenue rose again by materials ratio over the year from, 36.5 percent to 39.3 percent. The gross margin was 31.5 percent 6.2 percent to € 39.2 million (previous year: € 36.9 million). The growth in current business is substanat the end of the year (previous year: 34.9 percent), 3.4 percentage points down on the previous year. tially attributable to business expansion following the takeover of KLH Kältetechnik and to the positive performance of our subsidiary gds AG, which supplies technical documentation services. Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for the 2013 financial year came to € 4.6 million, down By Region 13.6 percent on the previous year (previous year: € 5.4 million); this was equivalent to an EBIT margin Because of its customer structure, technotrans traditionally generates a high proportion of its revof 4.4 percent (previous year: 5.9 percent). We did not achieve our goal of an EBIT margin of between enue in Germany, which is the delivery destination for the world’s three-biggest printing press manu6 and 7 percent for the 2013 financial year. facturers. In 2013, it succeeded in more than offsetting a further contraction in the revenue share from that group of customers with activities involving our new customers and revenue contributions Earnings in € millions following the takeover of KLH; as a result, there was a slight increase in the revenue share from German customers from 53.7 percent to 54.4 percent. In other European countries, despite revenue growth in absolute terms the revenue share was not maintained at the prior-year level and fell from 22.9 percent to 21.1 percent. Asia did not experience growth overall in the 2013 financial year, meaning that the revenue share declined from 11.3 percent to 9.6 percent. On the other hand, America’s revenue share again benefited from the more positive underlying conditions and the takeover of KLH, rising from 12.1 5.4 4.8 4.6 percent to 14.9 percent. 3.0 3.0 3.1 3.0 1.5 Revenue by Region 54.4% Germany Rest of Europe 21.1% -10.3 -11.9 America 14.9% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Asia 9.6% Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) Net income Fixed costs increased as a result of the acquisition of KLH. Our investment in activities outside the printing industry also represents a financial burden because it is not yet being recouped in the form of Development in Prices adequate revenue from those activities. Distribution costs moved more or less in line with revenue, growPrice adjustments to reflect the market trend were implemented mainly in the Service area in 2013. ing 11.6 percent to € 15.0 million (previous year: € 13.5 million). General administrative expenses, technotrans’ business with printing press manufacturers is usually conducted on the basis of multi-year too, increased by 13.0 percent to € 12.2 million (previous year: € 10.8 million). Development costs master agreements that only allow well-justified price increases during their term. The same is true of rewere somewhat higher in 2013 at € 3.0 million (previous year: € 2.2 million); in addition, development quests for price reductions by our customers. For us, long-term, partner-like relations with our customers expenditure for projects outside the printing industry amounting to € 0.9 million (previous year: € 0.6 and safeguarding our position in the market take priority over short-term price maximisation. million) was recognised as an intangible asset. 66 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 67 Whereas there had been a positive balance of other operating income and expenses of just € 0.2 business is similarly being implemented with growing success in the new subsidiaries and our nonmillion in the previous year, in 2013 the figure was € 1.7 million. The total for 2013 includes income print activities. The Services segment brought in a total of 37 percent (previous year: 41 percent) of from the reversal of provisions of € 0.1 million (previous year: € 0.2 million) as well as higher other revenue in the past financial year. operating income than in the previous year thanks to insurance payouts and development grants. This contrasted with a net loss of € 0.3 million (previous year: € 0.6 million) due to the sharp currency Revenue by Segments fluctuations, though this figure mainly comprised unrealised losses. No hedging instruments were used to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the operating result. Personnel expenses for the 2013 financial year came to € 37.0 million (previous year: € 32.7 million). The 13.4 percent increase compared to 2012 reveals the acquisition-led growth in the employee total, on the one hand, and the effect of the pay increase, on the other. The personnel costs ratio of 35.2 percent was slightly below the previous year’s level (36.0 percent). 62.7% Technology Depreciation and Amortisation Depreciation and amortisation came to € 3.2 million (previous year: € 3.0 million) in the year under review and was increased by the assets identified and capitalised in the context of the acquisition of Services 37.3% KLH. The figure for the 2013 financial year consequently again exceeded investment in property, plant and equipment of € 2.3 million (previous year: € 1.4 million) because technotrans is in a position to adapt its replacement investment flexibly to the prevailing business circumstances. Net Finance Costs Financial liabilities developed as scheduled over the course of the year. From € 9.3 million in the Earnings (EBIT) previous year, liabilities grew to € 14.9 at December 31, 2013 as a result of the takeover of KLH. The Technology segment was unable to carry the previous year’s improvement in profitability over Thanks to the favourable contracts secured, this had little impact on the net finance costs as a whole. into the 2013 financial year. While the renewed fall in revenue from the printing industry adversely The net figure was € 0.9 million (previous year: € 0.7 million). affected profit contributions, so far our investment in accessing new sales markets has not produced a counterbalancing effect. The amortisation of intangible assets to the tune of € 0.7 million in conTax Expense nection with the acquisition of KLH also diminished the return for the segment last year. Overall, earThe tax expense for the past financial year amounted to € 0.8 million (previous year: € 1.6 millinings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for the Technology segment thus deteriorated year on year from on). Compared to 2012, there was a positive effect on income tax expense (actual income taxes and € –0.8 million to € –1.8 million. We are working on the assumption that further synergy potential from deferred taxes) in particular from tax effects from the use of previously impaired deferred tax assets. the integration of the KLH companies and from our own activities in the new markets will have a major For the 2013 financial year, this therefore produces an effective tax rate for the group of 21.0 percent effect on profit performance over the coming quarters. If revenue stabilises at fourth-quarter levels, we (previous year: 33.8 percent). would consider the future prospects of a positive result for the segment to be good. The net profit for the 2013 financial year is € 3.0 million (previous year: € 3.1 million), equivalent The Services segment profited from the slight revenue growth and improved its result by 5.7 perto a rate of return of 2.8 percent (previous year: 3.4 percent). The earnings per share figure for shares cent to € 6.4 million (previous year: € 6.1 million). This represents an EBIT margin of 16.5 percent, outstanding is therefore € 0.47 (previous year: € 0.48). virtually unchanged from the previous year. The overall financial performance in the Services segment again proved to be very stable. SEGMENT REPORT By Region Revenue Because of the customer structure, the revenue of the Technology segment is traditionally very The Technology segment benefited considerably from the takeover of KLH Kältetechnik GmbH and strongly focused on Germany. The proportion of revenue generated by German customers was only its Asian sister companies, which earned € 15.4 million in revenue in their first year as part of the 62.2 percent, compared with 64.6 percent in the previous year. The revenue share in the remainder group. Revenue for the segment reached € 66.0 million (previous year: € 53.7 million), a growth rate of Europe was unchanged from the previous year at 15.3 percent (previous year: 15.4 percent). The of 22.8 percent. This took the revenue share of the Technology segment up to around 63 percent (preAsian region was no longer able to act as growth driver and contributed only 9.4 percent of Technology vious year: 59 percent). Print business continued to recede throughout the year and the anticipated rerevenue (previous year: 12.3 percent). The substantial increase in America, in both absolute and relavival in demand for printing presses in the second half failed to materialise. Meanwhile activities tive terms, produced a revenue share of 13.1 percent there, compared with 7.7 percent in the previous outside the printing industry made healthy progress. Cooling lubricant preparation for the machine year, reflecting the successful expansion of the new companies Termotek and KLH in the laser market. tool industry and the self-developed spray lubrication system for stamping and forming technology The year 2013 brought palpable changes in the regional composition of revenue in the Services applications brought in higher revenue shares in 2013; we secured the status of serial supplier to segment, especially in Germany and elsewhere in Europe. While the revenue share in Germany forged various renowned customers. Nevertheless, all these highly promising projects were not yet sufficient ahead from 38.0 percent to 41.2 percent, other European countries brought in only 30.8 percent of to compensate for the renewed downturn in business with printing press manufacturers in the 2013 revenue, compared with 33.9 percent in the previous year. Asia, with a revenue share of 10.1 percent financial year. (previous year: 9.7 percent), and America, with a 17.9 percent share (previous year: 18.4 percent), As expected, our subsidiary Termotek AG achieved double-digit growth in the past financial year. were broadly flat. Its revenue total of € 10.1 million was the highest since the founding of the company. Thanks to the upturn in business in the latter half of the year and the healthy level of project business forecast, we Employees expect Termotek to enjoy further revenue growth in 2014. At the end of the year, 529 employees belonged to the Technology segment (previous year: 428) and The Services segment likewise improved its position year on year, increasing its revenue by 6.2 248 employees to the Services segment (previous year: 234). As in previous years, the general adminispercent to € 39.2 million (previous year: € 36.9 million). One of the key factors in this development trative areas have been spread between the segments pro rata, based on their revenue shares. was our subsidiary gds AG, which offers services, software and translations; its year-on-year growth for technical documentation was in the order of 26 percent. On the other hand, classic service business (parts, installation and servicing) with customers from the printing industry remained stable. Service 68 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 69 FINANCIAL POSITION Depreciation and amortisation for the 2013 financial year totalled € 3.2 million (previous year: € 3.0 Principles and Goals of the Financial Management System million). Of this, € 2.6 million was attributable to the Technology segment and € 0.6 million to the SerIt remains the goal of the financial management system to ensure that technotrans is, of its own acvices segment. The main sources of depreciation and amortisation are the customer base acquired along cord, able to generate both the financial resources required to fund the organic growth of its operations, with KLH, the property in Sassenberg and the fixed assets of the international sales and service network. and the investments this involves. This goal was again achieved in the 2013 financial year. Selective No further definite investments that would require an exceptional level of financing are currently investment spending (€ 2.3 million) was again restricted to maintenance investments. planned for fixed assets or intangible assets. technotrans makes use of selected derivative financial instruments exclusively for the hedging of interest rate risks for borrowings incurring interest at variable rates. The company in addition steers the Investment / Depreciation and Amortisation in € millions financing required within the group by way of the credit facilities available to technotrans AG, Termotek AG and KLH Kältetechnik GmbH. There are no exchange-rate factors affecting external financial liabilities. Within the group, short-term and long-term lending between the group companies is practised, to some degree, in order to maintain adequate liquidity locally. Substantial liquidity holdings (cash and cash equivalents) moreover exist in EUR, USD and GBP. Once again, no instruments for the hedging of foreign 4.2 currency positions or liabilities were used beyond the 2013 reporting date. Capital Structure technotrans’ capital structure comprises a sound equity base and a demand-led level of borrowing. In the course of 2013, three aspects of the financing structure were adjusted to reflect the future requirements of the group: long-term loans totalling € 5.5 million were rescheduled, including € 1.5 million 3.5 3.3 in the context of the available credit facilities collateralised by land charges. The amount of € 4.0 million 3.2 3.2 1.0 3.0 was borrowed at the start of 2013 to finance the acquisition of the interest in KLH. In May 2013, the 0.8 three-year period of the previous working capital finance arrangements ended. To coincide with this, new 2.3 short-term credit lines with a total volume of € 11.5 million were agreed with the existing principal banks. 0.2 0 The financing concept for KLH was adjusted in the course of the year by new short and medium-term lo1.2 1.4 1.4 1.1 ans (€ 1.1 million) with better terms. The short-term credit lines were used only intermittently in the past financial year. All measures were implemented with varying maturities, making use of the best-possible interest terms. At the balance sheet date, the average weighted interest rate for borrowing was approx. 2.92 percent 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (previous year: 3.8 percent). This financing concept means the group has overall borrowing arrangements in place amounting to some € 28.4 million, with a strong emphasis on medium to long-term maturities. Investments/property, plant and equipment Investments/other assets Depreciation At December 31, 2013, the technotrans Group had available but unused borrowing facilities for € 13.5 million. For the future it can be assumed that technotrans will be in a position to meet its requirements over Liquidity and above its internally generated financial resources in partnership with its principal banks, for instance On the basis of net income for the year of € 3.0 million (previous year: € 3.1 million), the cash flow if it needs to make major acquisitions. There are currently no plans to go to the capital market. from operating activities before working capital changes totalled € 7.6 million (previous year: € 8.8 technotrans does not use Off-Balance-Sheet financial instruments (such as sale and leaseback). million). In 2013, there were no restrictions on the availability of the loans provided. Based on the liquid and The changes in working capital had a negative cash flow effect of around € 3.4 million (previous borrowed funds currently available, technotrans AG’s financial and liquidity plans assume there will likeyear: positive effect of € 3.5 million). The reduction in liabilities had an especially high impact on liquidwise be adequate liquidity for business operations in 2014 to meet the anticipated payment obligations. ity over the course of the year. The assets such as receivables and inventories produced cash inflows The Board of Management and Supervisory Board will propose to the Shareholders’ Meeting in May totalling € 0.8 million. 2014 that a dividend of € 0.20 per share outstanding be distributed for the 2013 financial year. Our Overall, the net cash from operating activities therefore reached € 2.7 million (previous year: € 11.0 future goal is to distribute 50 percent of the consolidated net profit, provided no current investment remillion). There was a net need for financial resources of € 1.6 million (previous year: € 1.3 million) from quirements or major acquisitions stand in the way of using financial resources in this way. the payment of interest and income taxes. The positive operating cash flow was initially sufficient to cover investment spending (€ 2.3 million). Investment, Depreciation and Amortisation A total of € 3.3 million in additional financial resources was needed for the acquisition of the interest Investment came to € 2.3 million (previous year: € 1.4 million) in the 2013 financial year. In line with in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH and its sister companies, and € 0.8 million for a conditional purchase price the business performance, spending thus remained at a reasonable minimum level. Investment spending component (earn-out) for Termotek AG. The overall net cash employed for investing activities thus came was mainly for replacement purchases or IT equipment. Of the overall volume, € 1.9 million was attribto € 6.1 million in 2013. utable to the Technology segment and € 0.4 million to the Services segment. Because of the low level The net cash employed for financing activities had a positive balance in the 2013 financial year, of manufacturing penetration, the scaling-back of investment spending has no impact on the efficiency of amounting to € 1.6 million (previous year: € –7.2 million). New loans totalling € 6.6 million were raised production capacity. in connection with the interest acquired. In all, € 4.2 million was used for the repayment of borrowings The development expenditure reported in the Income Statement came to € 3.0 million; this amounts over the course of the year, and € 0.8 million was paid out to technotrans shareholders for the distrito 2.8 percent of revenue. Development costs of € 0.9 million were also recognised as an intangible asbution of a dividend. set in the financial year, representing a capitalisation ratio of 22.6 percent (previous year: 21.4 percent). The free cash flow remained negative at € –3.4 million, thus not repeating the exceptionally positive Development costs within intangible assets increased to € 1.6 million (previous year: € 0.9 million). In prior-year figure (previous year: € 13.2 million). the year under review, the amortisation of development expenditure recognised as an intangible asset Cash and cash equivalents at year-end came to € 16.7 million, only € 2.0 million down on the priorcame to € 0.1 million (previous year: € 0.1 million). year level (previous year: € 18.7 million). From a capital management perspective, the group’s liquidity remains highly satisfactory; in 2014, the group thus continues to be in a position to meet its payment obligations from business operations. 70 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 71 Cash Flow from Operating Activities in € millions At the balance sheet date, technotrans reported total financial liabilities of € 14.9 million (previous year: € 9.3 million), of which the amount of € 0.5 million is subject to an interest rate risk. No current bank overdrafts were in use at December 31, 2013. The non-current financial liabilities stem principally 11.0 from investments in fixed assets, as well as from acquisitions of interests; they are protected in part by land charges. Details of the structure of financial liabilities are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Section 12). technotrans has very sound financing, with € 16.7 million in cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date, a net cash position of € 0.9 million and borrowing facilities agreed but not used 7.4 amounting to € 13.5 million. The long-standing business ties with our banks have remained steady. 5.9 However, the current environment provides no guarantee that the banks will be willing or able to continue to perform the role of our financing partner to the extent to which we are accustomed. As a listed company, technotrans also has access to capital market instruments. 3.6 2.7 Balance Structure in € millions Cash 16.7 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Other current assets 2.0 Receivables 10.2 15.0 Current liabilities NET WORTH Balance Sheet Total and Equity Ratio Non-current Inventories 14.3 14.3 liabilities The balance sheet total for the technotrans Group at December 31, 2013 comes to € 73.0 million and has therefore increased by 12.8 percent since the prior-year reporting date (previous year: € 64.7 million), mainly as a result of the wider scope of consolidation. The equity ratio of 59.9 percent was Non-current assets 29.8 43.7 Equity slightly below the previous year’s level (previous year: 63.2 percent). The return on equity, representing net income as a proportion of equity, was 7.0 percent (previous year: 7.9 percent). The total return on ASSETS LIABILITIES investment for the past financial year was 4.0 percent (previous year: 4.8 percent). Total 73.0 73.0 Total Assets At the reporting date, the non-current assets were up 33.2 percent from € 22.4 million to € 29.8 million, first and foremost as a consequence of the takeover of KLH Kältetechnik GmbH and its Asian sister companies, along with the resulting goodwill (€ 2.7 million) and the capitalisation of an intanWorking Capital gible asset to be amortised (customer base, € 2.9 million). The changes in the balance sheet structure had only a minor impact on the development of By contrast, the current assets merely edged up from € 42.3 million to € 43.2 million. Taking acworking capital (current assets – current liabilities) for the group in 2013. Totalling € 28.3 million at count of the increased scope of consolidation and the revenue growth, the inventories of € 14.3 million year-end, working capital was at a comparable level to one year earlier (previous year: € 27.1 million) were only 6.2 percent up on the prior-year level, with the trade receivables of € 10.2 million up 17.7 and consequently revealed a much slower percentage increase than business expansion. Cash and percent. Cash and cash equivalents decreased from € 18.7 million to € 16.7 million (–10.6 percent). cash equivalents still account for the lion’s share of current assets. Equity and Liabilities Net Debt and Gearing Within equity and liabilities, equity again improved by 7.0 percent, rising from € 40.9 million to The group’s net liquidity, in other words interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents, € 43.7 million. The main factor at work here was the net income for the year. came down to € 0.9 million at the 2013 reporting date (previous year: € 8.5 million). Gearing, in other The liabilities at the balance sheet date totalled € 29.3 million (previous year: € 23.8 million). They words the ratio of net debt to equity, is consequently negative at –2.0 percent (previous year: –20.7 consist of non-current liabilities, which climbed sharply from € 8.6 million to € 14.3 million (+66.3 perpercent). cent) as a result of the acquisition, and current liabilities of € 15.0 million, which did not rise compared to the previous year (previous year: € 15.2 million). Provisions Material changes in the non-current category included borrowings, which rose from € 6.4 million Provisions fell slightly from € 5.8 million to € 5.4 million in 2013. to € 11.6 million in connection with the interest acquired (purchase price and increased scope of conThe long-term provisions of around € 0.9 million comprise both personnel-related obligations (insolidation). The € 0.9 million carrying amount for other financial liabilities at the balance sheet date cluding partial retirement and pensions) and those Board of Management remuneration components was lower than for 2012; it basically consists of the conditional purchase price components resulting that focus on sustainable corporate performance. The short-term provisions amounting to € 4.5 million from the interests acquired in KLH (€ 0.6 million from 2013) and gds-Sprachenwelt (€ 0.3 million from (previous year: € 4.9 million) consist of other obligations towards personnel (€ 2.4 million), payments 2012). The deferred tax liabilities of € 0.9 million stem from the capitalisation of a customer base to be made under warranty (€ 0.9 million) and other provisions (€ 1.2 million). following on from the acquisition of KLH Kältetechnik. In the current category, the balance sheet figures generally remained constant compared with the previous year, despite business expansion. The Off-Balance-Sheet Financial Instruments financial liabilities include € 0.9 million for the outstanding conditional purchase price component for No Off-Balance-Sheet financial instruments are used in the technotrans Group. Termotek AG. 72 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 73 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, FINANCIAL POSITION AND NET WORTH OF TECHNOTRANS AG NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND OTHER PARTICULARS At the reporting date of December 31, 2013, the balance sheet total of technotrans AG came to € 59.1 million (previous year: € 60.0 million). The equity ratio was 65.4 percent (previous year: 61.0 PURCHASING AND PROCUREMENT percent). Revenue of € 56.5 million was earned in the past financial year (previous year: € 60.5 million). The reported net income for the year is € 2.5 million (previous year: € 1.5 million). The group’s central procurement operations have grown in importance as a result of the acquisitions of Termotek (2011) and KLH (2013). In order to secure optimum terms from suppliers, volumes were pooled in order to unlock synergies gradually. In view of the duration of these contracts, not all OVERALL STATEMENT their effects will be immediate; their positive impact will continue to unfold over the coming quarters. The delay in the recovery coming has been compounded by the unexpectedly sharp downturn Design measures, such as the increased use of common parts or the development of platform stratein business with customers from the printing industry, causing the original targets for 2013 to be gies within the group, will likewise be closely supervised by the procurement specialists. This makes missed. We are more optimistic about the coming financial years. We fundamentally continue to have the roll-out of material group management on a group-wide scale increasingly important. faith in the technotrans growth story. As well as cost aspects, we constantly take account of other criteria in our relationships with suppliers. When working through the complex selection process for suppliers, we consider our task to include weighing up a wide range of aspects that together represent the most advantageous solution for our customers and the group as a whole. The result is often a partnership-based relationship characterised by openness and reliability, enabling supplier relations to grow steadily along the entire supply chain. In terms of the total cost of ownership, too, we see it as a positive that our long-standing business partners in our region are often demonstrably very competitive when compared with companies from supposedly low-wage countries, and that this form of local sourcing also helps to protect jobs in Germany. Short delivery distances moreover minimise the adverse impact on the environment. We strive to underpin this approach by pooling consignments as rationally as possible. We naturally also pursue a similar strategy at all production locations throughout the technotrans Group. Following the methods of the German Association of Materials Management, Purchasing and Logistics (BME), we monitor around 25 efficiency ratios for processes and costs, quality, structure and methods in order to gauge how efficient our procurement activities are. We believe there is still potential for further improvements here. technotrans’ relatively low manufacturing penetration makes it easier to adjust flexibly to a fluctuating production volume. As a result, no serious problems in this respect have been encountered yet, either when business has been falling or rising. In addition, we monitor the economic performance of our key suppliers very closely so that we are able to guarantee punctual, high-quality deliveries at all times thanks to effective supplier management. Whenever suppliers request price increases, we are generally also able to rebut unjustified demands through open dialogue with them. We instead counter disadvantageous developments in prices by agreeing long-term binding terms. We also seek out creative solutions by supporting suppliers’ purchasing activities, for example, so that we can then benefit from improved competitiveness in that way. PRODUCTION, TECHNOLOGY AND LOGISTICS The technotrans Group has manufacturing locations in Germany (Sassenberg, Baden-Baden and Bad Doberan), China (Taicang) and the USA (Mt Prospect). This global presence reflects the fundamental production structure of the international industrial customers which technotrans serves. At all manufacturing locations, production proper involves first and foremost the assembly of the components that we use to build equipment and systems. Our level of vertical integration is therefore quite low, and for that reason in particular we have generally been readily able to adjust capacity in line with changing volumes of demand. We prioritise high flexibility, coupled with placing the emphasis on efficient processes. We apply lean, fast processes as well as other aspects of the lean philosophy, because time-to-market is equally an important criterion for technotrans production. As in every financial year, further measures to improve all internal processes and procedures were again taken in 2013. This continuous improvement process to optimise products and throughput times has yielded further effectiveness and efficiency gains, reduced production times and increased productivity. In order to respond even faster to new-customer business with additional variants for new applications, we have also set up our own control cabinet assembly line. In view of the group’s expansion and the broader performance range of the equipment it now makes, refrigeration technology training was again a focal area of training and advancement measures in 2013. Employees from production and the worldwide service organisation, as well as apprentices, acquire an indepth knowledge of refrigeration systems engineering at our own refrigeration technology training centre. technotrans applies a modern, integrated quality management system that was successfully ac74 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 75 EMPLOYEES credited again in 2013. This was the first time that a cross-group audit was carried out, and it was brought to a successful conclusion with accreditation to DIN EN ISO 9001:2008. In this organisational Total and Changes form, processes that are uniform throughout the group were handled by technotrans AG, while individual The number of employees in the technotrans Group increased to 777 in the course of 2013 (662 on processes are dealt with at the level of the individual companies. These individual processes reflect December 31, 2012). The rise was driven primarily by the acquisition of KLH Kältetechnik and its sister the size of the company, on the one hand, and the range of products and services that it supplies, on companies. the other. With an eye to the future structure of the group, the management system has already been designed in a way that provides scope for it to be extended to other companies. Employees by Region In implementing the group management system, both the effectiveness of the processes was improved and the process at the individual group companies was assimilated to facilitate internal exchanges of personnel and projects. The demands from the activities in new sales markets, too, were supported constructively by quality 160 management in the past financial year. As a result, technotrans for example became a certified special142 ist company to DIN EN 15085-2 for welding in the field of manufacturing railway locomotives and rolling 166 162 150 617 stock. 520 459 461 487 Alongside preventive quality assurance, other priority task areas involve supplier qualification and measures to improve product and process quality. All equipment is tested using a proven process prior to its dispatch, to establish that it is free from faults. Systems and equipment types that have not yet reached production maturity are initially qualified using a professional process before they are put through extensive field tests by a team of engineers. Logistics at technotrans involves planning, managing and monitoring the flow of materials and goods both inside and outside the company. It ensures that the right quantity of the right goods, in the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 right state, is available at the right place and time for the right customer, and at the right cost. This cross-disciplinary function has the task of managing all flows of materials and goods in the sub-areas Germany Abroad of procurement, production and distribution logistics. Procurement logistics is responsible for stock management and transport within the company. Production logistics is responsible for order picking and providing materials for production orders, for technotrans was again able to respond flexibly to temporary fluctuations in the level of orders in permanent inventory and for supplying replenishment zones in the production areas. The main task of 2013 by means of time accounts, with time credits then earned or used as necessary. In addition, distribution logistics is to make goods available efficiently, while observing defined general parameters. we occasionally hire temporary workers and subsequently take them on permanently if a sustained Laws, national requirements, customer wishes and the internal organisational constraints all influence positive business trend emerges. how consignments are packed, shipped and processed. The status of “known consignor” was also In recent years, we have had recourse to short-time as a means of managing a temporary dip in achieved in 2013 as a result of an audit by the Federal Aviation Office (LBA). the volume of business, in order to keep important expertise within the company. Only if there is a The priority for optimisation processes in the 2013 financial year was the integration of the new permanent downturn in business are measures taken to bring the employee total in line with the new subsidiaries. Logistics within the technotrans Group were harmonised, for example. In the distribution volume of business. The current imbalance between revenue volume and the number of employees logistics area, the German locations of technotrans, Termotek and KLH were synchronised by uniform reflects the start-up investment in projects through which we aim to tap into additional sales markets, blanket agreements. This helped to improve the supply of materials to the German production locations, but which are not yet bringing in the volume of revenue being targeted. Taking account of the planned among other things. growth, we consequently only plan to adjust capacity in isolated cases. Apprentices technotrans traditionally treats training as a very important matter. On the one hand, it aims to continue recruiting juniors from within its own ranks. On the other hand, it is in the interests of both society and the company to respond in a timely manner to the challenges of demographic change. An ageing society and the shortages of skilled staff are already having an impact, and this development will become even more marked over the next few years. The number of apprentices rose sharply from 48 to 78 during the year; the integration of the new group companies was the main reason. The effect of two school years graduating simultaneously in 2013 was also noticeable at technotrans: instead of 12 apprentices, 21 young women and men embarked on their vocational training at Sassenberg, a record tally for the company. This meant that at the end of the year there were 51 apprentices on the company’s books at that location, more than 12 percent of the workforce. technotrans had already been actively involved in the “Doubly Strong” initiative of the North Westphalia Chamber of Commerce. The initiative specifically sought to create additional apprenticeships for high-school graduates as an attractive alternative to “studying in overcrowded lecture theatres”. The range of vocations for which technotrans now provides training is correspondingly diverse: Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, Industrial Engineer/Bachelor of Engineering, Mechatronics Engineer, Mechatronics Engineer for Refrigeration Technology, Industrial Manager, Office Administrator, IT Administrator, IT Specialist for Applications Development, Technical Product Designer, Technical Systems Planner, and Warehouse Specialist. In order to broaden the horizons of its apprentices during their training, technotrans encourages exchanges between the apprentices and their colleagues at neighbouring businesses. It also aims to promote specialist exchanges within the group. 76 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 77 Qualifications and Age Structure The employees’ profit share is in addition tied to the EBIT margin. Upward of an EBIT margin of technotrans is a technology company, a fact that is also reflected in the qualifications of its employ5 percent, a bonus is paid out to those who are not entitled to a management bonus. Performanceees. Not counting the apprentices, 41 percent of employees have undergone training leading to qualirelated pay components, e.g. for service technicians, were also introduced. fications, 21 percent have an engineering qualification and 21 percent have an academic background. Throughout the group, managers receive (management) bonuses that are agreed individually in technotrans is furthermore a young company: around 48 percent of the workforce are under 40 years of their contracts and depend half on the attainment of company targets, and half on their personal perage, and only 4 percent are over 60. The average age is just under 40; this figure is therefore virtually formance. They receive part of annual pay increases in the form of shares. There are no other incentive unchanged from the previous year. schemes involving share components. Qualification of the Employees CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS For technotrans as a technology company, shows and exhibitions are very important. In 2013, technotrans took part in four different shows worldwide, all focusing on the print sector: Hunkeler 21% Academic degree Engineering qualification 21% Innovationdays, China Print, Graphitec and IfraExpo. Appearing at such shows is first and foremost about supporting our major customers, because technotrans benefits indirectly from the orders they place. They are also important wherever end customers have scope for deciding for or against equipTrainees 10% ping their systems with technotrans technology. Once they do opt for our equipment for their printing presses, this in turn sends out a message to printing press manufacturers that they are giving the market what it wants in fitting technotrans equipment. 41% Skilled workers Other 7% technotrans took part in six shows addressing markets outside the printing industry. These included major exhibitions such as the EMO trade fair for metalworking in Hanover, and the Stuttgart BlechExpo, but also took part in smaller, more specialised events such as KSS Augsburg, the 5th Stamping Technology Congress and – for the first time – Northern Manufacturing and Southern Manufacturing in the UK. The solutions in the spotlight included ones with which the individual cooling tasks for machine tools can be combined in a compact, cost-effective way, or the extended family of spray.xact solutions To make it easier for employees to strike a balance between working and family life, the flexible and its spray lubrication variants – offering a flexible, easy way to equip both new and existing stamping child care options have been significantly broadened in partnership with a municipal kindergarten. The and forming presses. arrangements are aimed especially at women who would like to keep pursuing their career objectives Termotek AG participated in two shows in 2013: Photonics West in San Francisco (USA), an annual while bringing up a family. laser industry exhibition, and Laser in Munich, a trade show that takes place only once every two years, gave us the opportunity to meet our existing customers and make contact with new ones. Personnel Expenses Personnel expenses totalled € 37.0 million in 2013 (previous year: € 32.7 million). The increase SHARES is attributable, on the one hand, to the build-up in worldwide personnel resources following the latest acquisitions, and, on the other hand, to the pay increase averaging 3.0 percent that took effect in GerThe 2013 financial year brought two contrasting halves for technotrans’ shares, too. The posimany during the financial year. tive share price performance in the first half began with a climb from € 6.93 to around € 10 mid-way The personnel costs ratio for the group (personnel expenses as a proportion of revenue) was 35.2 through the year. This development was underpinned by the wider economic environment, which envispercent (previous year: 36.0 percent). The aim is to bring this ratio down to around 30 percent in the aged a recovery scenario for the second half. The prospects for the many new product areas in which future. technotrans had identified future growth potential also gave added momentum. Revenue per capita remained virtually stable in 2013 despite the higher revenue, reaching € 138 By contrast, the economic environment did not improve appreciably in the second half of the year. thousand (previous year: € 140 thousand). This key performance indicator therefore still falls short of With the publication of the First-Half Report, it moreover became clear that it would take quite some former levels and from an operational perspective is not satisfactory. However, from a strategic vieweffort to achieve the goals for the full year, which now looked fairly ambitious. The subsequent anpoint it is important for technotrans to hold onto qualified expertise carriers in order to develop new nouncement of further economy measures and job cuts by a number of major customers drove home markets and as a basis for future growth. the fact that technotrans is still operating in an extremely difficult environment and that turning to other markets to compensate for a downturn in its main sales market is no easy matter. Projects in 2013 The profit warning in October then prompted the trading price to slip to around € 7.50. technotrans In its capacity of “shared service centre” for the group, the parent company’s personnel departshares remained more or less at that level and closed the year on € 7.71, up only 11.3 percent on the ment conducted a number of projects in the past financial year. For example, an “electronic personnel end of the previous year. file” was introduced as the basis for centralising administrative tasks while preserving the operational autonomy of the divisions. This increases efficiency and reduces costs. Further locations are scheduled for integration into the group in 2014. In addition, accounting for the German subsidiaries has been centralised in Sassenberg and the remuneration system harmonised across the board. Remuneration Model The remuneration of employees at technotrans AG is a reflection of their individual positions within the company. They are each allocated to grades, which in turn comprise a number of remuneration bands. Annual decisions on percentage pay increases are negotiated between the Board of Management and the Works Council. With wages and salaries having risen on average by 3.0 percent in the 2013 financial year, making a combined pay increase over the past three years of up to 11.5 percent, a pay freeze was agreed for the 2014 financial year. 78 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 79 Share Price January 1, 2010 to February 28, 2014 EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS, OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS REPORT 250 % 225 % Future Parameters The future development of the technotrans Group is influenced by various general parameters such as global economic development, the development of the capital goods industry in general and 200 % the development specifically of the printing press industry, the machine tool industry and the laser industry, as well as of other sectors. This growing diversification reduces its dependence on the busi175 % ness cycles of the printing industry, while creating the chance to share in the opportunities offered by various growth markets. 150 % Global Economy The outlook for the global economy brightened at the turn of 2013/2014 according to the IfW. The factors that have been proving a serious drag on economic activity in the past two years have declined 125 % in significance, with the result that the IfW experts anticipate a faster growth rate for gross domestic product over the next two years. In the advanced economies, the rise in production should reach 1.9 100 % percent in the coming year, whereas it was no better than an estimated 1.1 percent in the year that has just ended. The signs for the German economy likewise point towards expansion. The experts suggest that a quickening investment cycle will provide a noticeable boost to economic activity in the next two 75 % years. As well as the customary replacement demand, rising capacity utilisation will also increasingly prompt investment for business expansion. This will be fuelled by the extremely favourable financing 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 options available for investors. According to Ifo, exports should likewise continue to rise. This would be good news for German technotrans TecDAX mechanical and plant engineering companies. The VDMA, too, believes that the business situation has the potential to develop much more healthily in 2014, if the right political framework is put in place and The shares were covered by four analysts (Bankhaus Lampe, HSBC Trinkaus and Burkhardt, M.M. the wide-ranging structural problems in emerging economies do not severely hamper growth. Alongside Warburg, and Montega). We expect to see a further increase in interest along with our entry into attracmoderate growth in China, there should once again be growth potential in Europe and the USA in partive new markets outside the printing industry and the gradual shift of our peer group. ticular. The shares of technotrans AG have been traded on the stock market since March 1998. As a company listed in the Prime Standard segment, we must meet the highest-possible standards of transparRelevant Market ency. These include quarterly financial reporting in German and English, the publication of a corporate For 2014 as a whole, the VDMA (German Engineering Federation) expects a further upturn in calendar, holding at least one analysts conference per year and the publication of ad hoc information, business with production rising by 3 percent. As the driving force behind its more optimistic overall including in English. The shares of technotrans AG were converted from bearer to registered shares in assessment, it assumes that the global economy generally will recover further in 2014. October 2008. Since the changeover, we have been able to communicate directly with our company’s Industry experts anticipate that the offset printing industry will see the web offset market retreat shareholders. Having knowledge of the shareholder structure gives us the additional advantage of further, while sheet-fed offset printing will maintain a constant business volume. being able to target our investor relations work even better. By contrast, manufacturers in the machine tool and laser market are approaching 2014 with Transparency and credibility are the cornerstones of our communications with the capital market. confidence. Almost all laser and machine tool manufacturers are aiming for further growth in 2014, We inform shareholders, analysts, the media and the general public regularly and promptly in press because they are well positioned in crucial markets such as China and the USA. releases and ad hoc information about our business performance and the situation of the company. All publications are also available on the Internet. Regardless of whether someone is a shareholder or Risk: The actual economic development of the global economy and the German economy, but espeis merely interested in the company, and whether they have a large or small shareholding, in addition cially of the export-oriented capital goods industry, could differ considerably from these forecasts. At the to providing written reports we explain individual aspects and answer questions in telephone confetime of compiling this report, we rate this risk as moderate and we would, moreover, be able to adjust the rences or face-to-face talks. The result of an information policy that is candid and open to scrutiny is company to changing circumstances at any time at short notice. a relationship of trust with all capital market operators, based on mutual respect, and we attach very As a systems supplier, technotrans still realises a comparatively high proportion of its revenue from high importance to it. the leading printing press manufacturers worldwide, which are undergoing a continuing process of restructuring and capacity-shedding. Economic difficulties for one of these customers or its exit from the market would potentially have a considerable impact on the financial position and financial performance of the company in the short term. We consider the risk of a major debt default to be moderate, among other things based on the latest information from customers and despite the further fall in volumes. REPORT ON POST-BALANCE SHEET DATE EVENTS Wherever possible, we have insured against default losses on receivables and have thus further limited the risk. No events of particular significance affecting the financial performance, financial position or net Future Development of the Group worth of the company occurred after the end of the 2013 financial year. technotrans has good prospects of making the new financial year a success through its own efforts. If business progresses according to plan, the technotrans Group will achieve a further slight increase in revenue in 2014. By continuing to implement our growth strategy systematically, we will make sure that technotrans will develop much more independently of the wider economic environment in future. In the Technology segment, we expect the share of revenue from customers in the printing industry 80 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 81 to remain more or less stable in 2014. In a conservative scenario, we expect that demand for offset Investment and Finance presses worldwide in the 2014 financial year will remain roughly on a par with 2013. Growth in emertechnotrans had cash and cash equivalents amounting to € 16.7 million at the December 31, ging markets and in the area of packaging printing is likely to be cancelled out by the continuing fall 2013 reporting date. This is ample to be able to finance ongoing business in all group companies. in demand from established markets and the newspaper sector. On the other hand, we expect robust technotrans also has unutilised borrowing facilities which, together with the surplus financial resources, demand for digital and flexographic printing presses. We have successfully stepped up our activities provide considerable flexibility for following up strategic options where appropriate. Investment spending in these growth areas in recent years. We have built a rise in revenue into our plans for the 2014 on property, plant and equipment is still limited to maintenance investment. The intention is to keep financial year. financing this from cash flow. As well as our most recent acquisitions – KLH and Termotek – technotrans’ own development It is the declared intention of the Board of Management to continue seizing suitable opportunities to projects for the new markets will produce a substantial revenue contribution for the first time. These accelerate the company’s growth through further acquisitions. Depending on the size of the acquisition include, for instance, the application areas of spray lubrication in forming technology, and refrigeration targets, the use of both external funding and equity instruments would be considered. Our banks have and filtration systems in the machine tool market. This kind of project often involves a lead time of expressed an interest in supporting us if required; on the other hand, in the absence of other additional three to four years before tangible revenue can be realised. We will therefore continue to work on filling takeover targets at the time of compiling this report there are as yet no firm pledges. the pipeline and attracting new customers in 2014, so that we likewise achieve our growth targets in the next few years. Risk: A marked deterioration in the financial performance, financial position and net worth compared As before, the Board of Management views acquisitions as an appropriate means of forcefully with the plans for the 2014 financial year could result in our banks dictating corresponding credit clauses bolstering the company’s future growth. It is continually scouting for and analysing suitable options. for certain financial ratios (covenants) when providing future financing. Based on our plans for 2014, we For technotrans as a strategic investor, suitable targets must both fit in with its market and growth-led rate this risk as low. expansion strategy, and offer the prospect of unlocking appropriate synergy potential. In addition, technologies that would specifically broaden its core skills are fundamentally of great interest. The prospects for the distribution of a dividend for the 2014 financial year are good, provided the The Services segment brings in a relatively high proportion of overall revenue and thus plays an revenue and earnings targets are achieved. technotrans AG has a sound balance sheet structure. As important part in keeping our business stable. We expect that area, too, to deliver a further slight rise matters stand, we would make a distribution of dividend dependent on plans for any major investment in revenue in 2014, and we anticipate being able to tap fresh potential through the mere fact that the projects that would have a priority claim on financial resources, e.g. a major acquisition, at the time new group companies are now using our worldwide service network. that decision needs to be reached. Given these conditions, we stand by our dividend declaration that Overall, our plans envisage the technotrans Group achieving revenue of € 110 million in the 2014 we again intend to distribute half of our consolidated net profit in the future. financial year (+/– 5 percent). Having already envisaged that level for the past financial year, and given the underlying situation, we consider this goal to be realistic; in our assessment, it takes appropriate Miscellaneous risks: There are fundamentally procurement and purchasing risks, e.g. in respect of account of the opportunities and risks of the new financial year. price stability, availability and quality. This risk is limited by careful management of business processes. There is furthermore the risk that customer expectations with regard to punctuality of delivery or quality Risk: If the expected economic or industry-specific developments or the targets for newly acquired will not be met. A large number of processes and mechanisms, such as the quality management system, businesses or expectations of newly developed products should prove to be inaccurate, the revenue and are intended to anticipate and eliminate such shortcomings. We classify a possible shortage of know-how therefore also the earnings target could be missed. We assess this risk as moderate. carriers, for example due to shortages of suitable recruits on the labour market, as personnel risks. A large number of key processes in the company are handled with IT support. This creates typical IT risks, The anticipated revenue growth and the continuing optimisation processes should help improve which are countered by means of appropriate processes and precautionary measures. We rate these risks the financial performance in the 2014 financial year and bring technotrans an EBIT margin of between overall as low. 4 and 6 percent. To handle successfully the many customer projects currently in the start-up phase, we continue Future Sales Markets to invest in resources and are also stepping up our sales activities in the new markets. The revenue The recent business results with customers in the printing industry have confirmed our resolve to press volume and the time required to get the new projects off the ground will in turn materially influence the ahead with exploring applications for our core skills in other markets. We will therefore continue to invest in earnings position. However, we are convinced that we will soon begin to reap rich rewards from this inbuilding up the necessary expertise and capacity, even if those activities are not yet bringing in the corresvestment in the future growth of the company, and are therefore prepared to bear these costs up front. ponding levels of revenue, in an effort to progress along technotrans’ growth pathway. In order to gain access to further sales markets, we are focusing on our core skills and specifically Risk: Attainment of the margin targets depends to a very great degree on the planned revenue peraddressing niche markets where we can succeed as a system partner to major industrial clients. As part of formance and on keeping costs strictly under control. Unplanned expenses, e.g. for restructuring meathe process of opening up those markets, we exhibit for example at shows for the relevant target industries. sures unexpectedly needed, or unforeseeable additional quality problems, could also cause shortfalls. We plan to take part in the following shows in 2014: Southern Manufacturing in the UK, World Tobacco MiddThere is no evidence of either at the time of writing this report and we rate the risk as low. In drawing up le East, and the AMB, Euroblech and Battery Conference in Germany. our plans for the 2014 financial year, we have based our estimates on realistic planning assumptions and can if necessary take swift corrective action to exclude these risks as far as possible, or minimise Risk: The more unknowns (market, customer, technology) there are, the greater the possibility that their impact. efforts to launch new products will not be a success. We tackle this risk by conducting a careful analysis of the underlying conditions before developing new products, and by carrying out a meticulous selection On the financial side, based on the planned business performance we expect our borrowings to come process of prototypes; we therefore rate it as low. down yet further as a result of scheduled repayments (around € 3.3 million). However, the terms agreed remain very favourable, so the overall impact on interest expenses for the 2014 financial year will continue We are also continually examining suitable opportunities for acquisitions in order to accelerate the to decline. The effective tax rate for the group is expected to be in the region of 30 percent. pace of growth. In view of the strategic importance of these markets of the future, we are investing conThe planned profitability should have a positive impact on cash flow, with the result that technotrans siderable resources in developing them. will still be able to finance operating business and its envisaged investment spending from cash flow in 2014. After interest and capital repayments, the current view is that the free cash flow should be positive Risk: There are a number of risks involved in taking over companies that could impact our financial once more. performance, financial position and net worth. We limit these risks by generally first agreeing a partnership so that we can assess our expectations in practice over a certain period. We also shore up the acquisition’s success by then securing the close involvement of the existing management and offering 82 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 83 them the motivation of incentive payments as part of the agreed purchase price. We therefore rate this · Any risks to the company as a going concern must be communicated to the Board of Management risk in general as low. without delay. · Necessary risks are consciously accepted to a certain extent in return for economic success. Risks We place the spotlight of our Research and Development activities on innovations and optimising our to income must carry the prospect of an appropriate opportunity of a return. technologies, both for the printing industry and for other sales markets. The projects are both instigated · Risks are to be avoided as far as possible or, insofar as economically advisable, insured against, by the business units and are initiatives of the development department. In addition, our development continually monitored and brought to the attention of the Board of Management, as well as the engineers are in close contact with our customers in an effort to identify immediate needs directly in their Supervisory Board if necessary, in the context of regular risk reporting. In the event of residual risks, everyday production operations, and then to act upon those requirements. countermeasures must be taken. All in all, we do not expect any significant increase in Research and Development spending in 2014. No major purchase price increases are expected for 2014. On the contrary, the enlarged group of Risk management is designed to promote the awareness of opportunities and risks among techconsolidated companies means we can, if anything, expect more favourable terms for some groups of notrans employees, and to guard against potential risks. The necessary procedures and rules of commumaterials. nication within individual corporate divisions have been defined and established by the Board of Management. The superior in charge of each area of operations is responsible for compliance with the standards Future Projects to Increase Efficiency and Optimise Processes and directives on how to handle risks, and control is exercised through audits by Group Accounting and The year 2014 will see us adhere to the optimisation processes that we have been practising as Controlling as well as by the Board of Management. The risk management system, including the ICS, a regular feature of our company in recent years. Over and above that, we will continue to review our is moreover regularly updated and thus constitutes the basis for the systematic identification, analysis, structures and modify them wherever advisable. No measures comparable in scale to those taken evaluation, management, documentation and communication of the various risk types and profiles. The during the crisis are currently planned, but can be implemented if necessary. same applies to our compliance programme. We do not tolerate any contravention of applicable law and to that end regularly examine the internal set of rules as well as our own compliance organisation, and Risk: Changes to structures or processes harbour the risk of losing employees and their expertise seek to improve them. if they are unable to identify with the measures taken and are therefore prompted to move. We counter this risk by involving employees at an early stage, by providing them with comprehensive information, ORGANISATION OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM briefings and training, and by shifting skills from individuals to entire teams. Overall, we therefore rate this risk as low. Organisationally, risk management is integrated into the tasks of group Accounting and Controlling and ensures that reports are submitted on a regular basis to the Board of Management and the SuperOverall Statement visory Board, or Audit Committee. This organisational structure also makes it possible to identify tendenAt the start of 2014, the indications are that there will be a moderate economic development. cies and risks early on with the aid of key performance indicators, and thus ensures that the group Board technotrans has good prospects of making the new financial year a success through its own efforts. of Management can immediately implement suitable measures if there is a negative shift. The technotrans Group will achieve a further slight increase in revenue in 2014. The objective of the ICS in respect of the financial reporting process is to guarantee with reasonOur goal is for the technotrans Group to achieve revenue of € 110 million in the 2014 financial year able assurance, through the implementation of controls, that the (Consolidated) Financial Statements (+/– 5 percent). Having already envisaged that level for the past financial year, given the underlying conform to the regulations, notwithstanding the risks identified. The non-central organisation of the ICS situation we consider this goal to be realistic; an improvement in the business climate would prompt for financial reporting features a uniform, centrally defined reporting structure which, based on the local us to review our targets. statutory requirements, is in harmony with the group principles. The subsidiaries report periodically to By continuing to implement our growth strategy systematically, we will make sure that technotrans IFRS standards, for group reporting purposes. Newly established or acquired companies are integrated will develop much more independently of the wider economic environment in future. into this reporting process as swiftly as possible. There are no uniform ERP and bookkeeping systems We are planning to achieve an EBIT margin of between 4 and 6 percent for the group on the basis throughout the entire group, and uniform reporting structures are used to integrate figures into group of the anticipated revenue volume, assuming business progresses as expected. We expect to see a Accounting and Controlling. To guarantee uniform reporting, there exist corporate guidelines such as further improvement in the group companies’ profitability. Synergy potential identified in the course of financial reporting and consolidation manuals, compliance with which is examined in regular compliance KLH’s integration will continue to have a positive impact on the profit performance. audits. At intermittent intervals, internal checks on the subsidiaries’ financial reporting are performed in The overall risk situation has not changed significantly compared with the previous year, and resitu, examinations and plausibility checks are carried out on a test basis, and at the end of the financial mains moderate and manageable. The Board of Management is not aware of any potential economic year the local financial statements are audited before they are released for the Consolidated Financial or legal threat to it as a going concern. Statements. All measures taken and the ongoing refinement and adjustment of the ICS help to assure the reliability of financial reporting. On the other hand, even suitable, functioning systems cannot provide any absolute guarantee that risks will be identified and controlled. Group-wide, technotrans has a standardised organisation for risk management. Risks within techRISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM notrans AG and its subsidiaries are recorded promptly and non-centrally within the regular risk reports (quarterly). These include changes to risks already identified, as well as new developments that could As a company with activities worldwide, the technotrans Group is, within the context of its business lead to the creation of additional risks. The risks are analysed, evaluated based on their probability and processes, exposed to a wide range of risks that are part and parcel of any entrepreneurial activity. In the potential loss involved, and matched up with appropriate measures. Residual risks are evaluated order to seize specific opportunities, it is necessary to take assessable and manageable risks in a delibagain and further measures are earmarked for them. For example, to avoid defaults every customer is erate and controlled manner. Within a systematic and efficient risk management system, principles of issued with a general or individual credit limit (which possibly takes into account the amount of trade risk policy are drawn up and current developments regularly logged, analysed, evaluated and – if necessacredit insurance cover) and their payment history is monitored. Receivables are regularly analysed to asry – appropriate countermeasures are taken. The risk management system helps to safeguard the group sess what measures are needed in order to close overdue items, and these are then discussed with the permanently as a going concern by identifying as early as possible all risks that could materially impair customer. In the case of customers for standard business, the next stage is to announce the suspension the net worth, financial position and financial performance of the group. The internal control system (ICS), of supplies and then to enforce that suspension until the customer is back below the credit limit. In parwhich constitutes an integral part of the risk management system, is described in summary form below. allel, external sources are used to assess customers’ creditworthiness on a regular basis and to adjust The group-wide risk management system observes the following risk principles, among others: the credit limits if necessary. This is also practised after supplies have repeatedly been suspended. · The overriding risk principle at technotrans is to protect the company as a going concern. No action or decision may endanger the company as a going concern. 84 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 85 RISK CATEGORISATION over authorised to dispose of the acquired treasury shares in a manner other than via the stock market Taking account of the potential impact of a loss and the probability of risks materialising, individual or by offering them to all shareholders if transfer to a third party takes the form of counter-performance risk potentials are calculated for quantifiable risks. These are then placed in relation to the planned net in the context of the acquisition of companies or of participating interests. The price at which the acquiprofit for the period (plan EBIT) to obtain the assessment basis for the risk category (risk categories low, red treasury shares are surrendered to a third party shall not significantly undercut the average Xetra medium and high). closing price on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the last five trading days before the concluding of the agreement on the acquisition of the company or participating interest. The acquired treasury shares technotrans uses this as the basis for classifying its risks for 2014 may also be used in fulfilment of obligations in respect of conversion options granted as a result of · as low if the risk potential is assessed at a value of less than 10 percent of the plan result, the issuing of convertible bonds. The subscription right of the shareholders is excluded for the use of · as medium if the risk potential is assessed at a value of between 10 and 20 percent of the plan treasury shares in the last three cases. result, and By December 31, 2013, a total of 690,000 treasury shares had been acquired via the stock · as high or as a threat to the company as a going concern if the risk potential is assessed at a value market on the basis of the authorisation. At the end of 2008, 54,132 shares from this total, at the of more than 20 percent of the plan result. end of 2009 39,618 shares, at the end of 2010 28,620 shares, at the end of 2011 43,740 shares, at the end of 2012 22,629 shares, and at the end of 2013 a further 33,918 shares were voluntarily distributed to the employees as part of their Christmas bonus, along with 4,152 shares by way of a DISCLOSURES AND EXPLANATORY NOTES RELATING remuneration component. Furthermore, 49,000 treasury shares were issued in the 2011 financial year TO TAKEOVER as part of the purchase price of Termotek AG. The Board of Management is in addition authorised, in accordance with the shareholders’ resolution of May 8, 2009 and with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to issue bonds with a term of a The following disclosures satisfy the requirements pursuant to Section 315 (4) of German Civil Code maximum of 5 years on one or more occasions up until May 7, 2014, of an aggregate nominal amount (BGB) and Section 120 (3) second sentence of German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). of up to € 10 million and to grant the bearers of bonds conversion options on up to 690,000 treasury 1. The issued capital at December 31, 2013 comprises 6,907,665 fully paid no par value shares each shares. representing a nominal amount of € 1 of the share capital. The shares of technotrans AG are registered 7. There are no material agreements of the parent company that are conditional on a change of control shares. Exclusively ordinary shares have been issued; the rights and obligations arising from them confollowing a takeover bid. form to the relevant statutory regulations. They are subject to restrictions on voting rights and transfer 8. No compensation has been agreed with the members of the Board of Management or employees in only in those cases laid down by law, and not pursuant to the articles of incorporation. The Board of the event of a takeover bid. Management has not been notified of any voting trust agreements between shareholders. 2. No direct or indirect interests in the capital amounting to more than 10 percent of the voting rights are CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DECLARATION known. 3. All shares carry identical rights. No shares are equipped with special rights, in particular none imparting The current version of the Corporate Governance Declaration pursuant to Section 289a of German authority to control. Commercial Code (HGB) can be found on the Internet at: http://www.technotrans.de/de/investor-rela4. Employees participating in the capital exercise their voting rights directly. tions/corporate-governance/erklaerung-zur-unternehmensfuehrung.html 5. The statutory requirements pursuant to Sections 84, 85 of AktG on the appointment and dismissal of the members of the Board of Management are applied. The articles of incorporation of the company DISCLAIMER contain no regulations over and above Section 84 of AktG. Pursuant to Section 179 of AktG, amendments to the articles of incorporation require a resolution of the Shareholders’ Meeting carried by a The Group Management Report contains future-related statements. Considerable variation between voting majority of 75 percent. anticipated developments and actual outcomes is possible due to any aforementioned or other element 6. The Board of Management is, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, authorised to increase the of uncertainty, or if the assumptions on the basis of which the forecasts are made prove to be incorrect. share capital on one or more occasions by up to a total of € 3,450,000.00 until April 30, 2015, through the issue of new shares against contributions in cash or in kind. No use was made of this authorisation in 2013. The subscription right of shareholders may be excluded insofar as the requirements of Section 186 (3) fourth sentence of AktG are met in the case of employee shares or the acquisition of companies or of participating interests in companies, if the acquisition or participating interest is in the properly understood interests of the company; the subscription right may moreover be excluded for the purpose of compensating for fractional amounts. The Board of Management is furthermore authorised until April 30, 2015, to acquire treasury shares of a nominal amount of up to € 690,000.00. If acquired by stock exchange dealings, the purchase price per share shall not exceed or undercut by more than 10 percent the average Xetra closing price (or, insofar as the Xetra closing price serves as the basis for this authorisation, the closing price determined by a successor system taking the place of the Xetra system) on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the five trading days preceding the acquisition. If acquired on the basis of a public offer to buy, the acquisition price per share shall not exceed or undercut by more than 10 percent the average Xetra closing price on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the five last trading days before initial disclosure of the offer. The Board of Management is authorised to retire all or some of the treasury shares acquired on the basis of the authorisation, without the need for a further shareholders’ resolution. The Board of Management is furthermore authorised to dispose of the acquired shares via the stock market or to third parties, by cash sale. In these cases the selling price shall not undercut the average Xetra closing price on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the five trading days prior to sale by more than 5 percent. The Board of Management is, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, moreTABLE OF CONTENTS Europe FINANCIAL STATEMENT 87 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 88 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 90 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE 91 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 92 STATEMENT OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY 94 NOTES CORPORATE BODIES 96 140 FURTHER America INFORMATION 142 142 PROPOSAL OF THE APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT 143 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT BY THE MANAGEMENT 144 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 146 THE SUCCESS STORY 148 CORPORATE CALENDAR Asia 88 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 89 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ASSETS Note 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Note 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Non-current assets Equity 11 Property, plant and equipment 1 15,990 14,208 15,782 Issued capital 6,908 6,908 6,908 Investment property 2 0 0 4,016 Capital reserve 12,928 12,928 12,928 Goodwill 3 5,828 3,134 2,549 Retained earnings 32,275 30,231 27,394 Intangible assets 4 5,050 1,681 1,862 Other reserves – 12,327 – 12,296 – 12,958 Income tax receivable 8 171 224 276 Net profit for the period 3,016 3,094 3,019 Financial assets 5 49 119 384 Total equity attributable to technotrans AG shareholders 42,800 40,865 37,291 Deferred tax 27 2,721 3,021 3,716 Non-controlling interests in equity 943 0 0 29,809 22,387 28,585 43,743 40,865 37,291 Current assets Non-current liabilities Inventories 6 14,330 13,490 14,030 Borrowings 12 11,620 6,395 6,819 Trade receivables 7 10,178 8,651 9,985 Provisions 16 923 925 1,127 Income tax receivable 8 648 356 394 Other financial liabilities 13 888 1,271 1,857 Financial assets 9 684 613 332 Deferred tax 27 889 18 18 Other assets 9 647 493 1,091 14,320 8,609 9,821 Cash and cash equivalents 10 16,723 18,715 12,798 Current liabilities 43,210 42,318 38,630 Borrowings 12 3,293 2,933 9,742 Total assets 73,019 64,705 67,215 Trade payables 14 2,644 2,142 3,123 Prepayments received 15 1,290 2,321 1,019 Provisions 16 4,483 4,874 4,404 Income tax payable 17 564 201 181 Financial liabilities 18 1,212 1,064 641 Other liabilities 18 1,470 1,696 993 14,956 15,231 20,103 Total equity and liabilities 73,019 64,705 67,215 90 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 91 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE Note 2013 2012 2011 Note 2013 2012 2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Revenue 19 105,207 90,662 97,265 Net profit for the period 11 2,952 3,094 3,019 of which Technology 65,988 53,733 61,673 Other result of which Services 39,219 36,929 35,592 Cost of sales 20 – 72,083 – 59,010 – 66,486 Items that were or must be reclassified to Income Statement Gross profit 33,124 31,652 30,779 Exchange differences from the translation of foreign group companies – 115 729 178 Distribution costs 21 – 15,025 – 13,459 – 14,419 Exchange rate differences from net investments in a foreign operation – 511 – 382 109 Administrative expenses 22 – 12,221 – 10,813 – 11,469 Deferred tax –8 90 – 43 Development costs 23 – 2,985 – 2,241 – 2,046 Change in the amount recognised within equity – 519 – 292 66 (net investments in a foreign operation) Other operating income 24 2,860 2,101 4,240 Other operating expenses 25 – 1,127 – 1,883 – 2,298 Change in the market values of cash flow hedges 87 – 153 – 38 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 4,626 5,357 4,787 Amount transferred to the Income Statement –9 10 0 Deferred tax – 23 43 11 Financial income 30 39 37 Change in the amount recognised within equity (cash flow hedges) 55 – 100 – 27 Financial charges – 918 – 720 – 925 Other profit after tax – 579 337 217 Net finance costs 26 – 888 – 681 – 888 Overall result for the financial year 2,373 3,431 3,236 Profit before tax 3,738 4,676 3,899 of which: Income tax expense 27 – 786 – 1,582 – 880 Profit attributable to technotrans AG shareholders 2,437 3,431 3,236 Net profit for the period 2,952 3,094 3,019 Profit/loss attributable to non-controlling interests – 64 0 0 of which: Profit attributable to technotrans AG shareholders 3,016 3,094 3,019 Profit/loss attributable to non-controlling interests – 64 0 0 Earnings per share (€) 28 basic 0.47 0.48 0.47 diluted 0.47 0.48 0.47 92 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 93 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT Note 2013 2012 2011 Note 2013 2012 2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Cash flow from operating activities 29 Cash flow from investing activities 30 Net profit for the period 2,952 3,094 3,019 Cash payments for investments in property, plant and equipment and in intangible assets – 2,342 – 1,427 – 1,405 Adjustments for: Cash payments for the acquisition of consolidated companies – 4,158 – 762 – 1,016 Depreciation and amortisation 3,189 2,962 3,193 Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 374 4,382 159 Share-based payment transactions 274 143 184 Net cash used for investing activities – 6,126 2,193 – 2,262 Income tax expense 786 1,582 880 Cash flow from financing activities 31 Gain (–)/loss (+) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 – 108 – 109 Cash receipts from the raising of short-term and long-term loans 6,600 3,300 0 Foreign exchange losses (+) / gains (–) – 457 465 25 Cash payments from the repayment of loans – 4,234 – 10,533 – 3,831 Financial income – 30 – 39 – 37 Distributions to investors – 776 0 0 Financial charges 918 720 925 Cash payments for the acquisition of non-controlling interests 0 0 – 316 Cash flow from operating activities 7,640 8,819 8,080 before working capital changes Net cash used in financing activities 1,590 – 7,233 – 4,147 Change in: Net increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents – 1,843 5,939 – 541 receivables and other current assets – 446 1,903 1,212 Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 18,715 12,798 13,125 inventories 1,226 540 2,356 Net effect of currency translation in cash and cash equivalents – 149 – 22 214 other non-current assets 70 959 267 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 10, 32 16,723 18,715 12,798 liabilities – 3,527 – 152 – 2,388 provisions – 713 215 – 1,843 Cash from operating activities 4,250 12,284 7,684 Interest income 20 27 22 Interest expense – 1,054 – 638 – 820 Income taxes paid/income tax rebates – 523 – 694 – 1,018 Net cash from operating activities 2,693 10,979 5,868 94 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 95 STATEMENT OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY (SEE NOTES, SECTION 11) Issued capital Capital reserve Retained Earnings Other reserves Total equity Non-controlling Group equity Exchange Reserve for exchange Hedging Treasury attributable to interests in differences rate differences reserve shares technotrans AG equity from the financing shareholders of investments € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 01/01/2011 6,908 12,928 28,557 – 5,177 – 1,155 –9 – 8,168 33,884 0 33,884 Overall result for the financial year Net profit for the period 0 0 3,019 0 0 0 0 3,019 0 3,019 Other result 0 0 0 178 66 – 27 0 217 0 217 Overall result for the financial year 0 0 3,019 178 66 – 27 0 3,236 0 3,236 Transactions with owners Acquisition of minority interests not leading 0 0 – 285 0 0 0 0 – 285 0 – 285 to a change in control Issuance of treasury shares 0 0 – 878 0 0 0 1,334 456 0 456 Transactions with owners 0 0 – 1,163 0 0 0 1,334 171 0 171 31/12/2011 / 01/01/2012 6,908 12,928 30,413 – 4,999 – 1,089 – 36 – 6,834 37,291 0 37,291 Overall result for the financial year Net profit for the period 0 0 3,094 0 0 0 0 3,094 0 3,094 Other result 0 0 0 729 – 292 – 100 0 337 0 337 Overall result for the financial year 0 0 3,094 729 – 292 – 100 0 3,431 0 3,431 Transactions with owners Issuance of treasury shares 0 0 – 182 0 0 0 325 143 0 143 Transactions with owners 0 0 – 182 0 0 0 325 143 0 143 31/12/2012 / 01/01/2013 6,908 12,928 33,325 – 4,270 – 1,381 – 136 – 6,509 40,865 0 40,865 Overall result for the financial year Net profit for the period 0 0 3,016 0 0 0 0 3,016 – 64 2,952 Other result 0 0 0 – 115 – 519 55 0 – 579 0 – 579 Overall result for the financial year 0 0 3,016 – 115 – 519 55 0 2,437 – 64 2,373 Transactions with owners Acquisition of subsidiaries with 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,007 1,007 non-controlling interests Distribution of profit 0 0 – 776 0 0 0 0 – 776 0 – 776 Issuance of treasury shares 0 0 – 274 0 0 0 548 274 0 274 Transactions with owners 0 0 – 1,050 0 0 0 548 – 502 1,007 505 31/12/2013 6,908 12,928 35,291 – 4,385 – 1,900 – 81 – 5,961 42,800 943 43,743 96 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 97 NOTES II. GROUP A) CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES SEGMENT REPORT Technology Services Consolidated/ Group BY DIVISION not allocated The Consolidated Financial Statements include technotrans AG and the 18 subsidiaries over which it can exercise direct or indirect control. Control is routinely deemed to exist where a majority of voting € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 rights is held. In addition, one special purpose entity is consolidated because – taking account of the External revenue 2013 65,988 39,219 0 105,207 economic content of its relationship with technotrans – a controlling influence can be exercised on the 2012 53,733 36,929 0 90,662 special purpose entity a defined by SIC-12.10. 2011 61,673 35,592 0 97,265 The balance sheet date for all companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements is December 31. Internal revenue 2013 7,156 7,608 – 14,764 0 2012 6,027 7,011 – 13,038 0 COMPANY Domicile Interest Equity* Revenue* Profit 2011 7,456 6,904 – 14,360 0 after tax* Inter-segment revenue 2013 0 1,216 – 1,216 0 in % € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 2012 0 1,049 – 1,049 0 parent 2011 0 957 – 957 0 technotrans AG D Sassenberg company 39,158 56,464 2,672 Termotek AG D Baden-Baden 100 2,486 10,255 755 Segment result 2013 – 1,841 6,467 0 4,626 gds AG D Sassenberg 100 2,781 4,374 89 2012 – 762 6,119 0 5,357 2011 – 897 5,684 0 4,787 gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH D Hünfeld 51 295 1,796 135 ISD GmbH CH Regensdorf 100** – 26 116 –4 Segment assets 2013 37,056 15,675 20,288 73,019 technotrans graphics ltd. GB Colchester 100 772 3,115 135 2012 28,901 13,311 22,493 64,705 2011 33,338 16,693 17,184 67,215 technotrans france s.a.r.l. (Saint-Maximin and Madrid) F Saint-Maximin 100 1,312 5,026 103 technotrans italia s.r.l. I Legnano 100 864 2,434 84 Investment 2013 1,909 433 0 2,342 technotrans scandinavia AB S Åkersberga 100 416 0 420 2012 1,214 213 0 1,427 2011 959 446 0 1,405 technotrans america inc. USA Mt Prospect 100 3,977 9,397 693 technotrans américa latina ltda. BR São Paulo 100 – 1,962 1,555 – 39 ­Depreciation and amortisation 2013 2,599 590 0 3,189 technotrans Asia Pacific limited (Hong Kong and Tokyo) CHN Hong Kong 100 – 1,520 1,503 2 2012 2,243 719 0 2,962 technotrans printing equipment, (Beijing) co. Ltd. CHN Beijing 100 – 263 1,577 49 2011 2,093 1,100 0 3,193 technotrans technologies pte. ltd. (Singapore and Melbourne) SGP Singapore 100 522 2,109 56 technotrans middle east FZ-LLC UAE Dubai 100 431 941 29 technotrans india pvt ltd IN Chennai 100 – 14 328 3 KLH Kältetechnik GmbH D Bad Doberan 65 332 13,359 25 KLH Cooling International Pte. Ltd. SGP Singapore 65 265 2,289 234 Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd. CHN Taicang 65 284 3,163 49 SHT Immobilienbesitz GmbH & Co. Vermietungs KG D Mainz 94*** –1 0 0 I. APPLICATION OF IFRS – BASIC NOTES * EQUITY, REVENUE AND PROFIT AFTER TAX HAVE BEEN TAKEN FROM THE IFRS PACKAGES OF EACH SUBSIDIARY (PRIOR TO CONSOLIDATION). ** INDIRECT INTEREST HELD VIA GDS-SPRACHENWELT GMBH. *** LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTEREST HELD BY KLH KÄLTETECHNIK GMBH; SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITY AS DEFINED BY SIC-12. technotrans AG is a publicly traded corporation domiciled in Sassenberg, Germany. These Consolidated Financial Statements of technotrans AG and its subsidiaries (the “group”) at December 31, 2013 were approved for presentation to the Supervisory Board by resolution of the Board of MaOn January 1, 2013 technotrans AG acquired 65.0 percent of the shares, and thus control, of KLH nagement of February 27, 2014. The task of the Supervisory Board is to examine the Consolidated Kältetechnik GmbH, Bad Doberan (Germany), as well as of its sister companies KLH Cooling InternatiFinancial Statements and declare whether it will sign off the Consolidated Financial Statements. onal Pte. Ltd (Singapore) and Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd., Taicang (PR China). The acquired The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of Section 315a of companies offer cooling solutions for laser technology. The reason for this acquisition is the expansion German Commercial Code (“Consolidated financial statements to international financial reporting of the company’s presence in the growth market of the laser industry and its increased activities outside standards”) in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the acthe printing industry. companying interpretations of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). All standards the At the same time technotrans AG acquired an indirect interest in SHT Immobilienbesitz GmbH & Co. application of which is mandatory, as adopted by the European Union, were applied. Vermietungs KG, Mainz (Germany), in which KLH Kältetechnik GmbH holds a limited partnership share of The Consolidated Financial Statements are based on standard recognition and measurement 94 percent. SHT Immobilienbesitz GmbH & Co. Vermietungs KG is the owner of the factory premises in principles. They are expressed in € thousand. Bad Doberan, which are let out to KLH Kältetechnik GmbH. Because this company is controlled by KLH Kältetechnik GmbH based on an economic assessment of the relationship, SHT Immobilienbesitz GmbH & Co. Vermietungs KG is consolidated as a special purpose entity as defined by SIC-12. By way of counter-performance for the entire acquisition, technotrans AG granted the sellers a fixed 98 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 99 payment of € 4,000 thousand. A conditional purchase price component dependent on the profit perforThe goodwill of € 2,694 thousand includes non-separable intangible assets such as anticipated symance over the years 2013 to 2017 was also agreed. If EBIT of at least € 600 thousand is achieved in nergy and earnings potential, which was not recognised separately. Purchase price allocation has been a given year, technotrans AG is obliged to pay the selling shareholders 15 percent of the amount over completed. The goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes. and above that figure by way of a retroactive purchase price. The conditional purchase price is capped at The shares in gds Schweiz GmbH, Regensdorf (Switzerland) were disposed of with effect from July € 600 thousand. This obligation was recognised as a liability of € 565 thousand at the time of acquisiti1, 2013. The company was deconsolidated in the financial year under review. In connection with its on. The amount recognised as a liability was determined on the basis of EBIT estimates for the acquired deconsolidations a profit of € 50 thousand was realised and is reported under other operating income. companies. The conditional purchase price payments based on this calculation were discounted with In addition, technotrans trading co. Ltd., Shanghai (PR China) was wound up with effect from Noeffect from the date of acquisition. The acquired companies contributed € 16,399 thousand towards vember 26, 2013 and likewise deconsolidated in the financial year. The deconsolidation gain was € 55 consolidated revenue. Their contribution to the net profit for the period was € –183 thousand. The comthousand and was recorded under other operating income. panies were included in consolidation from the date of their acquisition. The operating activities of technotrans scandinavia AB, Åkersberga (Sweden) were halted in the In connection with the business combination, incidental acquisition costs totalling € 119 thousand 2013 financial year. were incurred for legal fees and due diligence costs. These costs were reported under the administrative expenses. B) CONSOLIDATION METHODS The corporate acquisition had the following effects on the Consolidated Financial Statements of technotrans AG: The Consolidated Financial Statements are based on the group companies’ annual financial statements (Commercial Balance Sheet II based on IFRS) prepared in accordance with standard recognition Carrying amount Revaluation Fair value and measurement principles at December 31, 2013. before acquisition of assets Capital consolidation for the subsidiaries is performed according to the purchase method pursuant to and liabilities IFRS 3. The costs of acquisition of the business combination in each case correspond to the cash com€ ’000 € ’000 € ’000 ponents paid and the liabilities arising and acquired at the time of acquisition. These costs of acquisition are distributed between the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree by their Intangible assets 14 3,600 3,614 recognition at the respective fair values at the time of acquisition. The positive differences remaining after purchase price allocation are recognised as goodwill. The non-controlling interests were measured at Property, plant and equipment 3,159 – 231 2,928 acquisition cost (partial goodwill method). Changes in the group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not lead Deferred tax assets 177 0 177 to a loss of control are reported as equity transactions. Goodwill is recognised as an asset and subjected Inventories 2,106 0 2,106 to an impairment test annually. The costs associated with the business combination are recognised as Receivables and other assets 1,458 0 1,458 an expense when they arise. All intra-group receivables and liabilities, revenues, expenses and income as well as balances from Cash and cash equivalents 675 0 675 intra-group supplies are eliminated on consolidation. Where necessary, deferred taxes are stated for Total assets 7,589 3,369 10,958 consolidation processes affecting income. Provisions 320 0 320 Liabilities 6,680 0 6,680 C) RECOGNITION AND MEASUREMENT PRINCIPLES Deferred tax liabilities 0 1,080 1,080 With the exception of certain financial instruments that are reported at fair value, the Consolidated Total liabilities 7,000 1,080 8,080 Financial Statements are prepared based on historical cost. Identifiable assets and debts 589 2,289 2,878 Goodwill 2,694 Estimates and Judgments Made for Financial Reporting Purposes The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS requires the Non-controlling interests based on – 1,007 Board of Management to make estimates and assumptions which exercise influence on the amounts the share of assets and liabilities reported and the disclosures made on them in the Notes. Key exercises of judgment outside the conCost of acquisition 4,565 text of estimates concern the definition of the cash-generating units, the consolidation of the special of which paid 4,000 purpose entity and the measurement method for the non-controlling interests. of which conditional purchase price 565 All estimates and assumptions are made to the best of our knowledge, in the interests of providing a true and fair view of the net worth, financial position and financial performance of the group. Such Total 4,565 estimates and assumption-based policies involve uncertainty and may change in the course of time. Cash and cash equivalents acquired – 675 The actual results may deviate from these assessments. Responsibility for regularly monitoring all key Net cash outflow 3,325 fair value measurements, including the Level 3 fair values, rests with Group Controlling. Changes are reported to the Finance Director. Regular reviews of the key non-observable input factors and of fair value adjustments are carried out. The trade receivables comprise gross amounts due for contractual receivables totalling € 1,044 The assessments and underlying assumptions are examined on a regular basis. If a reassessment thousand, of which the € 171 thousand were estimated to be probably uncollectable at the time of results in a difference, that difference is reported in the accounting period in which the reassessment acquisition. was made if it relates to that period only. It is recorded in the accounting period in which the reassessThe fair value of the customer base of € 3,600 thousand was determined using the discounted cash ment was made, as well as in subsequent periods if it also influences the subsequent periods. flow method, on the basis of assumptions. The starting point for the cash flow forecasts for the custoAssessments made by the Board of Management that are subject to a significant degree of uncermer base was the revenue trends for the relevant customer group for the 2013 to 2017 financial years. tainty and bring with them the risk of significant adjustments in future financial years concern the For calculation purposes, an average growth trend of 5.4 percent and an average EBIT of 7.4 percent following matters in particular: were forecast. Discounting of the anticipated cash flows is based on weighted after-tax cost-of-capital rates of 5.5 percent and 9.5 percent, depending on country. The useful life is five years. The customer base is amortised by the straight-line method. 100 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 101 1) Accounting of Acquisitions Goodwill is reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet following acquisitions. Upon the initial USEFUL LIFE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT years consolidation of an acquisition, all identifiable assets, liabilities and potential liabilities are stated at their fair value at the date of acquisition. Assets such as land, buildings, and plant and equipment are Buildings 25 to 50 normally measured on the basis of independent appraisals, while the fair value of an intangible asset Land improvements, fixtures and fittings 10 to 15 is determined internally according to its nature and the complexity of its measurement, applying an Tools, plant and equipment 3 to 10 appropriate measurement technique. The assumptions made here are regularly subject to forecasting Hardware, vehicle fleet 3 to 5 uncertainty. KLH Kältetechnik GmbH, KLH Cooling International Pte. Ltd. and Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd. were acquired in the 2013 financial year. Fair values for all identifiable assets and liabilities were established and recognised as part of the initial consolidation process. The balance Where there is a basis for impairment, property, plant and equipment are examined for impairment remaining after purchase price allocation is reported as goodwill. There is in addition goodwill as a pursuant to IAS 36. Insofar as necessary, the carrying amount for property, plant and equipment is adresult of the interest acquired in Termotek AG in 2011 and the acquisition of gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH justed to the recoverable amount. If the circumstances which led to this measure subsequently cease in 2012. Goodwill is tested for impairment once a year or whenever any basis for impairment is identito apply, this impairment is reversed at most by the net carrying amount that would have applied if no fied. With regard to “key exercises of judgment in the context of financial reporting for 2013”, see the such reductions for impairment had been made. Notes, Section 3 “Goodwill” and Section 4 “Intangible Assets”. The reported goodwill constitutes the difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets acquired through business combinations. Pursuant to IAS 36, goodwill is to be tested for 2) Assessment of the Value of Assets impairment once a year or if any basis for a reduction for impairment is established. For the impairment At each balance sheet date the Board of Management is to assess whether there is any indication test, from the acquisition date any goodwill acquired through a business combination is allocated to the that the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment or an intangible asset might be group’s cash-generating units which benefit from the synergy effects from the business combination. impaired. In that case, the recoverable amount of the asset in question is estimated. The recoverable Insofar as necessary, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount . Pursuant to IAS amount corresponds to the higher of the fair value less the costs of disposal, or the value in use. In 36.124, such impairment is not reversed where the circumstances which led to it subsequently cease order to determine the value in use, the discounted future cash flows of the asset in question need to apply. to be determined. This estimate involves key assumptions about the underlying economic situation Intangible assets, namely concessions, industrial and similar rights and values acquired for conand future cash flows. Changes to these assumptions or circumstances could result in additional sideration, and the customer base are carried at cost. They are amortised by the straight-line method, reductions for impairment in the future, or in reversals. With regard to “key exercises of judgment in according to their useful life. The residual value, useful life and method of depreciation are reassessed the context of financial reporting for 2013”, see the Notes, Section 1 “Property, Plant and Equipment”. annually. Self-constructed intangible assets are recognised at cost. Development expenditure on the funda3) Recognition and Measurement of Provisions mental reengineering of a product is capitalised if the product is technically and economically realisaThe determination of all provisions, and in particular of provisions for warranties, inherently inble, the development is saleable, the expenditure can reliably be measured and the group possesses volves estimates. With regard to “key exercises of judgment in the context of financial reporting for adequate resources to complete the development project. Pursuant to IAS 38.65 ff, it comprises the 2013”, see the Notes, Section 16 “Provisions”. directly allocable prime costs as well as the production overheads that can be allocated directly to the creation, manufacture and preparation of the asset, where they arise between the start of the develop4) Income Tax Expense ment phase and its conclusion. The conditions for capitalisation as laid down in IAS 38.21, 38.22 and Because the group has operations and generates income in many different countries, it is subject 38.57 are met. Amortisation of development expenditure recognised as an intangible asset commento widely varying tax laws in a large number of tax regimes. Although the management believes it has ces as soon as the asset is available for use. This usually coincides with the start of its commercial made a reasonable estimate of fiscal imponderables, there can be no assurance that the outcome use. All self-constructed intangible assets acquired for consideration have a finite useful life. of such fiscal imponderables will correspond to the original estimate. Any differences could have an The notes on property, plant and equipment apply analogously to any necessary impairment of impact on the tax liabilities and the deferred taxes. At every balance sheet date, the Board of Manageintangible assets to the “recoverable amount”. ment assesses whether the realisability of future tax benefits is sufficiently probable for the reporting The taxes for the period comprise current and deferred taxes. Taxes are recognised in the Income of deferred tax assets. This requires the management among other things to assess the tax benefits Statement unless they refer to items that are recognised directly within equity or the other result. that arise from the available tax planning strategies and future taxable income. The deferred tax asIn such cases, the corresponding taxes are likewise recognised within equity or the other result. In sets reported could decrease if the estimates of planned taxable income are reduced or if changes to accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are accounted for using the balance sheet liability method current tax laws restrict the realisability of future tax benefits. in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts in the Commercial Balance Sheet and the Tax Balance Sheet (liability method) and in respect of tax loss carryforwards for creditable tax. The application of a specific IFRS is indicated in the notes to the individual items of the financial Deferred tax assets for temporary differences as well as tax loss carryforwards are only reported to statements. The following methods of recognition and measurement were fundamentally applied: the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will be available in the future to make use of these. The deferred taxes are measured on the basis of the locally applicable tax rates that apply or Property, plant and equipment are reported at historical cost less depreciation and accumulated have been announced at the balance sheet date. impairment losses. Retrospective costs of acquisition are capitalised where they increase the value Deferred tax assets and liabilities are also recognised on temporary differences arising from busiof the property, plant and equipment. In the case of self-constructed assets, the cost of conversion ness combinations, except for temporary differences on goodwill where the latter are fiscally disregaris calculated on the basis of prime costs as well as the systematically allocable fixed and variable ded. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a right to perform offsetting exists and the items production overheads, including depreciation. Regular maintenance and repair costs are recorded as relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authorities and for the same company. an expense after they have occurred. The inventories recognised are always measured at cost of acquisition or cost of conversion, using Apart from land, items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated according to the straightthe weighted average cost method, or at the net realisable value if lower. In accordance with IAS 2, line method, on the basis of their useful life. The useful life and method of depreciation are reassessed cost of conversion includes the direct costs of material and direct costs of labour, as well as allocable annually. Components of property, plant and equipment with a significant purchase value in relation to fixed and variable production overheads arising in the manufacturing process, by way of target costing. the total value are depreciated separately as appropriate. Upon sale or retirement, the costs and the The net realisable value is the anticipated sales proceeds less the estimated costs of completion corresponding accumulated depreciation for the assets are derecognised from the Balance Sheet; any and the costs necessary to make the sale. If the reasons which have led to downward valuation cease gains or losses arising are recognised in the Income Statement. to apply, a reversal is made. 102 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 103 Trade receivables and other current receivables are fundamentally reported at amortised cost, are translated at the current rate, approximating to the mean rate for the year; the resulting differences using the effective interest rate method. Reductions for impairment that are applied in the form of are netted against equity, with no effect on income. Exchange differences compared with prior-year individual and group portfolio-based valuation allowances take adequate account of the credit risk. translation are likewise netted within equity, with no effect on income. Objective failures result in the derecognition of the receivable in question. Non-current, non-interestExchange rate differences from the net investment in a foreign operation (group company) are rebearing receivables are discounted. ported within equity with no effect on income; they are only recognised in the Income Statement upon Cash and cash equivalents are reported at face value and converted into euros at the closing disposal of the net investment. rates. They comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, as well as financial assets that can be conThe following rates were applied in currency translation: verted into cash at any time. Issued capital (no par value shares) is reported at the nominal amount. If the company acquires treasury shares, these are offset against equity. The purchase and sale, RATES FOR Mean rates for the Mean rates CURRENCY TRANSLATION financial year at balance sheet date issuance and retirement of treasury shares are not recognised within income, but as an addition to equity. Differences between the cost of the issued shares and their fair value upon their sale or issu2013 2012 2011 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 ance are offset against retained earnings. Liabilities are fundamentally recognised at amortised cost. Liabilities in foreign currency are transUSD 1.3282 1.2850 1.3923 1.3791 1.3194 1.2937 lated in accordance with IAS 21.21 and 23 (a). With the exception of the conditional purchase price JPY 129.6643 102.4903 110.9696 144.7200 113.6100 100.1000 payments from corporate transactions, borrowings are not measured at fair value through profit and loss. When initially recognised, they are measured at fair value including the transaction costs and subGBP 0.8492 0.8110 0.8679 0.8337 0.8161 0.8369 sequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method. Conditional purchase price payments SEK 8.6515 8.7048 9.0305 8.8591 8.5820 8.9210 are measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value are recognised through profit and loss. CNY 8.1649 8.0905 9.0010 8.3491 8.2207 8.2162 Provisions are created to cover obligations to third parties if obligations existing at the reporting HKD 10.3018 9.9671 10.8390 10.6933 10.2260 10.0510 date are likely to result in a future outflow of resources and the latter amount can reliably be estimated. They are measured at the likely amount at which settlement will take place. Long-term provisions are CHF 1.2311 1.2053 1.2329 1.2276 1.2072 1.2164 discounted. BRL 2.8683 2.4930 2.3205 3.2576 2.7036 2.4188 Provisions for warranties are created at the time of sale of the goods in question. Their level is AED 4.8766 4.7441 5.1536 5.0555 4.8428 4.7974 based on past developments in warranties and on a consideration of all possible future warranty INR 77.9266 68.6051 65.0803 85.3660 72.5600 70.4508 claims, weighted according to probability. Provisions for pensions and provisions for similar obligations are measured according to the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised within other comprehensive income in the year in which they occur. Derivative financial instruments are recognised at market value. At technotrans, derivative financial instruments were used exclusively for hedging interest rate risks at December 31, 2013. Where they qualify as cash flow hedges, the correspondingly effective adjustments to the market price are recognised within equity, with no effect on income. Financial instruments are reported if technotrans is a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. Financial assets are reported at the settlement date except in the case of derivative financial instruments, which are reported at the trade date. Revenues from the sale of goods are recognised in accordance with IAS 18.14 as soon as the significant risks and rewards associated with ownership of the products sold have been transferred to the buyer. Revenues from services are recognised as soon as the service has been performed. Revenue is reported less reductions in proceeds such as bonuses, rebates and trade discounts. Financial income and charges are reported on an accrual basis in line with the effective interest method. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or manufacture of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset pursuant to IAS 23. No financing costs were capitalised in the 2013 financial year. Foreign currency translation: The financial statements of all foreign group companies prepared in foreign currency are translated according to the concept of the functional currency (IAS 21). The local currency of the country in which they are based is fundamentally recognised as the functional currency of the companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. In a departure from this principle, the euro is considered to be the functional currency of the subsidiary technotrans technologies pte ltd., Singapore, as its primary economic environment (revenues and expenses) is determined predominantly by the euro. The US dollar is moreover considered to be the functional currency of KLH Cooling International Pte. Ltd., Singapore, because its invoices are determined predominantly by the US dollar. Business transactions conducted by a group company in a currency other than its functional currency are translated into and reported in the functional currency for the first time at the spot exchange rate on date of the business transaction. At each subsequent balance sheet date, monetary items (cash, receivables and liabilities) that were originally in a currency other than the functional currency are translated at the closing rate; the resulting exchange rate differences are recognised in the Income Statement. Non-monetary items are translated at the historical rate. The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the mean rate at the balance sheet date (closing rate), and included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Expenses and income 104 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 105 CHANGES IN RECOGNITION AND MEASUREMENT PRINCIPLES During the 2013 financial year the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the InternaThe Consolidated Financial Statements of technotrans AG at December 31, 2013 include all stantional Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) published further standards and interpretadards and interpretations adopted by the European Union, the application of which is mandatory from tions as well as amendments to existing standards, the application of which was not yet mandatory in January 1, 2013. the 2013 financial year. The following standards were to be applied for the first time: The following standards as adopted by the European Union by December 31, 2013 have not yet been observed in these accounts: STANDARD/­I NTERPRETATION Applicable from Content Effects on STANDARD/­I NTERPRETATION Applicable from Content Anticipated (financial years Consolidated (financial years effects on starting on or Financial starting on or Consolidated after …) Statements after …) Financial Statements Amendment to IFRS 1: January 1, 2013 The amendments to IFRS 1 concern the accounting of None IFRS 10: January 1, 2014 This standard comprehensively redefines the concept No significant First-time Adoption government loans. Consolidated Financial Statements of control. Amendment to IFRS 1: January 1, 2013 The amendment contains rules for enterprises whose None IFRS 11: January 1, 2014 IFRS 11 redefines the accounting of joint arrangements. None Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of currency was subject to hyperinflation. Joint Arrangements Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters Amendment to IFRS 7: January 1, 2013 The amendments to IFRS 7 concern disclosures regarding No significant IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in January 1, 2014 This standard regulates the disclosure requirements for No significant Financial Instruments the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities. Other Entities interests in other entities. Amendment to IFRS 10, IFRS 11, January 1, 2014 The amendments contain a clarification and additional No significant IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement January 1, 2013 This standard provides a standard framework for the No significant IFRS 12: Transitional provisions simplification rule for the transition to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 treatment of fair value measurement in IFRS financial and IFRS 12. statements. Amendment to IFRS 10, IFRS 12, January 1, 2014 The amendments contain a definition of terms for investNone Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of July 1, 2012 The amendments to IAS 1 concern the presentation of Minor changes to IAS 27: Investment Entities ment entities and remove such entities from the scope of Items of Other Comprehensive Income other comprehensive income within the Statement of presentation IFRS 10. Comprehensive Income (Statement of Recognised Income and Expense). Amendment to IAS 27: January 1, 2014 The amendment to IAS 27 transfers the rules on the prinNo significant Amendment to IAS 12: Recovery of January 1, 2013 The amendments deal with how temporary fiscal differenNone Separate Financial Statements ciple of control and the requirements for the preparation of Underlying Assets ces in connection with investment property are reversed. consolidated financial statements to IFRS 10. IAS 19: Employee Benefits January 1, 2013 The amendments to IAS 19 concern the disclosure No significant Amendment to IAS 28: Investments January 1, 2014 The amendments contain disclosures on the application None standards and how to account for the actuarial gains and in Associates and Joint Ventures of the equity method. losses. IFRIC 20 January 1, 2013 This interpretation seeks to standardise the accounting of None Amendment to IAS 32: Offsetting January 1, 2014 The addition to IAS 32 clarifies the conditions for No significant stripping costs for a surface mine. Financial Assets and Liabilities offsetting financial instruments. Improvements to IFRS January 1, 2013 In the context of the annual improvement project, amendNo significant Amendment to IAS 39: Novation of January 1, 2014 As a result of these amendments, derivatives continue to No significant (2009 to 2011) ments were made to five standards (IAS 1, IAS 16, IAS 32, Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge be designated as a hedge in continuing hedging relationIAS 34, IFRS 1). Accounting ships despite novation of a hedge. Amendment to IAS 36: Recoverable January 1, 2013 By way of a consequential amendment from IFRS 13, a No significant Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial new disclosure obligation on the goodwill impairment test Assets according to IAS 36 had been introduced and was deleted again by this amendment. The amendments to IAS 36, Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets, were adopted voluntarily ahead of their introduction. 106 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 107 III. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property* Other assets, Construction Property, plant Property* Other assets, Construction Property, plant plant and in progress and equipment plant and in progress and equipment other equipment other equipment € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Accumulated depreciation at January 1, 2011 9,220 12,015 0 21,235 Cost at January 1, 2011 25,485 16,077 22 41,584 Foreign currency translation differences 10 51 0 61 Foreign currency translation differences 6 54 0 60 Depreciation for the year 754 1,481 0 2,235 Additions from corporate acquisition 0 887 0 887 Disposals due to reporting change Additions 170 746 0 916 to investment property – 2,635 0 0 – 2,635 Disposals due to reporting change Disposals 0 – 834 0 – 834 to investment property – 6,719 0 0 – 6,719 Disposals 0 – 884 0 – 884 Accumulated depreciation at Transfers 0 22 – 22 0 December 31, 2011 / January 1, 2012 7,349 12,713 0 20,062 Foreign currency translation differences – 19 –8 0 – 27 Depreciation for the year 709 1,234 0 1,943 Cost at December 31, 2011 / January 1, 2012 18,942 16,902 0 35,844 Disposals – 43 – 1,442 0 – 1,485 Foreign currency translation differences – 22 – 15 0 – 37 Additions from corporate acquisition 0 27 0 27 Accumulated depreciation at December 31, 2012 / January 1, 2013 7,996 12,497 0 20,493 Additions 48 633 0 681 Foreign currency translation differences – 35 – 89 0 – 124 Disposals – 53 – 1,761 0 – 1,814 Depreciation for the year 747 1,174 0 1,921 Disposals 0 – 1,198 0 – 1,198 Cost at December 31, 2012 / January 1, 2013 18,915 15,786 0 34,701 Foreign currency translation differences – 40 – 104 0 – 144 Accumulated depreciation at December 1, 2013 8,708 12,384 0 21,092 Additions from corporate acquisition 2,108 815 0 2,923 Additions 9 888 9 906 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2011 11,593 4,189 0 15,782 Disposals 0 – 1,304 0 – 1,304 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2012 10,919 3,289 0 14,208 Cost at December 31, 2013 20,992 16,081 9 37,082 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2013 12,284 3,697 9 15,990 * LAND, LAND RIGHTS AND BUILDINGS, INCLUDING BUILDINGS ON LAND OWNED BY OTHERS. * LAND, LAND RIGHTS AND BUILDINGS, INCLUDING BUILDINGS ON LAND OWNED BY OTHERS. The disposals within other assets, plant and other equipment mainly comprise replacement As in previous years, no self-constructed assets were capitalised in the 2013 financial year. No writepurchases. downs or reversals were performed in the year under review. Property amounting to € 12,284 thousand There is an opposite effect from additions to property, plant and equipment following the inclusion belonging to the group is used as collateral for long-term loans (cf. Section 12 “Borrowings”). of the KLH companies in the consolidated companies. 108 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 109 2 INVESTMENT PROPERTY The following table shows the residual carrying values of technotrans goodwill at December 31, 2013, broken down by segment: € ’000 2013 2012 2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Cost Position at January 1, 2011 0 Technology segment: Laser Cooling 5,243 2,549 2,549 Additions due to reporting change to investment property 6.719 Services segment: Translation Services 585 585 0 Position at December 31, 2011 / January 1, 2012 6.719 5,828 3,134 2,549 Disposals – 6.719 Position at December 31, 2012 / December 31, 2013 0 The acquisition of the shares in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH and the shares in its sister companies Accumulated depreciation KLH Cooling International Pte. Ltd and Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd. with effect from January 1, 2013 results in goodwill of € 2,694 thousand. Position at January 1, 2011 0 The goodwill resulting from this acquisition and the acquisition of the shares of Termotek AG with Additions due to reporting change to investment property 2.635 effect from January 7, 2011 was tested for impairment at the level of the Laser Cooling group cashDepreciation for the year 68 generating units within the Technology segment, because synergies and advantages from the business combinations can only be determined at that level. Equally, the goodwill is monitored exclusively on the Position at December 31, 2011 / January 1, 2012 2.703 basis of this cash-generating unit. Depreciation for the year 70 Goodwill of € 585 thousand was recognised as an asset in connection with the acquisition of Disposals – 2.773 gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH on September 1, 2012. This goodwill is allocated to the Translation Services Position at December 31, 2012 / December 31, 2013 0 cash-generating unit in the Services segment. The cash-generating units were tested for impairment according to IAS 36.10 in the 2013 financial Residual carrying amount at December 31, 2011 4.016 year. For this, the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit is compared with the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the two amounts of the fair value less proceeds of disposal, Position at December 31, 2012 / December 12, 2013 0 and the value in use. The fair value measurement was classified as a Level 3 fair value based on the input factors of the measurement technique used. At technotrans, the recoverable amount corresponds to the value in use. The key assumptions As a result of the concentration of manufacturing activities at Sassenberg, the industrial property made for this value in use were as follows: The starting point for the cash flow forecasts for goodwill in Gersthofen was no longer used for the group’s own business activities. From January 1, 2011 the was the budget for 2014 and revenue trends for the 2015 to 2018 financial years of the respective property was therefore classified as a financial investment as defined in IAS 40. The property was cash-generating units. For the Laser Cooling cash-generating unit an average growth trend of 7.8 disposed of on November 30, 2012. percent (revenue) and 7.8 percent (EBIT) was assumed for the years 2015 to 2018, and for the Translation Services cash-generating unit a trend averaging 7.7 percent (revenue) and 15.4 percent (EBIT). No separate revenue plans for the cash-generating units in question were drawn up for subsequent financial years; instead, further average revenue growth rates of a constant 1.5 percent (long-term 3 GOODWILL market trend for the laser industry and for translation services) were assumed for both cash-generating units. Furthermore, the costs (materials, personnel and other costs) for each cash-generating unit € ’000 were estimated on the basis of assumptions for the forecasting period; cost increases were suitably taken into account. All assumptions by the Board of Management are based on experience and reflect Cost at January 1, 2011 0 expectations concerning the relevant customers and industry. Discounting of the anticipated cash flows is based on a weighted pre-tax cost-of-capital rate of Additions from corporate acquisition 2.549 10.96 percent. Cost at December 31, 2011 / January 1, 2012 2.549 The values in use determined on the basis of these assumptions each exceed the carrying amounts Additions from corporate acquisition 585 of the cash-generating units. Cost at December 31, 2012 / January 1, 2013 3.134 A 2 percentage point increase in the weighted pre-tax cost-of-capital rate and a simultaneous halving of the growth rates mean there is no need for amortisation. Nor is there any need for amortisation Additions from corporate acquisition 2.694 for both cash-generating units in a scenario where both revenue and EBIT do not exhibit any growth. Cost at December 31, 2013 5.828 Accumulated impairment at December 31, 2011 0 Accumulated impairment at December 31, 2012 0 Accumulated impairment at December 31, 2013 0 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2011 2.549 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2012 3.134 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2013 5.828 110 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 111 4 INTANGIBLE ASSETS In the 2013 financial year there was an increase in intangible assets, substantially as a result of Concessions, Development Intangible the customer base identified within the context of purchase price allocation, with a value of € 3,600 industrial and expenditure reassets thousand. Amortisation of € 720 thousand was applied to this in the financial year. Other amortisation similar rights cognised as an decreased as a result of the end of amortisation of the ERP software mySAP in 2013. intangible asset In the financial year, technotrans AG retired patents carried at € 5,640 thousand that had already € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 been written off in previous years. Intangible assets arising from development activities are capitalised pursuant to IAS 38 if it is Cost at January 1, 2011 14,584 6,370 20,954 probable that future economic advantage will accrue from the use of the asset and the costs of the Foreign currency translation differences 19 7 26 asset can be reliably determined. technotrans AG, Termotek AG and gds AG capitalised intangible asAdditions sets which are the result of development activities amounting to € 873 thousand in the financial year (2012: € 610 thousand, 2011: € 189 thousand). from corporate acquisition 20 185 205 As in previous years, the items capitalised were predominantly development projects for products acquired separately 300 0 300 outside the printing industry. The priorities in the financial year were developments related to cooling from internal development 0 189 189 systems for energy storage technology, filtration solutions for cooling lubricants, the development of Disposals – 1,254 0 – 1,254 a control unit for cooling equipment, and developments in the spray lubrication area of applications. Due to nonfulfilment of the requirements for recognition as stated in IAS 38.57, development costs Cost at December 31, 2011 / January 1, 2012 13,669 6,751 20,420 amounting to € 2,985 thousand (2012: € 2,241 thousand, 2011: € 2,046 thousand) were moreover Foreign currency translation differences –4 –4 –8 recognised as an expense. Additions These include activities designed to optimise the energy efficiency of products from the existing from corporate acquisition 23 0 23 portfolio, as well as to realise cost savings through improvements in the areas of design and production technology. Projects in technotrans’ traditional sales markets are also being pursued, along with acquired separately 136 0 136 a large number of projects for its new markets. These involve transferring its expertise as well as the from internal development 0 610 610 technologies that it has previously been using in the printing industry to applications in other industry Disposals – 155 – 29 – 184 segments. There are no concessions, industrial and similar rights or development expenditure recognised as Cost at December 31, 2012 / January 1, 2013 13,669 7,328 20,997 an intangible asset with an unlimited useful life. The useful life taken as the basis for the amortisation Foreign currency translation differences – 22 –9 – 31 of software and development expenditure recognised as an intangible asset is three to five years. Additions In the Income Statement, the amortisation of development expenditure recognised as an intangible from corporate acquisition 3,613 0 3,613 asset is allocated to the cost of sales using the function of expense method, according to the principle of causation. The amortisation of concessions, industrial and similar rights has been allocated to the acquired separately 563 0 563 cost of sales, distribution costs, administrative expenses and development costs by means of cost from internal development 0 873 873 centre accounting. Disposals from company sale – 132 0 – 132 5 FINANCIAL ASSETS from sale/derecognition – 5,964 0 – 5,964 Cost at December 31, 2013 11,727 8,192 19,919 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Accumulated amortisation at January 1, 2011 12,531 6,370 18,901 Foreign currency translation differences 13 7 20 Rent deposits 38 39 173 Depreciation for the year 853 38 891 Partial retirement bankruptcy cover 11 80 211 Disposals – 1,254 0 – 1,254 49 119 384 Accumulated amortisation at December 31, 2012 / January 1, 2012 12,143 6,415 18,558 Foreign currency translation differences –3 –4 –7 To provide cover in the event of bankruptcy pursuant to Section 8 a of German Partial Retirement Depreciation for the year 854 95 949 Act, corresponding funds totalling € 11 thousand were invested as fixed-term deposits and pledged in Disposals – 155 – 29 – 184 the employees’ favour. The terms reflect the arrangements of each individual contract; the pledgee is Accumulated amortisation at December 31, 2012 / January 1, 2013 12,839 6,477 19,316 obliged to release the credit balances over and above the total amount of its claims to be covered. The Foreign currency translation differences – 16 –9 – 25 furnishing of security takes effect in the even of insolvency of the pledger pursuant to Section 8 a of German Partial Retirement Act. Depreciation for the year 1,126 141 1,267 Disposals – 5,689 0 – 5,689 Accumulated amortisation at December 1, 2013 8,260 6,609 14,869 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2011 1,526 336 1,862 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2012 830 851 1,681 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2013 3,467 1,583 5,050 112 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 113 6 INVENTORIES 9 OTHER ASSETS 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Raw materials and supplies 7,478 6,407 7,327 Financial assets Work in progress 2,609 2,125 1,925 Receivables from suppliers 66 226 201 Finished goods and merchandise 4,243 4,958 4,778 Reinsurance for pensions 22 56 52 14,330 13,490 14,030 Other 596 331 79 684 613 332 Of total inventories, the amount of € 2,539 thousand (2012: € 2,500 thousand, 2011: € 4,377 Other assets thousand) is reported at the fair value less production costs still to be incurred and distribution costs. Impairment of inventories totalling € 1,029 thousand (2012: € 1,356 thousand, 2011: € 1,257 Prepaid expenses 417 320 770 thousand) was recognised as an expense in the 2013 financial year. In the same period, reversals led Creditable input tax 118 67 50 to an income of € 1,066 thousand (2012: € 1,043 thousand, 2011: € 467 thousand), as higher net Other 112 106 271 realisable values could be assumed than in the previous year. 647 493 1,091 1,331 1,106 1,423 7 TRADE RECEIVABLES In the Technology segment, receivables outstanding are owed mainly by major printing press and 10 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS laser manufacturers, as well as by end customers. In the year under review, additions to the impairment of receivables totalling € 200 thousand Cash and cash equivalents comprise balances with banks and cash on hand. The fair value of cash (2012: € 123 thousand, 2011: € 1,618 thousand) were booked to distribution costs in the Income and cash equivalents corresponds to the carrying amount. There were no marketable securities at the Statement. There was no default interest invoiced but still outstanding at the balance sheet date. balance sheet date. Impairment was applied in order to measure the receivables at fair value. This impairment reflects the actual credit risk. Impairment is applied in particular if the debtor is experiencing considerable financial 11 EQUITY difficulties. The amounts stated for trade receivables are fundamentally adjusted via a value adjustment account. Receivables are only derecognised once the debtor has opened insolvency proceedings The development in equity is shown in the Statement of Movements in Equity. The equity of the or the receivable has become uncollectable. The receivable from manroland AG of € 1,312 thousand group totalled € 43,743 thousand at December 31, 2013 (2012: € 40,865 thousand, 2011: € 37,291 to which impairment had been applied in 2011 was derecognised in the financial year. thousand). Of this, € 943 thousand is attributable to non-controlling interests. The following table provides an overview of impairment of receivables: Issued Capital At December 31, 2013 the issued capital (capital stock) of technotrans AG comprised 6,907,665 issued no par value registered shares, of which 6,493,474 were outstanding. The shares outstanding IMPAIRMENT OF RECEIVABLES 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 are fully paid. Each no par value share represents a nominal amount of € 1 of the share capital. All € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 shares carry identical rights. No special rights or preferences are granted to individual shareholders. The same applies to dividend entitlements. Opening level 2,321 2,512 1,277 Allocated 210 123 1,618 Shares issued Shares outstanding Derecognition of receivables – 1,406 – 118 – 20 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Cash receipts for receivables written off – 16 – 189 – 369 Position at January 1 6,907,665 6,907,665 6,907,665 6,455,404 6,432,775 6,340,035 Exchange differences 147 –7 6 Issued to employees (as Christmas bonus) 0 0 0 33,918 22,629 43,740 Closing level 1,256 2,321 2,512 Issued to employees (as remuneration component) 0 0 0 4,152 0 0 Issued for the acquisition of Termotek AG 0 0 0 0 0 49,000 8 INCOME TAX RECEIVABLE Position at December 31 6,907,665 6,907,665 6,907,665 6,493,474 6,455,404 6,432,775 This comprises ongoing income tax assets as well as a corporation tax credit balance from previous years. Approved Capital At December 31, 2013 technotrans AG had a remaining corporation tax credit balance of € 255 The Shareholders’ Meeting on May 6, 2010 authorised the Board of Management to raise the thousand from previous years. This rebate (Section 37 (5) of German Corporation Tax Act) has been share capital, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, by the issue of new shares on one or more capitalised at the present value of € 234 thousand (2012: € 288 thousand, 2011: € 340 thousand). occasions by April 30, 2015, against contributions, by up to a total of € 3,450,000. No use was made The rebate is being paid in eight equal annual instalments between 2010 and 2017; the income tax of this authorisation in 2013. receivable has correspondingly been allocated pro rata to current and non-current assets. The interest for determination of the present value is 3.75 percent. 114 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 115 Conditional Capital Other Reserves At the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 8, 2009 the Board of Management was, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, authorised to issue bearer and/or registered bonds with a term of a maximum 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 of five years on one or more occasions up until May 7, 2014 of an aggregate nominal amount of up to € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € 10 million and to grant the bearers of bonds conversion options on up to 690,000 no par value registered treasury shares in accordance with the respective terms of the bonds (convertible bond terms). Hedging reserve – 81 – 136 – 36 The conversion options granted to the bearers of the bonds may cover shares in the company representing an amount of up to € 690,000.00 of the share capital. As well as in euros, the convertiReserve for net investments in a foreign operation – 1,900 – 1,381 – 1,089 ble bonds may be issued in the legal currency of an OECD country, limited to the corresponding euro Exchange differences – 4,385 – 4,270 – 4,999 countervalue. Treasury shares – 5,961 – 6,509 – 6,834 The shareholders have a fundamental right to subscribe to bonds. The bonds may also be accepted – 12,327 – 12,296 – 12,958 by a bank or a consortium of banks with the obligation to offer them to the shareholders for subscription. In addition, however, the Board of Management is, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, authorised to exclude the statutory subscription right of the shareholders to the bonds within the limits Pursuant to IAS 39, the negative market value of the interest rate swaps used was recognised laid down individually and specifically by the authorisation. in the hedging reserve with no income effect, following deduction of deferred taxes (cf. Section 33 The Board of Management is authorised, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to specify the “Financial Instruments”). In the 2013 financial year, a gain of € 87 thousand (2012: € 153 thousand further details of the issuance and features of the convertible bonds and their terms itself, meaning in loss, 2011: € 38 thousand loss) was reported within equity with no effect on income and the sum of particular the currency, interest rate, issuing amount, term and denomination of the convertible bonds, € 9 thousand (2012: €10 thousand, 2011: € 0 thousand) was realised. In return, deferred tax of € 23 the conversion price and period, the exchange ratio and payment of the countervalue in money instead thousand (2012: € 43 thousand, 2011: € 11 thousand) was booked with no effect on income. of exchange for treasury shares. This authorisation was not used in the 2013 financial year. technotrans AG has extended loans to its subsidiaries that are to be regarded as net investments in foreign operations. Pursuant to IAS 21.32 and IAS 12.61A, the accumulated translation differences Capital Reserve up to the balance sheet date and any taxes on these are netted directly within equity. Exchange rate The premium from the past share issues from the issuance of shares under conversion options differences are only recognised through profit and loss upon liquidation or partial liquidation of the from conditional capital and from the issuance of ordinary shares from approved capital (capital increcompany. No exchange rate differences were recognised through profit and loss in the financial year. In ase for cash) was paid into the capital reserve. The costs of the share issues were deducted. connection with the capital reduction of technotrans scandinavia AB, Åkersberga (Sweden), a loan that was classified as net investments in a foreign operation was repaid. Retained Earnings In the 2013 financial year, currency translation losses from the above loans and from other loans The reported retained earnings comprise: totalling € 510 thousand (2012: € 382 thousand loss, 2011: € 109 thousand loss) were netted directly within equity; the deferred tax on these amounts likewise netted within equity amounts to € 9 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 thousand (tax income) (2012: € 90 thousand tax expense, 2011: € 43 thousand tax expense). The exchange differences include differences from the translation of the subsidiaries’ equity to be € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 consolidated at the historical rate and at the rate on the balance sheet date. This item furthermore includes the differences resulting from the translation of the assets and liabilities of the international Other reserves 32,275 30,231 27,394 subsidiaries at the closing rate and from the translation of the expenses and income at the average Net profit for the period 3,016 3,094 3,019 rate for the year. 35,291 33,325 30,413 Treasury Shares At the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 6, 2010 the shareholders authorised the Board of ManageThe other reserves include retained earnings, profit carried forward and additional other reserves. ment to buy back treasury shares in accordance with Section 71 (1) No. 8 of German Stock CorporaOf these, an amount of € 691 thousand relates to the legal reserve of technotrans AG pursuant to tion Act. This scope of this authorisation is for the buying back of a portion of up to € 690,000.00 of Section 150 (2) of German Stock Corporation Act. the share capital (690,000 no par value shares, corresponding to 9.98 percent of the share capital The difference of € 274 thousand between the cost of the shares and their fair value at the time of at the time of the resolution) and is valid until April 30, 2015. No shares were bought back during the issuance, resulting from the issuance of treasury shares, was offset against retained earnings. period January to December 2013. Pursuant to IAS 32.33 the shares bought back are deducted from Pursuant to Section 268 (8) of German Commercial Code, an amount totalling € 1,816 thousand equity at their cost (including incidental costs). The buy-back is in line with the strategic objectives of the other retained earnings of the parent company may not be distributed due to the capitalisation of the company. In the 2013 financial year, 33,918 no par value shares with a fair value of € 245 of deferred taxes. thousand were issued to employees by way of a Christmas bonus, and 4,152 no par value shares with a fair value of € 29 thousand by way of a remuneration component. At the reporting date of December 31, 2013 the total treasury shares amounted to 414,191 ordinary shares. They represent 6.0 percent of the share capital. 116 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 117 Capital Management Amounts owed to banks with a carrying amount of € 7,545 thousand are collateralised by land charAt December 31, 2013 the equity ratio was 59.9 percent (2012: 63.2 percent, 2011: 55.5 percent). ges on the company premises in Sassenberg. One of the most important financial objectives for technotrans AG is to assure its solvency at all times, Borrowings of € 850 thousand (2012: € 981 thousand, 2011: € 1,971 thousand) relate to Termotek and increase the long-term value of the group. AG. The credit is predominantly secured by means of collateral furnished by Termotek AG such as global The creation of adequate liquidity reserves is very important in this respect. The aim is always to assignment, assignment of ownership and guarantees. have liquidity reserves amounting to at least 10 percent of annual revenue. This objective is achieved At the reporting date KLH Kältetechnik GmbH had borrowings of € 2,021 thousand secured in full by by implementing various measures in order to reduce capital costs and optimise the capital structure, land charges on the factory site Am Waldrand 10 in Bad Doberan and by guarantees. alongside practising effective risk management. SHT Immobilienbesitz GmbH & Co. Vermietungs KG has borrowings of € 925 thousand. The real Methodologically, technotrans’ capital management approach is based on financial market oriented estate Am Waldrand 10a in Bad Doberan serves as security. indicators, such as the rate of return (long-term target margin for EBIT: 10 percent), the equity ratio (target: > 50 percent) and gearing. technotrans is not subject to capital requirements laid down in the 13 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES articles of incorporation. A sound capital structure provides technotrans with the stability that serves as the basis for a business model focusing on sustainability, and thus in the long term meets both the re31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 quirements of customer and supplier relations and serves the needs of the employees and shareholders. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 The unsecured loan carries the obligation to adhere to certain financial indicators (financial covenants). The financial ratios, equity ratio, gearing and EBITDA margin are determined for the ConsolidaConditional purchase price of KLH 571 0 0 ted Financial Statements and were complied with in the 2013 financial year. Conditional purchase price of gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH 298 295 0 Conditional purchase price of Termotek AG 0 849 1,607 12 BORROWINGS Conditional purchase price of gds Schweiz GmbH 0 121 111 Liabilities to employees 0 0 130 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 Other 19 6 9 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 888 1,271 1,857 Short-term borrowings 3,293 2,933 9,742 Long-term borrowings 11,620 6,395 6,819 Based on the current planning horizon, no significant changes in the conditional purchase prices 14,913 9,328 16,561 are expected. There were no hedged liabilities at the balance sheet date. Interest rate hedges exist only in the 14 TRADE PAYABLES case of borrowings. All trade payables have a term of up to one year. They relate predominantly to the production locations technotrans AG, KLH Kältetechnik GmbH, Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd. and Termotek AG. MATURITIES OF up to 1 year 1 to 5 years over 5 years Total Interest p.a. Collateral BORROWINGS 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 in % € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Variable € credit 571 2,286 714 3,571 3-month EURIBOR None cover via interest rate swap Trade payables 2,090 1,566 3,006 (fixed rate: 1.00%) Outstanding purchase invoices 554 576 117 € fixed rate credit 667 1,000 0 1,667 4.92% Land charge € fixed rate credit 245 981 429 1,655 3.31% Land charge 2,644 2,142 3,123 Variable € credit 0 1,500 0 1,500 3-month EURIBOR Land charge cover via interest rate swap (fixed rate: 2.70%) Variable € credit 157 629 275 1,061 3-month EURIBOR Land charge 15 PREPAYMENTS RECEIVED cover via interest rate swap (subord.) Guarantee (fixed rate: 1.30%) The prepayments received originate in the main from project business for technotrans AG, tech€ fixed rate credit 400 600 0 1,000 2.82% Land charge notrans technologies pte ltd., technotrans middle east FZ-LLC and technotrans printing equipment € fixed rate credit 96 384 480 960 4.64% Land charge, guarantee (Beijing) co. Ltd. They are used for financing the finished goods included in the inventories but from € fixed rate credit 36 143 746 925 4.50% Land charge which no revenue has yet been realised. Variable € credit 188 703 0 891 3-month EURIBOR Land charge cover via interest rate swap (fixed rate: 2.81%) € fixed rate credit 333 500 0 833 4.98% Land charge Variable € credit 500 0 0 500 3-month EURIBOR None (currently 3.03%) € fixed rate credit 100 250 0 350 3.50% Global assignment, assignment of ownership, guarantee 3,293 8,976 2,644 14,913 118 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 119 16 PROVISIONS 17 INCOME TAX PAYABLE Obligations to Payments to Other Provisions Total In the year under review, income tax payable relates substantially to Termotek AG and KLH Kältepersonnel be made under provisions for pensions technik GmbH. warranty € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 18 OTHER LIABILITIES Opening level at January 1, 2013 3,377 730 1,466 226 5,799 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 Exchange rate movements – 29 –3 – 23 0 – 55 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Used 2,271 601 970 4 3,846 Reversed 146 12 153 0 311 Financial liabilities Allocated from company acquired 59 71 64 0 194 Conditional purchase price of Termotek AG 931 761 444 Disposal from company sale 4 0 1 0 5 Current liabilities from derivative financial instruments 117 210 61 Allocated 2,084 674 872 0 3,630 Debtors with credit balances 92 83 86 Closing level at December 31, 2013 3,070 859 1,255 222 5,406 Other Financial Liabilities 72 10 50 1,212 1,064 641 Long-term provisions 646 0 55 222 923 Short-term provisions 2,424 859 1,200 0 4,483 Other liabilities Sales tax 387 486 462 The obligations to personnel consist largely of gratuities, bonuses and performance-related pay for Operating taxes 377 348 282 employees, as well as time credits. It is in the first instance uncertain when these obligations will have Liabilities in respect of social insurance 165 148 164 to be met. At December 31, 2013 one employee had a partial retirement employment contract. The obOther 541 714 85 ligation from this partial retirement employment contract was measured on the basis of an actuarial ap1,470 1,696 993 praisal and the provision amounts to € 16 thousand (2012: € 123 thousand, 2011: € 282 thousand). Under the current remuneration system of technotrans AG, employees who have passed their 57th 2,682 2,760 1,634 birthday now no longer have an enforceable right to a partial retirement employment contract. Please refer to Section 5 with regard to bankruptcy cover. Provisions for warranties are created for current statutory, contractual and constructive warranty obligations towards third parties. The provisions were measured taking experience as the starting point, IV.  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED incorporating the circumstances at the balance sheet date. INCOME STATEMENT The other provisions comprise costs for the preparation of the annual accounts, commission payments and other costs. The factor of uncertainty both in this case and for payments to be made under 19 REVENUE warranty is principally the amount in question. In previous years there were in addition provisions for impending losses from long-term tenancy agreements (2012: € 13 thousand, 2011: € 166 thousand). Revenue is recognised if the risks and rewards associated with ownership of the products sold These have arisen following the decision taken in the 2009 financial year to transfer production opehave been transferred to the buyer. For deliveries, revenue is realised in accordance with the agreed rations from the USA (Mt Prospect) to the technotrans AG location in Sassenberg and correspondingly terms of delivery; for services, it is realised when the service has been performed. include components for tenancy obligations. Following the expiry of the tenancy agreement in February Revenue is shown broken down by division in the segment report. € 86.7 million is the result of 2014 the provisions could be reversed in entirety. the sale of goods including sales of parts, and € 18.5 million from the provision of services. The A direct pension pledge has been made to employees of the former BVS Beratung Verkauf Service geographical composition of revenue in 2013 was Germany € 57.2 million, rest of Europe € 22.2 Grafische Technik GmbH. At the reporting date, one employee still had a vested benefit. Pensions are million, America € 15.7 million and Asia € 10.1 million. being paid for two employees. The “defined benefit obligation” (DBO) for purposes of calculating the provisions for pensions was determined on the basis of an actuarial report, using the 2005 G reference tables published by Prof Dr Klaus Heubeck. The calculation was based on an interest rate of 3.30 percent (2012: 3.74 percent, 2011: 4.78 percent) and a pension trend of 2.0 percent (2012: 2.0 percent, 2011: 2.0 percent). The development in pay levels and employee fluctuation were not taken into account, as those eligible for pensions have since left the company. The interest costs for the DBO in 2013 amount to € 8 thousand (2012: € 10 thousand, 2011: € 10 thousand). The actuarial loss amounts to € 9 thousand (2012: € 5 thousand loss, 2011: € 19 thousand gain). Adoption of the amendments to IAS 19 have had no material effect. Pension payments amounting to € 6 thousand (2012: € 3 thousand, 2011: € 1 thousand) were made in 2013. Two of the pension obligations are backed by capital-forming life assurance policies, which constitute non-qualifying insurance policies pursuant to IAS 19.7. Their fair value is € 22 thousand (2012: € 56 thousand, 2011: € 52 thousand) and is reported under financial assets (Section 9). The income in the 2013 financial year was € 6 thousand (2012: € 4 thousand, 2011: € 3 thousand). 120 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 121 20 COST OF SALES 22 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES The cost of sales comprises the cost of traded products and the cost price of merchandise sold. In The administrative expenses comprise personnel and material costs for management and adminisaccordance with IAS 2, it includes both costs which can be directly allocated, such as cost of materials tration, insofar as not charged to other cost centres as internal services. and cost of labour, and also overheads, including pro rata depreciation and amortisation on property, plant and equipment used for production and on intangible assets. The costs of the field service and the 2013 2012 2011 expense arising in connection with warranty obligations are likewise reported under cost of sales. The € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 other cost of sales mainly comprises translation costs and maintenance expense. Cost of labour 6,303 5,650 5,258 2013 2012 2011 Depreciation and Amortisation 1,457 1,992 2,058 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 IT costs 1,237 977 1,013 Cost of materials 41,341 33,123 38,939 Consultancy, audits 946 1,100 1,344 Cost of labour 19,697 17,254 18,068 Tenancy and leasing costs 582 507 443 Subcontractors, personnel leasing 5,165 2,880 2,304 Other 1,696 587 1,353 Travel expenses 1,404 1,378 1,406 12,221 10,813 11,469 Tenancy and leasing costs 748 692 641 Depreciation and amortisation 747 717 841 In the 2013 financial year, the fees for the auditors recorded as an expense pursuant to Section Warranty 712 288 999 319 (1) first and second sentences German Commercial Code amounted to € 257 thousand (2012: Operating requirements 551 459 505 € 264 thousand, 2011: € 332 thousand). Other 1,718 2,219 2,783 FEES FOR 2013 2012 2011 72,083 59,010 66,486 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Auditing of the financial statements 236 237 251 21 DISTRIBUTION COSTS Tax consultancy services 21 25 48 The distribution costs include costs for the Distribution Department and for in-house services, and Other services 0 2 33 also the costs of advertising and logistics. This item also includes sales-related expenditure for com257 264 332 missions and impairment of receivables. 2013 2012 2011 The figures for the 2013 financial year include the fees and expenses of the auditors of the Con€ ’000 € ’000 € ’000 solidated Financial Statements, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, for the auditing of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the auditing of the annual financial statements of technotrans AG and KLH Kältetechnik GmbH. Cost of labour 8,866 8,582 8,589 Logistics costs 1,856 1,720 1,783 23 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Depreciation and amortisation 849 160 239 Travel expenses 782 787 721 No research costs were incurred. Development costs are charged as ongoing expenses until the criteria of IAS 38.57 are satisfied cumulatively. From that point on, development costs are recognised Promotional and exhibition costs 566 943 511 as an intangible asset (see Section 4 “Intangible Assets”). Tenancy and leasing costs 455 372 311 Sales commissions 327 111 154 Impairment of receivables 210 123 1,618 Other 1,114 661 493 15,025 13,459 14,419 The other distribution costs for the financial year consist primarily of entertainment expenses as well as repair and maintenance costs related to distribution activities. 122 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 123 24 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 26 NET FINANCE COSTS 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Income unrelated to the accounting period Financial income 30 39 37 Reversal of provisions 112 175 1,322 Financial charges – 918 – 720 – 925 Book profits on the disposal of assets 47 138 113 Net finance costs – 888 – 681 – 888 Other income unrelated to the accounting period 75 104 505 234 417 1,940 The interest income relates predominantly to bank credit balances. Interest income of € 10 thousand (2012: € 12 thousand, 2011: € 16 thousand) from the compounding of the corporation tax Other operating income credit balance was in addition recognised. Foreign currency gains 488 593 1,238 The interest expenses comprise mainly interest charged on the group’s borrowings. The interest Income from tenancy agreements 292 135 147 expenses moreover include the adjustment of the conditional purchase price payment for the acquisitiInsurance payments 273 125 79 on of Termotek AG (€ 130 thousand) and the gains attributable to the non-controlling interests in gdsSprachenwelt GmbH (€ 66 thousand). Furthermore, interest expenses from the compounding of the Personnel-related revenue 144 111 113 conditional purchase price payments amounting to € 6 thousand (2012: € 77 thousand, 2011: € 98 Other 1,429 720 723 thousand) and from the compounding of the partial retirement obligations amounting to € 1 thousand 2,626 1,684 2,300 (2012: € 5 thousand, 2011: € 8 thousand) were recognised within this item. No borrowing costs were 2,860 2,101 4,240 capitalised in the reporting period. 27 INCOME TAX EXPENSE The income from the reversal of provisions comes mainly from the reversal of a provision for litigation risks, because the litigation was successfully concluded. The miscellaneous other operating income 2013 2012 2011 includes development cost contributions from customers as well as the one-off proceeds from the sale € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 of a non-capitalised asset no longer in use. Actual income tax expense 25 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Tax expense for the period – 562 – 736 – 555 Tax refund unrelated to the accounting period 14 – 91 223 2013 2012 2011 – 548 – 827 – 332 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Deferred tax Expenses unrelated to the accounting period Deferred tax expense – 497 – 887 – 867 Book losses on the disposal of assets 55 30 4 Deferred tax income 259 132 319 Other expenses unrelated to the accounting period 35 85 70 – 238 – 755 – 548 90 115 74 Income tax expense – 786 – 1,582 – 880 Other operating expenses Foreign currency losses 779 1,213 1,488 Other operating taxes 151 129 172 Income tax expense includes corporation income tax and trade earnings tax for the domestic comLitigation risks 0 0 290 panies, and also comparable taxes on income for the foreign businesses. Other operating taxes are included in other operating expenses. Other 107 426 274 The deferred tax is attributable to temporally divergent valuations in the companies’ tax balance 1,037 1,768 2,224 sheets and the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with the balance sheet liability method. 1,127 1,883 2,298 The reported deferred tax assets also include tax relief claims where it is anticipated that existing tax loss carryforwards will be used in subsequent years. The deferred tax is calculated on the basis of the tax rates applicable or expected at the time of realisation in the individual countries concerned. Exchange rate losses mainly constitute unrealised changes in the measurement of intragroup The applicable tax rate in Germany of 30.17 percent (2012: 30.17 percent, 2011: 30.06 percent) assets and liabilities. In addition, in connection with the capital reduction of technotrans scandinavia calculated for the year under review is based on a corporation tax rate of 15.0 percent, a solidarity AB exchange rate losses of € 101 thousand were reclassified from equity to the Income Statement. surcharge of 5.5 percent and an effective trade earnings tax rate of 14.3 percent (2012: 14.3 percent, 2011: 14.2 percent). 124 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 125 The following capitalised deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to recognition and measurement The following table reconciles the theoretical tax expense with the actual income tax expense. differences for the individual items on the Balance Sheet and to loss carryforwards which can be used in future. 2013 2012 2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 DEFERRED TAX 2013 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Applicable tax rate 30.17% 30.17 % 30.06 % € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Consolidated earnings before taxes on income 3,738 4,676 3,899 Theoretical tax expense/income – 1,128 – 1,411 – 1,172 Non-current assets 831 1,253 680 192 736 53 Impairment (–) or reversal of impairment (+) on deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards Inventories 292 38 321 18 408 26 and temporary differences – 95 – 24 – 73 Receivables 113 4 112 109 130 31 Expense from the non-recognition of deferred tax assets on tax losses occurring in the financial year and temporary differences – 33 – 62 67 Provisions 160 105 153 105 126 107 Tax effect Liabilities 40 14 66 14 31 19 from the use of deferred taxes on temporary differences Loss carryforwards 1,810 0 2,109 0 2,503 0 and from tax loss carryforwards following impairment 536 163 298 3,246 1,414 3,441 438 3,934 236 of non-deductibility of business expenses and tax-exempt income – 93 – 152 – 176 Differences compared with local tax rates 32 – 13 – 44 Offsetting 525 525 420 420 218 218 Changes to deferred tax resulting from tax rate changes – 19 8 –3 2,721 889 3,021 18 3,716 18 Other taxes not relating to the period 14 – 91 223 Actual and deferred income tax expense – 786 – 1,582 – 880 The deferred tax liabilities from non-current assets include € 864 thousand in deferred tax liabilities for the customer base capitalised in the context of the business combination. The remaining deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities from non-current assets result largely from temporary differences Deferred tax that was directly allocable to equity arose in the year under review, including € –23 in intangible assets acquired. thousand (2012: € 43 thousand, 2011: € 11 thousand) as a result of the change in cash flow hedges The deferred tax assets from inventories in essence stem from the elimination of intercompany proand € 9 thousand (2012: € 90 thousand, 2011: € –43 thousand) from exchange rate differences from fits. The deferred tax assets from liabilities include deferred tax assets from cash flow hedges. net investments in a foreign operation. In the context of the business combination on January 1, 2013 deferred tax assets of € 197 thousand from non-current assets and deferred tax liabilities of € 21 thousand formed on temporary differences 28 EARNINGS PER SHARE from inventories were acquired. There are tax loss carryforwards amounting to € 19,929 thousand for 2013. Deferred taxes amounThe figure for basic earnings per share is obtained by dividing the share of earnings attributable to ting to € 5,908 thousand were recognised as an asset on an amount of € 1,810 thousand in agreement the shareholders of technotrans AG by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding with IAS 12.34. No deferred tax assets were recognised on the remaining loss carryforwards of € 14,021 in the financial year: thousand and on deductible temporary differences of € 2,571 thousand. The loss carryforwards may be carried forward for 20 years in the USA (€ 7,789 thousand), for nine years in Japan (€ 193 thousand), 2013 2012 2011 for five years in China (€ 177 thousand), for three years in Singapore (€ 274 thousand) and for an unlimited period in other cases. In view of the uncertain earnings expectations of the companies in Asia, of Net profit for the period (in € thousand) 2,952 3,094 3,019 technotrans america inc., technotrans américa latina ltda. and technotrans scandinavia AB, no or only of which: Profit attributable to technotrans AG shareholders 3,016 3,094 3,019 pro rata deferred taxes were created on the loss carryforwards. of which: Profit/loss attributable to non-controlling interests – 64 0 0 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding in the year 6,465,803 6,433,581 6,364,150 Basic/diluted earnings per share (in €) 0.47 0.48 0.47 In the 2013 financial year there were once again no stock options that would have had a dilutive effect on earnings per share pursuant to IAS 33. 126 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 127 V. NOTES TO THE SEGMENT REPORT VI. NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT Segment information is provided on the basis of the business segments for internal reporting purThe Cash Flow Statement is structured according to cash flows from operating activities, investing poses. Segmentation according to the Technology and Services Divisions is performed in agreement activities and financing activities. with the internal reporting structure of the technotrans Group. The Technology segment generates revenue through sales of equipment in the areas of liquid 29 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES technology and laser technology. The Services segment generates revenue through after-sales service activities, installation, maintenance, servicing and the supplying of spare parts, as well as through The cash flows from operating activities (net cash) amounted to € 2,693 thousand (2012: € 10,979 compiling technical documentation and producing and selling software for the compilation of docuthousand, 2011: € 5,868 thousand) in the past financial year. This includes cash from operating activimentation. The revenue generated by gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH from translation services is equally ties amounting to € 4,250 thousand (2012: € 12,284 thousand, 2011: € 7,684 thousand) as well as allocated to the Services segment. interest and income tax received and paid amounting to € –1,557 thousand (2012: € –1,305 thousand, The revenue amounting to € 105,207 thousand (previous year: € 90,662 thousand) comprises 2011: € –1,816 thousand). The change in working capital in 2013 resulted overall in a positive cash € 57,225 thousand (previous year: € 48,714 thousand) generated in Germany and € 47,982 thousand flow contribution. (previous year: € 41,948 thousand) internationally. Revenue is classified on the basis of the domicile of the customer with which the revenue is realised. 30 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES The non-current assets allocable to the segments amounting to € 26,889 thousand (previous year: € 19,026 thousand) can be broken down by region as follows: Germany € 25,894 thousand (previous The cash flows from investing activities comprise cash payments for investments in property, plant year: € 18,185 thousand) and international € 995 thousand (previous year: € 841 thousand). and equipment and in intangible assets (property, plant and equipment € 906 thousand and intangible The Segment Report itself is presented at the start of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial assets € 1,436 thousand) and for the acquisition of consolidated companies (€ 4,158 thousand). Statements. € 3,325 thousand of this amount was for the acquisition of the KLH companies in the financial year The delivery prices for transactions between the segments are generally agreed on the same basis and € 809 thousand for the conditional purchase price payment in connection with the acquisition of as transactions between a group company and a third party. Termotek AG in 2011. The investment volume for the year under review tallied with the target level for The Segment Report provides an analysis of earnings figures, assets and other key values. The 2013. segment information comprises both directly allocable amounts and amounts that can reasonably be split. The assets are distributed among those segments, the corresponding expenses and income for 31 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES which likewise influence the segment result. The assets of € 20,288 thousand not allocated to the individual areas therefore refer to cash and cash equivalents (€ 16,723 thousand), deferred tax assets Repayments amounting to € 4,234 thousand on short-term and long-term loans were made during (€ 2,721 thousand), current and non-current income tax receivable (€ 819 thousand), and other assets the year under review. These included scheduled repayments to German banks. The capital repay(€ 25 thousand). ments compare with € 6,600 thousand in newly raised long-term loans. In addition the amount of No reconciliation between the segment and consolidated data is required, as the figures in the € 776 thousand was distributed to shareholders. segment information coincide with those in the Consolidated Income Statement, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement. The result for the segments corresponds to the earnings before interest and 32 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD taxes (EBIT) in the Income Statement. The accumulated result for both segments of € 4,626 thousand, reduced by the net finance costs reported in the Income Statement of € 888 thousand, produces the Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits. It corresponds to the cash and cash equivalents accounting profit (€ 3,738 thousand). shown on the Balance Sheet. The two largest customers (OEM printing press manufacturers and OEM laser manufacturers) were each the source of more than 10 percent of consolidated revenue. Revenue was earned in both segments. There were no other customers with which more than 10 percent of revenue was generated. 128 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 129 VII. OTHER PARTICULARS NET GAINS OR LOSSES From From subsequent measurement From 2013 2012 2011 ON FINANCIAL INSTRUinterest disposal MENTS BY MEASUREMENT At fair value Currency Impairment 33 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CATEGORY translation The financial instruments (financial assets and liabilities) are allocated to the following categories. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 No offsetting of financial assets and liabilities was performed. Hedging instruments Section 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 and liabilities reported at fair value –8 – 208* 0 0 0 – 216 – 143 0 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Held-to-maturity investments 0 –6 0 0 0 –6 4 –3 Hedging instruments and liabilities reported at fair value Loans and receivables 20 0 –6 – 210 0 – 196 – 18 – 1,224 Market value of interest rate swaps 18 117 210 61 Financial liabilities measured at Non-current conditional purchase price 13 870 1,265 1,718 amortised cost – 714 0 0 0 0 – 714 – 673 – 822 Current conditional purchase price 18 931 761 444 – 702 – 214 –6 – 210 0 – 1,132 – 830 – 2,049 1,918 2,236 2,223 * OF WHICH € 9 THOUSAND RECOGNISED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT. Held-to-maturity investments Reinsurance for pensions 9 22 56 52 Classifications and Fair Values The following table shows the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities, including their Loans and receivables levels in the fair value hierarchy. It does not contain any information on the fair value for financial asRent deposits 5 38 39 173 sets and financial liabilities that were not measured at fair value if the carrying amount represents a Partial retirement bankruptcy cover 5 11 80 211 suitable approximation of the fair value. The various levels are as follows: Trade receivables 7 10,178 8,651 9,985 Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Receivables from suppliers 9 66 226 201 Level 2: Valuation factors other than quoted market prices that are directly (i.e. as prices) or Other current assets 9 596 331 79 indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) observable for assets or liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 10 16,723 18,715 12,798 Level 3: Valuation factors for assets and liabilities that are not based on observable market data 27,612 28,042 23,447 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Borrowings 12 14,913 9,328 16,561 Other financial liabilities 13 18 6 139 Trade payables 14 2,644 2,142 3,123 Debtors with credit balances 18 92 83 86 Other current liabilities 18 72 10 50 17,739 11,569 19,959 130 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 131 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 € 88 thousand. On the other hand, the consequences of a rise in the input factors would be limited to € 28 thousand because the conditional purchase price is a maximum of € 600 thousand. Changes Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Fair value amount value amount value amount value hierarchy in the discount rate by 1 percentage point would lead to an increase or decrease in the fair value of € 14 thousand. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 The call/put option with an expiry date of December 31, 2017 for the remaining 49 percent of the shares in gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH amounting to € 382 thousand was discounted at a risk-adjusted Financial liabilities measured interest rate at the balance sheet date and recognised as a liability. Changes in the discount rate may at fair value lead to changes in the fair value. A reduction in the discount rate by 1 percentage point would lead to an increase in the call/put option of € 12 thousand. Market value of interest rate swap – 117 – 117 – 195 – 195 – 61 – 61 Level 2 The conditional short-term purchase price payment from the purchase of Termotek AG on January Conditional long-term purchase price – 869 – 869 – 1,265 – 1,271 – 1,178 – 1,178 Level 3 1, 2011 was determined based on the 2013 financial statements of Termotek AG. The change in Conditional short-term purchase price – 931 – 931 – 761 – 761 – 444 – 444 Level 3 the fair value is € 130 thousand and was reported as interest expense with an income effect. The purchase price has already been paid in 2014 at the amount recognised as a liability. – 1,917 – 1,917 – 2,221 – 2,227 – 1,683 – 1,683 Reconciliation of Level 3 Fair Values Financial assets and liabilities The following table shows the reconciliation between the opening and closing amounts for Level 3 not measured at fair value fair values. Reinsurance for pensions 22 22 56 56 52 52 Conditional purchase prices Rent deposits 38 38 39 39 173 173 € ’000 Partial retirement bankruptcy cover 11 11 80 80 211 211 Trade Receivables 10,178 10,178 8,651 8,651 9,985 9,985 Position at January 1, 2013 2,026 Receivables from suppliers 66 66 226 226 201 201 Purchases 565 Other assets 596 596 331 331 79 79 Sales – 120 Cash and Cash Equivalents 16,723 16,723 18,715 18,715 12,798 12,798 Payments – 809 Borrowings – 14,913 – 15,170 – 9,328 – 9,445 – 16,561 – 16,609 Level 2 Loss recognised as financial charges Other non-current liabilities – 19 – 19 –6 –6 – 679 – 679 Change in fair value 130 Trade payables – 2,644 – 2,644 – 2,142 – 2,142 – 3,123 – 3,123 Interest cost 8 Debtors with credit balances – 92 – 92 – 98 – 98 – 86 – 86 Position at December 31, 2013 1,800 Other current liabilities – 72 – 72 – 10 – 10 – 50 – 50 Nature and Extent of Risks Associated with Financial Instruments 9,894 9,637 16,514 16,397 3,000 2,952 The credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a loss for the other par7,977 7,720 14,293 14,170 1,317 1,269 ty as a result of not meeting its obligations. The market risk is based on the fact that the fair value or Gains (+) or losses (–) not entered – 257 – 123 – 48 future cash flows from a financial instrument fluctuate as a result of changes in the market prices. The market risk assumes a more specific form in interest rate risks and exchange rate risks. The liquidity risk denotes the risk of crystallising difficulties in fulfilling financial obligations, e.g. the risk of being There were no transfers between the fair value hierarchy levels in the financial year. unable to prolong loans or secure new loans to repay loans due. The carrying amounts for the financial instruments (for example, cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and payables as well as other receivables and liabilities) fundamentally reflect their fair Credit Risks values. For receivables with a maturity of up to one year, their nominal value less the reductions for A substantial part of the credit risk for technotrans relates to the risk of defaulting on trade receivaimpairment applied provide the most reliable estimate of the fair value. The fair value of receivables bles and theoretically also the risk of the banks with which technotrans has credit balances declaring with a maturity of over one year is indicated by their discounted cash flows. bankruptcy. Banks are chosen on the basis of long-standing positive experiences and the banks’ ratings. The borrowings are an exception, because differences exist between the carrying amounts and There are credit risks equivalent to the reported carrying amounts of € 27,634 thousand. The trade fair values. The fair value of interest-bearing liabilities is indicated by the discounted cash flows from receivables are to some extent covered by credit insurance; the insured volume at the reporting date repayments and interest payments. The current reference interest rates of banks at the balance sheet was € 2,025 thousand. date were requested and used in determining fair values. In accordance with the term, the reference The bad debt risk entails a concentration of risk because the major printing press manufacturers interest rates were between 2.49 percent and 3.11 percent. An appropriate risk premium was added. worldwide account for a substantial portion of technotrans’ receivables. Significant bad debt losses had The market values of the interest rate swaps are calculated on the basis of observable expected been incurred from two printing press manufacturers in the previous years. Corresponding impairment returns of major German banks on the basis of the expected present value of the future cash flows. was applied. No significant bad debt losses were incurred in the financial year. The fair value of the conditional purchase price obligations for the KLH companies amounting to In the case of new customers, technotrans endeavours to limit the bad debt risk by obtaining credit € 571 thousand is determined on the basis of the discounted cash flow method. The valuation model information and monitoring credit limits with IT assistance. Here too there exists a degree of credit risk takes account of the present value of the expected payment based on the forecast EBIT margins (avebecause customers operate largely within the printing sector. rage 7.8 percent), discounted with a risk-adjusted interest rate of 2 percent. Material non-observable In addition to observing credit limits, technotrans regularly agrees retention of title until goods or factors are the forecast growth rates, the EBIT margins and the discount rate. Due to changes in the services have been paid for in full. technotrans does not usually demand security from customers. factors over time, the fair values may turn out to be higher or lower. A reduction in the EBIT margin of 1 percentage point would lead to a reduction of € 113 thousand in the fair value of the conditional purchase price payment. An average 10 percent reduction in revenue would lead to a reduction of 132 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 133 The credit risks from trade receivables can be broken down by region, customer group and age The following table shows the contractual due dates of financial liabilities, including any interest structure as follows: payments. 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 Contractual/ Due within Carrying expected € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 amount payment 6 6 – 12 1–2 2–5 over months months years years 5 years By region € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Germany 3,771 2,328 3,578 Other eurozone countries 2,528 3,274 2,328 At December 31, 2013: Rest of Europe 854 232 1,153 Borrowings 14,913 17,021 2,124 1,598 3,122 7,210 2,967 North America 1,246 768 1,202 Other non-current liabilities 888 982 n/a n/a 150 832 n/a South America 194 273 190 Trade payables 2,644 2,644 2,644 n/a n/a n/a n/a Asia and Middle East 1,585 1,776 1,534 Other current liabilities 1,095 1,095 1,095 n/a n/a n/a n/a 10,178 8,651 9,985 Interest rate swaps 117 117 14 6 21 25 51 19,657 21,859 5,877 1,604 3,293 8,067 3,018 By customer group OEM 4,542 3,322 6,469 At December 31, 2012 End customers 5,636 5,329 3,516 Borrowings 9,328 10,118 1,961 1,276 2,147 3,884 850 10,178 8,651 9,985 Other non-current liabilities 1,271 1,400 n/a n/a 897 382 121 Trade payables 2,142 2,142 2,142 n/a n/a n/a n/a By age structure of receivables (without impairment) Other current liabilities 854 854 854 n/a n/a n/a n/a Carrying amount 10,178 8,651 9,985 Interest rate swaps 210 210 28 12 24 50 96 of which: neither impaired nor overdue 7,081 5,248 6,640 13,805 14,724 4,985 1,288 3,068 4,316 1,067 of which: not impaired and overdue by up to 30 days 2,071 2,017 1,921 At December 31, 2011 overdue by between 31 and 60 days 425 577 641 Borrowings 16,561 17,543 2,713 7,603 2,438 3,877 912 overdue by between 61 and 90 days 208 238 357 Other non-current liabilities 1,857 1,976 n/a n/a 1,865 n/a 111 overdue by more than 90 days 393 571 426 Trade payables 3,123 3,123 3,123 n/a n/a n/a n/a Other current liabilities 641 641 641 n/a n/a n/a n/a 22,182 23,283 6,477 7,603 4,303 3,877 1,023 With regard to the trade receivables that are neither impaired nor overdue, there is no indication at the balance sheet date that the debtors will not meet their obligations to pay. Market Risks Liquidity Risk technotrans pursues the objective of only being exposed to interest rate risks to a limited degree. technotrans AG uses rolling financial and liquidity planning to determine its liquidity requirements. It Borrowings of € 7,390 thousand were therefore raised at a fixed interest rate. Long-term, variable-rate ensures that sufficient cash and cash equivalents are available at all times to settle liabilities. The cash loans are hedged by the use of interest rate swaps, which are not needed in the case of short-term and cash equivalents available are kept exclusively with banks with a very good credit rating. Continuing loans. Of the variable-rate loans totalling € 7,523 thousand, € 7,023 thousand is converted into fixedcredit facilities amounting to up to € 13.5 million (2012: € 13.2 million, 2011: € 7.8 million) also existed rate loans by means of interest rate swaps, leaving only € 500 thousand exposed to an interest rate at the balance sheet date. risk. The group does not report any fixed-rate financialassets and liabilities at fair value through profit As a result of the restructuring of external financing, formerly short-term loans were converted into and loss, apart from the conditional purchase prices. Derivatives (interest rate swaps) are not intenlong-term loans, thus reducing the risk of a short-term liquidity bottleneck. ded as hedging instruments for fair values. A change in the interest rate at the reporting date would therefore not influence the gain or loss. The carrying amounts of the interest rate swaps and reinsurance are equally exposed to an interest rate risk. The trade receivables as well as cash and cash equivalents are exposed to foreign currency risks. At December 31, 2013 the trade receivables were denominated for the most part in euros; other noteworthy components were denominated in US dollars (USD 1.3 million, equivalent to € 0.9 million) and Sterling (GBP 0.3 million, equivalent to € 0.4 million). At December 31, 2012 there had been foreign-currency receivables of USD 0.9 million (€ 0.7 million) and GBP 0.5 million (€ 0.6 million), and at December 31, 2011 of USD 1.3 million (€ 1.0 million) and GBP 0.4 million (€ 0.5 million). Bank credit balances are held predominantly in euros. At December 31, 2013 the group held significant foreign-currency accounts in US dollars (USD 4.6 million, equivalent to € 3.3 million) and Sterling (GBP 2.2 million, equivalent to € 2.6 million). The foreign currency amounts quoted are held essentially by technotrans AG and the local national companies within the group. At December 31, 2012 there had 134 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 135 been foreign-currency credit balances of USD 4.0 million (€ 3.0 million) and GBP 1.9 million (€ 2.4 milNominal Repaid Balance Fixed Variable Maturity Fair lion), and at December 31, 2011 of USD 3.7 million (€ 2.8 million) and GBP 1.9 million (€ 2.3 million). amount rate interest value Financial liabilities are denominated predominantly in euros. Net investments in a foreign operation are denominated mainly in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 % p. a. € ’000 and Brazilian reals. Changes in exchange rates would have an equity effect. Other foreign currency risks are limited within the technotrans Group by the fact that production Payer swap 3,688 2,797 891 2.81 3-month EURIBOR Sep. 2018 – 33 takes place principally within the eurozone, and that the currency of production usually corresponds to Payer swap 4,000 429 3,571 1.00 3-month EURIBOR Jan. 2020 – 20 the currency in which the customer is invoiced. Where significant discrepancies occur, this exchange Payer swap 1,500 0 1,500 2.70 3-month EURIBOR June 2017 – 51 risk is usually hedged against by means of derivative financial instruments. There were no currency hedging transactions at December 31, 2013. Payer swap 1,100 39 1,061 1.30 3-month EURIBOR Aug. 2020 – 13 Sensitivity Analysis The fair values are obtained from the measurement of the outstanding items, disregarding any A potential 10 percent appreciation in the euro compared with the principal foreign-exchange clocounter-cyclical trends in value from the positions. The fair values are calculated by major German sing rates throughout the group would have had the following effects on equity and profit after tax, banks on the basis of discounted cash flows (Level 2 according to IFRS 13.82). assuming that all other variables, and in particular interest rates remain unchanged: Interest Rate Swap Effect on Effect on The nominal amount or principal amount, terms, interest payment dates, interest rate adjustment equity profit after tax dates, due dates and currencies of the hedged item and hedging instrument are the same. In cases where a hedge exists for a future transaction, it was accounted for as a hedging relationship only if it € ’000 € ’000 was considered very probable that this transaction would occur. The efficiency of the hedge pursuant to IAS 39.88 (b) is high, reaching almost 100 percent. The requirements of IAS 39.88 are moreover At December 31, 2013 satisfied. USD 362 63 The interest rate swaps are recognised as a cash flow hedge at the market price; measurement GBP 70 12 gains and losses from changes in the market price are recognised in the hedging reserve, under equiBRL 433 4 ty, with no effect on income. The fair value of the hedging instruments at the balance sheet date is recognised at € 117 thousand under the current “Other Liabilities” (Section 18). The underlying loan transactions are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method. At December 31, 2012 The deferred tax on the negative market prices of € 23 thousand was netted against the hedging USD 315 43 reserve with no effect on income, with the result that the negative balance of the hedging reserve was GBP 237 13 increased to € 81 thousand. € ’000 At December 31, 2011 USD 275 59 Opening level at January 1, 2012 – 36 GBP 238 6 Additions Additions – 153 The figures reflect the impact on the period under review of changes in both the closing rate and the Deferred tax on these not affecting income 47 average rate, in each case based on a 10 percent change compared with the translation rates applied Reversals in the Income Statement in the respective consolidated financial statements. A corresponding weakening of the euro would have had the opposite effect. Reversals 10 Market risks from interest rate fluctuations exist only for the variable-rate borrowings, the interest Deferred tax on these not affecting income –4 rate swaps and, to a minor extent, the reinsurance. A rise in the interest rate for the borrowings of 1 Level at December 31, 2012 / January 1, 2013 – 136 percentage point would lead to a rise in interest expenses of € 5 thousand. A fall in the interest rate Additions of 1 percentage point would have a negative impact on the valuation of the interest rate swap and therefore on equity. Additions 87 Deferred tax on these not affecting income – 26 Hedging Instruments Reversals in the Income Statement At the balance sheet date, there existed the following derivative financial instruments for hedging Reversals –9 against the interest rate risk for variable interest-bearing loans denominated in euros (see Section 12); including these derivative financial instruments, the financial assets and financial liabilities are not Deferred tax on these not affecting income 3 exposed to any significant interest rate risk. Closing level at December 31, 2013 – 81 136 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 137 34 POTENTIAL LIABILITIES AND OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS of share-based payments; these shares had previously been acquired on the market under the share buy-back arrangements. At the time of their issuance, the total fair value of these shares was € 274 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 thousand (2012: € 143 thousand, 2011: € 184 thousand). This represents a market value of € 6.93 and up to 1 year 1 to 5 years over 5 years Total Total Total € 7.50 per share on the respective issuance dates. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 36 TOTAL EMPLOYEES, YEARLY AVERAGE Tenancy and operating lease agreements 954 2,348 1,555 4,857 3,416 4,465 2013 2012 2011 Maintenance agreements 962 1,368 995 3,325 1,126 1,162 Conditional purchase price 0 0 0 0 4,743 0 Average number of employees 763 646 659 Other 324 0 0 324 88 359 of which in Germany 606 498 501 2,240 3,716 2,550 8,506 9,373 5,986 of which abroad 157 148 158 Potential liabilities and other financial commitments are measured at their nominal amount; Technicians/skilled workers 470 424 407 amounts in foreign currency were measured at the closing rate. Academic background 171 123 146 The future obligations from tenancy and lease agreements relate primarily to tenancy obligations Trainees 66 46 48 for the business premises of subsidiaries and to the vehicle leasing agreements concluded. The increOther 56 53 58 ase is substantially the result of the increased scope of consolidation. The expenditure for tenancy and lease agreements (minimum lease payments) in the year under review amounted to € 1,827 thousand (2012: € 1,610 thousand, 2011: € 1,433 thousand). 37 RELATED PARTIES KLH Kältetechnik GmbH holds a limited partnership share of 94 percent of SHT Immobilienbesitz GmbH & Co. Vermietungs KG, the owner of factory premises in Bad Doberan which are let out to KLH “Related parties” include the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of Kältetechnik GmbH. From an economic perspective KLH Kältetechnik GmbH bears all opportunities technotrans AG, as well as their close family members. and risks from this lease agreement. The company is included in consolidation as a special purpose Since the 2011 financial year the remuneration system for the Board of Management has met the laentity as defined by SIC-12. The real estate is reported on the Balance Sheet under property plant and test standards and the statutory requirements of the Act on the Appropriateness of Management Board equipment, see Notes, Section 1 “Property, Plant and Equipment”. Compensation (German VorstAG). Please refer to the “Report on the Remuneration System of the Board Aside from this, technotrans has not concluded any lease agreements that constitute finance leaof Management” in the Management Report for the group for information on the payment components. ses pursuant to IAS 17. The maintenance agreements relate in the main to the ERP data processing system. The purchase price obligation reported in the previous year from the purchase of the shares of KLH PAYMENTS TO MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 2013 2012 2011 Kältetechnik GmbH, Bad Doberan (Germany), KLH Cooling International Pte. Ltd., Singapore (SingapoAND SUPERVISORY BOARD € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 re), and Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd., Taicang (PR China) on December 12, 2012 was paid upon the transfer of the shares with effect from January 1. The remaining conditional price dependent Board of Management on the profit performance in the years 2013 to 2017 was recognised as a liability in the financial year and reported under the current “Other Liabilities” (Section 18). Regular payments of which fixed 657 612 539 35 PERSONNEL EXPENSES of which variable 355 381 305 1,012 993 844 2013 2012 2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Supervisory Board Regular payments Wages and salaries 30,853 27,016 27,467 of which fixed 79 79 77 Christmas bonus (Christmas shares) 245 143 184 of which variable 40 42 41 Share-based payments 29 0 0 119 121 118 Social insurance 5,077 4,759 4,961 Expenses for retirement benefits and maintenance payments 818 733 612 In addition to the remuneration paid in the financial year, the members of the Board of Management 37,022 32,651 33,224 are entitled to a profit share of € 260 thousand that is conditional on the attainment of future targets focusing on sustainability. The regular payments to the Board of Management (fixed) include payments by the company for The item wages and salaries also includes payments made in connection with the termination of defined contribution plans totalling € 90 thousand (2012: € 45 thousand, 2011: € 45 thousand). employment of € 26 thousand (2012: € 108 thousand, 2011: € 416 thousand). No employer’s pension commitment has been made towards the members of the Board of ManageSocial insurance comprises expenditure for defined contribution plans (employer contributions to ment, nor have loans been granted to them or surety obligations accepted on their behalf. the compulsory state pension scheme) totalling € 2,727 thousand (2012: € 2,325 thousand, 2011: The members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are listed separately in the € 2,133 thousand). section “Corporate Bodies”. In the reporting period 33,918 (2012: 22,629, 2011: 43,740) ordinary shares in technotrans AG were distributed to employees by way of a Christmas bonus, as well as 4,152 ordinary shares in the form 138 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 139 DIRECTORS’ HOLDINGS Shares (BOARD OF MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BOARD MEMBERS) 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 Board of Management Henry Brickenkamp 45,037 40,000 40,000 Dirk Engel 10,000 10,000 5,200 Dr Christof Soest 10,764 3,764 444 Supervisory Board Reinhard Aufderheide* 3,309 Dr. Norbert Bröcker 250 250 250 Heinz Harling 64,854 64,854 64,854 Thomas Poppenberg* 506 Helmut Ruwisch 1,500 1,500 1,500 Dieter Schäfer 0 0 0 Family members Marian Harling 1,000 1,000 1,000 * MEMBER OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD SINCE MAY 16, 2013. 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Management and Supervisory Board submitted the Declaration of Conformity pursuant to Section 161 of German Stock Corporation Act in September 2013 and provided permanent access to it for shareholders and interested parties on the company’s website (www.technotrans.de). 39 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE The date for release of the annual financial statements by the Board of Management pursuant to IAS 10.17 is February 27, 2014. These Consolidated Financial Statements are subject to approval by the Supervisory Board (Section 171 (2) of German Stock Corporation Act). No further events of particular significance affecting the financial performance, financial position or net worth of the company occurred after the end of the 2013 financial year. 40  DISCLOSURES OF INTERESTS REPORTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 21 (1) OR (1A) OF GERMAN SECURITIES TRADING ACT Reported development Threshold Date on New Disclosures on attribution value* which interest exceeded in voting or undercut power Reporting party in % Datum in % Objectif Small Caps Euro, Paris, France >5 17/05/2010 5.28 Lazard Frères Gestion SAS, Paris, Frankreich technotrans AG, Sassenberg >5 12/03/2008 5.02 – Midlin NV, Maarsbergen, Teslin Capital Management BV, the Netherlands >3 15/01/2010 3.02 Maarsbergen, Niederlande Erste Abwicklungsanstalt, Düsseldorf <3 25/02/2013 2.93 – Lupus alpha Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH, Frankfurt <3 13/08/2013 2.83 – * MOVED ABOVE (>) OR BELOW (<). 140 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FINANCIAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENT / technotrans Annual Report 2013 141 CORPORATE BODIES BOARD OF MANAGEMENT MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Dipl. Wirtsch.-Ing. Henry Brickenkamp Reinhard Aufderheide Board of Management Spokesman technotrans AG, Sassenberg (employees’ representative since 16 May 2013) S  ales Director since 2005, deputy Board member from 2006, full Board member Klaus Beike, MBA & Eng. since 2007 and Board of Management Spokesman since May 2008. Responsible for technotrans AG, Sassenberg (employees’ representative till 16 May 2013) Products and Markets (Sales and Service world-wide, Business Units, tt industrial system solutions and Marketing) Dr. Norbert Bröcker Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dipl.-Kfm. Dirk Engel Partner in Hoffmann Liebs Fritsch & Partner, Düsseldorf Member of the Board of Management Dipl.-Ing. Heinz Harling H  ead of Group Accounts since April 2004, Finance Director since 2006, with r­esponsibility Chairman of the Supervisory Board of technotrans AG for ­F inance and Administration (Finance/Controlling, Human Resources, IT, Legal Support and ­Investor Relations) Matthias Laudick technotrans AG, Sassenberg (employees’ representative till 16 May 2013) Dr.-Ing., Dipl.-Wirtsch.-Ing. Christof Soest Member of the Board of Management Thomas Poppenberg technotrans AG, Sassenberg (employees’ representative since 16 May 2013) T echnical Director since January 2011, Member of the Board since June 2011, responsible for Technology and Operations (Production and Quality Management world-wide, Procurement, Helmut Ruwisch ­Logistics, Research & Development, Controls and CPS) Chairman of the Board of Managment of MFO AG, Elsdorf Chairman of the Advisory Board of Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal Member of the Supervisory Board of Conpair AG, Essen Member of the Advisory Board of Emons Spedition GmbH, Köln 1 Member of the Supervisory Board of Thyssen’sche Handelsgesellschaft mbH, Mülheim a.d.R. Member of the Supervisory Board of Cloppenburg Automobil SE, Düsseldorf Dieter Schäfer Industry consultant for mechanical engineering companies Chairman of the Audit Committees of technotrans AG Committees Audit Committee: Messrs Schäfer, Harling, Ruwisch Nominating Committee: Messrs Harling, Bröcker, Ruwisch, Schäfer Personnel Committee: Messrs Harling, Bröcker, Ruwisch 1 resigned as of 31 October 2013 142 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FURTHER INFORMATION FURTHER INFORMATION / technotrans Annual Report 2013 143 PROPOSAL OF THE APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT BY THE MANAGEMENT The Board of Management and Supervisory Board propose to the Shareholders’ Meeting that the To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles for finan­ accumulated profit of technotrans AG be distributed as follows: cial reporting, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group, and the management report of the group includes a € fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development Distribution of a dividend of € 0.20 per no par value share of the group. on the dividend-bearing share capital 1,298,694.80 Profit carried forward 2,086,557.06 Sassenberg, February 27, 2014 Accumulated profit 3,385,251.86 technotrans AG The shares held by the company do not qualify for dividends pursuant to Section 71b of German Stock Corporation Act. Based on the dividend-bearing share capital of technotrans AG of € 6,493,474.00 at the date of release of the annual financial statements by the Board of ­Management, the amount to be distributed is thus € 1,298,694.80. The number of dividend-bearing shares may increase or decrease up to the time of the Shareholders’ Meeting as a result of the acquisition or sale of treasury shares. In that instance, a correspondingly modified resolution on the amount of profit to Brickenkamp Engel Dr. Soest be appropriated will be put to the Shareholders’ Meeting, based on an unchanged dividend of € 0.20 Board of Management Spokesman Finance Director Technical Director per dividend-bearing share. 144 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FURTHER INFORMATION FURTHER INFORMATION / technotrans Annual Report 2013 145 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared by technotrans AG – com­prising the Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Statement of Movements in Equity and Notes – as well as the Group Management Report for the financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2013. The preparation and the content of the Consolidated Financial Statements and Group Management Report in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, and in accordance with the supplementary requirements under commercial law pursuant to Section 315a (1) of German Commercial Code, are the responsibility of the company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Group Management Report on the basis of our audit. We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Section 317 of German Commercial Code, observing the German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that we can establish with reasonable assurance whether the representation of the financial position and financial performance, as reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in keeping with the applicable accounting standards, as well as in the Group Management Report, contains any material misstatements and irregularities. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the group and evaluations of possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the internal accounting controls system and the evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements and Group Management Report are examined predominantly on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the individual financial statements included in the Consolidated F­ inancial Statements, the definition of the group, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and Group Management Report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our audit has not led to any reservations. In our opinion, formed on the basis of our audit, the Consolidated Financial Statements are in accor­dance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, as well as with the supplementary requirements under commercial law pursuant to Section 315a Para. 1 of German Commercial Code and, on the basis of those requirements, give a true and fair view of the financial position and financial performance of the group. The Group Management Report is in agreement with the Consolidated Financial Statements, on the whole provides a suitable understanding of the group’s position and suitably presents the risks of future development. Bielefeld, den 10. März 2014 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Hunke Schröder Independent Auditor Independent Auditor 146 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FURTHER INFORMATION FURTHER INFORMATION / technotrans Annual Report 2013 147 THE SUCCESS STORY 1970 Founding of the company 2004 Start of development work on the new cleaning systems product area Opening a further sales and service office in Yokohama, Japan 1973 Initial contacts with the audio media and printing industry 2005 Constuction of new production plant at Gersthofen 1977 Production of the first dampening solution equipment 2006 M  erger of the two American production locations in Chicago 1981 Development of a seperate product line for dampening solution preparation systems Establishment of the subsidiary in Brazil Opening of a further sales and service office in Madrid, Spain 1987 Launch of the first ink temperature control systems 2007 Entry into the new product area of cleaning systems, with the first of the contex.c 1990 Management Buy-out blanket cleaners installed at end customers technotrans graphics ltd. is founded in Colchester, Great Britain Establishment of the subsidiary in Dubai (UAE) Launch of the new system component concept for ancillary equipment on Establishment of the subsidiary in Moscow (Russia) printing presses Opening of a further sales and service office in Shanghai (China) technotrans is one of the world’s three largest suppliers of Opening of a further sales and service office in Melbourne (Australia) dampening solution preparation systems 2008 T wo employees’ representatives are elected to the Supervisory Board (One-Third E­ mployee 1992 technotrans becomes original equipment supplier for the Heidelberg Speedmaster Representation Act) and MAN-Roland 700 presses Transfer of the cleaning systems product area to Sassenberg 1993 technotrans france s. a. r. l. is founded 2009 P  roduction operations are halted at the Mt. Prospect (USA) and Gersthofen (Germany) locations and transferred to Sassenberg, and the structures in Asia are consolidated 1995 technotrans america inc. is established in Atlanta, Georgia, USA Emancipation of the division global document solutions as a service provider for Technical 1997 Transformation into a stock corporation documentation, the gds AG was formed. Founding of technotrans printing equipment (Beijing) Co. Ltd., People’s Republic of China 2010 Transfer of technical operations for ink supply systems from Gersthofen to Sassenberg 1998 T akeover of BVS Grafische Technik GmbH, which is renamed Partnership with Termotek AG, resulting in entry into the laser market technotrans systems GmbH Business Units define and evaluate 30 projects outside the printing industry Initial public offering 2011 Acquisition  of Termotek AG 1999 Founding of technotrans technologies pte. ltd. in Singapore technotrans becomes serial supplier of the toolsmart (for cooling lubricant preparation) to Founding of the subsidiary technotrans italia s.r.l. in Milan Sauer GmbH Merger with the subsidiary technotrans systems GmbH to form technotrans AG 2012 Partnership with KLH Kältetechnik GmbH resulting in increased presence in the market for 2000 Takeover of the American company Ryco Graphic Manufacturing, Inc. (Chicago) laser cooling systems and merger with technotrans america inc. Merger of Chinese production operations at the KLH location in Taicang Spray lubrication for forming technology makes debut at the Euroblech show 2001 Takeover of the American Steve Barberi Company Inc. and its subsidiary, Acquisition of a majority interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH by gds AG Farwest Graphic Technologies LLC, of Corona, near Los Angeles, California, USA, renamed technotrans america west, inc. 2013  cquisition of majority interests in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH and its sister companies A Takeover of the Electroforming Division of Toolex International N.V., in Singapore and PR China which now operates as technotrans scandinavia AB, Tåby, Sweden Establishment of technotrans japan k.k., Kobe, Japan, as a sales and service company Establishment of technotrans china ltd., Hong Kong, as a sales and service company 2002 Transfer of activities from Atlanta to the principal American location in Chicago 2003 Consolidation of international production capacities and relocation of assembly from technotrans graphics ltd., Colchester, Great Britain, to Sassenberg 148 technotrans Annual Report 2013 / FURTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE CALENDAR Annual Report 2014 March 11, 2014 Analyst Meeting and Annual Press Conference March 11, 2014 Interim Report 1-3/2014 May 13, 2014 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting May 15, 2014 Interim Report 1-6/2014 August 22, 2014 Interim Report 1-9/2014 November 7, 2014 Annual Report 2014 March 10, 2015
