Communication on Progress 12 May 2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Qualcomm Incorporated reaffirms our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Steve Mollenkopf Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress 12 May 2015 Our Commitment to Human Rights and Our Key Accomplishments Qualcomm is committed to respecting human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse, throughout our company, our operations and our communities. Our efforts are informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our membership in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and our participation in BSR’s Human Rights Working Group and the UN Global Compact further augment our efforts. Working with other companies in these multi-industry groups provides us with an opportunity to share best practices and discuss challenges in developing companywide solutions to address human rights concerns. Over the past year, we continued to make progress on this commitment. We conducted our annual risk assessment of our operations, which includes the consideration, review and prioritization of various company risks by a cross-functional group of key representatives from our legal, finance, human resources and internal audit teams. We updated Our Commitment to Human Rights, a statement formalizing our commitment to respecting human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse throughout our company, our operations and our communities. We worked as part of the EICC’s UN Guiding Principles Task Force to help strengthen the link between the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and EICC’s work. Qualcomm also responded to the Company Action Platform survey from the Business and Human Rights Resource Center about our policies and practices on human rights. The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct highlights the laws and regulations employees must know and follow, and it describes our common responsibilities—to our customers and business partners, to our stockholders, to our company and to one another. It covers a wide range of topics, including anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, proper record-keeping, workplace safety and security, import-export controls, ethical selection of suppliers, human rights, our environmental responsibility and more. We provide The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct to all employees worldwide and require them to acknowledge they’ve read it as well as complete an online training. We also offer additional live trainings on The Qualcomm Way as needed. We updated our internal website to make it easier for employees worldwide to access country-specific ethics policies and frequently asked questions. In keeping with our open-door culture, each page of the site also invites employees to ask questions or raise concerns, with the option of doing so in-person, via email or via our Business Conduct Hotline, which is available 24 hours a day and can be used anonymously where permitted by law. We respond to reports of misconduct as quickly and as confidentially as possible. This year, Qualcomm also launched our new external sustainability website, which features detailed information about our programs on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, among other sustainability topics, and provides opportunities for our stakeholders to contact us directly. As of May 2015, Qualcomm Wireless Reach™ had more than 100 projects in various stages of development in over 40 countries. These advanced wireless projects strengthen economic and social development with a focus on education, entrepreneurship, health care, the environment and public safety. Last year, Wireless Reach invested in programs that specifically target the UN Millennium Development Goals of universal education, gender equality and child and maternal health. We were proud to receive a 100 percent score on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index in 2015. Information about our other awards related to the UN Global Compact Principles is available here. Our policies, implementation efforts and outcomes related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact for the past year are detailed below. For more information on Qualcomm's commitments, please contact humanrights@qualcomm.com. Communication on Progress 12 May 2015 Global Compact Principles Qualcomm’s Commitments Human Rights Policies and Implementation Principle 1: Businesses should support and The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct respect the protection of internationally Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct proclaimed human rights; and Our Commitment to Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit Outcomes in human rights abuses. 2014 Qualcomm Sustainability Report Our 2014 GRI Content Index Qualcomm Sustainability Website Labour Policies and Implementation Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct freedom of association and the effective Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Our Commitment to Human Rights Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Outcomes Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; 2014 Qualcomm Sustainability Report and Our 2014 GRI Content Index Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in Qualcomm Sustainability Website respect of employment and occupation. Environmental Policies and Implementation Principle 7: Businesses should support a The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct precautionary approach to environmental Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct challenges; Our Commitment to Human Rights Our Environmental Guiding Principles Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Outcomes Principle 9: Encourage the development and 2014 Qualcomm Sustainability Report diffusion of environmentally friendly Our 2014 GRI Content Index technologies. Qualcomm Sustainability Website Qualcomm Wireless Reach™ Qualcomm Products Qualcomm Smart Cities Anti-Corruption Policies and Implementation Principle 10: Businesses should work against The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct bribery. Our Commitment to Human Rights Code of Ethics Corporate Governance Outcomes 2014 Qualcomm Sustainability Report Our 2014 GRI Content Index Qualcomm Sustainability Website
