CSR Report 2014 focus on performance What is a bank’s role in society? A bank gives loans if needed to companies and banking cards for citizens. If there were no banks, most companies would fall.” Josefina Mätäsaho, Nordea branch office employee. You can pay bills in a bank and a bank also gives credit. Pretty important things. With the loans from banks companies can create new things and develop their business. Without a bank, new things wouldn’t happen.” Olavi Kanerva, Nordea branch manager. The Kalajärvi school’s 6th graders visited Me & MyCity in Espoo, Finland, in November 2014 Me & MyCity is a learning concept on entrepreneurship, Me & My City was a 2014 WISE Awards Winner. It was one of economy and society for 6th grade pupils in Finland. The six projects chosen by World Innovation Summit for Education study module consists of teacher training, a ten-lesson study (WISE) for providing a compelling, innovative solution to one of module and a visit to the learning environment. today’s most pressing challenges in education. The key innovation identified by the assessors was the fact that Me & MyCity The Me & MyCity learning environment is a miniature society is free of cost for the schools and integrated into the national where the pupils work in a profession and act as consumers curriculum. The programme is designed to have high impact on and citizens in their own society for one day. Nordea has been both 6th grade students as well as indirect beneficiaries such as a partner for Me & MyCity since 2012. Nordea’s employees teachers, companies and university students. Me & MyCity was volunteer for teacher training on the bank’s role in society. seen to be implemented with quality, consistency and scale. CSR at Nordea Contents CSR at Nordea 04 Welcome from our CEO 06 Nordea at a glance To download a copy and for further information please visit www.nordea.com/csr We welcome your feedback. Contact us at csr@nordea.com 08 How we work with CSR Society Society 15 Our financial impact 15 Generating customer value 16 Our societal impact 20 Our environmental impact Customers Customers 25 Relationships built on trust 25 Banking on demand 26 Co-creation for digital solutions 27 Responding to customer feedback 28 Responsible lending 29 Responsible investments People People 33 Enhancing our leadership 34 Creating a performance culture 34 Improving health and safety 35 Managing our talent 36 Listening to our people 37 Addressing gender balance Suppliers Suppliers 39 Becoming a supplier to Nordea 39 Managing supplier performance 40 CSR Review: Aligned for success Performance data Performance data 46 Social data 42 Overview of corporate governance structure 50 Environmental data 44 Commitments & policies 53 Supplier data 45 Taxation data 54 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report Welcome from our CEO For us as a relationship bank, the core of responsibility is to remain a robust and trusted financial partner at any time, financing our customers’ plans and dreams and providing sustainable advice. 2014 was a year where growth expectations disappointed, Acting with integrity and building trust inflation and interest rates turned towards zero in our sociWe are proud of the achievements made by each and eties and unforeseen global geopolitical tensions rose. every one of my committed colleagues in 2014. But it is of course not only about what you achieve it is also In this challenging environment I’m pleased that Nordea how you do it. Acting with integrity is not only the right continued to deliver robust results and further strengththing to do. It supports a culture that is aligned with ened our capital position, safeguarding our ability to society’s expectations. And I believe that is how we will deliver great customer experiences at any time. secure enduring business success. We welcomed more new customers and strengthened our It is vital that we walk the talk, and this year we have set relations with existing customers, financing their activities CSR commitments across the whole business, many of and facilitating growth in our societies. Last year 90,000 which are already goals for the business areas. These new relationship customers chose Nordea as their financial will integrate CSR more deeply into our operations, focus partner, and we were trusted with more savings, reaching management attention and help us drive up performance an all-time high EUR 262bn in assets under management. over time. 4 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea This year we have set CSR focus areas that will integrate CSR more deeply into our operations. Society In preparing this report we have applied the Global to these changes and make everyday services even Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines to sustaineasier and more convenient to use and to create more ability reporting for the first time, and working through personalised and relevant solutions for each customer. the materiality process has helped us to focus on what We took a significant step in this direction in 2014, as we really matters and makes a difference to us and our started simplifying our processes in all parts of the bank. stakeholders. We will over the coming years build new core banking Customers and payment platforms, significantly increasing our agilDriving CSR through the business ity, scale benefit and resilience with the aim to ensure In tandem with this sharper focus to our CSR perforgreat customer experiences also in the future. mance, we have reorganised the governance of CSR. In 2014, we established a new CSR Committee, headed Promoting positive environmental impact by Gunn Wærsted, Head of Wealth Management, which As any business should, we strive to reduce the negative oversees the execution of our strategy. The work is led environmental impacts of our operation. Increasingly we by our CSR unit that can call on a task force, the CSR aim to use our investments, lending and purchasing to Stakeholder Network, comprised by representatives from promote positive environmental change. This year we all parts of Nordea. These governance changes will help have entered the Green Bonds market and now act as integrate CSR activities into all parts of our business. an arranger for our customers. This is a fast-growing area of investments that distributes capital to initiatives Articulating our impact on society with positive environmental benefits such as mitigating People We continue to harvest the input from our extensive climate change. stakeholder dialogue process from 2013. The topics raised point to a wider debate about the role of banks in Accounting for our performance society, and in this year’s report we put specific focus to This year we have taken some big steps. We have begun how we see our role in society. to explore in detail our role in the society of the future, we have reorganised the governance of CSR and we It begins as a source of finance, helping our customers have made some commitments around our performance. to realise their dreams and ambitions, but goes further I invite you to tell us what you think. Because it is only of course. through listening to you, our stakeholders, that we can understand precisely what society expects of us. It’s also being an employer that pays taxes as well as making a difference in our engagement with the commuI hope you enjoy the report. Do give us your feedback by nities where we operate. We tackle financial crime, which emailing csr@nordea.com. Suppliers undermines legitimate economic activity and diverts much-needed public resources. Through our work with young people around financial literacy, entrepreneurship and access to employment, we help them earn and save, be productive members of society and ultimately to achieve their personal goals. Christian Clausen Transforming to meet our President and Group CEO customer’s future demands In 2014 we also took the next steps in the transformation to meet our customers’ future demands. The digitalisation is changing our societies and consequently also affecting Nordea, as it is affecting other industries. The number of new mobile banking users increases by Performance data 1,000 each and every day, and during 2014 the number of mobile transactions grew by 90%, illustrating the pace of the changing behaviour among our customers. It is a challenging transformation, but it is first and foremost an exciting opportunity to deliver great customer experiences in new ways. It is our firm ambition to adapt Nordea CSR Report 2014 5 Nordea at a glance A Nordic bank with a global reach Nordea is the largest financial services group in Northern Europe. Finland Nordea has leading positions within corNorway Russia porate and institutional banking as well as retail banking and private banking. It is Sweden also the leading provider of life and penEstonia sions products in the Nordic countries. Latvia Formal name: Nordea Bank AB (publ.) Denmark Lithuania Legally registered in Sweden with head offices in Stockholm. We operate in: Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Russia • Operations Centre (NOC) in Poland with 741 employees • International branches in Frankfurt, London, New York, Shanghai & Singapore and representative offices in Beijing and Sao Paulo. A total of 300 employees who are a mix of locals and expatriates (40 in 2014). • The largest Nordic private bank in Luxembourg and Switzerland. OVER 10,000,000 32,264 % of women as managers: 43% Total number of customers Total number of employees 58% 42% 32% 53% 36% 45% Denmark Finland Norway Sweden 1,819,735 customers 3,098,834 customers 969,095 customers 4,437,759 customers 9,051 employees 7,704 employees 3,433 employees 7,578 employees 6 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea The Nordea share: liquidity & analysis Key figures Listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange in Stockholm, Helsinki and Copenhagen. 10,224m Total operating income, EUR Society With high market capitalisation and high liquidity, the share is included in key indices. Sustainability indices: FTSE4Good, OMXSustain Strong dividend 4,324m Operating profit, EUR The three largest shareholders at the end of 2014 were: Sampo plc with 21.4% (21.4% in 2013) of the shares Nordea Fonden with 3.9% (3.9%) and 15.7% Common Equity Tier capital ratio Customers Swedbank Robur Funds 3.4% (3.2%) 11.5% 445,331 39,8% Return on equity 15 b.p.s. shareholders of shareholders are who hold 4,034,032,732 shares. responsible investors (34,1% in 2013) Loan loss ratio People Suppliers 1,200 Number of contracted suppliers 0.62 Proposed dividend, EUR per share Spending 2,300,000,000 € 51% Suppliers Primary locations of Industries: IT services, -software and -hardware, Other contracted suppliers: Countries main operations in the Nordic region, travel, facility management, furniture, marketing. 8,000 customers other locations India, US and EU. 1,539 employees 63% 60% 69% 57% Performance data Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia 152,598 customers 115,008 customers 165,150 customers 22,000 customers 537 employees 484 employees 399 employees 1,539 employees Nordea CSR Report 2014 7 How we work with CSR Nordea is actively committed to building trust in the financial industry by increasing our transparency, improving engagement with our customers and always acting with integrity. Integrating sustainability Over the past year we have taken our commitment to a structured and integrated approach to sustainability forward by developing group-wide CSR focus areas at the core of our business. This work will continue in the years ahead, leading to Nordea having more measurable CSR goals. We want to use our capabilities and competencies not only to have a financial impact, but to have a social impact too. The two go hand in hand; conscious of our responsibilities, we can operate in a way that makes a difference to the lives of individuals and to society at large. CSR means business We approach CSR in the same way that we approach our business in general: in a well-planned, structured, measurable and actively managed fashion. As shown in Illustration 1, we have an annual CSR process in place, starting with (1) understanding what our stakeholders Transparency is the way to tackle CSR challenges Gunn Waersted, Head of Wealth Management, Chairman of the CSR Committee People are increasingly concerned about What we must remember is: this is not There is great potential to engage how business operates. This is certainly about being perfect, it’s about striving our customers more in this topic. Our true for banks. As a very large bank in to become better. It is like the onion household customers are increasingly the Nordics, and one of the larger ones you peel, with each layer you take off, interested in responsible investment in Europe, we know our stakeholders – it becomes more complicated. We products which have been screened for our employees, customers, regulators have to accept that and deal with it. sustainability credentials. and the society at large – now focus The worst thing we could do would be much more on how we conduct our to shy away because the issues are Personally, I want us to be more proacbusiness. I welcome this development. difficult. tive and increase our level of ambition. That will mean some difficult discussions We aim to create great customer experiSo how do we solve this? The only way but I see a willingness to work through ences, generate increasing value for is by being transparent. We need to be those to reach the best outcome. One our shareholders and be an attractive clear about what kind of business we that is consistent with our values. This employer in the markets where we opershould and shouldn’t do and transpardemands we have clear guidelines on ate. And I want us to do that in a way ent about how we have reached our what CSR means to us, and how it that benefits society in the long term. decisions. For example, soft commodiguides our actions. The do’s and don’ts. ties like coffee and sugar. We have CSR is far too important to be only This is not always easy. We operate in decided not to offer products based good intentions and ‘fluffy’ language. many different industries and across on them to our savings and investment borders with a range of perceptions customers. Although scientific evidence We have a responsibility to think and act about what is and is not sustainable. is mixed, the UN concluded trading had in the long term. With clarity, transparAs an example, in Norway, the tobacco an effect on the prices of raw materials. ency and commitment, I am sure we can industry is controversial; whereas in So we have acted in the way we think do more and see Nordea have a greater Sweden it is less so. This can make best for our customers, our business positive impact in the world. group decision-making challenging. and wider society. 8 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea 1. The CSR process in Nordea are telling us; (2) identifying the key issues with the business; (3) revisiting the CSR strategy; (4) defining our LISTENING TO status; and finally (5) reporting on our progress. Society STAKEHOLDERS Measurable CSR focus areas In 2014, we deepened the definition of our goals and 1 formed a more structured and measurable CSR programme. We focused our materiality discussions this year on establishing a list of measurable CSR focus IDENTIFYING KEY ISSUES areas for the group, many of which are already goals for Stakeholder survey the business areas. These focus areas, approved by our CSR Committee in November 2014, are the first step in setting a new CSR ambition level and measuring our 2 performance against those goals. Discussions with REVISITING THE business & support In June 2014, we initiated the materiality process with our CSR STRATEGY Customers units three business areas – Retail Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wealth Management – in addition to Group HR and Group Procurement. Our goal was to make sure that we 3 address the most important topics, by first understanding where CSR issues of concern to our various stakeholders DEFINING STATUS might have significant impact on the business. To identify Discussion in CSR & GOALS those topics, we revisited the feedback from the extensive Committee & GEM stakeholder dialogue we held in 2013, along with customer and employee feedback. We also looked at feedback from the dialogues we held in 2014 with targeted stakeholder 4 groups, namely analysts and suppliers. Discussion with REPORTING Stakeholder The discussions put a special focus on the non-financial People Board & GEM impact a bank has on society. All the CSR issues raised were discussed in relation to Nordea’s short and longterm business goals. This helped us determine and GEM= Group Executive 5 prioritise the most material issues for our business. The Management. outcome of the discussions is the list of CSR focus Ongoing status on areas that can be found in Table 3. performance and annual report This is not about being perfect, it’s about striving to become better. Gunn Waersted, Head of Wealth Management Suppliers The material aspects are grouped according to the stakemeasurable goals. This will be implemented holder group they most strongly impact: society, customwithin the business areas, and coordinated by the ers, people or suppliers. In addition, we have also identified CSR Committee. other material aspects to these areas. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 index, including materiality CSR as part of our identity and boundaries, can be found on www.nordea.com/csr. In 2014, Nordea’s communications department underwent a strategic restructure combining the Performance data Making an assessment of our material issues is not CSR unit with Group Marketing and Group Identity a one-time activity; issues increase or decrease in & Communications to create Group Marketing importance to stakeholders, and the potential risks to and Communications. The new set-up is headed our business will change over time. This process has by Helena Andreas and reports to the CEO. provided a firm foundation for our CSR work, and will It allows us to use our strong business-driven continue – and improve – in 2015. The next step is to CSR activities in our communications, and make introduce a clear ambition for our CSR work along with sustainability an integral part of Nordea’s brand.  Nordea CSR Report 2014 9 Listening to stakeholders In December 2014, we conducted another survey to Every three years, we carry out a large-scale dialogue with understand what proportion of Nordea’s shareholders all our stakeholder groups. In Spring 2013, participation in can be defined as responsible investors, who they are the very extensive stakeholder dialogue exceeded all our and what the changes have been since the end of 2013. expectations, and we continued to analyse and incorporate those findings into our materiality work in 2014. Our commitments and policies Our core CSR policies are found in our Code of Conduct Based on that dialogue, in 2013 we introduced a new, and the Nordea Sustainability Policy. The Code of more comprehensive CSR strategy, which was subseConduct is based on the ten principles of the United quently modified to include more fundamental, strategiNation’s Global Compact. The Nordea Sustainability cally important parts of our core business. Policy spells out the Group’s values and commitments to ethical business. Both apply to all employees and all who In 2014, we held individual dialogues with internawork on behalf of Nordea. tional analysts who actively focus on the financial sector. We received very valuable feedback on curThe main policies and international commitments are rent and upcoming trends, as well as our own CSR supported by specific and concrete internal policies to communications. A breakdown of the findings can ensure compliance in everyday business. Examples are be found in Table 2. Our normal feedback mechathe human resources policies, the anti-corruption polinisms for customer and employee feedback and cies, and several investment and credit policies. See the satisfaction also proved useful. Those results are Data section p. 48 for more information on how we apply also covered in Table 2. these commitments.  2. Nordea’s stakeholder groups and engagement in 2014 Stakeholder Methods of engagement Participation Feedback topics More information group Customers •• Customer satisfaction survey •• 20,285 responses •• Branch service personnel Customers Over 10 million •• Immediate automated feedback •• 265,518 responses •• Service accessibility p. 27 •• Customer Ombudsmen •• 160,417 pcs of •• Contact person/Personal feedback Banking Adviser •• Quality of advice •• Recommendation •• Service level •• Netbank •• Cards •• Availability of services Employees •• Employee satisfaction survey 29,000 •• Helping customers to People 32,264 •• Performance and 94% of respondents understand and choose the p. 33, 36 Development Dialogue to ESI survey products and services that are best suited for them •• Ensuring that we know our customers and diligently combat money laundering and financial crime Shareholders •• One-on-one meetings On a continuous basis •• Engagement with customers CSR at Nordea 445,331 •• Roadshows with throughout the year •• Transparency, openness p. 10 40% of shares in issue Investor Relations and reliability and 72% of identified •• Answering questionnaires •• Trustworthiness institutional free-float •• Society and community relations. Suppliers •• On spot reviews 3 •• Supply chain transparency Suppliers 1,200 contracted •• Dialogues during RFP processes •• Enforcement of corporate policies p. 38 suppliers and procedures to local levels Supplier data p. 53 •• Set targets and continuously follow-up in the UNGC areas •• Environmental performance and general sustainability engagement. Analysts •• One-on-one dialogues 6 •• Responsible lending CSR at Nordea About 40 follow •• Roadshows with On a continuous basis practices and processes p. 10 us regularly Investor Relations throughout the year •• Business ethics, compliance, •• Answering questionnaires anti-money laundering, antibribery and corruption •• Remuneration – taking ESG KPI into account •• Tax transparency •• Equal opportunities •• Responsible sales and marketing processes NGO’s •• Facilitiated discussion with NGO's 4 •• Important for Nordea to have a CSR at Nordea 50 identified view on emerging ESG issues both p. 10 regarding investments and lending. Governmental •• Ongoing discussions On a regular basis •• Implementing financial regulation CSR at Nordea authorities throughout the year •• Increased compliance focus. p. 10 10 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea 3. CSR Focus areas and relevant GRI G4 indicators Stakeholders Focus area GRI G4 Activity Measurement More information affected indicator Society Compliance HR2 Compliance culture programme Implementation of activities CSR at Nordea SO4 related to the programme p. 12 SO8 Operational Risk & Compli•• e-learning for all employees, CSR at Nordea ance Awareness Programme participation rate p. 12 Society •• ESI questions & surveys among employees Strengthening the ‘RaisImplementing a revised 'RaisCSR at Nordea ing your concern’ process ing your concern' – mechanism p. 12 Work against: Enhancing monitoring and reporting Society •• Anti-money laundering p. 12, 19 •• Counter terrorist financing •• Sanctions risk management •• Anti-bribery & corruption Community SO1 Supporting financial education, Acitivities and partnerships to Society involvement entrepreneurship and employment support our communities p. 16-17 possibilities for young people Introduce structured reportReporting on community investment Society Customers ing on community investment p. 16 Environmental EN1 Decrease our own footprint according EcoFootprint KPI’s Society footprint EN2 to our EcoFootprint programme p. 20 EN3 Environmental data EN5 p. 52 EN8 EN16 EN17 EN18 EN23 Customers Responsible lending Develop new ESG tools and proNew ESG tool created & tested Customers cesses for corporate customers p. 28 Holistic advice PR5 Providing advice and services based Customer satisfaction Customers PR8 on knowing our customers and underp. 27 PR9 standing their needs & preferences Accessibility FS14 Increasing choice & flexiblity in how 24/7 availability to banking services Customers People the customers can interact with us p. 25 Responsible FS10 Addressing ESG aspects in our evaluBe preferred choice for clients when Customers investments FS11 ation of and dialogue with companies they select supplier of RI funds p. 29 cross all assets under management Implement Responsibility declaraResponsibility Declaration imCustomers tion for all funds managed by pemented for all funds p. 29 Nordea Asset Management People Leadership & talent LA1 Competence development Employee satisfaction & motivation People management LA9 p. 36 Developing leadership competences Employee satisfaction & motivation People p. 33 Suppliers Strong performance LA11 Talent development in daily leadership % of employees who People culture have been in PDD p. 34 Diversity LA3 Increase number of women Number of women in manPeople LA12 in managerial positions agement positions p. 37 Suppliers Develop a more Create new framework and segmentaImplementation of new supplier Suppliers structured approach tion model for supplier management framework and segmentation model p. 39 to responsible procurement Responsible procurement Suppliers manager appointed p. 39 Increase ESG EN32 Increase ESG awareness and •• Supplier self-assessment Suppliers awareness and LA14 engagement with suppliers. questionnaire p. 39 engagement HR4 •• On-spot CSR reviews HR5 •• Awareness training sesHR6 sions for employees HR10 •• Presence in industry events Performance data HR11 & active communication SO9 All Economic EC1 Generate direct economic •• Taxes Society stakeholders performance EC3 value for stakeholders •• Total shareholder return p. 15 Indirect economic EC8 Create value for stakeholders •• Salaries Society impacts •• Supplier payments p. 15, 16 •• Community investment Nordea CSR Report 2014 11 Nordea belongs to the main industry associations in our main locations. For a full list of memberships, see p. 44. Assuring employee integrity Our Operational Risk and Compliance Awareness Programme assures that our employees are fully aware of these policies and commitments. The focus of this programme, which includes two e-learning modules per year, is on operational and compliance risks and related responsibilities in our daily work. All modules are mandatory for all Nordea employees, including executive management, and are available in English and all Nordic languages. Each module takes approximately 30 minutes to complete. In 2014, the module topics included (1) understanding operational risk and (2) ethics and integrity. The first module focused on defining operational risk, outlining each person’s responsibilities, and understanding when to react and what to do in various situations to protect Nordea and our customers. The participation rate for this module was 94%. The second module focused on the Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy. Its aim was to ensure that everyone working for Nordea focuses on working with integrity and building trust, knows how to integrate the ethical standards into their daily work and understands when and how to raise a concern. This module runs until March 2015, and we expect the participation rate to be well above 90%. Previous modules have included topics on anti-money laundering, information security and preventing bribery and corruption. We continued to develop the Compliance Awareness Programme for Senior Management in 2014. The programme outlines a senior manager’s responsibilities, and serves as a tool to evaluate whether any actions are needed. In 2014 Nordea did not receive any significant fines and there were three non-monetary sanctions. Compliance as a mind-set In 2014, a Compliance Culture Programme was initiated to further increase awareness about compliance in Nordea. The programme targets all employees in Retail Banking at all levels in order support them in understanding why compliance is important. Also, the aim is to sharpen the way we work both from a customer perspective and internal perspectives. The programme offers all employees a chance to discuss and reflect on Nordea’s and their own contribution to compliance. The aim is to make compliance matters a part of daily business and a part of our mind-set. Supporting whistleblowers In 2012, we introduced a group-wide whistleblowing system, Raise Your Concern, whereby employees can report concerns anonymously and be safely protected from retaliation. The system encourages employees to speak up if they have a serious concern about any misconduct or irregularities, including any action that constitutes a violation of laws or regulations, or of Nordea’s internal policies, instructions or guidelines. It also includes actions that could cause harm to Nordea’s business or reputation, or to the health or security of our employees or customers. In 2014, three cases were reported and two are still being investigated. Also, we had one case that was reported in 2013 but wasn’t resolved until 2014. 12 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Focusing on CSR governance Committee works with the overall brand framework, including As part of restructuring our CSR efforts, we have also using CSR in our branding activities and the development of renewed our CSR governance model, ensuring that we now the community involvement strategy. focus more on implementing decisions within the business areas. This change can be seen as part of the evolution of We now have two members of the Group Executive our CSR matters to being a part of our core business. Management (GEM), in addition to the CEO, directly responsible for CSR related matters, which means ecoCSR matters are now decided in two forums, the CSR nomic, social and environmental aspects are all represented Committee, headed by Gunn Wærsted, Head of Wealth in the senior management. The first meetings of these comSociety Management, and the Group Brand, Marketing & mittees were held in October and November 2014, at which Communications Committee, headed by Lennart Jacobsen, time their mandates were approved. Head of Retail Banking. The mandate, members and responsibilities of the CSR Committee are opened up in They Union in Nordea was offered a seat on the new CSR Illustration 2. The Group Brand, Marketing & Communications Committee, but declined the invitation. 4. The CSR governance model Customers Board of Directors Risk Committee Group Executive Management CSR Committee People Group Marketing, Wholesale Wealth Retail Investor Group Human Group CSR Communications Banking Management Banking Relations Resources Credit Risk unit & CSR The CSR Committee consists of those execution of Nordea’s CSR strategy implemented in the business areas and business areas and functions most impor• Defining and following up on Nordea’s group functions as planned tant to the development of CSR in Nordea. CSR focus areas • Sharing knowledge and identifying CSR The Committee’s responsibilities include: • Defining Nordea’s core CSR policies trends and opportunities for Nordea. • Preparing, following up on and ensuring • Ensuring that the decisions made are Suppliers CSR unit The CSR unit: • Ensures that sustainability is on the busi• Coordinates sustainability actions and • Initiates & participates in CSR projects ness agenda of the group business area commitment as separately agreed. • Creates & develops the overall sustain• Communicate Nordea as a sustainable ability strategy and goals for the group company and good corporate citizen CSR Stakeholder Network Performance data Group Marketing, Wholesale Wealth Retail Investor Group Human Group Communications Banking Management Banking Relations Resources Credit Risk & CSR We establish task forces as needed based business who can drive forward CSR initiamodel enables us to integrate CSR activion a CSR Stakeholder Network, comtives once the CSR committee has decided ties into all parts of the business. prised of representatives from around the on a course of action. This new governance Nordea CSR Report 2014 13 Society We wish to create a positive impact through all of our roles in society, generating value for all of our stakeholders. Banks’ role in society The role of banks is to provide finance that helps people and businesses achieve their ambition and fulfil their potential. Collectively, the purpose of the financial services industry is to provide funding for a successful, stable and sustainable economy. Financial regulators exist to make sure that excessive risks are not taken to threaten that stability. As a bank, we are a source of finance, generating value directly for our customers, suppliers, business partners, employees, shareholders, the companies in which we invest, and other investors. We generate social value through the benefits our products bring to people, through our community programmes, and by paying taxes. Moreover, since we are significant owners of the companies in which we invest, we can encourage those companies to operate more responsibly, both in our own home markets and globally. With regard to our role in society, the most important questions we can ask ourselves are: how do we make business decisions, to whom do we lend, and in whom do we invest? On the road to describing our impact Interview with Liisa Jauri, Head of CSR Q What are the main challenges of our report is our first step in trying to important. I firmly believe we can make Nordea faces in measuring its describe what our impact is. The work a difference by lowering the barriers impact on society? This year, we continues, and I must say, I can’t wait between the bank and young customers. have specifically focused on trying to continue on this road. I welcome any (See p. 16-17.) to better understand our economic feedback and input that readers of this and social impact. We are very good report may have. Q How can banks gain people’s at reporting our financial results, but trust? As we have found from describing the benefits and impacts Q What do you see as your perresearch across different industries, a bank has in society has been much sonal responsibility in the bank? trust is a key factor in determining how more challenging. We know empirically My personal responsibility is to make our stakeholders value us. For a bank, that the impact is significant, since sure ESG aspects are considered in all trust is essential – after all, our customwe are the source and facilitator for our core business decisions. We are ers trust us to take care of their assets. individual personal customers as well not fully there yet, but that is my ultimate At Nordea, we consider compliance to as entrepreneurs, SMEs and large corgoal. CSR is fieldwork; I meet a lot of be an integral part of our service. porations. We can calculate the direct people inside and outside of Nordea We also have an obligation towards financial benefit they receive, but when every week, and discussing and comsociety to prevent financial crime. it comes to understanding the indirect municating about these matters is one We have regulations that determine the impact to growth and job creation we of my main responsibilities. ways in which we need to be responsigenerate through our customers, it ble to maintain our banking license. becomes a whole lot more difficult. Q What do you feel are some At the same time, we also need to It is impossible to precisely extract of the most important ways that know our customers to be able to Nordea’s impact in macroeconomic Nordea makes a positive impact on provide them with the individual service terms, though it’s certainly an on-going society? I personally feel that the work they need and expect. discussion with my peers. This section we do with young people is immensely 14 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Our financial impact Our financial impact on society is a combination of our 1. Total economic value generated own financial results and how we generate value directly to our customers, suppliers and business partners, Direct economic impact Stakeholder EURm employees, shareholders and other investors. We also Society Government generate value to society by paying taxes. Taxes 1,507 and society Dividend 445 331 Shareholders 1,734 Strengthening tax management Supplier payments 1 200 Suppliers 2,300 To ensure that tax is managed in the way different stakeholders expect today, Nordea has established a Salaries and other contributions related 32 264 Employees 3,149 framework for tax management. In accordance with some to employees of the relevant principles stated in the Nordea Group Community investment Local communities 6.6 Tax Policy, we manage tax costs and risks at Nordea consistent with the tax laws and practices of the tax jurisdictions where we operate, paying and reporting taxes Banks can, unlike non-financial services companies, only in due time and with due consideration in all countries recover a small amount of the VAT incurred on the prodwhere Nordea operates. ucts and services they buy which leads to an increased cost for the banks since the paid irrecoverable VAT Customers These guiding principles ensure that we manage tax remains with the government. within Nordea in a responsible way. In 2014 Nordea paid EUR 908m (EUR 927m in 2013) in Paying taxes responsibly tax relating to our profits. Further, Nordea paid EUR 406m One measure of our contribution to society is through the (EUR 398m in 2013) in salary taxes (social security fees) total amount of taxes Nordea pays in relation to our business. to the governments where we operate. Nordea also pays bank taxes and stability fees in various jurisdictions. By running a profitable and sustainable business, Nordea contributes significantly to the societies where we operTo meet the increased demands globally on transparency ate, not only by paying corporate income tax, but also by regarding tax, we provide a breakdown on tax payments withholding and paying taxes on dividends and interests for our main markets. Please see p. 45 for an overview for customers on behalf of the government. of our Taxation data. People Generating customer value Our decisions to lend money to our private and corporate 2. Value generated to our customers customers have a significant effect in society. Families can realise their dreams; buy a house or car. Corporations can Customer impact EURbn invest which creates growth and jobs. It is through really Total household lending 149.8 knowing our customers over a long period that we can advise them best and support them in achieving their aspiCorporate lending 50.1 rations. Through a solid and comprehensive understandSyndicated loans and bond issues 107.7 Suppliers ing of their circumstances, we can give them the best Mortgages 125.6 possible service. We know that our customers increasingly like to use the web and phone to communicate with their Assets under management 262 bank – and we support that. However, the personal conAdvisory meetings 768,790 pcs tact is important for building trust, and helping people with Financial plans 753,803 pcs the really big decisions at key points in their lives. When doing this it is our responsibility to make sure that In Retail Banking 90,000 new relationship customers our customers aren’t left holding more debt than they can chose Nordea as their financial partner. We now have handle. Too much debt not only negatively impacts our 3.16 million relationship customers, demonstrating our bottom line, which in turn impacts our investors; it can strong position in the Nordic retail market. In 2014 the also have long-term adverse effects on the lives of indinumber of meetings conducted by Nordea’s advisors viduals in the communities where we do business. When has continued to rise to 768,790 which is approximaloans are made responsibly, however, our customers can tely 57,000 more than in 2013. In these meetings we Performance data leverage those funds to create positive change. Our go through the customer’s overall financial situation, corporate customers, for example, can make purchases plans and needed solutions. Additionally we made to help them grow their companies, enabling them to hire almost over 750,000 individual financial plans helping more employees, who in turn add to society’s tax base. our customers to systematically save and prepare for their future needs. Our assets under management grew The direct economic impact of the loans and services we from EUR 233bn to EUR 262bn which is, again, our provide our customers is shown in table 2. all-time high. Nordea CSR Report 2014 15 Our societal impact Our positive impact on society is revealed through our make a living and to build a successful life for themextensive community involvement, our commitment to selves. By tackling these three issues together, Nordea human rights, efforts to prevent financial exclusion and can make a positive contribution to the social mobility mitigate financial crime, and our financing of substantial of disadvantaged people and to the future of youth in infrastructure development . general. We can help them to earn and save, be productive members of society and ultimately to achieve their Enhancing our communities personal goals. Financial literacy, entrepreneurship and employment possibilities for young people are the main We have entered into numerous partnerships with themes of our community investment activities. We can organisations in all of our communities that work towards genuinely make a difference in these areas, and our improving these same goals. Through these partnerships employees are well equipped to contribute to improving we can offer our employees the possibility to share their these themes in our communities. competences and life skills with young people. All three of these themes support young people in Teaching youth about finance fulfilling their potential. Without entrepreneurial skills or In addition to a group wide financial literacy programme opportunities into work, young people will struggle to in which a network of financial education ambassadors Donations Community investment 2014* EURt Sponsorships 5,453 Community 11 % involvement Sports 5,155 7% Culture (art, music, etc) 298 Community Community involvement 474 investment Sponsorships Donations 690 2014 TOTAL 6,617 82 % *The figures are based on group and country level community investment in the Nordic countries. Regional sponsorships are not included. Supporting at-risk youth Nordea is one of four big banks in body listened and answered their quesFinland participating in the Economic tions. Bank employees record excepSkills project, part of a national project tionally high satisfaction ratings for the to prevent the social exclusion of youth. project. For them, the major impacts The project facilitates dialogue between are improved customer service skills bank employees and 16to 29-yeardealing with young people, improved olds in special youth work groups who job satisfaction and a reinforced comare neither working nor studying. To mitment to company values. date, more than 300 bank employees have helped more than 1,000 youth The project works to prevent at-risk in dire circumstances to manage their youth from slipping into further economfinances, while simultaneously gaining a ic difficulties and adding to society’s Riina Töyräs ja Juha Salonen from Nordea lot for themselves. welfare burden. It teaches the importook part in the Economic Skills project. ”The best thing for us was to be able to tance of avoiding a poor credit history, give concrete advice and reassurance Because the service system is fragmaking it difficult to rent an apartment, to young people on how to handle their mented and young people who need get a job or a mobile subscription. personal finances”, they say. help are bounced between services, By learning basic skills such as debt they can sense that no one takes management, these youth are better responsibility for their overall situation. equipped to be self-reliant and become The Economic Skills project changes productive members of society. this, bringing together youth with bankers who care about them and can offer useful advice. Exit interviews with participants reveal immediate and direct impacts on the youth, bank employees, and by extension, society. Youth gain a basic understanding of personal finance and a greater comfort with banks; several said the best thing about meeting bank employees was that, for once, some16 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea visits school classes, we are engaged in several activiOur Code of Conduct states that Nordea is only involved ties with local partner organisations in local communiin business that is in accordance with law, regulations, ties. Banking advisors visit classes with students aged signed commitments and our own standards of business 13-18, and hold hands-on classes in personal finances. ethics. Our aim is to in no way compromise generally Through our own classroom programme, and through accepted ethical and legal principles, nor have dealings our partner organisations, we reach a large amount of with counterparties that we suspect to be of questionSociety young people each year. In 2014, our employees in the able morality. Nordic countries spent 2,362 hours volunteering for these activities. Our employees in the Nordic and Baltic Granting credit in Nordea is always based on sound countries and Russia engage in numerous activities in banking practice and high ethical standards. Our busitheir local communities, see www.nordea.com/csr for ness with private, corporate and institutional customers is more information. based on a thorough knowledge of their business activities. As part of this we assess the ESG risks, including Protecting human rights human rights issues when relevant. We understand that we have a responsibility to ensure our business activities do not negatively impact human With investment we are guided by the UN’s Principles for rights, and to address any negative impact that may Responsible Investment. Companies that violate human occur. As a financial institution, we aim to mitigate the rights may decrease in value; our asset managers screen risk of any human rights violations connected to our lendour investments to identify any breaches in international Customers ing and investment practices, as well as our own human norms, and engage with them to encourage positive resources and supply chain policies and practices. change. If that fails, ultimately we may choose to divest. Our Sustainability Policy states that we are committed Our People Policy lays out our responsibility for ensuring to and respect human rights and freedom, including chilthat employees are fairly treated and given equal develdren’s rights. We participate in the UN Global Compact opment opportunities. Our workplaces support diversity, and follow the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human where differences are both respected and appreciated. Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business We seek to provide a safe, healthy and productive enviand Human Rights, ILO-conventions and the OECD ronment that nurtures employee wellbeing and successGuidelines for Multinational Enterprises. ful business results.  People Personal finance for real Nordea partners with Europe’s largest provider of entrepreneurship education programmes to improve economic education in Norway, which seven out of ten parents in the country believe to be “bad” or “very bad,” according to a May 2014 survey by Finance Norway. Nordea Norway employees can volunteer with Economics for Success, Suppliers a programme of Junior Achievement Young Enterprise (JA-YE) Europe that helps high school students understand personal finance and their role as contributors to the economy. Volunteers present a series of six interactive lessons, allowing students aged 13 to 15 to see themselves as consumers, 60 employees volunteered in September for a ‘Nordea Day’ as part of the Economics for employees, taxpayers, investors and Success programme. Hilde Vogt (3rd from right) and Randi Marjamaa (2nd from right) borrowers, and appreciate the ecofrom Retail Banking in Norway, visited the Gjettum School. nomic benefits of staying in school. Students can use this knowledge to make strong financial management 12,000 high school students attend Nordea has partnered with JA-YE decisions over their lifetime, regardless Economics for Success annually. Norway since its establishment in 1997, of income. Research has shown that programme and offers banking services to graduates Performance data graduates are 50% more likely to of the program. “We want to contribute “When people from the financial sector establish their own business than their to increased knowledge about personal enter the classroom as tutors, students counterparts. Students have reported economics,” says Gunn Wærsted, Head receive completely different insight and gaining greater insight into personal of Wealth Management. “This is a great understanding of personal finance,” finance, and a better understanding of opportunity for us to learn more about says Anne Kathrine Slungaard, CEO of choices that can have consequences for what young people think about future JA-YE Norway. “Learning becomes real.” them in the future. banking.” Nordea CSR Report 2014 17 Nordea has signed the UN Global Compact, and cascades the responsibilities to our suppliers. Our sourcing requirements are reflected in the Nordea CSR Supplier Guidelines and our standard agreements with suppliers. One contractual requirement is that our suppliers support and respect protecting internationally proclaimed human rights, and that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights are also covered in our supplier self-assessment questionnaire. Preventing financial exclusion “Everyone needs a bank account.” You might expect a bank to say that, but in fact this was a statement from the European Commission in 2013. As European societies and economies move towards relying on virtual money, simple tools such as a payment card and a bank account for receiving income have become essential to daily life. Lack of access to these tools and services, or the inability to use them, is a serious obstacle to economic and social integration. It can stem from problems with access, prices, Nordea Finance entered into a leasing deal to finance new local train marketing or financial literacy, or from self-exclusion in carriages in the Helsinki area in Finland. response to negative experiences or perceptions. To address this, the European Commission is bringing forward the Payment Account Directive which needs to be implemented in EU countries by September 2016. Analysts are also increasingly interested in this topic. In our home markets, there are statutes that require us to provide basic banking services to all private customers, assuming we have identified the customer as the law requires and have no reason to suspect criminal activity. We also need to train our personnel and raise awareness of the importance of financial inclusion. Developing infrastructure Nordea adds value to the communities in which we operate by lending to and investing in infrastructure projects that enhance the community. Here are some examples of financing and lending projects we undertook in 2014 that had a positive social impact: •• Nordea Finance entered into a leasing deal worth In Denmark, Nordea Life & Pension is the lead investor in a project approximately EUR 235 million to finance new local at Kalvebod Brygge to build a large office complex for the Danish Building & Property Agency. train carriages in the Helsinki area in Finland. The 34 trains are scheduled to be in use by May 2017. We anticipate entering into similar activities in the other Nordic countries and the Baltics. •• In Denmark, Nordea Life & Pension is the lead investor in a project at Kalvebod Brygge to build a large office complex for the Danish Building & Property Agency. We expect the new construction building of 60,000 square metres to be finished by mid-2018. The project will be one of the largest Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) in Denmark, with users including Banedanmark, the Danish Transport Authority, the Danish Road Directorate and the Danish Energy Agency. •• We established a new contact centre in Salo, Finland, in a project that contributes in multiple ways to the city’s economic structure. Salo has witnessed heavy restructuring of the electronics industry in recent years, including Nokia. Not only were we able to repurpose ready-made and modern premises with good traffic connections, we were also able to recruit highly Nordea established a new Contact Centre in Salo in 2014. Anna-Mari Rajala (left) has worked previously at Tieto and Satu Laaksonen at skilled and committed local employees who suited our Nokia and IBM. needs. The contact centre now employs approximately 70 people. 18 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Acting against financial crime The banking system has a core role to play in society’s Fighting cybercrime prevention of and fight against financial crime. There is increased pressure on all businesses to prevent Cyberterrorism has become a growing threat, one we take seriously. offences involving money laundering, fraud, dishonesty, To combat it, we coordinate our efforts internally, work with other organised crime or the financing of terrorism. “Organised banks across Europe and take advice from specialists in this area. financial crime undermines legitimate economic actors We now have a layered security approach, ensuring that a single and strengthens the shadow economy, thus diminishpoint of failure would not compromise our whole system. ing economic growth and public resources,” wrote the Society In the last two years, we have seen a change from general, broad Commission to the Council and the European Parliament malware attacks to social engineering and ID theft, often targeted on the subject. Strong financial crime management pracat specific individuals. We are also starting to see attacks on mobile tices are one of the most powerful devices against finanphones and tablets as online banking moves in that direction. We cial crime. They can prevent, disclose and help to identify expect that mobile will be the new battlefield in the years ahead. corrupt practices and the people behind such activities. As the criminals advance in their methods, we need to get smarter in Preventing financial crime takes three forms in Nordea. our use of IT systems to tackle cybercrime. Our aim is to stop fraud The first is to have the required financial crime risk before it has been executed. To do this, we need advanced IT systems that can make real-time risk assessments and raise alarms if necesmanagement in place. Nordea’s Group Compliance sary. Where transactions are considered higher than normal risk, we has the overall responsibility for setting the Group level ask for extra verification. This can be in the form of an SMS to the cusframework for a proper financial crime management. The tomer’s pre-registered mobile phone number asking the customer to Financial Crime Compliance unit in Group Compliance confirm the transaction, and if not, to contact the bank’s support line. coordinates the support and gives advice to the Customers Management, Compliance Officers and Operational Risk Moving forward, we will continue to invest in IT solutions to address Officers. Our Anti-Money Laundering (AML) unit gives the growing risks of cybercrime. hands-on support specifically concerning AML-related matters. We also have a strong network of compliance officers to support customer-facing employees. agers. The Operational Risk and Compliance Awareness The second is to have the required policies and Programme targets all employees from front line to the instructions in place. Board of Directors. Nordea has efficient e-learning modules on compliance and knowing-your-customer issues that are The third is to actively promote awareness of these directed at all employees; participation is mandatory and issues among our employees, which we do through monitored. Modules intiated in 2014 include ‘Understanding training programmes for employees and senior manoperational risk’ and ‘Ethics and integrity’. People It’s all about getting to know our customers Interview with Lars Petter Bruun Engen, Branch manager at Solli Plass, Oslo, Norway and Hilde M. Bjerknes, Managing Compliance Officer in Retail Banking Norway Q Lars, as a branch manager, what sort of financial crime do you see? The most common is customers trying to falsify documentation. We also get The right kind of people trying to access other customers’ compliance culSuppliers accounts. ture and knowing our customers help us idenQ So how do you spot this? It’s all tify and prevent about getting to know our customers. financial crime, We look at the files we have on the Lars Petter Bruun Engen says. customer and we ask questions. Q Does that sound right to you doing that. Our customers know that it is activities and awareness programmes. Hilde? Absolutely. Having solid in their best interests. We also discuss practical cases and customer information means we can learn that way. deliver great customer experiences and Q And Lars, what kind of support provide our customers with the best do you get? The branches have dediQ Hilde, how important is the trainadvice. And it helps us spot suspicious cated Risk Managers who are always ing? It’s very important. It’s about creatbehaviour and ensure we stop crimes at our service. They are our way into the ing the right mind-set and raising awarePerformance data from happening. various teams of experts that support ness that these things happen. The more the business in this area. For us they are we can develop our compliance culture Q So Lars, that sounds like you essential. the better we will be in discovering when need to ask lots of questions. Do somebody tries to use Nordea as a tool people find that annoying? Not really Q Tell me about the training you for illegal activities. And ultimately, that because they understand why we are have had? We have a mix of training benefits all our customers. Nordea CSR Report 2014 19 Our environmental impact As laid out in the Nordea Sustainability Policy, one of opportunities to develop green businesses. In the short our key principles is our commitment to caring for the term, the main changes are related to operational pracenvironment, which includes taking climate change into tices and adding transparency on our supply practices consideration. We strive to reduce negative and increase and priorities. Longer term, more significant changes will positive environmental impacts in our own operations and be related to further exploring the climate change effect our supply chain, as well as through our core business of our suppliers and disclosing information on how we activities of investments and lending. manage the risks of the negative effects of our supply chain. Improving operations In 2008, Nordea established the Ecological Footprint Screening our investments Programme to minimise the environmental impact of our Regarding investments, Nordea Asset Management (AM) operations. Group Executive Management has set longscreens all actively managed holdings to identify comterm environmental targets to reduce our emissions, with panies that violate international norms, including those a particular focus on energy and air travel, our two largest related to environmental protection. Nordea AM offers two emitters, and a secondary focus on paper, waste, green enhanced Responsible Investment funds, Emerging Stars IT, facility management, procurement and communication. and Swedish Stars, which invest in the best performing Each quarter, we monitor and report progress on our envicompanies from an environmental, social and governance ronmental indicators, and we report on emissions annually. (ESG) perspective. In a selection of our fixed income funds, Nordea AM has invested in green bonds (see p. 21), which A major component of Nordea’s long-term strategy to integrate the fiduciary element of fixed income products reduce emissions is better use of and investments in new with climate mitigation and adaptation awareness. technology in our facilities. In 2013, we built a new head office in Stockholm and undertook major renovations of Together with 80 other pension funds and asset managother head offices. All these buildings now use new techers, Nordea AM is a member of the Institutional Investors nology for heating, ventilation and lighting. In addition, we Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), a forum for collabohave implemented free seating, which will enable us to ration on climate change for investors. IIGCC encourreduce our head office floor area by over 20% by 2020. ages public policy, investment practices and corporate behaviour that address long-term risks and opportunities Five years ago, Nordea achieved LEED certification on associated with climate change. Nordea AM is also a 14 of its Nordic head office buildings. Those buildings still signatory to CDP, whose aim is to collect and spread used by us will be recertified in 2015, and new head officinformation concerning greenhouse gas emissions and es will also be certified. The new head office in Stockholm climate change strategies, and uses its database in its received two Platinum level LEED certifications in 2014. ESG analysis of its investments. The environmental principles behind the certification process, focusing on areas such as energy efficiency, provide Examining lending practices not just environmental but economic benefits as well. Nordea assesses and considers environmental factors, when relevant, as part of our lending processes. Leading our supply chain Our industry-specific policies and principles all have a All of our major suppliers and their sub-suppliers are separate sustainability section, including environment and required to meet Nordea’s CSR criteria, expressed in climate change. the Nordea CSR Supplier Policy and the CSR Supplier Guidelines (based on the UN Global Compact’s ten core We have included climate change impact into the considprinciples). We incorporate climate change-related issues erations and strategies for sectors where climate change in our procurement work by integrating data from a is likely to have a major impact, mainly by requiring these variety of sources including sustainability ratings, industry sectors to adapt to current and future regulatory changes. and company analyses, and climate change-related data In the long term, we believe these strategies will result in including that from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). more demand for certain industries to adapt to regulation by changing their focus, developing new technologies To meet our lower emissions targets, we work with our and intensifying the way they work with their suppliers suppliers on adaptation strategies, and have found some and technical managers. The new head office in Stockholm received two Platinum level LEED certifications in 2014. 20 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Green bonds: investing for impact The proceeds of green bonds are used for initiatives The growth of the green bond market with positive environmental impact. The meaning of “green” in this instance is broad; while most issuances 30 BN to date have targeted climate change mitigation; other 25 BN areas can be considered for financing such as water 20 BN SSA = supranationals, conservation and clean transportation. The future for sovereigns and agencies Society 15 BN FIG = financial green bonds is extremely promising: in 2014, the market 10 BN institution groups tripled to EUR 30 billion, and issuances are expected to 5 BN Corporate exceed EUR 80 billion in 2015. 0 2012 2013 2014 ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE FOR GREEN GROWTH The issuer view: The European Investment Bank (EIB) The investor view: Storebrand Asset Management EIB pioneered the Green Dominika Rosolowska, Green bonds are a natural Jan Erik Saugestad, Bond market in 2007 by Investor Relations Officer, choice for an organisation Chief Investment Officer issuing its inaugural (EURand Aldo Romani, Deputy that embed ESG issues in at Storebrand Asset denominated) “Climate Head of Funding-EUR in EIB’s their investment decisions. Management: Awareness Bond” (“CAB”). Capital Markets Department: While green bond holdings “Green bonds help us increase our pool Customers The proceeds of CABs are “From a policy standpoint CABs are are currently found as part of sustainable investments and repearmarked for projects in the an expression of EU’s leadership in of the firm’s traditional bond resent an opportunity to decide what fields of renewable energy climate action. In a more general perportfolios, the company we invest in and not only with whom and energy efficiency; EIB spective, Green Bonds highlight the sees that green bonds will we invest. We appreciate the greater commits to systematic issuers’ commitment to transparency also be found in dedicated transparency green bonds provide, reporting on the actual alloin the provision of information on the funds within next year. Even and we do believe ESG considerations cation of such proceeds. To actual use of funds raised, permitting though they are not have the potential to improve the risk/ date, EIB has been the largexternal monitoring of outcomes regarded as an asset class, return profile of our investments when est issuer of Green Bonds, and enhancing the accountability of institutions may set targets executed carefully. When analysed with EUR 7.4 billion raised environmental finance.” and limits for green bonds in through Storebrand’s sustainability across ten currencies. their investment mandates rating system, a green bond typically within the next year. gets a higher rating than a ‘grey’ bond from the same issuer.” People TRANSPARENCY IS VITAL IMPACT – WITH INTEGRITY The opinion–provider view: Vigeo Enterprise The arranger view: Nordea Markets Investment Banking Third party ‘opinion providers’ Ann-Katrin Dolium, To guide this nascent market, Thomas Begley, contribute to the integrity of Vigeo’s Business several financial intermediaries Managing Director, Co-Head the green bond market by Development Director: developed the Green Bond of Debt Capital Markets, verifying whether planned “Independent opinion providers help Principles (GBP), voluntary Investment Banking: transactions are indeed green bond issuers focus on their principles recommending “For all market participants, green green and conform with the bond’s objective, their own ESG pertransparency and disclosure bonds offer a unique opportunity to GBP. Since 2002, Vigeo formance, and the transparency and and promoting integrity. As a demonstrate their commitment to Enterprise has been in the credibility of their reporting. I expect member of the GBP, Nordea their publicly stated values around Suppliers business of assessing the green bonds to diversify and grow, is committed to contributing sustainability. The international environmental, social and but this brings complexity too as to the growth of the market capital markets are being mobilised governance (ESG) perforstakeholder demands will increase as and working closely with all to direct capital to projects that will mance of companies and will the need to be able to measure stakeholders in a responsible have significant positive impact for organizations; giving opinions impact. So transparency will continue manner. Nordea entered the everyone. on green bonds was a natural to be vital.” green bond market in 2014 as extension of their services. an arranger for our customers. Nordea has been involved in arranging the following green bonds: •• African Development Bank – SEK 2 billion Performance data “Green bonds •• Nord-Trøndelag Elektrisitetsverk Holding bring sustainabilAS (NTE) – NOK 750 million ity benefits to all parties involved. I •• Vardar AS – NOK 300 million expect this market to grow significantly,” Thomas Begley says. Nordea CSR Report 2014 21 Trends & demands create opportunities Trends Regulatory Financial Digitalichanges environment sation Demands ÚÚ Ethics and ÚÚ Capital ÚÚ Deep understanding integrity efficiency of customer’s needs and business ÚÚ Balance sheet ÚÚ Resilience requirements ÚÚ Full digital service and product offering ÚÚ Good return ÚÚ Operational on equity requirements ÚÚ 24/7 accessibility ✔✔ Risk and ✔✔ Capital efficient ✔✔ Personalised Our actions Compliance products and customer Awareness services experience and programme products online ✔✔ Stringent risk ✔✔ Transparent management ✔✔ Providing 24/7 reporting processes & accessibility culture ✔✔ Simplifying how ✔✔ Co-creation of we operate ✔✔ Competetitive banking solutions pricing Desired outcome A trusted partner 22 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Demographic Climate Social Society changes change inclusiveness ÚÚ Advice and products ÚÚ Managing ESG risks ÚÚ Financial inclusion based on deep and opportunities understanding of of products and in ÚÚ Active involvement customers’ needs supply chain in building a Customers prosperous society ÚÚ Adapt distribution of ÚÚ Minimise own service channels environmental footprint ✔✔ Offering new ✔✔ ESG risk analysis ✔✔ Providing basic savings & included in banking services investment investments, for all according to products lending, supplier legislation management People ✔✔ Providing relevant ✔✔ Community financial advice ✔✔ Management of involvement activity Nordea’s own & partnerships footprint Suppliers proactively meeting customer Performance data needs Nordea CSR Report 2014 23 Customers Everything we do at Nordea has one core purpose: to create a great experience for our customers. Against the backdrop of customers’ changing behaviours, including an increasing reliance on technology, and growing regulatory pressure on our industry, we are staying ahead of the curve to provide a great customer experience. Delivering on our commitment The web and smartphones are making our customers increasingly connected, knowledgeable and empowered. Customers expect a personalised and convenient banking experience with 24/7 availability and advisory services whenever and wherever they need it. Not surprisingly, mobile logons have more than doubled over the past two years, while manual transactions in the branches are dipping. It is our job to be fast and agile, delivering on our commitment to strong customer relationships. Meeting evolving customer needs Interview with Lennart Jacobsen, Head of Retail Banking Q Responding to rapidly changing into play and where customer teams realise their dreams by making their customer behaviours and expectaand specialists strengthen the customer savings grow with us. The customers tions, what in your opinion are the relationship with expertise and advise. also feel safe, trusting us to facilitate most important things for Nordea The personal touch of Nordea will never billions of payments on their behalf. to focus on? First of all, we welcome go away, and even in digital channels That is the core of what we do, and the the digital trends we see in society, and access to a Nordea employee should most important impact we can possibly we continuously develop our services never be far away. That is and will have on society. to meet our customers' evolving needs continue to be a competitive advantage and preferences. Currently this means we hold over many existing competitors Q Besides that, is there anything that we continue to strengthen our as well as new competition entering the else you are doing in the CSR online capabilities and align our chanmarket. area? Yes, Nordea does a lot of things nels, enabling more flexibility in how the that have a significant impact on socicustomers can interact with us. That will Q What, in your view, is the most ety. To highlight a couple of things, we increase our ability to serve their needs important impact Nordea has on engage a lot in direct activities toward when and how they want it, giving them society? Nordea and the banking society by, for instance, teaching a personalised, easy and convenient industry in general play an important personal finance to youth in hundreds banking experience. role in society by conducting our core of schools across the Nordics. We also business. In 2014, Nordea helped invest a lot of time and effort in our misHaving said that, I strongly believe that 285,000 families to buy a new home sion to create responsible returns when our branch network will continue to be and we also helped corporate customour customers trust us with their savhighly important for our customers and ers to invest in their business, enabling ings. We are an active owner on behalf remain a central part of our value propthem to grow and create new job of our customers and thus influence osition. That is where the competence opportunities. In addition, we made it thousands of companies to improve and quality of our advisors comes best possible for countless other people to their social responsibility. 24 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Relationships built on trust Our relationship strategy rests on creating long-term Recognising that individual circumstances change over connections with our customers built on trust. We build time, we stay in touch with our customers, allowing us that trust first by understanding our customers, so that to offer the best solutions for them, ‘come rain or shine’. Society we can provide competent and professional advice based on their individual needs and preferences. We Responsible products want our customers to know they can rely on us to keep Our product development process is guided by a group our promises and meet their needs. directive, Instructions for Product Documentation and Decision-Making in the Nordea Group. It sets out the docResponsible advice umentation requirements for all products, and decisionWe firmly believe that no service, advice or product making procedures for developing and altering products. should be offered until our people know and understand our customers’ current financial situation as well We are committed to ensuring that our customers have as their ambitions; doing so allows us to offer the best all of the information they need to make decisions about possible advice, service and commitment. Our advisers their finances. When our products are ready to go to meet with customers to discuss the customer’s current market, the responsible unit and legal counsel closely financial situation and future plans. The outcome of review all external marketing materials and communicaCustomers the meeting is a solution suited for that customer. tions for legal compliance. Banking on demand While still retaining a strong physical presence in the had ADMs for approximately 20 years.) We will increase the Nordic and Baltic countries, we are strengthening our number of ADMs over the coming years. remote channels to meet the needs of today’s on-the-go customers. We offer online banking services through Our goal is to provide our customers with the banking serNetbank, a user-friendly Mobile Bank application, a 24/7 vices they want, wherever and whenever they need them. People telephone Contact Centre, and remote meetings with shared screen. Adapting our physical presence As we all now conduct more of our daily banking online, Highlights from 2014: fewer people walk into a branch today than in the past; in the last three years, manual transactions have decreased 1.5 million 263 customer meetings million mobile logons by 15-20% annually. Even so, with our comprehensive branch network of 695 locations, we are in the top three of our Nordic peers in branch locations per inhabitant in all Nordic countries. 9 million 14 calls to Contact Centres million manual transactions Improving accessibility Accessibility means that all our customers without distinctions to age, preferences or disabilities can use our online 353 million 59 netbank logons million mobile transactions channels for their banking needs. We are committed to making our online services accessible by following standards and legal requirements including World Wide Web Suppliers Consortium’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 AA-level and for mobile apps we aim to use the full potential In 2014, we had 656 million interactions with our of each platform’s accessibility features. We are consciously customers, a 15 per cent increase over the same period incorporating our compliance to accessibility guidelines into last year. Our Mobile Bank is growing by leaps and our culture and employee skill level so that it becomes a part bounds, exceeding use of our online Netbank services of the everyday work of design and programming. in most of our markets. We gain over 1,000 new mobile banking customers daily, and Mobile Bank log-ons have Improving disability access increased by 57 per cent compared to 2013. Most of our branch locations have wheelchair accessibility and service desks that can be raised up and down. All of We increased accessibility to our banking services by installour ATMs allow blind customers to plug in headphones to Performance data ing 554 automated deposit machines (ADMs) by December get guidance, and the keys on the keyboards have differ2014. About 1.6 million cash deposits were made through ent physical guidance. For authentication (log-in and signour ADMs during 2014, an increase of 73 per cent coming) in our online banking solutions, our policy is to offer pared to 2013. Though ADMs were launched as recently as special means for the visually impaired. These solutions are 2013 in Denmark, and in early 2014 in Finland and Sweden, in place in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. In Finland, we already half of all cash deposits in those countries are have developed a new authentication solution that includes made outside normal branch opening hours. (Norway has a speaking device. This will be rolled out in 2015. Nordea CSR Report 2014 25 Competence and predictability Trust between a bank and its large corporate customers is also built on the relationships between people. To support our largest corporate customers in the long term and to provide them value adding services with high degree of predictability, we introduced a new holistic customer service model in 2013. In 2014 we have continued implementing the model across the organisation. A dedicated customer team with broad knowledge of financial services combined with a deep understanding of customer’s strategy and business develops together a plan for servicing the large corporate customer. The objective of a customer plan is to understand real “Thorough and deep understanding of our customers’ needs of the customer in order to provide truly value business strategy is vital. Equally important is to continuadding services in a proactive, effective and predictable ously measure our performance. I am glad that our efforts way supporting the long term success of the customer. are shown in the latest customer satisfaction survey, but we need to continuously work hard as the business environment remains very challenging”, says Olli-Petteri Meeting expectations of a market leader Lehtinen, Head of Corporates and Institutions. Wholesale Banking’s customer satisfaction is measured annually (by Prospera and Greenwich). In 2014, Nordea was ranked number one in terms of market penetration Advisory, Execution and Corporate Access, of the Nordic in each of Nordic country by the Prospera survey. Nordea Prospera survey. This result highlights that Nordea is a prewas also recognised as a number one strategic partner ferred partner for our customers and our thematic research in each Nordic country. Additionally, Nordea Equities was is considered most value adding in the region. Both are ranked number one in all three sub categories; Research/ important ingredients of our holistic customer advice. Co-creation for digital solutions We are increasingly making use of co-creation to development cycle. Nordea Next users are among the develop tomorrow’s digital banking solutions. Utilising first to see and use some of the new ideas we are workearly feedback mechanisms and supporting new ing on and give us feedback on these. If we get positive innovation ecosystems allow Nordea to leverage feedback on an idea, we’ll take the next step with it; if the creativity of external parties in the development not, we’ll stop the process with that specific idea and and realisation of new banking services. There were focus on other better ideas. two highlights in 2014, Nordea Next and Nordea Innovation Challenge. With the Nordea Innovation Challenge competition our aim was to meet very creative and innovative people who We want to involve the ‘early adopters’ among our cuscould inspire us through their interpretation of customtomers and employees at an early stage of the product ers’ digital banking needs. Nordea Innovation Challenge Nordea Next In November 2014, Nordea joined Experts from IBM, Nordea and Apple Nordea Next is a new set-up with IBM to present the first Nordea coached the teams, and the four best where we invite customers to valiInnovation Challenge, a competitive solutions were awarded prizes totalling date selected new digital services. event held in Stockholm and Helsinki 50,000 Swedish kronor. The concept was introduced in simultaneously. The 48-hour event was Finland and Norway in late 2014. designed to bring together start-ups The winner: Team Nerdea and and students from around the Nordics ‘the Spending visualiser’ Nordea Next provides real-time to generate ideas for new digital bankAn app for personal “geospacial evaluation of the market potening solutions for customers. spending visualisation” – showing cattial of selected ideas for digital egorised and location based spending services. The public event, whose theme was over a given time-period. The project “Banking on the Future,” attracted aims at visualising spending patterns Customers enrol in Nordea Next 140 participants from universities and in order to aid banking customers in through a dedicated mobile app. technology start-ups, along with other gaining valuable insight about their If customer usage and feedback creative individuals within the Nordics. behaviour. The solution provided wonconfirms the value of an idea, the The participants worked in teams derful adoption of data insight and high idea is recommended for further to develop ideas for either a mobile degree of user experience and visual development, after which the final application or a data insight solution. quality. investment decision is made. 26 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Responding to customer feedback Direct feedback is an important evaluation tool, giving ATM cards don’t work or online transactions don’t run us a way to learn more about our customers’ needs and smoothly, it can drastically impact their daily lives, even desires, as well as our own performance. Customers give affecting their ability to put food on the table. With elecus feedback through a variety of channels, including our tronic transactions continuing to multiply, we are putting annual customer satisfaction survey, questionnaires folextra focus on improving the reliability of our systems. lowing meetings and interactions with our Contact Centre, Society communications with our Customer Ombudsman, and In 2014, we had a total of 17 substantiated complaints social media channels such as Facebook and Twitter. regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. There were no significant fines for nonEnhancing feedback mechanisms compliance with laws and regulations concerning the We now solicit immediate automated feedback followprovision and use of products and services. ing interactions through our “experience management” practice. This feedback empowers our advisers to adjust services ‘in real time’, and enables management to respond “My job is to listen” to the pulse of customer experience. It also supports their individual learning, as each advisor receives personal feedback. This practice is currently in place for our Contact “When our customers want to tell us something, we need to listen,” says Ioanna Iconomidou Wallén, Centres’ inbound calls; for physical meetings with houseCustomer Ombudsman in Nordea Sweden. hold and corporate customers, it is either fully implemented, Customers being piloted or waiting for technical solutions. “My job is to understand the situation our customers have been in,” says Wallén, “and to make sure that Results in 2014 feedback is channelled to our management to help The focus of our annual customer satisfaction survey this them to make decisions with an outside-in perspecyear was on multi-channel relationship banking, therefore tive.” To that end, Wallén gathers all feedback and channel satisfaction and satisfaction with the personal presents it monthly to all product owners and managbanking adviser were reviewed, along with overall and ers. She presents a more in-depth analysis at quarterly country management meetings, where priority areas brand image satisfaction. In general the results show a are identified and addressed. positive trend in the Nordic countries from 2013, but compared to peers the increase was somewhat smaller. “Last year, our corporate customers told us they wanted us to develop an app for them. One cusThe results from the immediate customer feedback show tomer said we could contact her if we wanted more that 79% of the customers who called the Contact Centre input. The product owners contacted the customer People across the Nordics are likely to recommend Nordea based and asked if she wanted to participate in testing the on the call. Also based on private and corporate customer product with the development team. She was very surprised and happy and felt that we really listen to meetings the likeliness to recommend Nordea has been our customers. This is one way of doing our utmost to above 80% the whole year. add value to our customers.” A Customer Ombudsman in each Nordic country serves as liaison between the consumer authorities, our customers and our employees, ensuring a streamlined, uniform process for handling feedback that helps “We want to develemployees across the organisation effectively handle op better products customer complaints. and a better value proposition for our About 20% of all customer feedback our Customer customers, and they can tell us Suppliers Ombudsmen received in 2014 was positive, and we how to do that,” constantly strive to keep that number rising. But negative Ioanna Iconomidou feedback does help us understand what our customers Wallén, Customer Ombudsman in want and need, allowing us to prioritize areas for improveNordea Sweden ment. In 2014, customers told us how important reliability says. and stability in our products and systems is to them. When 1. Our customer feedback results and topics in 2014 in the Nordic countries Channel Amount of total feedback 2014 (2013) Most frequent topics Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSI) 20,285* (91,974) Branch service personnel Service accessibility Performance data Contact person/Personal Banking Adviser Immediate automated feedback, 265,518 (no comparable figures exist yet) Quality of advice ‘Experience management’ Recommendation Service level Customer Ombudsmen 160,417 (145,100) Netbank Cards Availability of services * The number of participants to the annual customer satisfaction survey was considerably lower in 2014 due to the focus on immediate feedback. Nordea CSR Report 2014 27 Responsible lending It is our responsibility to make sure that the repayment Currently, we use our Environmental Risk Assessment tool of loans leaves our customers with sufficient finances to (ERAT) and the Social and Political Risk Assessment tool have a fulfilling life or thriving business. This needs to be (SPRAT). In 2012, we initiated a project to develop our tools reflected in our advice and marketing practices. When our and processes. We decided to take a two-fold approach: customers face financial stress, we work with them proacone for small and medium-sized corporate customers in tively to plan how to cope. Retail Banking, and another for large corporate customers in Wholesale Banking. In 2014, we moved forward in the How we make credit decisions following manner: Our credit framework builds on the Nordea Sustainability Policy. We have two high level policies adopted by the •• In Retail Banking, we are incorporating the ESG analyses Board of Directors to guide our credit decision-making: as part of the Know Your Customer process, focusing our Credit Policy and Strategy for the Nordea Group, and Credit efforts on potentially higher risk cases. Instructions for the Nordea Group. •• In Wholesale Banking, we have continued developing a The Credit Policy and Strategy establishes the overall prinnew interactive customer ESG analysis tool. It fine-tunes ciples; for example, the granting of credit is always based the analysis with industry specific questions. The analysis on sound banking practice and high ethical standards. It is further defined by customer data (field of business, also states that we should in no way compromise generlocation of operations and headquarters, etc.) as well ally accepted ethical and legal principles, nor have dealings as location of supply chain and markets for products with people we suspect to be of questionable morality. and services. The same tools will be used for Retail Since customer relationships are based on mutual trust, Banking corporate customers when the initial Know Your we must be convinced of the integrity, ability and financial Customer process indicates a need for deeper analysis. capacity of our customers to meet their obligations. In 2015, we will establish the finalised tool on an IT platform Credit Instructions describes our credit decision-making and further integrate the analysis and findings into the relaorganisation and authority, including limits and powers to act. tionship management and credit process, as well as overall decision-making. Additionally we have industry specific guidelines, called credit industry policies and principles, in place for the following areas: Sustainable Financing unit •• Commercial Real Estate In 2014, we established a new Sustainable Financing •• Energy unit with experienced senior employees to give more •• Financial Institutions focus to environmental, social and governance matters. •• Shipping, Offshore and Oil Services The unit, which functions as a knowledge centre, aims •• Leveraged buyout (LBO) to increase awareness and capabilities in assessing •• Forestry ESG matters in business selection and product develop•• Telecom, Media and IT ment, as well as forward-looking risk identification and mitigation. Integrating ESG risk assessment The relationship with our private, corporate and instituThe Equator Principles tional customers is based on a thorough knowledge of Nordea does not actively engage in Project Finance, and their business activities. To apply with the credit industry we play a role only in transactions that have a strong policies and principles, we have created in-house tools and connection to our prime customers. In 2014, one project processes, which we continue to develop to include a more finance loan and three project-related corporate loans holistic approach to considering ESG matters in our lending reached financial close. Full EP reporting is available on decisions. www.nordea.com/csr 2. Credit risk governance and decision making * Credit guidelines and policies Relevant body Credit decicions and reporting BOARD OF DIRECTORS Receives reporting Approving BOARD RISK COMMITTEE credit guidelines and policies GROUP EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT RISK COMMITTEE Decision making •• credit decision making compoRetail Wealth WholeGroup sition depending on risk level banking Mgmt sale credit risk •• decisions based on a credit Preparing banking memorandum including ESG credit guidelines risks when applicable and policies * Illustrative structure 28 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Responsible investments In our approach to asset management, Nordea applies to which responsible investment strategies are carried internationally recognised principles of responsible investout in a specific fund. Just as consumers should be able ment and active ownership. Nordea Asset Management was to know the ingredients in a food product they puramong the first Nordic institutions to sign the Principles for chase, we believe our customers should be able to see Responsible Investment (PRI) in November 2007. what they are getting when they buy a financial product. Society To help our customers make the most responsible •• Managing water-related risks. Global water trends preinvestment decisions, Nordea considers the ESG dict that increasing population, economic growth, growing (Environmental, Social, Governance) aspects of the commiddle class and urbanisation in emerging economies panies in our investment funds. This means we seek to will entail even higher future water demand. This year, we ensure that our customers' assets are invested in compajoined the Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI) nies complying with international guidelines and responin a collaborative study analysing how Swedish compasible investment principles concerning human rights, worknies manage their water-related risks. We will continue ing conditions, environmental issues and corporate ethics to engage with companies and push them to improve – all the while keeping a strong focus on generating the disclosure and management of water-related risks. most attractive risk-adjusted returns. •• Nordea Life & Pension signed PRI. Nordea Life & Our policy for responsible investment covers all actively Pension (NLP) became a signatory to PRI in October managed funds and is applied uniquely to each asset class. 2014. At present, 80% of NLP assets are covered by Customers The investments of all of our funds are reviewed semiNordea’s Responsible Investment strategy. NLP is now annually using a norm-based screening method. We believe establishing a team and developing its own strategy and that companies that integrate ESG factors in their business processes in order to implement the new policy in practice. models represent more sustainable investments. This is why we integrate ESG information into our investment processes. Plans for 2015 Certain Nordea funds, called Stars, have established a higher In 2015 we will focus on further developing the strong level of responsible investing in their portfolio manageinitiatives that have been started in 2014. One of these ment, including proprietary ESG analysis that feeds into the builds on the Responsibility Declarations, and consists of investment selection and decision. This is known as positive developing ESG scorecards for our equity funds. These screening and serves to identify more sustainable companies. will contain the most important ESG information for a fund, including a ratings profile based on MSCI data, the 2014 Highlights carbon footprint, which engagements are taking place in •• Enhanced analysis and engagement. We implemented the fund, and if there are any norm screen violations and People exciting enhancements to both our analysis and engagehow these are being addressed. This will add increased ment models, thereby adding more value to the investment transparency to both our customers as well as the process. We believe close collaboration between our investment teams, and will enable comparison on these traditional investment professionals and the Responsible parameters across funds. We think it is a crucial step in Investments team helps foster a strong culture of dedicamainstreaming responsible investments and in furthering tion to the field that keeps us at the forefront of innovation. the dialogue with clients and other stakeholders. As part of our continued focus on engagement in 2014, our own analysts met with approximately 150 companies, Climate and energy will be a big topic for 2015 and one engaging in in-depth dialogues with 50 of them. we have been preparing for throughout this year. We will be addressing what managers can do to alleviate •• Increased transparency of investment strategies. the potential significant risks posed by climate change Nordea Asset Management introduced Responsibility through thought leadership, product focus, and at events Declarations on our mutual funds to disclose the extent throughout the year. Suppliers Addressing carbon climate change In September 2014, the Responsible footprints of our equity funds, which Investment team attended the PRI in we in fact already had initiated earlier Person conference in Montreal, where this year. We believe that increased industry representatives gathered to transparency of funds’ carbon footdiscuss the latest developments within print contributes positively to the fight responsible investments. There was against climate change, and are happy a significant call to action directed at to see broader industry backing of this both asset owners and managers to type of activity. Performance data address climate change and make it a priority in the run-up to COP21 in Paris in 2015. One of the tangible initiatives was the Montreal Carbon Pledge, which Nordea proudly supported as one of the first signatories. The Pledge We believe that increased transparency of funds’ carbon footprint contributes posicommits us to disclose the carbon tively to the fight against climate change. Nordea CSR Report 2014 29 Meeting customer expectations Customer expectations Service channels 24 x 7 availability PersonaBranch lised service network and advice Fair and competitive pricing Physical and remote meetings Security Reliability Contact centre Suitable products Mobile bank Netbank Our processes to develop and ensure quality Product development Processes aiming to ensure adherence to: Live-lab testing Product Approval Process Quality & Risk Assurance process including: Sales & marketing material production and training •• Legal correctness IT processes •• Compliance requirements Continuous customer feedback and improvements •• Various risk requirements 30 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea and impacting the society Our offering Our impact Impact in 2014 Household customers Household lending Society ✔✔ Deposits ÚÚ Advice for individuals on their financial plans: 285, 166 mortgages issued in 2014 ✔✔ Payments •• buying an apartment or ✔✔ Savings house 125,6 BN€ mortgages •• Savings ✔✔ Advisory •• Insurance 24,2 BN€ other lending ✔✔ Mortgage bonds •• pension plans Corporate lending Customers ✔✔ Consumer bonds ÚÚ Help in creating personal wealth ✔✔ Insurance coverage ÚÚ Avoiding financial stress 50,1 BN€ corporate lending Corporate customers 107,7 BN€ bonds and syndicated loans issued in 2014 ✔✔ Cash management ÚÚ Advising companies on Wealth management their financial issues: ✔✔ Foreign exchange & hedging •• efficient cash 262 BN€ assets under management management People ✔✔ Financing •• Investments 1,761,548 •• trade finance products number of fund unit holders ✔✔ Advisory •• raising equity and capital Advisory ✔✔ Fixed income and equity issuance ÚÚ Helping businesses to expand 768,790 ”360 degree” meetings ✔✔ Corporate finance ÚÚ Enabling growth ✔✔ Taylor made products ÚÚ Enabling job creation 272,038 meetings with small & medium corporates 753,803 financial plans Suppliers Transactions 250,085,790 netbank transactions Participating from the organisation: 15,733,068 branch office transactions Business Development Compliance IT development Group Risk Management 1,489,914,880 Performance data card transactions Process development Internal audit Marketing & Training External audit 961,860 new cards Legal 262,727,mobile119 log-ons Nordea CSR Report 2014 31 People We can only achieve our goal of ensuring a great customer experience if we employ the right people and develop them in the right way. Recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining the best people are therefore among our highest priorities. Staying value driven Our values – Great customer experiences, It’s all about people and One Nordea team – continue to underpin our People strategy and drive everything we do. The values are incorporated in all our processes, training and leadership, as well as forming the basis for our leadership competencies. “How” becomes as important as “what” Traditionally, we have been very good at measuring and following up on the financial and functional performance – the ‘what’ of our leaders at all levels in the organisation. Starting in 2015, there will be an even stronger focus on leadership capabilities – the ‘how’ – measured by concrete measurements based on factors such as the Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) results and living the values, making the ‘how’ as important as the ’what’. The full assessment will be done in the Performance and Development Dialogue. Developing our people for future needs Interview with Johanna Bergström, Head of HR Development and Operations Q How is Nordea adapting to taken to support leadership, this has Q What is the top priority in our new global trends and changreally paid off. Despite the challenges of People strategy for 2015? We will ing demands of customers and an industry in transition, the immediate continue to persistently and consistently employees? We keep a close eye manager score improved by one point in work with our current priority areas; on what is happening and how the the recent employee satisfaction survey Leadership and Performance and Talent global trends and changed customer (ESI), increasing the gap between us Management, with the add-on of workbehaviours will affect our people. and the industry average to eight points. force planning, to become even better Digitalisation and increased compliance at foreseeing the future competence requirements are both impacting how Q What do we need to improve needs in this rapidly changing industry. we work and what competencies are on? Strengthening the pipeline with needed. It is about foreseeing future female managers and ensuring that more Q What do see as your own needs and developing our people in talented female employees are motivated personal responsibility/impact in parallel with taking in new employees. and given the opportunity to continue Nordea? My responsibility is to ensure along the leadership career track is that we have a competent and proacQ Where have we made significant an area we need to keep improving. tive HR organisation that delivers on the progress in 2014? In 2012, we introSucceeding with this will mean that we priorities defined in our People strategy. duced the new Leadership pipeline conrealise the full potential of our employees When we in HR perform at our best, cept; that is, how we develop leaders in within Nordea, and also that we attract we make it possible for the business to Nordea. Combined with other initiatives the best talents from outside. create value for our customers. 32 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Enhancing our leadership At Nordea, we put relationships first, striving to create Our leaders are assessed on their leadership competensuperior value for every one of our customers and cies on a yearly basis through our employee satisfaction stakeholders. We know that requires strong leadersurvey and as part of their individual personal development Society ship – since great leaders are a prerequisite for great discussion. In 2014, we saw an increase in three out of five employees. leadership competencies. See table 1 for the results. Leadership is one of the most important drivers of culDeveloping tomorrow’s leaders ture, performance, motivation and job satisfaction. How When the world changes, leaders have to change. When our leaders perform is key to how our people perform, leaders are remote from their direct reports – perhaps which in turn impacts the quality of our customers' even in another country – it is even more important that experience. Our leaders also have an important role in they are ‘present’ in the way they manage. They need helping their staff to live the company values. to be very clear about responsibilities, what tasks need doing and how people are expected to perform. We work hard to build leadership skills, and continually invest in identifying the next generation of leaders. Increasingly, leaders will be held accountable for develIn particular, our Leadership Pipeline Programmes oping the employees that report to them and creating Customers support leaders who are stepping into new managethe right team to lead the future relationship bank. They ment roles by helping them develop the capabilities will be assessed not only on the ‘what’ (financial perforto succeed, while our Leadership Competence mance) but also the ‘how’ (leadership performance). Programmes support managers in developing specific competencies in their current roles. Leaders are assessed annually on their leadership competencies. In 2014, 770 leaders participated in our Leadership ‘Leadership really matters’ Pipeline and Leadership Competence programmes. Regine Ladenburg, team leader in Group Credit Leadership and values Risk and participant in the Leading Others proWe want our leaders to live our values and inspire othgramme, one of Nordea’s Leadership Pipeline ers around them. To deliver Great customer experiencprogrammes. es, we look to leaders to ensure that people are thinkPeople ing and acting with the customer in mind, delivering “My expectation when going to the Leadership proprofessionally and creating long-term relationships. gramme was to get a toolbox – and I did. I learned how to become better at setting goals, delegating, With It’s all about people, our leaders are expected following up and assessing performance and I have to coach their direct reports, foster initiative-taking put these learnings into use in my daily work as a and assess them fairly. For One Nordea Team, we leader. expect to see leaders connecting people and teams to deliver specific tasks, showing trust and assuming My main learning point from the Leadership proaccountability. gramme is that leadership really matters. We know this is a recipe for success. Numerous In real life, leadership is about working with people, so I strive to be a role model; walking my talk, analyses demonstrate how values and leadership drive building trust with my team, giving feedback and key employee factors such as overall satisfaction and coaching, and by that enabling them to perform at motivation as well as a focus on the customer. their best.” Suppliers Similarly, our analyses show that a top-performing manSatisfaction with our Leadership programmes is ager in terms of values and leadership is twice as likely high, participants gave the programmes an average as a low-performing manager to be in the top 10% of score of 4.25 out of 5. performers in terms of financial results. 1. Continuous development in leadership competencies ESI results Leadership competences 2012 2013 2014 E Reach out create ambition, clarity and purpose 76 77 77 0 Performance data Make it happen drive to achieve 76 78 79 +1 Add value* direct focus towards customers 77 77 77 0 Unfold potential coach and give feedback 75 76 77 +1 Connect team up and work together 75 76 77 +1 * Due to simplification and reduction in the questionnaire, the ESI 2013 and 2012 results for the five Leadership Competencies and the Nordea Values have been recalculated to secure comparability. Nordea CSR Report 2014 33 Creating a performance culture High-performing employees obviously contribute to employees participated in 2014. In 2014, 97% of those stronger business performance. To nurture a culture of employees took part in a PDD dialogue; out of them, performance, leaders need to set clear expectations of 56% were women and 44% men, 86% were employtheir people, and to be fair and honest in their dealings ees and 14% managers. with them in order to help them perform at their best. Our plans for 2015 include further strengthening our During 2014, we have taken a number of steps towards focus on action planning and target setting through creating a stronger performance culture. These include the PDD, reviewing our incentive structure and buildcontinuing to simplify job descriptions, so that all ing a stronger cascading mechanism. employees are clear on what their roles and responsibilities are, and training managers on the importance of setting clear expectations and providing ongoing Four questions every feedback to their staff. employee needs to answer All employees take part in an annual Performance & Development Dialogue (PDD) in the first quarter of 1. What am I accountable for? the year, where their previous year’s performance is 2. Why is what I do important? reviewed along with defining the development actions and targets for the year ahead. The statistics for 3. How am I performing? participation in PDD discussions are gathered from the employee satisfaction survey, in which 94% of all 4. How should I develop to improve? Improving health and safety A key factor in creating a culture of better perforhealth and safety legislation in the Nordic countries mance and, by extension, profitability, is providing is generally comprehensive, we supplement our a healthy working environment. We define healthy employees’ wellbeing through preventive measures as “having the energy to perform at work and live promoting health and supporting active ageing. the kind of life you want to live.” While occupational Healthy workplace, happy staff Nordea Life & Pension in Denmark introthe programme have created new conduced “Healthy Everyday Life” in 2009 nections between employees across the as part of its business strategy to create organisation. the best workplace within Denmark’s pension sector. The programme aims “Healthy Everyday Life” has become an to create a healthy environment, strong integral part of the Nordea Life & Pension culture and attractive workplace by brand after the group won myriad awards encouraging physical activities such as across Denmark and Europe for its running and strengthening exercises, and healthy workplace. Since 2012, Nordea stress-decreasing techniques such as Life & Pension has been a partner of active pauses and mindfulness. They also the Most Healthy Workplace award in offer workshops on a variety of health Denmark, and corporate customers issues e.g. blood pressure and hygiene, now ask Frimodt-Möller for guidance on as well as a weight loss programme. creating a similar kind of healthy environEmployees invest their own time and ment in their companies. money in the different activities. The results were impressive immediately. “We can see a positive correlation in our employee satisfaction survey since the project started, and a reduction in According to Nina Frimodt-Möller, absence due to illness in general,” says Corporate Health Manager at Nordea Life Nina Frimodt-Möller, Corporate Health & Pension in Denmark, there has been a Manager. Employees report “having a positive trend in employee satisfaction and meaningful job” as an outcome of the reduction in absence due to illness since programme, and many initiatives within the “Healthy Everyday Life” programme was introduced. 34 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Managing our talent Ensuring that our customers have a positive experience in their dealings with us is central to everything we do. It We target the right is therefore critical that we employ, develop and retain the people who are best placed to help us deliver this goal. people for us, and aim for In combination, increased regulatory requirements within them to see Nordea as the best possible employer in Society the industry, an aging population and the rise of digital banking mean our customers and their needs are changing. What does that mean for our approach to managing our people? the financial industry. Johanna Bergström, Head of HR Development and Operations We have identified some of the most critical competencies we think our employees need to have today and in the future. These include leadership capabilities, strong execution and agility and not least the ability to underour business needs. The APR comprises a full talent stand and relate to our customers. Having identified overview across all business areas, ensuring identified those competencies, we target our recruitment activities employees receive visibility. It also includes structured to the most suitable candidates. While we are the leading succession planning for our key positions, which helps Nordic bank, we also hire from outside the Nordic region us work on our employees' longer term development Customers to ensure we find the best people we can. and performance. Creating a talent pipeline In addition, we have upgraded our graduate training Being able to recruit for more complex and executive programme to become part of our talent management positions from within the company helps to ensure pipeline. continuity of relationships with our customers and our on-going ability to deliver excellent customer At Nordea, we believe that performance provides the service. That’s why talent management and succesopportunity to learn, and learning provides the capability sion planning with our existing employees are of the to perform. A large part of development happens on the utmost importance. They secure a continuous flow of job, either through feedback and coaching from one’s talent toward our strategic key positions, which in turn manager, or through job experiences, tasks and problemenables us to deliver on our business and customer solving in one’s everyday work. Nordea’s employees service goals. received an average of 4,8 days of training, including People e-learning and classroom training in 2014. Women With this in mind, we have strengthened our Annual received 5,3 hours and men 4,1 hours of training. For People Review (APR) and brought it more in line with more data on training, see p. 48. Building on our strengths Interview with Anna Storåkers, Head of Banking Sweden Q When did you join Nordea? people and organisation, and how I joined Nordea as head of we must build on these to develop Suppliers Group Strategy and Corporate new ways of serving our customers Development in September 2009. in the future. This experience and In this position, I had the chance knowledge is invaluable in my curto work with many different areas, rent role. developing the group strategy proQ How did Nordea’s succescess, strategies and priorities. This sion planning help you in the gave me the opportunity to quickly transition? It helped me as it has create a network of colleagues and helped many others in Nordea. Our senior managers across Nordea. talents are identified in everyday Q How did you prepare for your leadership, and are brought to the current job? After two years workattention of the whole group within ing at the group level, I was offered the Talent Management framework. the chance to move into the busiBy knowing our employees – their Performance data ness in Retail Banking as deputy skills and competencies, their head of Banking Sweden, responsiexperiences and not least their own “During my three years as Deputy Head ble for customer business in half the motivations and ambitions – we can of Retail Banking I learned a lot about branch network in Sweden. During match people with open positions. the strengths of our people and organimy three years in this role, I learned sation, which is invaluable in my current role,” Anna Storåkers, Head of Banking a lot about the strengths of our Sweden says. Nordea CSR Report 2014 35 Listening to our people We have conducted an annual employee satisfaction We encourage our leaders to ‘step up’, particularly (ESI) survey for several years with a high involvement during turbulent periods. They are encouraged to level, and 2014 was no exception: over 29,000 employanalyse the results of the ESI in their area and create ees gave their feedback, with a participation rate of 94%. the action plan needed to address the weaker scores. Just as important, we urge our leaders to keep talking The results are presented to Group Executive with their direct reports, providing direction, focus and Management in the end of November and then cassupport. caded in December. The overall result for Satisfaction and Motivation decreased by one point in 2014 comTo encourage interactive and open communication pared to the previous year, showing the same trend as between all employees at Nordea, we have continued for the whole Nordic financial sector. At the same time, to encourage employees to comment on and respond Commitment remained unchanged and significantly to comments on articles on the intranet. In 2014, the above the sector level. amount of comments has increased by more than 50%. Significantly, the Immediate manager score, i.e. how In the Nordic countries more than 70% of employees employees score their immediate mangers on Nordea’s are members of a union. Nordea seeks to have a good five leadership competencies, improved by one point to and constructive cooperation with union representaan index rate of 80, increasing the gap to the industives on all levels. Representatives are elected among try average to eight points. The Development score employees for local levels and for Business Area remained the same at 73, with Nordea seven points Consultative Committees that deal with change initiaabove the industry average; although a high focus on tives. The Group Council is a high-level collaborative development is a necessity for Nordea to stay ahead, body that raises strategic issues and collects feedback we consider this a great achievement during times of from employee representatives. constant change. 2. Results of the employee satisfaction (ESI) ESI results 2012 2013 2014 E Satisfaction and motivation 72 72 71 –1 Development 73 73 73 0 Considered a good workplace 74 77 75 –2 Proud to tell others where I work 77 79 77 -2 Recommend others to start working at Nordea 72 74 71 -3 Living the values 79 81 82 -1 Great Customer Experiences 81 81 81 0 It’s all about People 75 75 75 0 One Nordea team 79 80 79 -1 Responsible restructuring When we are faced with a restructuring situation, a country-specific voluntary redundancy package, or those employees affected are presented with options take advantage of a retirement offering or outplaceto join our internal People Matching process to find a ment support. new position within Nordea. The People Matching process runs in all Nordic countries to efficiently match In cases of operational changes, terms are handled in people and their competences with open positions. ways specified in the collective agreements. Terms of notice range from 14 days to six months depending on In certain cases, employees may choose to receive local legislation and length of employment. 36 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Addressing gender balance Gender balance is a particular challenge in financial services. Women constitute nearly 58% of Nordea’s workforce and 43% of leadership positions, but are still significantly under-represented in senior leadership positions. Stepping up our efforts to address this situation is a high Society priority for several reasons. We believe that gender balanced leadership teams make better and more innovative business decisions, leading to improved business performance; thus, we miss out on opportunities by not fully utilising our internal talent pool. We are also aware that, when considering potential employers, talented young women are more likely to prefer companies that actively tackle diversity issues. During 2013, we placed significant focus on in-depth analysis of gender diversity at Nordea. That spring, we conducted a survey of more than 1,500 employees, and held qualitative interviews with 17 Nordea female manCustomers agers. Our analysis indicated a clear need and willingness within Nordea to improve the situation. Progressing towards equality Based on the results of the survey and interviews, the Group Executive Management (GEM) approved a series of initiatives aimed at changing the culture and strengthening the pipeline of female managers, which we began implementing in 2014: •• Set requirements to improve gender balance To closely measure and follow-up on the impact of efforts to increase gender diversity, as well as to Improving gender diversity People create transparency and ensure commitment, GEM established a number of guidelines with measurements with 2013 as the baseline. requires persistency. It’s about breaking old habits and changing Guideline 2014 Status the current way of working. And No gender should count for more than 60% of all graduates Target achieved with 41% female and 59% male candidates not least, it is about leadership. Both genders should be Policy compliance in 58% Marianne Egelund Siig, Head of Diversity represented among the of managerial recruitment last three candidates in processes. Percentage of managerial recruitments. managerial recruitments in which a female was hired was 46%. have also included gender awareness material for the Suppliers Secure full transparency on There is a significant decrease PDD and included diversity questions in the ESI prothe share of female managers, of the percentage of female cess, and established a Management Team Women’s measured both on managerial managers for each level upward Network to support these changes. levels and within the business in the hierarchy, from 60% areas and group functions of all employees to 14% of GEM. See the Data section •• Support dual career families p. 49 for more information. To facilitate employees being able to combine a career with raising a family, we created new guidelines for keeping in contact with employees on parental leave, and will make domestic support benefits more easily accessible •• Clearly signal that gender diversity is a priority for all employees. In 2015, we will be developing a career Through internal and external communications, we planning support tool for employees returning from began increasing awareness of the issue, signalling that parental leave. gender diversity is a priority for Nordea. This message was broadcast for example through our Annual and A year into our initiative to achieve gender balance at all Performance data CSR reporting, events targeting female students and managerial levels, leaders know they are expected to (a) young professionals, and articles published on a new be ambassadors for diversity in Nordea, (b) be aware of Gender Diversity intranet site and via social media. the increased focus on gender diversity in their strategic long-term planning, and (c) hold their direct reports •• Diversity modules in place in leadership training accountable for their biases and attitudes. We have These modules address issues such as unconscious made progress, but recognize that real change happens bias and steps to making diversity a higher priority. We through a consistent and persistent effort. Nordea CSR Report 2014 37 Suppliers We work with our suppliers to prevent, identify and mitigate possible adverse impacts that our shared operations could have on people, the environment and society in general. Engaging with suppliers We acknowledge our responsibility for ensuring that our suppliers manage their business in a responsible manner. We demand high ethical, health and safety, social and environmental standards of all our suppliers. These standards are based on our CSR Supplier Policy and CSR Supplier Guidelines that, in turn, are based on the UN Global Compact (see p. 38). By actively engaging with our suppliers, we can together define a good way of doing business that benefits us all. Our CSR supplier management framework supports this ambition and allows us to systematically manage CSR related aspects of our relationship with our suppliers. Our supplier base • Number of contracted suppliers: 1,200 • Spending: €2.3 billion • Primary locations of contracted suppliers: main operations in the Nordic region, other locations in India, US and EU • Industries: IT services, -software and -hardware, travel, facility management, furniture, marketing CSR is a business opportunity Interview with Casper Christensen, Head of Group Procurement Q Why is it important for Nordea to Q What are the key challenges you Q What has been the most surprisfocus on responsibility in procureface related to sustainability, and ing thing you have learnt since you ment? It is important, simply because how are you overcoming them? began working with CSR Supplier it is the right thing to do. Responsibility I would say that the key challenge Management? That the majority of is closely in line with our values and is accepting that this is an on-going suppliers have a very positive approach how we want to conduct our business. journey. We have committed ourselves to engaging on CSR matters. They see to ensuring continuous improvements, it as a business opportunity, which in Q What kind of partner does and we have to acknowledge that it takes the long run can have a positive effect Nordea wish to be for its supplitime. It would be the easiest thing in the on their business. I hope for the future ers? Can you describe how you act world to end a relationship with a supplithat we can reach new levels in the as both ‘policeman’ and ‘trainer’ er in breach, but that is not what we want area of sustainability with our suppliers. with your suppliers? We want to be to do. We want to engage and cooperate a good and respected partner for our with them to see improvements. Q In your opinion, what will CSR suppliers. I don’t believe it is an ‘either in supplier relations bring in the or’ approach, but we are without a Q How do you see CSR in Group future? I hope that CSR to a larger doubt more trainers that policemen. Procurement supporting Nordea’s extent will be an integrated part of the Our CSR Reviews focus on engageoverall goal? We have a responsible supplier dialogue. If we in cooperation ment, but of course we can end up in a approach to how we do business – with our suppliers can reach solutions, situation where a supplier is not willing that also goes for our supply chain. which add value to both us and the to improve. In that case, termination Consumers are to an increasing extent suppliers instead of being an additional can be the last way out. We do not incorporating ethical considerations cost, I believe we have succeeded. In want to do business with unethical or into their buying behaviour. That is also that way both we and our suppliers will irresponsible suppliers. the case when selecting your bank. become more competitive. 38 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea The primary location of our suppliers is in the Nordic ones to reply to a Request for Proposal. Those suppliers countries, but we also work with suppliers who operate complete a qualifying CSR questionnaire and we use that globally, including in the US and India. Approximately 1% of information to organise the suppliers in our CSR segmenour suppliers make up 80% of our supplier expenditures. tation matrix (Step 2). Suppliers who are evaluated in the This is due to the fact that we have a number of strategic matrix to be medium or high CSR risk, and whom we want partnerships in the areas of facility management, IT and to invite for negotiations, fill in an extended CSR questioncommercial services. For more information on the distribunaire which will be a part of the negotiation. For the chosen tion by region and industry of our suppliers, see Supplier supplier(s) we assess the most appropriate CSR engagedata on p. 39. ment. After the negotiations, we sign the contract, including Society the CSR Supplier Policy (Step 3). In the Implementation In 2014, we moved certain IT-production activities that had phase (step 4) we set up the governance and CSR activibeen outsourced to IBM in-house. This way we obtained a ties are followed up. higher degree of control in the core area of infrastructure and operations, and achieved cost savings. We offered Managing supplier performance employment to all IBM employees who had been workOnce we have signed a contract with a supplier, we ing 50% or more for Nordea. This resulted in insourcing assign a contact person and agree on ongoing commuapproximately 400 employees – only 16 people turned nications and governance. The scope and the frequency down the offer. of engagement depend on the type of product or service provided. Environmental, social and governance issues are Becoming a supplier to Nordea addressed as a part of these on-going dialogues. Since 2012, all contracts signed on the Nordea contract template have included the CSR Supplier Policy. In 2014 Additionally, we select three to six suppliers per year, Customers we developed the supplier process to include a segmentaprimarily those with the largest impact, with whom we pertion matrix and a questionnaire to help us further ensure form an in-depth CSR Review. During the two-day on-site implementation of our CSR standards. These new tools review, we conduct an extensive evaluation of the supplier’s were implemented in the end of 2014. One of the focus policies, procedures and performance related to the ten areas for 2015 will be to request responses and ascertain principles of UN Global Compact. The review concludes risk profiles for all our suppliers, including those with whom with a commonly agreed upon action plan with developwe began working prior to 2014. This will allow us to segment activities for both parties. ment our supplier base within the CSR matrix. To make the process more transparent we have begun developing During 2014, we developed action plans for the three supa supplier portal on nordea.com, where potential suppliers pliers with whom we conducted CSR reviews. We did not will be able to register. identify any suppliers demonstrating a significant risk in any of the UN Global Compact areas. In the future, suppliers When a business area identifies a need for sourcing, the that are at risk for such incidents will be identified through People central sourcing functions initiate the sourcing process, our evaluation and follow-up of the self-assessment quesstarting with defining the scope (Step 1). We then conduct tionnaires. For a more detailed outcome of the CSR Review research and identify potential suppliers, inviting selected in 2014, see p. 39. 1. Becoming a supplier to Nordea • Request for proposal • Bid evaluation • Qualifying CSR • Extended CSR Supplier questionnaire questionnaire (medium and high risk suppliers) Suppliers Initiation of Research & Bid evaluation & Sourcing Process 1 RFP issuing 2 negotiating 3 Implementation 4 • CSR segmentation • CSR evaluation • Contract incl. CSR Supplier Policy signed. • On-going engagement and development of CSR segmentation matrix Segmentation action plan with high-risk Nordea Group Risk Likelihood suppliers. Performance data •• Country risk Procurement/ Risk Likelihood Medium risk High risk •• Sector risk IT Sourcing •• UNGC compliance Risk Impact •• Spend Low risk Medium risk •• Business Criticality •• Media Risk Impact Nordea CSR Report 2014 39 t Maija Tenhunen, Maria Hejde Færgemann, Shailesh Kumar Gawane and Shirish Wasker met up for the supplier on-spot review. u “It is important for us to ensure that neither our own or our suppliers’ company practises cause any indirect adverse impacts,” Maria Færgemann from Nordea’s Group Procurement says. CSR Review of Tieto: Aligned for success Tieto is one of our close partners to many of the same conventions as Q How easy or difficult was it in our Extended Delivery Centres we are, and were familiar with the UN for you to provide Nordea with the (EDC’s) in India. We have cooperGlobal Compact Management Model, information needed? Not that difated with Tieto since 1995, and for example. It was also clear that Tieto ficult since both Nordea and Tieto base approximately 250 consultants had only spent a little time preparing for CR work on the United Nations Global support Nordea from India with the review – which is positive, because Compact Management Model. Our CR application development and it meant they had everything in place report, which complies with the GRI maintenance. already before we announced our visit. (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 and UN Global Compact Advanced Level, was Maria Hejde Færgemann from Q Coming up with the action plan an excellent source of information. Nordea’s Group Procurement conducted to make improvements is key. Can a CSR Review with Tieto in India. it be hard to agree that with a supQ Did the review reveal anything plier? Very seldom. One of the benefits new to you? The review mainly conQ What made you select Tieto for a of spending two to three days with the firmed that we are working on the right CSR Review? Tieto operates in India, supplier is that expectations are aligned topics, but it encouraged us to take the which is considered a high-risk counbefore we conclude the meeting. In next steps in our work on value chain try. We wanted to make sure that the the debriefing session, we give a short and especially supply chain. We also corporate level policies and processes overview of the areas we expect to sugidentified some smaller areas which we are also locally enforced, especially with gest in the action plan, and often there could emphasise more. regards to labour rights. It is important for is already consensus by then. us to ensure that neither our own or our Q How useful did you find Nordea’s suppliers’ company practises cause any Q Do you also provide support to assessment? It is always useful to go indirect adverse impacts. help suppliers deliver on those through a review, we get to take a fresh commitments? Yes, to a certain point. look at ourselves when someone is Q Can you describe the process We will provide advice and knowledge looking at us from their perspective. We you went through over the three sharing if that is desired as they work get feedback on areas we can improve. days of your review? When reviewthrough their action plan. But commitOne of the best findings for us was ing companies, we apply the UN Global ment is required internally from both the that Nordea and Tieto are well aligned Compact Management Model, and management and employees to deliver on CR and that we could share best investigate which management systems the changes. practices. and processes the supplier has in place for taking care of environmental, social Christer Mattsson, Head of Corporate Q What do you think you will do and governance risks. We had in-depth Responsibility (CR), and CR manager differently as a result of the assessdiscussions about Tieto’s approach to Maija Tenhunen at Tieto comment on ment? We will place more focus on the labour rights, supply chain management, the process from their perspective… supply chain. community engagement, anti-corruption and waste handling among many other Q What did you think when you Q How confident are you that things. We went on a site tour of the received the request for a CSR you will be able to demonstrate premises and conducted interviews with Review from Nordea? We have improvements? Very confident. As employees and business area heads. enjoyed a long and fruitful relationship we have said, we have a very strong with Nordea. So having them review focus on CR starting with our executive Q How easy or difficult was it to our CR activities is a great opportunity leadership, board of directors and invesexplain what you needed from for us to get some feedback on what is tors. We report every year and we have Tieto? It was clear to us already in the important to them. And it challenges us senior managers owning each of our first telephone meeting that Tieto had a to look again at our CR activities. We material aspects so we have the right well-established approach to working believe that the best way to improve on conditions in place to improve. on CSR issues. They are a signatory CR is to look at the value chain. 40 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Performance 7% 5% Data 2014 Society 31% 37% 42 Overview of corporate governance structure 20% Our governance framework, including CSR governance, is presented. 44 Commitments & policies Customers International commitments and internal policies guide our CSR work and Nordea is a member of the most important 5% 4% industry associations. 45 Taxation data A detailed breakdown of the type of tax paid can be found in this section. 26% 46 Social data The data presented gives a picture of Nordea’s workforce from a variety of angles. People 50 Environmental data The main environmental indicators and the status of our EcoFootprint progamme’s KPI’s can be found here. 53 Supplier data The purchases per country and industry and the summary of findings of our supplier reviews are shown here. 23% 54 Assurance Report Nordea’s CSR Report is externally assured. Suppliers 3,5 120 3,0 100 2,5 80 70 104 Performance data 2,0 137 60 1,5 40 00 tonnes 1,0 / FTE Nordea CSR Report 2014 41 0,5 20 95 Overview of corporate governance structure Auditors Shareholders in General Meetings The auditors are elected by the General Meeting The General Meeting is the Company’s highest decision-making body, where the for examination of the company’s annual report shareholders exercise their voting rights. General Meetings are held in Sweden where and accounts and the administration of the Nordea is legally registered. At General Meetings, each shareholder is entitled to vote Board and the managing director. The auditor’s for the full number of shares that he or she owns or represents. Nordea is not entitled work follows an annual audit plan based on a to vote for its own shares at General Meetings. Each shareholder also has the right comprehensive risk assessment. Auditors present to have items included in the agenda providing a request has been submitted to the the reports to the shareholders at the Annual Board in due time for the item to be included in the notice of meeting. The General General Meeting (AGM) in their audit report. They Meeting also provides all shareholders with an opportunity to express their opinions in also provide assurance on the CSR Report. regards to our CSR work. SHAREHOLDERS IN AUDITORS NOMINATION COMMITTEE GENERAL MEETING BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT RISK REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP INTERNAL GROUP AUDIT COMPLIANCE PRESIDENT AND GROUP CEO GROUP RISK Elected/appointed by MANAGEMENT (CSR) Reporting to/informing EXTERNAL FRAMEWORK INTERNAL FRAMEWORK Legalisation, regulation, the Swedish Corp. Articles of Association, the Charter, instructions for the CEO, policies, Governance Code, stock exchange rules instructions, guidelines and Nordea’s values External CSR Framework Group Internal Audit (GIA) Group Compliance international commitments GIA is an independent function Continuously reviews The international treaties we have signed guide commissioned by the Board. The and monitors the us and help us live up to Nordea’s over-riding purpose of GIA’s assurance activity Group’s adherence to commitments. Nordea is committed to the: is to add value to the organisation laws and regulations. • UN Global Compact by assuring the quality of the Group Compliance is an • UN Principles for Responsible Investments governance, risk management and independent unit reporting to • UN Environmental Programme Finance Initiative control processes as well as promoting the Group CEO. • Equator Principles. continuous improvement. CSR Committee Group Marketing and Communications The CSR Committee consists of those business areas and functions most important to the development of CSR in Nordea. Group Marketing and Communications is overall responsible for the Nordea brand, our marketing •• The Committee’s responsibilities include: and communication activities and the CSR •• Preparing, following up on and ensuring execution of Nordea’s CSR strategy activities across the bank. •• Defining and following up on Nordea’s CSR focus areas •• Defining Nordea’s core CSR policies CSR unit. The CSR unit is responsible for •• Ensuring that the decisions made are implemented in the business areas and group coordinating the CSR work within the Group, functions as planned proposing overall policies, strategies and goals, •• Sharing knowledge and identifying CSR trends and opportunities for Nordea. as well as presenting the results to the CSR Committee and to GEM. 42 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Nomination Committee In accordance with the Code, Nordea has in Nordea at a set date shall be entitled to giving the background and the considerations a nomination committee representing the appoint one member each. The committee of its proposals. The Statement is published on shareholders, which is established by the prepares the decisions on appointments, and Nordea’s website. In the process of drawing up Society AGM. The committee shall consist of the remunerations to be taken by the shareholders propositions of Board members, knowledge of chairman of the Board and four other members. at the AGM. The committee issues a Statement CSR issues is one of the parameters to be taken Shareholders with the four largest shareholdings on the proposal regarding the board of directors into considerations by the committee. Board of Directors Composition of the Board. The Board Committees. In accordance The Board Remuneration Board currently consists of eight members with the external framework and in order to Committee (BRC). Prepares and presents elected by the General Meeting. In addition increase the effectiveness of the its work, proposals to the Board on remuneration three members and one deputy member the Board has established separate working issues. When preparing such proposals, are appointed by the employees. Employees committees to assist the Board in preparing BRC shall take into account the long term Customers are entitled under Swedish legislation to matters belonging to the competence of the interests of shareholders, investors and other be represented in the Board. The CEO of Board and to decide in matters delegated stakeholders in Nordea. Nordea is not a member of the Board. The by the Board. The duties of the Board appointment of the employee representatives Committees, as well as working procedures, The CSR work of the Board. Nordea's is to ensure a full process of informing are defined in the Charter. Each Committee Board of Directors does not have a specific CSR and consulting employees about working regularly reports on its work to the Board. The committee. The governance of the CSR work is relationships. Further, according to the Articles minutes are communicated to the Board. performed by the Board as a whole. The Board of Association the aim shall be that the is the highest governing body responsible for the Board, as a whole, for the purpose of its work, The Board Audit Committee (BAC). Group’s CSR performance. The Board assesses possesses the requisite knowledge of and Assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight our sustainability performance whenever experience in the social, business and cultural responsibilities by, for instance, monitoring the needed, however at a minimum once a year. conditions of the regions and markets in which Nordea Group’s financial reporting process Part of this evaluation is to ensure sufficient the main activities of the Group are carried out. and, in relation thereto, the effectiveness of the knowledge of CSR issues of the Board as a internal control and risk management systems, whole as well as for individual Board members. The Chairman. The Chairman of the Board established by the Board, the CEO and GEM, People is elected by the shareholders at the General as well as the effectiveness of GIA. Evaluation of the Board. The Board of Meeting. According to the Charter, the Chairman Directors annually conducts a self-evaluation is to ensure that the Board's work is conducted The Board Risk Committee (BRIC). process, through which the performance efficiently and that the Board fulfils its duties. The Assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight and the work of the Board is evaluated and Chairman is to, among other duties, organise and responsibilities concerning the management discussed by the Board. The evaluation lead the Board’s work, maintain regular contact and control of risks, risk frameworks, controls is based on a methodology that includes with the CEO, ensure that the Board receives and processes associated with the Group’s questionnaires to evaluate the Board as a sufficient information and documentation and operations, including credit, market, liquidity, whole, the Chairman and individual Board ensure that the work of the Board is evaluated business, life and operational risk. members. annually and that the Nomination Committee is informed of the result of the evaluation. Suppliers President and Group CEO Nordea’s President and CEO is charged with The CEO is accountable to the Board for the upon request by the CEO. These meetings are the day-to-day management of Nordea Bank management of the Nordea Group’s operations chaired by the CEO, who reaches decisions after and the Nordea Group’s affairs in accordance and is also responsible for developing and consulting with the other members of GEM. with the external and internal framework. The maintaining effective systems for internal control Notes of meetings, verified by the CEO, are kept. internal framework regulates the division of within the Group. The CEO works together with responsibilities and the interaction between the executive officers within the Group in Group GEM is the highest operational body responsible CEO and the Board. The CEO works closely Executive Management (GEM). Presently for the Group’s CSR work. with the Chairman of the Board with planning of GEM consists of six members and the CEO. Board meetings. GEM meets regularly and whenever necessary Performance data Internal CSR framework Internal policies We have committed ourselves to good The Nordea Sustainability Policy serves as the Policies we have developed are e.g.: citizenship in Nordea, which means that we are main standard of our role in society. •• Nordea Sustainability Policy a responsible and active member of society. •• Code of Conduct •• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Nordea CSR Report 2014 43 Commitments & policies Implementation of international commitments In addition to the conventions in the table below, Nordea follows the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO-conventions and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in our operations and business. International Commitments Objectives Implementation in Nordea United Nations The UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP Nordea signed the UNEP FI in 2001 Environment Programme and the financial sector. Institutions, including banks, UNEP FI: insurers and fund managers, work with UNEP •• guides us in how to take environmental and social Finance Initiative to understand the impacts of environmental and considerations into account in our own operations UNEP FI social considerations on financial performance. and business decisions, especially in lending •• is one of the commitments forming the basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy. UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for Nordea signed the UNGC in 2002 businesses that are committed to aligning their operations UNGC: UNGC and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti•• guides us in how to take environmental, social and governance considerations into account in our own corruption. By doing so, businesses can help ensure that operations and business decisions, especially in lending markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in •• forms the basis of Nordea’s Code of Conduct ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. •• is one of the commitments forming the basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy •• forms the basis for our requirements towards suppliers expressed in Nordea’s Supplier Guidelines. Equator Principles The Equator Principles is a credit risk management Nordea signed the EP in 2007 framework for determining, assessing and managing EP: EP environmental and social risk in project finance transactions. Project finance is often used to fund the development and •• is used in project financing and have been incorporated into Nordea EP Manual that is utilized in preparing construction of major infrastructure and industrial projects. the cases, the decision-making process and training •• is one of the commitments forming the basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy. Principles for Responsible The UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investment Nordea signed the PRI in 2007 Investment is an initiative in partnership with UNEP FI and PRI: UNGC. PRI consist of six principles and reflects •• is the basis for Nordea’s responsible PRI the view that environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues can affect the performance investment strategy •• is one of the commitments forming the basis of investment portfolios and therefore must be for the Nordea Sustainability Policy. given appropriate consideration by investors. Nordea memberships Core content of the Nordea Sustainability Policy International forums Our sustainability principles guide our own behaviour in our daily work IIF Institute of International Finance IBC The International Banking Cicle and when making business decisions. We take these principles and all ICMA International Capital Market Association other relevant environmental, social and governance principles into conGFMA Global Financial Markets Association sideration when evaluating business risks and opportunities. We expect European forums our business partners and suppliers also to adhere to these principles. EFR European Financial Roundtable EBG European Banking Group We are committed to IIEB Institute International d'Études Bancaires •• good corporate citizenship •• caring for the wellbeing of our AFME Association for Financial Markets in Europe •• human rights and employees CFO Network Forum CEPS – Centre for European Policy Studies freedom •• ethics, honesty and sincerity European Payments Council (EPC) •• equal opportunities •• caring for the environment European SWIFT Alliance Full version of the Sustainability Policy can be found at Banking Associations European Banking Federation www.nordea.com/csr Swedish Banking Association Federation of Finnish Financial Services (FFI) Finance Norway Danish Banking Association Core content of the Code of Conduct Securities Dealers Associations Norwegian, Swedish and Danish Our Code of Conduct describes in general terms the ethical princiSecurities Dealer's Associations ples for how we guide our business, how we treat our customers, and Asset Management the behaviour we expect from our employees. European Fund and Asset Management Association FEAM Forum for European Asset Managers The core principles are based on Swedish Investment Fund Association •• high standards of integrity and •• proper handling of customers (Fondbolagens förening) Norwegian Fund and Asset Management Association fair business •• ethical employee behaviour Danish Investment Association Finnish Fund & Asset Management Association Full version of the Code of Conduct can be found at Association of professional Fund Investors (AFPI) www.nordea.com/csr 44 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Taxation data Taxes paid by Nordea Group in 2012-2014 by type% Nordea’s tax footprint Bank levy 13% Nordea’s policy is to pay taxes in accordance with the local 193 regulation in all countries where we operate. We manage tax costs and risks with due considerations and by paying and Social Corporate reporting taxes in due time and aim to preserve good local Total Society security fees income tax tax reputation. We make effort to comply with tax rules for all the taxes that we pay everywhere where we in order to 27% 406 1,507 908 60% ensure appropriate contribution to the local societies. M€ Nordea is a substantial corporate income tax payer in its main home countries of operation, i.e Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. We also pay social security contributions and bank levy in countries where we operate. Taxes paid by Nordea Group in 2012-2014 by type EURm 2000 Statutory rates of taxes, contributions and levies vary in our countries of operation. When comparing the taxes paid it is important to note that the size of Nordea’s business opera1500 tions also vary country by country. Both the rate level and Customers change in business operations may create fluctuation. 1000 Bank levy Corporate income tax includes current taxes booked as Social security fees 500 cost for the year and adjustments to the previous year’s Corporate income tax current taxes. 0 2012 2013 2014 Taxes paid in 2014 by country EURm 500 400 People Bank levy Social security fees 300 Corporate income tax 200 100 0 Denmark Finland Norway Sweden Baltic countries Russia Luxembourg Others Taxes paid in 2012-2014 by country EURm Suppliers Taxes paid Denmark Finland Norway Sweden 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Corporate income tax 242 275 261 201 148 172 271 126 149 169 274 193 Social security fees 103 97 111 21 22 30 48 45 47 192 196 185 Bank levy 32 52 53 51 60 16 11 57 63 68 Total 377 424 425 222 221 262 319 187 207 418 533 446 Taxes paid Baltic countries Russia Luxembourg Others* Performance data 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Corporate income tax 15 13 10 24 17 19 26 36 46 52 38 58 Social security fees 16 9 9 14 13 11 5 5 8 11 11 5 Bank levy 1 1 Total 31 23 20 38 30 30 31 41 54 63 49 63 Nordea CSR Report 2014 45 Social data All employee data is based on number of employees (NOE), if not stated otherwise. Data including excel tables also on www.nordea.com/csr Organisational profile Total workforce in Nordea Group divided by region & gender G4-10 Nordea Group’s workforce consists of 58 per cent women (59% in 2013) and 42 per cent (41% in 2013) men. Denmark 51,5% 48,5% 9 051 Finland 28% 72% 7 704 Sweden 45% 55% 7 578 Norway 52% 48% 3 433 Russian Fed. 32% 68% 1 539 Poland 741 37% 63% Luxembourg 444 61,5% 38,5% Latvia 484 26% 74% Lithuania 399 29% 71% Estonia 537 21% 79% USA 118 48% 52% United Kingdom 76 60,5% 39,5% Singapore 73 38% 62% Germany 55 44% 56% China 29 41% 59% Brazil 3 67% 33% 0 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 7 000 8 000 9 000 The total workforce in Nordea Group by employment type divided by gender G4-10 Temporary/permanent employees by gender Full time/part time employees by gender 100% 100% 4% 4% 4% 4% 10% 14% 80% 80% 60% 60% 96% 96% 96% 95% 90% 40% 40% 85% 20% 20% Temporary Part Time 0% Permanent 0% Full Time Female Male Total Female Male Total Percentage of employees in Nordea Group covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-11 Managers and specialists with individual contracts in Denmark (12%), Finland (7%) and Norway (26%) are always, at a minimum, covered by terms in the local collective agreements and additionally holding, to a various extent, more favourable terms. 100% 93% 87% 74% 56% 0% Sweden Finland Denmark Norway Luxemburg Other countries 46 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Employment Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover LA 1 Society Employee turnover as a percentage of total number of employees was 4.0%. In 2013 this figure was 3.95%. Turnover rate includes only employees who have left the company voluntarily. Turnover rate in Nordea Group Hiring rate in Nordea Group Poland 17% Poland 44% Latvia 12% Lithuania 22% Luxembourg 10% Latvia 16% Lithuania 10% Estonia 13% Estonia 10% Russia 13% Russia 8% Luxembourg 8% Customers Norway 5% Denmark 6% Sweden 3% Norway 5% Denmark 3% Sweden 4% Finland 3% Finland 3% 0% 4% 8% 12% 16% 20% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% Employee turnover by age in Nordic countries Employee turnover by gender in Nordic countries 100% 100% 33 20 17 30 People 80% 80% 93 70 104 137 60% 60% 151 126 115 170 40% Over 50 40% years of age 156 95 121 30-50 20% 20% years of age 56 65 47 Female 33 Under 30 25 0% years of age 0% Male Denmark Finland Norway Sweden Denmark Finland Norway Sweden Number of new hires by age Return to work and retention rates Suppliers and gender in Nordic countries after parental leave, by gender LA3 Figures include permanent employees. Every employee in Nordea is entitled to parental leave. Figures are based on number of permanent employees employed by Nordea in the Nordic countries. 100% 5 Over 50 3500 40 15 22 years of age 146 52 30-50 3000 80% 103 105 years of age 133 2500 Under 30 286 173 years of age 60% 94 2000 Performance data 1500 40% 363 105 155 174 1000 132 20% 183 89 500 41 Female Female 0% Male 0 Male Denmark Finland Norway Sweden Parental Returned to work Still Leaves from leave employed Nordea CSR Report 2014 47 Social data All employee data is based on number of employees (NOE), if not stated otherwise. Data including excel tables also on www.nordea.com/csr Occupational health and safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism LA6 To secure a safe work environment for employees Nordea has a close co-operation on the security area with other banks via the Bankers Association in each Nordic country. In order to prevent bank robberies Nordea implements various security measures e.g. closed cash register systems to make the cash inaccessible, reducing branch offices that offers cash services and security training of employees. We follow the ILO code of practice on recording and notification of occupational accidents and diseases in all Nordic countries. Sickness rate by region and gender in Nordic countries Occupational health and safety data In Finland and Sweden also injuries that occur when commuting to/ from work are seen as work related injuries. Work related illness is not Sweden registered in Denmark. The respective collective agreements with Unions cover the health and safety topics to the extent deemed necessary. Norway Work Accidents Work Robbery Country related while Fatalities related cases* Finland Injuries commuting illnesses Female Denmark 24 74 0 0 Denmark Male Finland 72 0 149 0 2 0% 1% 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% Norway 6 10 0 1 0 Average sick leave days in Nordea Group Sweden 10 2 30 0 3 Denmark Estonia 0 0 2 0 0 Finland Norway Latvia 2 0 0 0 0 Sweden Lithuania 0 0 0 0 0 Estonia Latvia Poland 0 0 3 0 0 Lithuania Poland Russia 0 0 0 0 0 Luxembourg Russia TOTAL 114 86 184 1 5 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 *#of employees directly affected by a robbery Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category in Nordea Group LA 9 Average training hours per year in Nordea Group Leadership training in Nordic countries 450 Denmark 400 Female Finland Hours 350 Male Norway Sweden 300 Latvia 250 Estonia 200 Lithuania 150 Russia 100 Luxembourg 50 Poland 0 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 1. Potential 2. Leading 3. Leading 4. Strategic leader others leaders leader 48 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies LA12 Society 50% 50% Female Male The Board of Directors Ratio of women and age groups in management positions Figures are based on number of employees employed by Nordea Group in all countries except for 'Leading leaders' and 'Leading others' for which the figures are from the Nordic countries. Under 30 years of age 30-50 years of age Over 50 years of age Customers GEM 14% 86% 43% 57% Level 2 21% 79% 60% 40% Level 3 25% 75% 66% 34% Leading Leaders 30% 70% 62% 38% Leading People Others 45% 55% 2% 67% 31% All Managers 43% 57% 2% 68% 30% All Employees 60% 40% 16% 51% 33% •• GEM = CEO & Group Executive Management (GEM) •• Level 2 = Leaders directly reporting to CEO or members of GEM •• Level 3 = Leaders directly reporting to level 2 leaders •• Leading Leaders = Leader of leaders Suppliers •• Leading Others = Leader of employees Other information Educational background of employees Age structure in Nordea Group in Nordea Group Other Primary school 61 < < 24 7% 4% 5% 4% 55-60 Secondary 15% school 25-34 Performance data 29% 26% Higher 39% 60% hold university degree Lower 43 average age years university university degree degree 45-54 27% 35-44 23% 21% Nordea CSR Report 2014 49 Environmental data The reporting of emissions, water and waste include data from the Nordic countries, the Baltic countries, Russia and the Nordea Operations Centre (NOC) in Poland. Nordea Bank Polska is included in the 2012 figures, but was divested in 2013 and is therefore not in the 2013 and 2014 figures. This change in reporting scope is the single most significant factor causing the decreases in 2012-2013. The reporting of Nordea's environmental KPIs (flight travel, paper and energy) only include the Nordic countries as the KPIs were set before Baltics, Poland and Russia started reporting. We have included data for the baseline year 2008 and target values for 2016 in order to show our progress and the distance to our targets. The full-time equivalent (FTE) employee figures used in the environmental data refer to full-time equivalents at year end including temporary staff and external consultants working in Nordea's premises. The environmental data is calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol’s guidelines for emissions calculation. Information on the sources of the emissions factors can be found next to the emission charts. CO2 Emissions CO2 emissions Total CO2 emissions from energy consumption CO2 emissions from travel 50 1500 50 800 25 800 700 700 40 40 20 600 600 1000 30 30 500 15 500 400 400 20 20 300 10 300 500 kg CO2 / FTE kg CO2 / FTE kg CO2 / FTE 1 000 tonnes 1 000 tonnes 1 000 tonnes 200 200 10 10 5 100 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Waste emissions Offset electricity Rail travel Travel emissions Electricity Road travel Energy emissions District heating & cooling Air travel CO2 / FTE (excl.offsets) CO2 / FTE (excl offsets) CO2 per FTE Total emissions (excluding offsets) Energy emissions (excluding offset Nordic Travel emissions have decreased by have decreased by 5,7% from 2013 ( 6% electricity) have decreased by 3% from 2013. 8% from 2013. Air travel includes trips measured in CO2/FTE). Total CO2 emissions Emissions factors for electricity have been by employees in Nordics, Baltics, Poland for 2012 and 2013 consist of energy and sourced from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Russia. Rail only includes train travel in travel emissions. In 2014 we have also added v1.2 and include only carbon dioxide. Factors Sweden, Russia and Lithuania. Car travel emissions from waste. 46% of our emissions for district heating and cooling in the Nordic includes travel in all countries except Poland. in 2014 derived from energy consumption. region have been provided by our energy Air travel emission factors are sourced suppliers, while the Baltics, Poland and Russia from Defra 2013 and only include CO2. Car use a global factor from the US Environmental travel factors use the same source but also Protection Agency and include also methane include methane and nitrous oxide. Defra also and nitrous oxide. Nordea has purchased provides the emission factor for rail, except for Guarantees of Origin to offset electricity in Sweden where the factor is provided by the consumption in the Nordic offices since 2009. Swedish rail company. CO2 emissions include emissions derived from estimated energy consumption. Starting this year the graph 'CO2 emissions from energy consumption' also include CO2 emissions related to offset electricity. 50 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Water Waste Water consumption Waste management 500 14,0 3,5 120 3,0 100 400 13,5 2,5 Society 80 300 2,0 13,0 60 1,5 200 Hazardous 40 Landfill 1 000 tonnes 1,0 12,5 Incinerated m3 / FTE kg / FTE 100 1 000 m3 0,5 20 Composted Water consumption Recycled 0 12,0 m3 / FTE 0 0 kg / FTE 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Total water consumption has been stable, with a slight Total waste has decreased by 11,6% from 2013. Nordic data is increase of 0,2% in total consumption and a slight decrease actual waste volumes for head offices only. This year, waste data mainly reflect data from normal operations and exclude waste from Customers of 0,2% in water per FTE. Water data covers HQs and branches in the Nordic region, the Baltic region, Russia renovation projects. This is the largest single reason behind the and the NOC in Poland. 65% is estimated based on actual drop in 2014. Data from Baltics and Russia covers head offices data mostly from head offices. All water is withdrawn from and a number of branches. There is no data available for NOC in municipal water supplies. Poland. In the Nordic area, waste data is provided by contractors, while the other countries calculate volumes based on invoices. EcoFootprint KPI's Flight travel Paper consumption Energy consumption People 140 000 5,0 350 35 300 000 8 500 300 30 250 000 4,5 8 000 120 000 250 25 200 000 4,0 7 500 200 20 100 000 150 000 150 15 3,5 7 000 one way flights 100 000 4196 tons 2703 tons 2260 tons 2210 tons 2161 tons flights / FTE 100 10 80 000 kWh/FTE 3,0 6 500 50 000 grams 50 5 kilos mWh 60 000 2,5 0 0 0 6 000 2008 2012 2013 2014 2016 2008 2012 2013 2014 2016 2008 2012 2013 2014 2016 Suppliers one way flights Tonnes of paper Energy B, P & R Electricity flights / FTE Kg/FTE Nordic District cooling kWh/FTE Nordic g/customer Nordic District heating kWh/FTE Nordea The number of flights/FTE decreased Internal paper (kg/FTE) is down 6 % from Total Nordic kWh/FTE is down 4% from by 11% from 2013. Flight data captures air 2013. Internal paper is consumed in Nordea's 2013. Energy includes electricity, district travel by all Nordic employees. As a Nordic Nordic head offices and branches. External heating and district cooling used within company with eight home markets and paper (g/customer) is up 1 % from 2013. Nordea's headoffices and branches. 35% of international operations we are finding it External paper is printed offsite and sent to the total energy consumption is estimated. challenging to achieve the desired reduction our customers. Starting this year, internal and Heating of our branches represents 60% of in air travel activity, although 2014 has shown external paper is reported together. Copy the estimated energy. Estimates are based good progress. paper used in the Nordic region is all virgin on actual kWh/m2 for nearby offices. fibre with no recycled content. Reductions have been achieved by energy Performance data efficiency projects, new and renovated head offices and reduced floor area. 2016 targets in the chart only include Nordic data as this is a Nordic KPI. Nordea CSR Report 2014 51 Nordea EcoFootprint programme Focus area Purpose Target Status Energy management* Reduce energy and water Energy consumption in On track. KWh/FTE has decreased 11,5% consumed in Nordea’s head Nordic head offices and from 2008. Total energy consumption offices and branches. branches: 15% (kWh (MWh) has decreased by 18,9% from / FTE) 2008 – 2016. 2008, but decreasing FTE figures have negatively impacted the kWh/FTE intensity figure. Total energy consumption and kWh/ FTE both decreased by 4% from 2013. Internal paper* Reduce the amount of Paper used in the Nordic Behind schedule. Kg/FTE has decreased copy paper used in Nordic head offices and branches: 23,3% from 2008. Total internal paper (kg) head offices and branches. 50% (kg / FTE) has decreased by 29,7% from 2008. New Eliminate unnecessary print, 2008 – 2016 projects will contribute to future reductions. increase use of doublesided print, introduce more electronic forms. Customer paper* Reduce the amount of Paper sent to Nordic Target was reached in 2013. The amount of paper that we send to customers: 50% (grams / paper sent to customers (grams/customer) our customers. Eliminate customer) 2008 – 2016. was down 55 % from 2008 to 2014. There unnecessary print are planned and ongoing projects that and offer electronic will further reduce the customer paper. products and services. Green IT Minimize Nordea’s No official KPI. Continuous focus on print solutions to environmental footprint reduce paper consumption. In addition, through effective a pre-study was done to investigate technology solutions. ways to reduce emissions related to Reduce energy consumed employees commuting to and from work. by computer equipment. Communications Two way communication No official KPI. Participated in Earth Hour 2014. Reported with employees and other to CDP and communicated excellent stakeholders. Provide scores. Published internal communication transparent information, related to environmental improvments in inspire to positive new and renovated head offices (including behavioral change and LEED certifications), focus on good waste openness to new ideas. handlig and repeated calls to replace more air travel with online meetings. Facility management Minimize use of natural No official KPI. Nordic waste volumes have decreased resources by reducing However, waste types and 12,8% from 2013. This is largely due to waste. Use eco labelled volumes are measured, changes in Sweden, where waste related detergent in the cleaning analyzed and reported. to renovations and vacating HQ buildings is of our offices. Increase We strive to reduce excluded in the 2014 figures. We strive to amount of organic food total waste volumes and have the waste data reflect waste from our served in our canteens. increase % of waste that normal operations to the extent possible. is reused or recycled. 58% of the waste is recycled or composted. Procurement* Develop and implement a Environmental criteria On track. 3 supplier CSR reviews conducted framework for including included in all new in 2014. Implemented qualifying CSR environmental (and other contracts by 2016. self-assessment questionnaire. CSR) requirements in All suppliers to comply with procurement processes Nordea’s CSR principles. and contracts. CSR reviews of selected suppliers. Travel & virtual Reduce air travel by Internal trips: 30% Behind schedule, but making good progress. collaboration* introducing alternative (number of nonTrips/FTE in 2014 were only 2,1% higher virtual collaboration customer related trips than in baseline 2008. Total number of trips tools and promoting / FTE) 2008 2016 decreased by 11% from 2013 and 2014 behavioral change. is the first year since 2008 that we made fewer flights than in 2008. Decreases in FTEs since 2008 have negatively affected the trips / FTE intensity figure. *KPI’s 52 Nordea CSR Report 2014 CSR at Nordea Supplier data Other 14% 7% Commercial services Office, Marketing Representation 11% Purchases per country The home country of the supplier determines where the spending is registered. For example in Tieto’s case (see Purchases Premise & IT Expenses Real Estate p. 40), the headquarters are located in Finland, but the 25% per industry 19% company also has operations in India. As the illustraSociety tion shows, our primary spend is in Sweden, followed by Denmark, Finland and Norway. 10% Consultants 14% Travel & Staff 900 M€ 720 M€ 540 M€ 320 M€ 180 M€ 0 M€ Customers People Summary of the main findings from on spot reviews in 2014 Industry Industry Findings Actions Material nonchallenges* compliances IT services Labour Rights and •• No issues were found. •• Set targets and continuously measure None Suppliers working hours •• In regards to energy consumption and progress in environmental performance. Energy consumption e-Waste local targets could be further •• Increase transparency by formalising and handling of developed and follow-up methods improved. supply chain management and increase e-Waste •• Limited evidence of follow-up on sustainability engagements with suppliers. Transparency in risks, opportunities and impacts in the supply •• Increase communication about the supply chain chain, especially related to local procurement. sustainability initiatives. •• Continue community engagement initiatives. Production Environment, •• No issues were found, but performance •• Increase commitments related to the None handling of measurements could be expanded. environment and Labour Rights areas. Targets chemicals and waste •• No issues, but little evidence of consistent should be formulated and followed-up upon. Labour Rights, follow-up on incidents, employee •• Formalise supply chain management and worker health and development dialogues and trainings. consistently follow-up on supplier performance. safety •• Lack of transparency in the supply chain •• Align and standardise procedures Supply chain and low degree of formalisation. and practises across countries. management •• Relatively low degree of alignment between countries. Performance data Office Transparency in the •• Percolation of corporate policies and •• Increase communication and None supplies supply chain practises to local levels can be improved, enforcement of sustainability initiatives Environment especially related to supply chain. from group-level to local levels. (chemicals in •• Sustainability initiatives primarily focus on the •• Increase supplier transparency and cooperation. production, environment, and are executed centrally. •• Set targets and continuously followpaper, CO2 •• Engagements with external auditors on up in the area of Labour Rights. emissions during supplier evaluations, as well as with NGO’s •• Establish designated walking lanes transportation) on improving environmental footprint. in ware-house, to minimise the risk of Worker health •• Well-functioning ware-house facilities where incidents with trucks and “pedestrians”. and safety minor safety improvements could be made. *When conducting the CSR reviews special attention has been given to specified industry challenges as defined by MSCI and RepRisk Nordea CSR Report 2014 53 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report To Nordea AB Introduction ment consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons We have been engaged by the Group Executive responsible for the preparation of the CSR Report, and Management of Nordea to undertake a limited assurapplying analytical and other limited assurance proceance engagement of Nordea’s CSR Report for the year dures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance 2014 and corresponding GRI Index on Nordea’s website engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent www.nordea.com/csr. than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Responsibilities of the Board of Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing Directors and the Group Executive standards in Sweden. The procedures performed conManagement for the CSR Report sequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we The Board of Directors and the Group Executive would become aware of all significant matters that might Management are responsible for the preparation of the be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. CSR Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance as explained in the GRI Index published on Nordea’s conclusion. website www.nordea.com/csr, and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Our procedures are based on the criteria defined Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) which are applicable to by the Board of Directors and the Group Executive the CSR Report, as well as the accounting and calculaManagement as described above. We consider these tion principles that Nordea has developed. This responcriteria suitable for the preparation of the CSR Report. sibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a CSR Report that is free from material We believe that the evidence we have obtained is suffimisstatements, whether due to fraud or error. cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Responsibilities of the auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the CSR Conclusion Report based on the limited assurance procedures we Based on the limited assurance procedures we have have performed. performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Report, is not preWe conducted our limited assurance engagement in pared, in all material respects, in accordance with the accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Group Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engageExecutive Management. Stockholm, February 11, 2015 KPMG AB Hans Åkervall Jenny Fransson Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 54 Nordea CSR Report 2014 Nordea Bank AB (publ) | Corporate registration no. 516406-0120 | Smålandsgatan 17 | SE-105 71 Stockholm | Tel +46 8 614 78 00 | Fax +46 8 10 50 69 | www.nordea.com
