Building Better Working World EY Ukraine sustainability report 2013 – 2014 Table of contents A note from the Country People 18 Managing Partner 1 Creating the highest-performing teams 19 At a glance 2 Developing and supporting our people through world-class learning 19 Celebrating and supporting About this report 3 diverse talent 21 Alumni club EY Ukraine 23 D  etermining report content Providing competitive and materiality 3 compensation and benefits 23  takeholders and mechanisms S of engagement 5 Communities 26 About EY 6 Supporting our communities 27 Purpose 6 Supporting entrepreneurship 28 Strategy 6 Supporting the workforce of the future 28 Performance 6 Demonstrating environmental stewardship 30 Awards and recognition 7 EY Ukraine FY13/14 highlights 7 How EY is organized 32 Marketplace 8 EY global organization structure 33 EY Ukraine organization structure 34 Exceptional client service 9 GRI Index 35 Investing in EY services 9 United Nations Global Compact. Applying an industry focus 11 The 10 principles 37 Promoting sustainability as a global leader in professional services 11 Instilling professional values 13 Contacts 37 3 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 A note from the Country Managing Partner Today’s business world is complex and fast-paced. And EY Ukraine is not alone in the belief that Globalization, technological advances and purpose-driven strategy, leadership and innovation demographic shifts have brought opportunity to are at the heart of creating enduring, sustainable many — empowering and connecting people and growth. creating a vibrant and diverse world. But these trends also have created complexity. Local events From the results of multiple international research can quickly take on global importance; innovation studies, to the specific experiences of some of the easily passes across borders; demographic shifts world’s largest companies, evidence is mounting mean that, despite a growing global population, the that the reconnection of business strategy to availability of skilled workers is expected to decline delivering social and environmental progress is in many countries, creating a rush for talent. These critical to long — term success. changes are forcing organizations — including EY — Consider research conducted by the Havas Media Alexei Kredisov, to adapt quickly or risk becoming obsolete. Group, for example, spanning more than 700 EY Ukraine brands in 23 countries around the world. It reveals For EY Ukraine, the pace of change has accelerated Managing Partner that 70% of customers believe that companies and extremely in the past year. Our readiness to face challenges of a very volatile high-risk environment their brands should play a role in improving our is based on nurturing highly motivated team of quality of life and well-being. More importantly, professionals and being innovative. Our major those companies that are successful in doing so tasks are: developing new services for our clients, have been shown to outperform the stock market helping the community, optimizing our business by 120%. processes, and attracting and retaining talent. Beyond brand preference, the pursuit of We are prepared for a long-run game. sustainable, equitable growth also is a powerful Social and economic value which our professional lens through which to identify opportunities for organization creates has to be sustainable. Every innovation and cost reduction. strategy, every initiative, every action has to be Old-world corporate social responsibility was about considered through the lens of sustainability. giving something back. It said, “We contribute to Across the member firms of the global EY society because we are successful.” New-world organization, sustainability is embedded in the sustainability is about creating shared value. It organization’s purpose. Globally, EY member firms says, “We are successful because we contribute to believe that, in a better working world, a number of society.” positive things happen: trust increases; capital flows smoothly; investors make informed decisions; EY Ukraine contributes to society through our businesses grow sustainably; employment rises; purpose of building a better working world by consumers spend; and governments invest in their delivering exceptional client service that improves citizens. A better working world also develops public trust in financial markets; developing the talent in all its forms and encourages collaboration. highest-performing teams that are diverse and inclusive; and supporting communities through From core assurance, tax, transaction and advisory entrepreneurship, education and charity. This services, to our community investments that focus report will briefly describe our main achievements on supporting entrepreneurs, developing future of the past two years (July 2012 – July 2014 leaders and helping those in need, this purpose period). underpins everything EY member firms do across the globe. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 1 At a glance EY Ukraine In Ukraine, EY company is a private limited liability company and is a member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee (EYG). In this report we refer to ourselves as EY Ukraine, “we” or “us” or “our.” EY refers collectively to the global organization of member firms of EYG. Country overview Headquarters Ukraine Offices Kyiv, Donetsk People* 569 Revenue US$ 626 m * as at 30 June 2014 Our service offerings Service lines •► Assurance • Transaction Advisory Services •► Tax •► Advisory Global sector centers •► Automotive •► Media and Entertainment •► Consumer Products •► Mining & Metals •► Cleantech •► Oil & Gas •► Financial Services (includes •► Power & Utilities Wealth & Asset Management, •► Private Equity Banking & Capital Markets, and Insurance) •► Real Estate, Hospitality & Construction •► Government & Public Sector •► Technology •► Life Sciences (includes Biotechnology, Medical •► Telecommunications Technology and Pharmaceutical) 2 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 About this report EY Ukraine is pleased to present its 2013/2014 sustainability report. This report covers two fiscal years, from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2014. The report follows EY Ukraine’s previous report, published in 2013. EY Ukraine is committed to reporting biannually on our activities. Determining report content Once the data was aggregated, we developed a materiality matrix that ranked the various sustainability issues against stakeholder and materiality interest and relevancy to our business impacts. Stakeholder survey results from all participating countries were weighted equally, even though the number of participants varied from country to country. EY Ukraine has developed this report in accordance with Global Internal and external stakeholders were also given equal weight. Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 (Core) Sustainability Reporting Aspect ratings were determined using a system where 0.5 reflects a Guidelines. Members from EY member firm Sustainability Services’ baseline level of importance as the aspect was identified in the initial team advised EY Ukraine on the content of its report, using an selection of topics, 1 equals important and 2 equals very important. approach similar to what they use with external clients. EY Ukraine Based on the ratings EY Ukraine identified the top 25 aspects, has used a systematic approach to understanding the issues that our aligned to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 (Core) Sustainability report should cover, as well as the measurements we use to Reporting Guidelines that our participating country member firms document our performance against these issues. could report on. Materiality • Very important. There were 12 issues/aspects that stakeholders In developing the 2013 2014 sustainability report, EY Ukraine and the sustainability working group classified as very important. listened to our people, clients and members within our own service EY determined these issues to be most material to EY and area, and to stakeholders from various EY member firms. the issues on which EY would produce a full Disclosure of Management Approach (DMA) as well as at least one indicator The cross-countries sustainability working group was created and for each aspect. engaged local stakeholders from various countries as a means to identify the performance indicators that stakeholders consider • Important. EY classified these 10 issues/aspects as being important material and relevant globally. or elective in materiality. These may include some DMA but we may not report a full DMA or indicators. To determine the materiality of the sustainability-related issues our stakeholders raised, EY Ukraine considered the following sources: • Less important. EY classified three issues/aspects as being less important. These were the issues that stakeholders • EY’s Vision 2020 purpose to build a better working world and the and our sustainability working group deemed to be less strategy to deliver on this vision material. We have elected not to report a DMA or indicators • Working group research, analysis and observations for these issues. • Stakeholder survey results that span current and target clients; EY Ukraine’s people (from senior leaders to new recruits and alumni); and our communities (entrepreneurs, trade associations, stock exchanges and regulators, nonprofits with which EY Ukraine collaborate within our communities) and key vendors from our supply chain • Competitor global sustainability reports available in the public domain. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 3 Sustainability impact on EY Very important Importance for stakeholders 18 14 7 3 17 4 13 8 9 6 11 22 16 Important 2 24 19 20 12 1 15 23 11 5 21 25 Less important Less important Important Very important Sustainability impact on EY Ukraine The materiality chart shows the selected G4 aspects according to both stakeholder EY-specific KPIs: importance and impact to EY. EY1: EY Market share Topics GRI G4 indicators EY KPIs EY2: Pro-bono and volunteering, number of hours and persons involved 1 Generated economic value and market share, including EC1 EY1 donations and community investments EY3: EY’s commitment to supporting entrepreneurship in the local community 2 Materials and waste (e.g., office materials) EN1, 2, 23 3 Energy usage and climate change EN3–19 EY4: Inclusion of sustainability views in our services 4 Impact mitigation by professional services EN27 EY5 (e.g., Cleantech and sustainability-related services) EY5: Implementation of procurement policy 5 Business travel EN30 EY6: Implementation of EY’s global guidance for 6 Human rights in the supply chain HR1, 4 EY5 greening our meetings 7 Human rights within the EY workforce HR3, 4 EY7: S  ustainability-related subjects included in employee training 8 Employment statistics (age, gender, retention) LA1 EY8: Governance practices 9 Employment compensation and benefits LA2 10 Parental leave LA3 11 Notice periods for employment-related changes LA4 Assurance 12 Training, education and career development LA9, 11 This sustainability report was reviewed 13 Diversity and equal opportunity LA12, 13 internally by EY Ukraine’s Sustainability 14 Anti-corruption training at EY SO3–5 Services team. This report did not receive 15 SO3–5 assurance from an external auditor. Anti-corruption assessment, mitigation and reported incidents 16 Customer satisfaction PR5 17 Customer privacy PR8 18 EY non-compliance with laws and regulations regarding our PR9 services 19 Pro-bono and volunteering at work EY2 20 EY support of entrepreneurship EY3 21 Sustainability in our EY services EY4 22 Responsible procurement practices EN32–33, HR10, EY5 SO9, LA14 23 Sustainability of major EY events EY6 24 Sustainability training for EY employees EY7 25 Governance practices EY8 4 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 Stakeholders and mechanisms of engagement Our clients t clients — Target clien Curren ts n uptio • Co to corr omer privacy mp e d cu s t lian at to v al ue s re gard ce w rel lated s sional • i n s re rof e C usto ng E ith ctio ons and p me Y s law a ti ces rs er s d n d a cti c a tisf vice an n a act s •A a pr d c io • A tivi ce n ion s t to de l iver exc • G ctiv ies t on us ep lat ov itie a cou n n they ca grow and t onal ti gu er na s ts ce so hri re e n v i ve cli ser n . nt O a Indic tors an donations and com p cli ur p GRI • Ac dE mer e as ion d ing Yan in s su se g mpt tiviti e usto • In lity surve dicators to r t th a t ents and interns — Alumni inabi e es nhou actions related to c s itia g b c In an d ng u , yc EY e ha th sta ri n t emi tives to reduce gree y cons nd e rat n w e EY r ha on sha ts cifi te s o rk wo r k u Ukraine ed exc o s a ve ssions ca rec g in g and indirect ener S ta sa ket pe a nywhere else. of r e ck • n h nd eer iving ted t We Sto mar me G en a e grow re com mit ere w tie un ma revi e t ns — ted economic value and Ent ra s —N nve ity rke ews neurs — Trade associatio r uni . ep th in areas wh acy n r ew e incl ity i an inv t sh , by g • Human rights in rec uding 1 riv ende mun ur d es a ruit s tm re, h e u st e the EY workforc gr ain a e ns tte e r s, stu ffi omm to s be ea b tes le a nt i se cie en d t im We w ience rv ts nc er •P d r iv cen pact. exp e ee in loy nd g y im Our c ge ers tag em p nd e c e o er ate f in 2 m f e ce e o man valu m a e a plo pro Ou • Customer ov •G p ,a d ge gorie ividuals ag vem rp satisfaction ent m or ic co ye e ro ern • Perc r perf io n ts eo r in s, in om nd es to la fe an an a n at regu s ss ion ,ce dm in cludi ority ng re gu l ed e co tio n s a serv nt ple — al prac erat on No np va tic • Gen g dona t oc -c lie lue es a in e pl u n includ o ro s nd dd dn ier save fit or g y an ga • Ene r t s niz ati ons 3 s— lie n C der — Sup pliers nior lea d se Partners an 1. How we engage with our stakeholders 2. Why our stakeholders are important to us 3. Key issues our stakeholders say are the most important EY Ukraine’s approach to the FY14 sustainability report reflects the EY Ukraine’s success. They enable us to identify material issues, global EY ambition to strengthen globally, but empower member including risks and opportunities; enhance our approach to risk; and firms locally, to embolden stakeholder relationships everywhere and improve our performance. As such, we need to understand their to become the most favored employer in the professional services views, adapt our approach or direction to reflect our understanding, industry. To achieve these ambitious goals, it is absolutely vital that and communicate the impact of their input. The diagram above EY Ukraine listens to stakeholders — clients, people and communities. indicates how EY Ukraine engages with our stakeholders, as well as We learn what is important to them, how they view us today and the their interdependence and influence on our decision-making process. path they expect us to follow. These insights have a direct impact on EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 5 About EY ”I have the opportunity in this role to travel around and meet EY people from every corner of the world. And what I see EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory consistently is our people working together services. The insights and quality services EY member firms deliver in teams, sharing the same values, focused globally help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in on delivering exceptional client service. More economies the world over. EY member firms develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on the promises EY makes to than that, they are proud of what they do stakeholders. In so doing, EY plays a critical role in building a better and the role they play in building a better working world for our clients, our people and communities. With a working world”. total headcount of 190,000 people (as at 30 June 2014), EY member firms operate in more than 150 countries around the world. Mark Weinberger, Chairman & CEO, EYG To learn more about EY and the collective financial performance of its member firms, please read our Global review 2014 at ey.com/globalreview. Purpose When business works better, the world works better. This simple credo forms the basis of EY’s purpose of building a better working Performance world — a purpose that reflects and respects the unique role EY plays EY Ukraine’s revenues for FY13 were UAH 324 million and as a professional services organization in the creation of social, 302 million for FY14, compared with UAH 297 million in 2012. economic and environmental value. This purpose underpins everything EY does — every service delivered, every interaction with From a service line perspective: clients and colleagues, every investment and support given to communities — should make the working world better than it was FY12 FY13 FY14 before. Assurance 154 159 161 Tax 56 68 65 EY’s purpose forms part of its Vision 2020 initiative, which sets the Advisory 36 42 40 goal of delivering exceptional client service worldwide. EY firms are Transaction Advisory Services 51 55 36 committed to bringing each client a great team — connected, responsive and insightful — and one that reflects a diverse mix of talented people who embrace this purpose, demonstrate commitment to inclusiveness and exhibit a desire to exceed expectations. EY maintains a strong commitment to its collective values, which guide its actions. Strategy The EY strategy, as outlined in Vision 2020, calls for its member firms to use their collective global advantage, while empowering teams to be responsive to local needs. To achieve this, EY is improving how its member firms operate and deliver client services. This includes: • Streamlining the EY operating model to further enhance the organization’s global scale while remaining responsive to local needs. • Supporting the delivery of exceptional client service by its member firms worldwide to help their clients succeed, strengthen the connection between service quality and market growth, and enhance public trust in capital markets. • Helping to develop the highest-performing teams using crossborder and cross-cultural strengths. • Supporting communities through entrepreneurship, developing the future workforce and championing diversity and inclusiveness. 6 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 Awards and recognition EY’s commitment to people and workplace has been recognized through various awards. In 2013, Universum named EY as the world’s most attractive professional services organization — and second most attractive employers overall, as chosen by almost 94,000 business students from the world’s top academic institutions in the largest 12 economies by GDP. Globally, EY member firms have been •E  Y has been recognized among TOP 10 Ideal Employers in recognized by: Ukraine according to a very prestigious global Universum • Catalyst Award, for EY’s dedication to the recruitment, ranking in 2014. EY is #1 among the professional services firms. development and advancement of women • In 2013 EY has been recognized among TOP10 socially • DiversityInc’s Top 10 Companies for Diversity for seven responsible companies in Ukraine according to the Gvardiya consecutive years magazine ranking. EY ranked #1 among professional services firms and #7 overall (in the list of 41 companies). • DiversityInc’s Top 10 Companies for Executive Women • In 2013 EY Ukraine’s Tax & Law practice won two admired • FORTUNE’s “100 Best Companies to Work For®” list for awards: ”National Tax Firm of the Year” (for the second year 16th consecutive year in a row!) and the ”Transfer Pricing Firm of the Year in • Great Place to Work Institute’s Top 25 World’s Best Ukraine” at the prestigious ITR European Tax Awards. Multinational Workplaces • EY in Ukraine has been announced a winner in the • Opportunity Now and Race for Opportunity Top 10 private ”Charitable Ukraine” contest among big companies in 2013. sector organizations for both gender and Black and Minority Our long-term ”Friendship” program, which was presented Ethnic (BME) diversity and inclusion at the contest, involves a complex of activities to support • The National Association for Female Executives Top 10 deprived children. Companies for 2014 • EY has been announced a winner in the ”Corporate • Working Mother’s Best Companies for Multicultural Women Volunteering 2013” contest in ”Education” nomination for the • Working Mother’s Top 10 Companies for Working Mothers; 100 ”Step into the Fututre” program for students. Contest was Best Companies for Working Mothers for 17 consecutive years organised by the Eatsern Europe Fund, UN Global Compact in Ukraine, American Chamber of Commerce, European Business EY Ukraine has been recognized for: Association, and the Philanthropy Forum. • Vladimir Kotenko and Jorge Intriago are ranked among • EY won HR-brand Ukraine 2012 Award for its “Wellness” Ukraine’s leading experts in tax controversy and dispute program. Forty-two projects from 33 companies were resolution in 2014 by International Tax Review magazine. submitted for the expert jury’s consideration. The contest, • In 2014 EY Law practice in Ukraine was recognized among the held by the HeadHunter group of companies, honors Tier 2 Tax law firms in the Most successful law firms ranking projects that engage and motivate employees and compiled by the Kyiv Post newspaper. strengthen employer image. EY Ukraine FY13/14 highlights 569 employees 185 58% 46300 new employees in FY14 of EY employees hours were devoted participated in to learning and CR programs as development volunteers in FY13/14 in FY14 100% 100% 28 Clients’ readiness to recommend EY services to friends and 9,16 conferernces and workshops conducted by colleagues EY Ukraine employees EY Ukraine employees EY for Ukraine business have undergone have received annual community anti-bribery training review on performance 0 10 Never Always EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 7 Marketplace 8 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 Businesses today continue to face an environment of uncertainty and ambiguity. Economies around the world are growing at different Client composition speeds. Technological innovation — cloud computing, data analytics, social media, mobile technologies — is accelerating. It is disrupting • Large global businesses. These companies need advisors existing business models, creating new industries and challenging that can match their expanding reach and meet their exacting business leaders to think about how they can transform their own standards. They seek EY’s help to evaluate new business organizations to suit this digital era. Rising global demand for opportunities, expand into and out of emerging markets, commodities and natural resources has led to energy security comply with regulatory rules across numerous countries, concerns and volatile pricing, but it is also driving innovation coordinate a global workforce and interact with governments. in green energy and cleantech. • Middle-market companies. The middle market comprises many mature, stable and profitable companies, often private Exceptional client service and intending to remain so. These companies face many of the same issues as EY’s largest clients — but without the inIn a world that’s more complex and dynamic than ever before, clients house resources to tackle them. They need EY’s support to expect to be served by the right team of professionals, regardless execute transactions to drive growth and to expand into new of service line or geography. It is not enough to be technically markets around the world. All of the complex issues faced by excellent — EY member firms’ clients want professional service companies in the middle market require high — value services providers who are connected to their business, responsive to their that EY member firms provide. needs and insightful about their sector and the challenges they face. • Entrepreneurs. EY recognizes that entrepreneurs are one To deliver on this, EY people are united around the concept of of the greatest sources of sustainable economic growth. exceptional client service. Exceptional client service is about EY For more than 30 years, EY has been dedicated to helping professionals being the most connected, responsive and insightful in entrepreneurs achieve their business dreams. EY’s focus has the marketplace. helped it develop a deep understanding of how entrepreneurial businesses grow. Collectively, EY member firms are leaders in • Connected means bringing the right people in the right locations, advising, guiding and recognizing outstanding entrepreneurial to build trust and enrich client relationships. talent. From start-up ventures to established companies, • Responsive means the desire and commitment of every person in EY helps clients become market leaders. EY to be proactive, visible and timely. • Insightful means using EY experiences and a point of view tailored to the client situation to advance their thinking. Exceptional client service is a fundamental part of how EY member Investing in EY services firms operate, both strategically and tactically. As a part of EY, its member firms provide services across four To support exceptional client service, EY is: service lines: Assurance, Tax, Advisory and Transaction Advisory Services. EY wants its clients to benefit from a highly integrated • Embedding exceptional client service attributes into how member global structure. This means eliminating silos and bringing the best firms measure quality of what the EY organization has to offer to clients through • Revising training programs and performance evaluations to borderless teaming across service lines, industries and geographies. incorporate exceptional client service as a minimum baseline expectation for EY people The strength of EY’s global reach is balanced with deep local knowledge. The EY market segment model groups together local • Defining exceptional client services as one of the six critical metrics accounts, allowing EY people to set account investments and market for managing its business priorities locally, while still maintaining global consistency in terms of metrics and enablement. The model allows account teams to offer more relevant, tailored services to clients, in particular those clients who may not be global in scope, such as middle-market clients. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 9 Assurance “The past two years, despite the Within EY Ukraine’s Assurance practice, about 200 professionals political and economic turbulence, deliver external audit services, as well as provide fraud detection and has seen further active growth of our forensic services and advise on financial accounting matters. practice, both in terms of people and revenues. Our practice is the market EY Ukraine’s audit professionals, in auditing companies’ accounts, leader in terms of client work, advice serve the public interest and play a vital role in the global capital to government bodies and business markets. The Assurance practice also includes Financial Accounting associations on major tax issues, Advisory Services (FAAS), Fraud Investigation & Dispute Services Vladimir Kotenko, aspects of doing business in Ukraine (FIDS) and Cleantech and Sustainability Services (CaSS). Partner, Tax & Law and strategies for tax policy and tax Leader in Ukraine reform. We are proud to have served our clients in highly complex “The business landscape in Ukraine engagements, some of them without precedent in Ukraine. is being reshaped by transformational Our firm has built a solid reputation of a think tank, and events and that is being held against our thought leadership helps decision makers and other a background of legislative stakeholders stay informed about crucial tax developments in and regulatory change, the the Ukrainian market and project tax matters into the future”. implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards and increased public scrutiny. Advisory Alexander Svistich, This results in significant challenges Partner, Assurance for management, boards, audit EY Ukraine’s Advisory practice works with some of the country’s and Services Leader committees and auditors. There exists the world’s largest and most complex corporations, as well as with in Ukraine a real need for companies and those government organizations, on their most pressing management and charged with their governance and operational challenges. oversight, to revisit their focus on the risks of fraud, bribery and corruption. Investors want access to more accurate and Our 84 Advisory professionals enable us to quickly deploy the right relevant information about companies, transactions, markets people to the right projects. and risks. Regulators are moving to exert more control. We help our clients understand and address today’s most critical financial and reporting issues”. “Ukrainian businesses face different challenges (from geopolitical events to regulatory reforms and operational risks) and their impact is swift and Tax far-reaching. Organizations, EY Ukraine’s Tax practice has 130 professionals helping clients regardless of sector, must balance understand and manage their tax compliance and reporting a number of issues – the need, obligations responsibly. We help them assess, improve and monitor for example, to change operating their tax functions’ processes, identify and manage tax implications Kostiantyn model, manage risks, innovate across domestic and cross-border business activities and maintain Neviadomsky, and find new opportunities for effective relationships with tax authorities around the world. Partner, Advisory performance improvement. Our major offerings include: Corporate Tax, Global Compliance and Services Leader With our approach — grounded Reporting, Human Capital, International Tax Services, and Legal. in Ukraine in industry-specific experience and commitment to delivering We help clients to remit a growing variety of indirect taxes. We measurable, sustainable results — we help our clients adapt advise them on how tax affects the efficiencies sought in global and succeed even in an uncertain environment”. supply chains. We can also help clients attract the best talent in a highly competitive marketplace for human capital by advising them on their compensation and benefits plans, and providing additional services to their workforce. 10 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 Transaction Advisory Services (TAS) EY Ukraine’s 50 TAS professionals support a wide range of Launch of EY’s Indirect Tax practice corporate, private capital and government clients to help them make in Ukraine stronger, more informed decisions about how they manage their capital agenda — specifically around how they raise, invest, preserve In September 2013 EY enhanced the Ukrainian Customs & and optimize capital in a rapidly changing world. International Trade practice, with several experienced practitioners who joined the existing team of customs advisors. Whether it is buying, selling or restructuring, we have a relentless This change made our Customs & International Trade practice focus on our clients’ strategic needs across all aspects of the the largest and strongest practice amongst Big 4 and economic cycle. legal firms in Ukraine. Since December 2014 the Customs & International Trade evolved into a larger Indirect Tax practice that in addition to customs matters deals with VAT and Bogdan Yarmolenko, excise tax. Partner, Transaction Advisory Services Leader in Ukraine “Customs and VAT matters are often interrelated. Importance of indirect taxes constantly grows. Proper management “ Nowadays organizations need to make of indirect taxes is vital to doing business in Ukraine. Therefore, fast and well-informed decisions about EY Ukraine offers the widest range of services in this area — how to strategically manage capital from professional advice on any customs and tax issues and transactions in a changing world. to lobbying legislative changes. Our team members have We are here to support companies in been actively participating in business associations being navigating business in turbulent times”. effective voice for the business community. We advised the Ukrainian government and the parliament during the drafting of the current Customs Code. We see a lot of opportunities For more information on the investments EY is making for further development of the Indirect Tax practice,” says in its service lines, please read EY’s Global review 2014 Igor Dankov, Senior Manager, Head of EY Ukraine’s Indirect at www.ey.com/globalreview. Tax practice. Applying an industry focus EY Ukraine has access to 16 dedicated EY global sector centers around Promoting sustainability as the world, which serve as networks for sharing industry-focused knowledge. EY’s commitment of time and resources means that its a global leader in professional member firms can anticipate market trends, identify implications and services develop clear points of view on relevant industry issues. EY Ukraine believes the biggest contribution we can make to • Automotive reducing the negative effects of climate change is to support our • Consumer Products clients and the market in moving toward an energy-efficient and, • Cleantech consequently, a low-carbon economy. Through the EY Global • Financial Services (includes Wealth & Asset Management, Cleantech Center and our Cleantech and Sustainability Services Banking & Capital Markets, and Insurance) (CaSS) practice, we can help our clients operate more sustainably. • Government & Public Sector At the same time, we are measuring and managing our own carbon footprint. • Life Sciences (includes Biotechnology, Medical Technology and Pharmaceutical) EY Ukraine’s Cleantech and CaSS professionals help enterprises • Media and Entertainment and organizations address the environmental, social and economic • Mining & Metals impacts of their operations. They help clients reach their • Oil & Gas sustainability goals and transition to a less energy-intensive • Power & Utilities (and lower — carbon) economy by providing a range of skills and services. • Private Equity • Real Estate, Hospitality & Construction • Technology • Telecommunications EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 11 Engaging in the sustainability debate Victor Kovalenko, As a leading provider of sustainability services, EY firms continue to Senior manager, CaSS Leader contribute to the sustainability debate globally and share knowledge in Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Belarus. with clients and the broader business community. It is through these “ The current difficult circumstances debates that EY can positively influence change, working closely which Ukraine faces at the moment with key regulatory bodies and industry standard setters. lead all of us to make any efforts to reduce energy usage. We make our At a global level, EY is among a select group of organizations contribution to this task helping our supporting the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) clients to improve energy efficiency”. through its participation on the Board, the Council, working groups and secondments (with an EY person serving as deputy to the CEO). EY led the development of the Value Creation — Background Paper CaSS for the IIRC and has built on this relationship by holding joint EY/IIRC roundtables in France and Brazil. EY Ukraine’s CaSS practice helps organizations to develop a sustainability strategy and improve performance. We offer leading EY also contributes to technical sustainability working groups aimed practices to help clients address the most important sustainability at standardizing definitions and approaches, such as the Global factors, including managing risk in a resource-constrained economy. Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainability Accounting We also help clients identify areas of energy-intensity and reduce Standards Board (SASB). In addition, EY was a major sponsor of the their energy consumption. Global Reporting Initiative Global Conference. Cleantech For details or to download a copy of thought leadership relating to The EY Global Cleantech Center comprises professionals, drawn sustainability, visit the Climate Change and Su stainability Services from across the world, in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory website at http://www.ey.com/UA/en/Services/Assurance/ services who understand the business dynamics of cleantech and Climate-Change-and-Sustainability-Services. help clients innovate in technology, business models, financing mechanisms, cross-sector partnerships and corporate adoption. EY professionals also advise clients on meeting energy-use targets, helping them to reduce carbon emissions and enhance their corporate reputation. Recognition for our sustainability efforts EY is proud to have been recognized externally for its sustainability services. In 2013, Verdantix, the independent analyst firm focused on energy, environment and sustainability issues for business named EY as the leading global brand for sustainability services. 12 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 Instilling professional values By monitoring compliance with the Global Code of Conduct as prescribed by EY, and through frequent communications, EY Ukraine strives to create an environment that encourages all personnel As a global organization, EY believes that it plays a vital role in to act responsibly, including reporting misconduct without fear promoting investor confidence in financial reporting and the world’s of retaliation. capital markets. EY recognizes the importance of this role and take seriously its member firms’ commitment to provide high-quality The EY/Ethics Hotline provides our people, clients and others outside professional services. EY also understands that, apart from its people, of the organization with a means to confidentially report activity that its reputation is its most important asset. EY’s shared approach, may involve unethical or improper behavior and that may be in globally consistent policies and practices, independence processes and violation of professional standards or otherwise inconsistent with the Code of Conduct strengthen EY Ukraine’s ability to set the bar for Global Code of Conduct. The hotline is operated by an external service quality. organization that provides confidential and, if desired, anonymous hotline reporting services for companies worldwide. Setting the tone at the top EY Ukraine’s senior leaders are responsible for setting the right tone at When a report comes into the EY/Ethics Hotline, either by phone or the top and demonstrating through their actions our commitment to internet, it receives immediate attention. Depending on the content building a better working world. We also communicate to our people of the report, appropriate individuals from Risk Management, Human that quality and professional responsibility start with them. Our shared Resources, Legal or other functions are involved to address the values, which inspire our people and guide them to do the right thing, report. All matters are handled by experienced individuals, with and our commitment to quality are embedded in who we are and in oversight from the global Risk Management function. For those everything we do. matters that are reported outside of the EY/Ethics Hotline, the same procedures are followed. As part of the global EY organization, EY Ukraine’s approach to business ethics and integrity is embedded in a culture of consultation, During reporting period, no queries or complaints were made our training programs and our internal communications. Senior through EY/Ethics Hotline in respect of EY Ukraine operations. management regularly reinforces the importance of performing quality Compliance with applicable legal requirements work and complying with professional standards and our policies, leading by example and through various communications. Also, our Member firms comply with applicable laws and regulations, and the EY quality review programs assess the quality of professional service as a values underpin their commitment to doing the right thing. This key metric in evaluating and rewarding all professionals. important commitment is supported by a number of policies and procedures, including: EY Ukraine’s culture strongly supports collaboration and places special •A  nti-bribery. The EY global Anti-bribery Policy provides EY people emphasis on the importance of consultation in dealing with complex or with direction around certain unethical and illegal activities. subjective accounting, auditing, reporting, regulatory and It emphasizes the obligation of its people to comply with anti-bribery independence matters. laws and provides greater definition of what constitutes bribery. Code of conduct It also identifies reporting responsibilities when bribery is discovered. In FY14, EY also launched an “Anti-Bribery & You” web-based The EY Global Code of Conduct provides a clear set of standards that training program that is mandatory for all EY personnel. guide our actions and our business conduct. The 45-minute course helps our people recognize, prevent and resist bribery. • Insider trading. The EY global Insider Trading Policy reaffirms the obligation of EY people not to trade in securities with insider Code of conduct is organized into five categories information, provides detail on what constitutes insider information to guide behavior across all areas of activity: and identifies with whom people should consult if they have questions regarding their responsibilities. 1. Working with one another • D  ata privacy. The EY global Personal Data Privacy Policy sets out 2. Working with clients and others the principles to be applied to the use and protection of personal 3. Acting with professional integrity data, including that relating to current, past and prospective personnel, clients, suppliers and business associates. This policy 4. Maintaining our objectivity and independence is consistent with applicable laws and regulations concerning data 5. Respecting intellectual capital protection and privacy when processing personal data. It provides a foundation for maintaining the privacy of all personal data used by member firms. • D  ocument retention. EY member firms apply their retention policies to all engagements and personnel. Documents must be preserved whenever any person becomes aware of any actual or reasonably anticipated claim, litigation, investigation, subpoena or other government proceeding involving a client that may relate to a member firm’s work. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 13 The EY Global Tool for Acceptance and Continuance (GTAC) is an intranet-based system for efficiently coordinating client and At EY Ukraine 100% of client serving engagement acceptance and continuance activities in line with global, employees have undergone anti-bribery service line and member firm policies. GTAC takes users step by step training in FY13 and 100% of all employees through the acceptance and continuance requirements and connects to the resources and information needed to assess business (including client serving and core business opportunities and associated risks. services) have listened to “Anti-Bribery & You” web-based training program in FY14. The client acceptance process requires careful consideration of the risk characteristics of a prospective client and several due diligence During reporting period, no monetary fines procedures. Before EY Ukraine takes on a new engagement or client, it or penalties for non-compliance with laws or determines if it can commit sufficient resources to deliver quality service, especially in highly technical areas, and if the services the regulations were imposed upon EY Ukraine client wants are appropriate for the member firm to provide. with respect to the services we provide to our clients. The approval process is rigorous; no new audit engagement may be accepted without the approval of the firm’s Professional Practice Director. In our annual client continuance process, EY Ukraine reviews service delivery and our ability to continue to provide quality service, confirming that our clients share EY Ukraine’s commitment to quality Client acceptance and service delivery and transparency in financial reporting. The partner in charge of each audit, together with our Assurance leadership, annually reviews the Providing the right services to the right clients is an essential relationship with the audit client to determine whether continuance is foundation of EY Ukraine’s risk management processes. appropriate. The EY global client acceptance and continuance policy, which all EY Both client acceptance and client continuance decisions depend on, member firms must follow, outlines principles to determine whether to among other things, the absence of any perception that a company’s accept a new client or a new engagement or to continue a relationship management pressures the audit engagement team to accept with an existing client. These principles are fundamental to maintaining inappropriate accounting and reporting or uses financial pressures to quality and independence, managing risk and meeting regulatory undermine audit quality. Considerations and conclusions on the requirements. integrity of management are essential to acceptance and continuance decisions. The objectives of acceptance and continuance policy are to: For more information regarding EY client acceptance and continuance policies, as well as EY’s audit quality review process, please refer • Establish a rigorous process for evaluating risk and making to the Transparency Report 2014: EY Global. decisions to accept or continue clients or engagements Data privacy • Meet applicable independence requirements EY knows that the trust our clients place in us is vital. We view data • Identify and deal appropriately with any conflicts of interest privacy and information security as fundamental components of doing • Identify and decline clients that pose excessive risk business. We are committed to protecting information assets, personal data and client information. We believe that a solid data privacy and • Require consultation with designated professionals to identify information security program is an essential component of a leading additional risk-management procedures for specific high-risk professional services organization. factors • Comply with legal, regulatory and professional requirements The EY Global Code of Conduct stipulates that all member firm personnel must respect and protect the personal and confidential information received from or relating to their member firms, EY, clients or third parties. In addition, the global EY Conflicts of Interest Policy defines global The EY Global Data Privacy Policy addresses the issues raised by standards for categories of conflicts of interest and a process for modern data management tools and systems. EY Ukraine applies a identifying potential conflicts of interest. It also includes provisions for common set of personal data management principles applicable to all managing conflicts of interest as quickly and efficiently as possible EY member firms, providing a framework for processing personal data through the use of appropriate safeguards. Such safeguards range in compliance with local privacy laws and professional standards, as from obtaining the relevant client’s consent to act for two or more well as internal policies. clients to member firms declining an engagement in order to avoid an identified conflict. 14 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 100% client serving personnel participated in the annual training The following are the principles of the EY Global Data courses, data privacy protection being a topic of the whole course Privacy Policy: or one of the modules. Below is incomplete list of yearly mandatory training sessions: • We protect personal data using appropriate physical, technical and organizational security measures. Annual courses Mandatory for • We process, store and disclose personal data only for Anti-Bribery course all CS staff legitimate business purposes. We make sure our contracts Audit Advanced Program newly-promoted audit seniors with third-party processors contain terms that confirm data is managed according to the same standards we implement Audit Quality Executive Event audit managers and above across the enterprise. Fraud Awareness workshop audit seniors • We give additional attention and care to sensitive personal New Managers Program newly-promoted managers data, making sure we respect local laws and customs. New Senior Managers Program newly-promoted senior managers • We’ve established appropriate measures to help ensure Regulatory and Risk Update assurance seniors through personal data remains accurate, complete, current, adequate Workshop partners and reliable. Risk Management Briefing assurance seniors through partners • Where applicable, we provide notice to individuals with whom New Senior Program newly-promoted seniors EY member firms engage, advising them of the purpose for which we are processing their personal information. Additionally, 85 % of client serving personnel have undergone on-line “EY Security” course in FY14. Supply chain and procurement Globally, EY has adopted binding corporate rules (BCR), in addition to the existing global personal data privacy program, to legitimize As a professional services organization, EY purchases goods and international data transfers among our member firms in compliance services that enable its people to perform their work and deliver with European data protection law. The BCR policy is available on EY’s quality services to clients. global website as a public statement of its commitment to good data The EY Global Procurement Policy applies to all EY member firms. management practices. In addition to requiring compliance with independence rules and the rules of doing business in a responsible way, the Global As part of our BCR implementation and demonstration of EY’s Procurement Policy also requires that all member firms, including commitment to protect personal data, EY has developed a global data EY Ukraine, to evaluate the impact of procurement decisions and privacy and information security training course which is being rolled encourage suppliers to support our sustainability initiatives. out across member firms worldwide. Vendors For more information regarding EY’s commitment to protect personal data, please refer to Protecting your data: all vendors FY13-14 416 EY’s approach to data privacy and information security. non-residents 14% residents 86% Internally, EY Ukraine understands the importance of data privacy and Totally paid to vendors, million UAH 214 information security awareness among our practitioners. Raising Vendors who signed EY code of conduct 18 awareness of threats to data privacy and information security is an ongoing and dynamic process for us. It is an issue that EY Ukraine takes very seriously, and it is reflected not only in specialized formal The EY Global Procurement Policy provides a separate Supplier Code of Conduct and includes: training for personnel in each of our service lines, but in numerous other activities to raise awareness in the entire global EY population. • Environmental risk management. EY member firms expect suppliers to have an effective environmental policy that: mitigates During reporting period, in EY Ukraine there were two cases of data environmental risks; sets objectives for minimizing the use of breaches when excerpts of customer-related data were exposed to energy, water and raw materials and using renewable resources public through training/advertising materials. In both cases no (where possible); reduces waste and maximizes recycling efforts; customer name was disclosed, no outcomes for the customer measures and monitors performance; and considers the occurred. The blundered EY employees were punished. These cases environmental credentials of vendors within their own supply chains. are further negotiated to all employees during regular training •C  ompliance with human rights. We expect suppliers and their sessions. Additional measures to prevent data breaches were contractors to respect the rights of their employees and to comply introduced, among others: with all relevant legislation, regulations and directives in the • forced encryption of all laptops and flash drives; country in which they operate. This includes wages, benefits and • further limitations of access to terminals and other customer working conditions. Any exploitation of child labor or any other information in internal databases; vulnerable groups is completely unacceptable. • selective limitation in using social networks. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 15 • D  iversity and inclusiveness. Our sourcing decisions, contracts Is your relationship with EY better / the same/ worse and management of supplier relationships reflect and promote the compared to a year ago? principles of EY’s Diversity and Inclusiveness (D&I) policy 2013 FY (incorporating equal opportunities). We expect our suppliers to have actionable policies that protect against victimization, Better The same Worse harassment or discrimination against any employee or party to the 12 18 0 contract due to their gender, marital or civil partnership status, In FY 2013 two respondents did not answer (n/a option) race, ethnic or national origin, disability, religion, sexual orientation, age or part-time status. Suppliers are required to 2014 FY meet the requirements of any applicable discrimination legislation. Better The same Worse •O  ccupational health and safety. Suppliers must abide by all local 18 8 0 laws, directives and regulations relating to health and safety in the workplace or in any other location other than the workplace where Results of ASQ online survey production or work is undertaken. •E  thics. We expect our suppliers to act with the highest standards FY 2013 FY 2014 of integrity in all of our business dealings. We strictly prohibit any Answers received 32 26 and all forms of corruption, extortion, bribery and embezzlement are strictly prohibited and may/will take immediate action to terminate the contract and seek legal recourse. 1. Expectations of service quality •M  onitoring. EY member firms expect suppliers to actively audit and monitor their day-to-day management process for compliance with this Code of Conduct. Service delive EY Ukraine currently does not have the mechanisms in place to ry capture data relating to the number or percentage of suppliers that Client + were screened using criteria for impacts on society. However, it is Global Partner / something Procurement team is committed to exploring and hopes Client service team to implement in the future. Assessing service quality 3. Confirmation 2. Assessment of service quality of service quality As part of a global EY initiative, EY Ukraine runs a program for clients of all service lines called Assessment of Service Quality, which seeks input on how EY Ukraine consistently delivers quality service. It also helps us build strong, mutually respectful Contributing to the public discourse relationships at all levels and across all the sectors of our clients’ By engaging with stakeholders, including governments, businesses. It enables us to monitor the quality of service and to act policymakers, regulators and standard setters, EY Ukraine and on feedback received. member firms around the world play a part in building a better working world and promoting transparency and trust. EY thereby The program seeks quantitative and qualitative information through: encourages improvements in corporate governance, financial •F  ace-to-face interviews with key people in the business, including reporting and other matters that affect the world’s capital markets. audit committee chairs and board members where relevant, conducted by senior partners who are independent of any service delivery to that client. Memberships and associations •Q  uestionnaires that are used to gather objective feedback about EY Ukraine holds memberships with the following associations specific engagements or the overall client relationship. and institutions: •P  ublic Company Accounting Oversight Board Clients’ satisfaction indicators • F  oreign Investors Advisory Council in Ukraine •E  uropean Business Association (EBA) in Ukraine How likely are you to recommend EY to a friend or colleague? (Scale 0 — Never to 10 — Always, or NA for Not Applicable) •A  merican Chamber of Comm erce (АСС) •B  ritish-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce FY 2013 FY 2014 • U  N Global Compact (GC) in Ukraine 9,3 9,16 •A  ssociation of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) • U  krainian Society of Investment Professionals (CFA Society) In FY 2013 two respondents did not answer (n/a option) In FY 2014 one respondent did not answer (n/a option) • International Fiscal Association • U  krainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs • U  .S.Ukraine Business Council • U  kraine Real Estate Club • C  SR Development Center in Ukraine 16 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 Building a better working world for business community External initiatives EY endorses As a global organization, EY engages with a number of groups During the reporting period EY Ukraine conducted and initiatives at global, regional and local levels, including: 28 conferences and workshops on current business issues •A udit Committee Leadership Network. EY is an active member for clients and the wider public: of the Audit Committee Leadership Network in Europe and • innovations in the Tax and Customs Codes; North America. This brings together audit committee chairs • transition to IFRS; from the boards of more than 300 large public companies. The • personnel management; Network provides a key forum for business leaders to discuss critical market, regulatory and governance developments. • counteracting fraud; • International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN). • transfer pricing; EY is an active member of the ICGN. Member firms participate • customs regulation; in a number of investor groups in different countries. • tax regimes of other countries; • Financial Stability Board, the International Forum of • investment opportunities. Independent Audit Regulators and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. We engage with these stakeholders and We supported the following strategic events and others to promote transparency and trust around the world. conferences, which are important to the Ukraine • Global Auditor Investor Dialogue. This global dialogue is an investment and business climate: informal network of leading global institutional investors and • Ukrainian Banking Forum, CFO Summit, Energy Forum, major global auditing networks to exchange views on current Agribusiness in Ukraine (Adam Smith Conferences) financial reporting and auditing issues; EY is proud to be part • Ukrainian Investment Forum (CFA Ukraine) of this dialogue. • Kyiv Employer Branding & Engagement Forum • International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). EY is among a select group of organizations supporting IIRC by participating • Odessa FDI Forum 2013 on the Board, the Council, working groups and secondments • Retail Forum, CFO Forum, Banking M&A (Forbes, (with an EY partner serving as deputy to the CEO). Ukrainian Media Holding) • Transparency International. EY participates and contributes • International Investment and Innovation Forum in Lviv tens of thousands of dollars to Transparency International’s • Ukrainian Grain Congress 2013 Global Corporations for Transparency International initiatives. • All-Ukrainian CSR cases contest 2013, 2014 •U  nited Nations Global Compact (UNGC). EY is a proud member of the UNGC. At a global level, EY annually communicates its progress on upholding the UNGC’s 10 principles. • United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP). EY pays particular attention to investments in social development. EY is a signatory of UN WEP. We strive to create a business environment in which our • World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption organization and society as a whole will flourish for a long time. Initiative (PACI). EY is a signatory to PACI, the leading antiEY employees help in this area by offering knowledge and corruption initiative in the world. EY’s Global Chairman and experience, taking into account the local characteristics and culture CEO is a member of the PACI Board. of each country. By joining efforts with commercial, government • World Economic Forum (WEF). EY has been a Strategic and non-governmental organizations, we create conditions Partner of the WEF for 15 years. Its involvement in the WEF favorable for the development of business, society and protection enables EY to help shape future economic development and of the environment. share its insights with the world’s most influential business leaders, politicians, academics and the global media. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 17 People 18 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 EY Ukraine works hard to attract people who are curious and entrepreneurial, who thrive in international teams and who have a EY values global mindset. We want the time people spend at EY Ukraine to be Our values define who we are and remain the bedrock of our culture. more valuable than time spent with any other employer. They are the fundamental beliefs of our global organization. They If and when people choose to leave EY Ukraine, we don’t see this as guide our actions and behavior. They influence the way we work with an end to the relationship, just the next stage. Whether they go on each other — and the way we serve our clients and engage with our to work with a client or a competitor, start their own business or communities. Instilling them in everything we do is one of the most retire, they will be a welcomed lifelong member of EY Ukraine’s important sources of our organizational strength. alumni network. Overall gender breakdown We are: • People who demonstrate integrity, respect and teaming Female • People with energy, enthusiasm and the courage to lead 59% Male • People who build relationships based on doing the right thing 41% Creating the highestperforming teams Headcount by cities EY Ukraine is proud of EY’s culture of teaming. We know from 93% 7% experience and research that our best-performing teams are made up Kyiv Donetsk of highly engaged individuals from a diverse range of backgrounds. These teams excel by being adaptable and flexible without losing focus and by welcoming diverse views. They consistently use best-in-class approaches, tools and methodologies; undertake learning, experience Headcount by age Under 30 30-50 Over 50 and coaching; and are always focused on delivering the best results, Partners 0% 100% 0% rather than on where, when or how the work gets done. Executive Director 0% 0% 100% To support these teams, we are committed to continually provide our Senior Managers 7% 93% 0% people with training that develops their skills, challenging client Managers 22% 76% 2% opportunities, a diverse workplace, flexibility and choice, and a Seniors 63% 37% 0% framework to guide their career development. Staff 96% 4% 0% Interns CBS (practice support) 100% 36% 0% 59% 0% 5% Developing and supporting our Contractors 73% 24% 3% people through world-class Outsourced Personnel Total 53% 60% 32% 38% 16% 2% learning Helping EY Ukraine’s people to learn, develop and lead is fundamental to creating value for our people and our clients. At a Employees covered by bargaining agreements 100% global level, EY has a unique global career development framework called EYU, which focuses on learning, experiences and coaching. Tailored training Employees who had formal performance review FY13-14 100% EY Ukraine provides our people with access to high-quality formal learning through a structured organization-wide curriculum. It is accessible in a variety of formats, including: FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 • Face-to-face: through case studies, lectures and simulations Employee • On-the-job training 75% 79% 83% enagagement index • Virtual: through web-based, videos and webcasts EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 19 We launched World Class, a learning program that enables EY people to receive the same baseline level of high-quality learning across the “I’ve been working at EY for three years. globe. One global team is now responsible for developing a learning I attended a lot of training sessions during curriculum that is relevant across the entire organization, as well as that time aimed at developing both my specific programs for each of the service lines. The program blends technical and soft skills. I attended the EY classroom, mobile, electronic and social learning. global milestone events in Amsterdam and EY’s web-based global learning management system enables EY Moscow. EY is covering my ACCA tuition and people to flexibly organize their learning. They can use it to search exams. In my sincere opinion, EY is the best for content, to identify where gaps in their learning might exist and to develop a “learning map” to meet future needs. company if you desire fast professional development and a unique experience”. Formal learning plays a crucial role in development. EY Ukraine delivers rich, focused curriculum for our people, recognizing the Vasyl Lysko, different roles they play and the variety of experiences and learning Senior, TAS they need throughout their development. And we continue to increase our focus on coaching and experiences alongside formal learning. Through EY Ukraine’s formal learning programs, training activities and other informal learning opportunities, we expose our people to a Coaching broad range of sustainability issues. From the EY Global Code of Conduct, and anti-bribery and insider-trading policies, to unconscious In addition to technical content, EY Ukraine people develop through bias, sexual harassment and cross-cultural skills training, we make coaching. We encourage as many coaching conversations as possible sustainability a fundamental component of our people’s careers and throughout the year, and our coaching curriculum enables people to their growth, within and beyond EY. develop their coaching skills as they progress. In FY13/14, client-serving professionals in EY Ukraine have Developing leaders spent more than 46 000 hours for the formal learning. Developing leaders is fundamental to EY Ukraine’s future success. This averages out to approximately 57 hours of learning EY Ukraine is committed to develop our people and nurture lifelong per year for each professional. relationships: creating outstanding leaders who bring their vision and skills to EY and who may then go on to other roles in industry, government and academia, joining the EY alumni network of more Marina Zakharina, than a million EY brand ambassadors. Head of HR, EY Ukraine “Through EYU, we aim to create Organising milestone events an environment that inspires our Those who are newly promoted to senior, manager, senior manager people to develop their skills required or executive director ranks are invited to milestone events. These to serve EY clients, grow EY business face-to-face events follow a global format and combine a mixture of and meet EY quality expectations. learning and celebration. Members of the leadership team, right up EYU is a competitive advantage to the EY Global Chairman and CEO, play an active role at these of our company in the market, which is perceived as a real events. For example, more than 2,600 new EY senior managers benefit by our people and candidates”. participated in milestone events in their Areas in FY14. Implementing strong leadership programs Monitoring and strengthening performance EY delivers tailored programs to develop our leaders, including: • Global NextGen is a two-year program that gives potential member EYU links to EY’s global Performance Management and Development firm partners the opportunity to respond to a series of challenges Process (PMDP). PMDP helps EY people monitor and direct their perthat will develop their leadership and entrepreneurial skills. It formance and align their efforts to the global organization’s strategic prepares them for their role as partners in a motivating and priorities. One of the most important element of PMDP is the conversastructured way and provides transparency around the partner tions EY people have with their counselors as they build their careers. promotion process. EY Ukraine also has tools to capture and manage continuous • G lobal Exchange Program provides high-performing seniors and feedback as well as midyear and annual reviews. We encourage all of managers the opportunity to go on 18 — to 24-month international our people to request real-time feedback. It not only encourages assignments before returning to share their learning with colleagues. continual improvement, but also informs mid-year and annual • New Horizons gives high-performing seniors the chance to performance reviews that all of our employees receive. undertake a three-month period of employment in another country. In FY13-14, 100% of our EY Ukraine people received a formal performance review. 20 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 In FY13-14, three senior managers from EY Ukraine took part in HC by grade the Global NextGen Program. Six employees were participants of the New Horizons program in Germany, the Netherlands, UK, Partners 20% Poland, Italy and Dubai. One employee took part in the Global 80% Exchange Program in UK and more than 20 people transferred to Executive Directors 100% new practices in different countries (US, UK, Germany, Poland, 0% Cyprus, Russia, Kazakhstan, Dubai, Italy) under return or 43% permanent transfer programs. Senior Managers 57% 52% Managers Celebrating and supporting 48% 57% diverse talent Seniors 43% Staff 53% Diversity and inclusiveness (D&I) 47% EY Ukraine works hard to build a culture that celebrates and Interns 20% 80% encourages diversity and inclusiveness, and our senior leaders set a positive tone from the top. CBS (practice 89% support) 11% When making decisions pertaining to hiring, promotion, performance evaluation and compensation, we do not discriminate people based 63% Contractors 37% on gender, nationality, religion or other factors. Performance of professional activities, professional competencies and extra efforts Outsourced 58% to build a better working world are the only factors that count. Personnel 42% 58% Defining D&I Total 42% Diversity has to include the right mix of people within our workforce, including differences in gender, ethnicity, national cultures and 0 20 40 60 80 100 subcultures within countries, sexual orientation, disability and generation, among others. Female Male Inclusiveness is the way EY member firms make that mix work. Put New employees by gender Employee turnover by gender simply, it is about creating an environment where each person feels valued, is part of the community and is able to perform at their best. Female Female Inclusive leadership 57% 61% EY member firm leaders take overall responsibility for D&I within the country practice. They are accountable for driving this through Male Male the business — through hiring, succession planning and promotion — 39% and in leading by example. EY has produced a toolkit to help 43% member firm leaders communicate the importance of leading inclusively to our people, which shows how to turn the diversity of the global EY organization into competitive advantage and how working inclusively will help them build vital leadership skills. In addition, the Leadership Matters Program develops the inclusive The workforce has never been more diverse. To build upon our leadership capabilities of most senior executives. The program positive momentum, EY is undertaking: explores the impact of unconscious bias, develops inclusive Training behaviors and inspires our current and future leaders to practice inclusive leadership. Globally, EY offers enhanced cultural intelligence training that works across cultural borders on a day-to-day basis. This training explains the importance, and advantages, of greater D&I. Everyone brings social stereotypes and cultural experiences into how they make Beth Brooke-Marciniak, decisions, but it is possible to improve decision-making by EY Global Vice Chair, Public Policy recognizing the possible unconscious biases that might be at play. “Inclusive leaders try to understand what the world looks like to To help EY people do this, EY has developed an unconscious-bias someone else, and they integrate that diverse perspective toolkit and related training, which more than 11,400 EY people into their decision-making“. globally have completed to date, 36 people in EY Ukraine.. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 21 Identifying incidents of discrimination In April 2013 Viktoriya Shmuratko, As an organization that celebrates and encourages diversity and Senior Manager in Advisory Services inclusiveness, EY is a firm supporter of non-discrimination and would at EY Ukraine, participated in the EY take immediate action to resolve any incidents that arose. Women’s Leadership Program (EMEIA Women’s Leadership Program), which To our knowledge, in FY14, EY Ukraine did not experience any took place in London. The main topic was reportable incidents of discrimination, nor did we have to take any women’s careers at the company: career action in response to an incident of discrimination. stages, the difficulties faced by women ambitious to move up the career ladder, Tracking progress and myths and stereotypes about the ability of women to Setting targets and tracking progress helps keep EY’s focus on occupy leadership positions. increasing D&I. Reflecting this, the leaders of each geographical area look at the D&I metrics and actively evaluate leadership and partner “I discovered how many similarities in thoughts and behavior pipelines and promotion processes for member firms around the there are between women of various cultures. The presentations world. More broadly, EY measures how people feel about the work and discussions within the program let us reflect on our culture through a biennial EY Global People Survey. ambitions, take a new look at our abilities (as there isn’t always enough time to do in everyday life) and move forward“. In the most recent survey, 80% of respondents in Ukraine felt that EY created an inclusive environment where people with diverse backgrounds and experiences can succeed. Active support of internal networks Headcount by employment type EY has networks that help encourage and support different groups of member firm employees. These include women’s networks, LGBT FY 2013 FY 2014 networks, EY parents’ networks, disability working groups, faith Female Male Female Male networks, as well as networks that support caregivers and people Permanent employees 264 198 284 207 affected by illness. Out of them At EY Ukraine, we support local EY networks for mothers and Fixed term contract 4 2 3 2 mobility program participants. Part-timers 20 17 32 14 Providing tools Civil law agreements 37 19 40 19 EY provides its member firms with tools that support D&I at work. Outsourcers 7 7 11 8 These include GlobeSmart®, which provides business-related cultural information on more than 65 countries, helping people in Average turnover their day-to-day interactions with colleagues, clients and others FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 from other countries. 15% 24% 13% Enabling mobility and cross-border opportunities Parental leave FY13-14 Many EY Ukraine people undertake international assignments Employees taken parental leave (all female) 34 or transfers in order to fill a business need and to develop their careers. Employees returned from parental leave 22 Employees staying with EY 1 year 18 after return from parental leave Programs for women • Navigator program. Despite the strong representation of women joining EY member firms at graduate entry level, the At a global level, EY has also developed programs and networks profession still struggles to retain women at manager level and to help high-performing women achieve their goals. above. To address this, EY developed the Navigator program, • Career Watch program. Senior leaders act as advocates for which creates opportunities for female managers to develop high-potential women and minorities of either gender. They their networks and have dialogue around the issues they face work to ensure participants receive mentoring and are given in advancing their careers. challenging client assignments and opportunities to network with other senior leaders. • Creating internal networks. Networking is one of the best ways women can overcome barriers to success. The EY women’s networks exist to share best practices, successes and ideas; create opportunities to connect with sponsors and role models; and bring a sense of community to participants. 22 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 Alumni club EY Ukraine Of course, we acknowledge that reward isn’t just about money; it’s about colleagues, the career opportunities, the learning experiences, the culture and the working environment. In order to reward outstanding business related achievements of its employees, EY Ukraine has various recognition programs. Extraordinary results might be awarded with the gift certificates, EY branding gifts and other souvenirs. Employee of the Year The main objective of this award is to acknowledge EY Ukraine employees’ personal commitment to achieve the company’s goals through individual excellence. EY has always prided itself on the quality of its professionals – around The winners are announced and awarded special prizes the world and here in Ukraine. We consider our alumni to be very during the celebration of the new fiscal year. important to our continued success. Many of them become clients or FY13 winners: simply remain friends of the firm. We value the knowledge and strength they brought to the firm as employees and we appreciate Pavlo Kuchma, Iuliia Boietska— Assurance; the loyalty they continue to show as alumni. Iryna Kovalenko — Tax & Law; Oleksandr Krachilo — Advisory; The Alumni Club launched activities in Ukraine in 2007 and since then Anna Kasilova – TAS; has held annual events for former EY employees to meet with their Anastasiya Sklyar — CBS, HR. friends at EY. The 7th Annual EY/Andersen Alumni Party took place on November 1, FY14 winners: 2013. Around 200 former professionals from EY/Andersen came to Viktoriia Boiarchuk — Assurance; meet old friends. At the Meat & Wine party guests took delight in Oleksandr Ursulenko — Tax & Law; networking in warm and welcoming atmosphere. Those who love and Borys Trofimov — Advisory; appreciate meat and wine joined an exclusive steak master-class by Bogdan Polyulyah — TAS; the Chef and a wine tasting. Tetiana Vasylchenko— CBS, Administration. Providing competitive Professional Certification Champion compensation and benefits This annual award has been established to recognize those outstanding employees who achieved the highest results EY Ukraine wants our people to receive compensation that is highly in the following certification programs: ACCA, CPA, competitive with prevailing employment market circumstances and CIA, CIMA and CFA. business conditions. We work hard to drive business results so that Certification Champions in EY Ukraine: we can provide competitive remuneration packages to our people. FY13 — Oleg Melnikov Compensation packages for all full-time employees in Ukraine include: FY14 — Olena Ivanko • free medical insurance for each employee and one immediate family member; Best Tutor • life and accident insurance, and insurance when travelling abroad; The main objective of this award is to recognize commitment • annual vacation – 25 working days; of EU Ukraine employees to company’s values by sharing • 100% compensation for five days of sick leave during the year their knowledge and experience with others. regardless of length of service and amount of salary; The Best Tutors FY13-14: • 2 additional paid days of leave on the occasion of a wedding; • Anna Kurylenko • 3 additional paid days of paternity leave for new fathers upon • Vladyslav Ostapenko childbirth; • Sergey Lisitskiy • a n additional paid vacation day for 0 days of absence due to illness • Tetyana Mykolenko during the year; • Yuliya Zakharova • a dditional paid vacation days for those who spend more than 50 days a year on business trips. • Ivan Mustanien • Artiom Kozlovski. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 23 Service Anniversary Wellness EY is proud of the hard work and dedication of its employees. The Wellness program for the company’s employees and their Acknowledging employees’ milestones in their career (5th, 10th, children was developed and launched in EY Ukraine since 2011. 15th, etc. anniversary with EY) is just one of the many ways the The key areas of the Wellness program are: company has of saying ”thank you” to the employees. •o  rganization and support of sports events for the employees (such as summer bike ride, football, tennis, squash, paintball and Thank you day ping-pong tournaments, marathons); There is a pre-New Year tradition in EY Ukraine to arrange a ”Thank •e  vents intended to maintain the employees’ health and promote a You Day” when everybody has a great opportunity to write words of healthy lifestyle (Day of Health, massage in the office, etc.); appraisal and New Year’s wishes to the colleagues for their contribution and assistance via the special “Thank You” brand stickers. •e  vents intended for active rest and informal communication between the employees (intellectual games club, public speaking Creating a flexible workplace club, decoration master-classes and hand-made charity fairs, photo contests and quests, painting master-class); High-performance teaming relies on creating the right environment for EY Ukraine people — one that encourages collaboration and is • s ports and entertaining events for the employees’ children (kids flexible enough to meet the demands of the modern workforce, sport festival ”We are the Champions”, different excursions and allowing people to work seamlessly across borders and manage quests, New Year and Easter parties, etc). their time effectively. Day of Health Flexibility is an increasingly important issue for EY Ukraine people Days of Health are organized in EY Kyiv office annually since 2012. and potential recruits — specifically the ability to combine a career Different medical specialists are invited to the office in order to with other aspects of their lives such as family commitments, provide employees with medical advice and perform different kinds volunteering in the community or with sports, for example. of tests. Employees had the opportunity to visit a therapist, ophthalmologist, breast physician, vertebrologist and other Providing EY people with flexible work practices requires us to specialists, as well as to have blood test, electrocardiogram, support them with the right technology — and the Messaging and fluorography, ultrasound of the mammary gland and abdominal Collaboration program is doing just that. By accessing new and cavities, etc. Days of Health are part of the comprehensive Wellness exciting technological capabilities, our people can connect with each program which has proven to be an extremely effective project. other more easily than ever before. For example, videoconferencing will be possible from individuals’ laptops or mobile devices with just a Supporting working families few clicks of a button, and cloud technology will support enhanced and instant access to global information, networks and knowledge. EY allocates a lot of effort to create an environment where every This means EY people will have increasing flexibility around where employee feels comfortable and inspired. We are glad to see how and how they work and a greater ability to adapt their working our initiatives for EY parents help our people to combine their patterns to meet their client and personal commitments. careers with personal commitments. In reporting period women made 57% of EY personnel and according to the 2014 Global EY Ukraine is developing a trust-based, work-anywhere People Survey, 77% of our women said they have the flexibility they environment: introducing new IT and communications technologies, need to achieve their personal and professional goals. redesigning and repurposing our offices, and supporting the health and well-being of our people. These activities fall under the EY We have the following benefits for EY working mothers/parents: Workplace of the Future initiative and help us improve the way we • Flexible time options: team, connect and perform across teams and borders. — work from home (for Senior2/CBS Senior Specialist and above) — parents hour – one hour a day/five hours a week These changes will help EY Ukraine to continue to deliver the quality — part-time work service that our clients deserve and support a culture of flexibility and empowerment that helps to attract and retain great people. •L  earning opportunities while on maternity leave (certifications, EY training) Supporting health and well-being • Additional payment for the first 12 weeks of maternity leave Health and well-being programs are not just about keeping fit — • Additional paid leave in case of child sickness (5 days) they are designed and implemented to cover broader issues • Presents for newborn children relating to work-life balance. EY Ukraine offers assistance • Medical insurance for kids programs that provide counseling and lifestyle support • Agreement with a kindergarten near the office Response to the military actions in Eastern Ukraine • Events for parents and kids Due to escalation of the situation in Donetsk region in spring 2014, all employees of Donetsk office were offered to permanently relocate to Kyiv together with their immediate family members. In December 2012, EY has won the gold award The company assisted with the relocation and 4 months rent in the “HR Brand Award” contest, conducted expenses. Thereafter, all Donetsk employees were employed in the by the HeadHunter group of companies Kyiv office or became participants of mobility programs and moved for its Wellness Program for employees. to other EY offices around the globe. 24 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 25 Communities 26 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 EY Ukraine is committed to fostering sustainable growth in areas Community investment, EY people time, UAH where we can have the greatest impact. EY Ukraine believes the FY 2013 FY 2014 most significant impact we can have on society is by supporting economic stability and growth, which addresses some of the major Environment initiatives 19 555 27 800 issues that the world is facing. Education programs for students 603 280 1 132 480 Education programs for orphans 18 892 22 436 Supporting our communities Charity programs for orphans 82 276 68 946 Community investment, UAH* Charity support to diseased children 11 862 10 828 FY 2013 FY 2014 Charity other 52 929 56 051 CR development in Ukraine 160 000 86 238 Totally 788 794 1 318 541 Entrepreneurship and leadership 104 268 243 720 development in Ukraine Community impact, number of beneficiaries Environment initiatives 4 550 5 358 FY 2013 FY 2014 Corporate volunteering 6 700 11 268 Education programs for students 3500 4365 Education programs for students 396 980 185 185 Education programs for orphans 180 220 Charity programs for orphans 98 926 91 102 Charity programs for orphans 160 160 Charity support to diseased children 169 104 167 030 Charity support to diseased children, Charity other 22 705 246 333 24 17 targeted help Totally 963 232 1 036 234 Totally 3864 4762 *data cover major community related programs Community investment, EY people number At the heart of EY’s purpose of building a better working world is the belief in enlightened self-interest: that EY is successful because our EY FY 2013 FY 2014 member firms collectively contribute to society and shared value. Over Environment initiatives 39 29 the past 15 years, EY has been a strategic collaborator of the World Education programs for students 82 119 Economic Forum (WEF), working to shape future economic development and share its insights with the world’s most influential Education programs for orphans 31 60 business leaders, politicians and academics. EY is also proud to be a Charity programs for orphans 80 82 signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and has pledged to uphold its 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human Charity support to diseased children 95 83 rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Each year EY Charity other 72 60 reports on its progress to that end (Our vision, values and impact: UN Totally volunteers as % Global Compact 2013). 57% 58% to total number of employees In addition to EY’s broad efforts to make a significant impact to social Community investment, EY people time, hours and economic progress, EY’s member firms concentrate on areas that are most relevant to key stakeholders, services, and skills and FY 2013 FY 2014 competencies. By leveraging the deep subject matter knowledge of Environment initiatives 190 170 EY’s member firms’ talent, we can make the greatest difference. Education programs for students 224 403 For example: Education programs for orphans 180 246 • EY focuses on entrepreneurs because they drive innovation and economic growth, and create jobs. As a global organization, EY has Charity programs for orphans 637 448 long recognized the potential of entrepreneurs, who continue to drive Charity support to diseased children 83 74 growth in many markets. Over the past three decades, EY member Charity other 356 375 firms have been working with entrepreneurs, adapting and modifying their experiences, industry capabilities and resources to work for Totally volunteer hours 1670 1716 entrepreneurial, fast-growth companies. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 27 • EY focuses on the future workforce, from employees to young Junior, T.I.M.E.S (ESTIEM), CIMA Case Champ, IASA Case Champ, CFA entrepreneurs, because EY member firms know that the next Institute Research Challenge. These events help students develop their generation is critical to global progress. This ranges from the many hard and soft skills. EYers encourage the youth to learn more, improve thousands of traineeships we offer every year, the work experience their performance and translate their career hopes into reality. EY opportunities or the support in developing work readiness skills, Ukraine has strategic partnership with youth organizations like AIESEC, through to the contribution to the debate and wider solutions Enactus, and Student’s League. Its members pay attention to development EY member firms can make. developing leadership, entrepreneurship, presentation and communication skills. • EY focuses on diversity and inclusiveness because it’s essential to a better, more resilient, working world. In particular, EY supports the role of women in business because of the economic and social Supporting the workforce contribution they can make. EY is also a signatory to the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles, a set of principles for of the future business that offer guidance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. This enables EY member EY Ukraine supports the workforce of the future. Our efforts focus on firms to put their skills to good use in addressing global challenges, ensuring that all young people have the opportunity to be included in such as youth employment. the working world. Our people volunteer their time to coach, mentor or teach students and underserved youth, helping young people stay on track and raise their aspirations. Our goal is to share experience, Supporting entrepreneurship knowledge and give the opportunity to young people achieve their potential. The company focuses on the educational projects that EY Ukraine supports entrepreneurs in Ukraine. Entrepreneurs drive navigate students in professional orientation and develop their innovation, imagine new business models, develop new products and entrepreneurial and leadership skills. services, and create jobs and wealth for their communities, which Scholar – support to deprived youth results in broader economic growth and other social benefits in the marketplace. It is for this reason that EY Ukraine wants to help For seven years already, EY has been a partner to the Friends of entrepreneurs — big or small — achieve their potential. During financial Children Foundation’s Scholar project. The company provides financial years 2013 and 2014 we have supported number of programs to support to the Foundation, employees become sponsors (and in some develop entrepreneurs, among them: Global Management Challenge cases mentors) for students who graduated from orphanages. EY CR contest, Innovation Breakthrough, Entrepreholic Club and conference, committee helps develop and evaluate the Foundation’s programs, and CISCO Summer Camp and StartUp Ukraine center. EY volunteers take part in training sessions for the students. EY Saturday school of English for scholars has been a going concern at EY Developing entrepreneurial and leadership skills of the youth office for three years already. At EY, we’re committed to helping find and support aspiring leaders of During the 2013-2014 academic year the company has supported 20 tomorrow. People who have already demonstrated they’ve got the students, fifteen of whom received personal support from EY people. strengths required to reach the very top. It’s why we create an During the year the company held a series of training sessions for the environment for this to happen. EY people act as mentors and judges program fellows, covering effective presentation, resume writing, in different competitions, business case contests and games like GMC business etiquette. Enactus Enactus is a global community of students, academics and served as advisors at Enactus projects showcase event, trainers business leaders that uses the power of entrepreneurship to for selected teams, judges during the national final competition transform lives and build a more sustainable world. Through and coordinators for one of the leagues. EY Ukraine Managing Enactus, university students deliver community outreach projects Partner Alexei Kredisov, who has co-chaired the Enactus Advisory to help people in need, while at the same time gaining leadership Business Council since 2010, judged team projects in the final skills. They are guided by academic advisors and people from EY round of the competition. Competition finalists received special and other businesses. EY has been a platinum sponsor for several prizes from EY, such as certificates for classes at the Academy of years, playing a key part in Enactus’ annual national competitions Business. Petro Yavorsky, captain of the Enactus Ukrainian where young students showcase the life-changing projects they Engineering and Pedagogical Academy team, was invited to work have completed. in the audit department. EY in Ukraine has been a strategic partner to Enactus since 2009 EY Ukraine Managing Partner, Alexei Kredisov, has received as part of its involvement in fostering education and a special honor for his long years of support for the entrepreneurship among young people. In 2014 EY staffers organization. 28 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 Contributing to community Step into future — professional Last year we have conducted a survey among the employees to learn orientation for students what is their perception of CSR and what it means to them and what it brings to the company . For your information, some excerpts. EY University is series of workshops for students organized at EY. The main goal is to provide students with an opportunity to EY community engagement programs include education, discuss with the company’s employees key career trends and entrepreneurship, environmental sustainability, charity initiatives. possible ways for career growth, specifics of our services and What benefits do you feel it offers to the company to have corporate business. Depending on their preferences and qualifications responsibility programs: students select one of the following modules: Audit, Taxes, Transaction Support, IT Risks & Assurance, Advisory, or CSR. Support to the reputation of a leader 91% During 2013-2014 financial years more than 350 students More brand visibility 90% took part in the EY University and 25 of them joined EY as a result. 80 EY people conducted more than 60 workshops. Higher attractiveness of a brand 82% for potential employees Young generation of financial executives is a special course Pride to be part of positive changes of workshops for M.A. students of Vadym Getman Kyiv 80% in the community National Economic University. Five lectures and the case-study More trust towards the company cover different aspects of audit, taxes, transactions and give 78% thanks to social reporting an opportunity to gain practical knowledge of and monitor important changes in legislation and business life. During two Networking, new contacts and influence areas 76% years more than 100 students attended the course and 37 of Competitive advantage 70% them joined the EY audit department later. Higher loyalty of the personnel 69% Coffee with a Partner initiative assumes meetings where Cost effectiveness through better resource students can talk with company executives about secrets of the 39% management successful career at EY in an informal atmosphere. During No benefits, waste of resources 6% 2013-2014 financial year students had a chance to communicate with Alexander Svistich, Bogdan Yarmolenko, and Oleg Svetleuschyi, the EY Ukraine Assurance partners. Corporate volunteering is about involving partners and employees More than 120 students took part in the meetings and many of into community development initiatives work with NGOs, them acknowledged that they would use the successful career entrepreneurs, students and kids, philanthropic and environmental hints in their life. initiatives. Please, point out those benefits that you (would) find as a participant of EY community development programs: Advisory Case Challenge. Different contests have the aim to give students an opportunity to achieve their potential, Volunteering is a way for me to contribute practice their knowledge and skills, and demonstrate their 74% to community and make it better best. About 100 students participated in the Advisory Case Challenge organized by EY Ukraine. Students solved the case Volunteering is a way to enrich my life experiences 72% and presented it to the jury – EY Advisory team. Six young Volunteering helps me expand the circle of friends 61% ladies and gentlemen, who demonstrated good knowledge, within and beyond the company strong analytical and communication skills, became junior Volunteering is a way to promote my company’s consultants at EY. 60% brand within the community Young Tax Professional of the Year, a global EY contest, was Volunteering helps me acquire/train skills (e.g. conducted in Ukraine in 2012 for the first time. In 2013 it negotiation, presentation, creativity, people 56% management skills etc) became the biggest tax contest in our country. Interesting cases on international taxation brought together many Volunteering is a way to dilute the routine 51% students in economic and law fields. The best ones received Volunteering is a way to get recognition within the valuable prizes – a trip to the international final abroad, 33% company internships in tax department, iPads, etc. EY Ukraine organizes Profession Days where our people from different service lines share some useful hints about the professions and present their successful career stories. EY also takes part in university counterparts’ projects for youth like ProfFest (KROK University), Marafon Big 4 (KNEU), HR School and Marketing School (Kyiv National Taras Shevchenko University). EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 29 Demonstrating environmental Feedback from pupils stewardship “I came to understand the real threat to the planet that human activities pose. In my Changing our behavior family I’m trying to reduce the use of things EY Ukraine seeks to reduce our environmental footprint by that we can manage without“. engaging with and educating our people. The ECO-week informational campaign was held for the first time at EY office in “I’m thinking about how to teach my family October 2013. Every day of the selected week was dedicated to a to sort garbage and I’ve started to put into different topic: green policy publication with an audio address from the Managing Partner on Monday, green ideas contest on Tuesday, practice the tips on recycling old things and smart travel tips on Wednesday, energy consumption data and continuing to use them“. saving tips on Thursday, distribution of trays for paper wastes and advertising options for recycling on Friday. Green Ideas contest generated over 60 proposals from employees on how to use resources smarter, the authors of the brightest ideas received presents. Many ideas from the contest were further developed and implemented in the office, among them: • Practicability of light sensors was calculated and those were Make Ukraine Clean!” In spring 2014 we made a piece of Ukraine installed; cleaner! One cold March morning, the ЕУ volunteers gathered to • the regular detergent was replaced with one that contains less of clean the park near the Camel creek at the Obolon district. Not only the substances harmful to health and the environment; EY’s employees were included in our team but also their families, former colleagues and students. CR Committee’s Green Group • additional boxes for paper waste collection were installed. arranged for cleaning, as well as further entertainment and treatment of the eco-event participants. Educating kids EY Ukraine is a partner to the Green Rush project, conducted by the Efficiency efforts youth organization AIESEC at Kyiv and Donetsk schools. The project EY continues to increase the energy efficiency of our offices, and aims to raise environmental awareness among young people. More although travel is critical to our business, we are investing in travel than 900 pupils participated in environmental interactive modules alternatives, like telepresence videoconferencing and enhanced during the 2012-2013 school year. desktop and mobile options. EY employees did the following as part of the program: Additionally, by globalizing many core business functions, such as • helped prepare program materials; IT, real estate and travel procurement, EY is enabling offices in all countries to follow more consistent operational practices that will • monitored lessons in schools and provided recommendations on help reduce our environmental impacts. As well, EY member firms how to improve the program; are increasingly able to share insights and progress around the • served on the jury during the Student Debate Tournament on world through a newly created global sustainable operations environmental issues; network and environmental scorecard. • trained interns-students from different countries in presentation These global initiatives help EY Ukraine to improve the environmental skills; sustainability of our operations by leveraging leading practices. • planted trees along with students in Donetsk. Green Rush participants were surveyed regarding their impressions of the program: 94% reported that they gained new knowledge of environmental issues, 84% would recommend participating in the program to their friends and 76% intend to change their habits to reduce their negative environmental impact after participating in the program. For schoolchildren in Kyiv who participate in Green Rush EY Ukraine conducted Environment Poster Contest. The topic of the competition was the proper handling of waste paper. The authors of most compelling jobs were invited to meet representatives of the EY CR committee and received memorable gifts from the company. Making Ukraine clean For several years in a row, the EY Ukraine employees participate in the traditional spring event, all-Ukrainian clean-up event “Let’s 30 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 Measuring our impact Paper consumption, packs At EY Ukraine, we are constantly challenging ourselves to work in a 600 more environmentally sustainable manner and to find new ways to 489 486 reduce our energy consumption, carbon footprint and waste 500 427 432 stream. We have started monitoring our carbon footprint since 412 2012 using The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting 400 362 341 and Reporting Standard of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s. We know that 300 nearly all of our carbon output comes from two sources: office energy consumption and business travel. We now have a baseline 200 against which we can compare our performance year-on-year. 100 Energy monthly consumption, Kwh 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Greenhouse gas emissions, FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 metric tonnes Scope 1 Direct fuel usage 39 46 35 Paper recycling, kg Scope 2 Office energy 221 201 197 consumption 17 000 Scope 3 Business travel 363 290 213 16 800 16 600 400 16 400 350 16 200 300 Scope 1 16 000 Direct fuel usage 15 800 250 Scope 2 15 600 200 Office energy consumption 15 400 150 Scope 3 2012 2013 2014 100 Business travel 50 0 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 In the past two years we have reviewed our travel policy, acquired additional equipment for videoconferencing, promoted smart travel and resource use among employees. All together, this resulted in a significant dicrease of CO2 emissions of EY Ukraine during FY12-FY14 period 29% of total emissions despite the increase of personnel number. The biggest decrease was for air travel. Energy monthly consumption, Kwh 60 000 57 008 51 184 52 558 50 000 40 597 40 000 37 525 36 939 30 000 20 000 10 000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 31 How EY is organised 32 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 EY global organization structure EY’s central entity, EYG, coordinates the member firms and Committee and the Chair of the Emerging Markets Committee, as promotes cooperation among them. EYG does not provide well as a representative from the emerging markets practices. services, but its objectives include promoting the provision of exceptional, high-quality client service by its member firms The GE and the GAC approve nominations for the Chairman, Chief worldwide. Each member firm is a legally distinct entity. The Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer of EYG and ratify member firms’ obligations and responsibilities are governed by the appointments of the Global Managing Partners. The GE also ratifies regulations of EYG and various other agreements. appointments of Global Vice Chairs. The GAC ratifies the appointments of any Global Vice Chair who serves as a member of In July 2013, EY streamlined its operating model by creating the the GE. Furthermore, the GE approves appointments of Area Executive and the Regions. The Executive includes the Global Managing Partners. Such appointments are subject to ratification Executive (GE), its committees and teams, and the leadership of by the GAC. the four geographic Areas. This streamlined structure allows EY to further enhance its global scale and the delivery of consistent The GE’s responsibilities include the promotion of global objectives exceptional client service worldwide, with the Executive responsible and the development, approval and, where relevant, for one global approach to strategy, quality, risk management, implementation of: business planning, investments and priorities. At the same time, • Global strategies and plans this operating model allows for greater stakeholder focus in the 29 Regions, permitting member firms to build stronger relationships • Common standards, methodologies and policies to be promoted with clients and others in each country and be more responsive to within member firms local needs. • People initiatives, including criteria and processes for admission, The structure and principal bodies of the global organization during evaluation, development, reward and retirement of partners the year ended 30 June 2014 are described below. They reflect • Quality improvement and protection programs the principles that EY, as a global organization, has one shared strategy. • Proposals regarding regulatory matters and public policy • Policies and guidance relating to member firms’ service of Global Advisory Council international clients, business development, markets and The Global Advisory Council (GAC) is the main advisory body of branding EYG. It comprises a number of member firm partner-level • EY’s business plans, development funds and investment professionals (referred to as partners) drawn from across the four priorities Areas and includes independent non-executive representatives (INEs). The INEs are nominated by a dedicated committee from • EYG’s annual financial reports and budgets outside of EY and bring the global organization, and the GAC, the • GAC recommendations significant benefit of their varied perspectives and views. The • Any other proposal that supports the global objectives partners, who otherwise do not hold senior management roles, are elected by their peers for a three — year term, with provisions for It also has the power to mediate and adjudicate disputes between one successive re-appointment. member firms. The GAC advises EYG on policies, strategies and the public interest GE Committees aspects of their decision-making. The approval of the GAC is required for a number of significant matters that could affect EY. Chaired by members of the GE and bringing together representatives from the four Areas, the GE Committees are Global Executive responsible for making recommendations to the GE. There are committees for Global Markets and Investments, Talent, Risk The Global Executive (GE) brings together EY’s leadership Management, Assurance, Advisory, Tax and Transaction Advisory functions, services and geographies. It is chaired by the Chairman Services. and Chief Executive Officer of EYG; the Global Managing Partners of Client Service and Business Enablement; the Area Managing Global Practice Group Partners; the global functional leaders for Talent, Risk Management and Finance and Corporate Development; and the This group brings together the members of the GE, GE Committees leaders of the global service lines — Assurance, Advisory, Tax and and Regional leaders. The Global Practice Group seeks to promote Transaction Advisory Services, as well as the global leader for common understanding across member firms of EY’s strategic Public Policy. The GE also includes the Chair of the Global Accounts objectives and consistency of execution across the organization. EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 33 EYG member firms of law. This commitment to integrity and doing the right thing is underpinned by EY’s Global Code of Conduct and EY’s values. Under the regulations of EYG, member firms commit themselves to pursue EY’s objectives, such as the provision of high-quality Besides adopting the regulations of EYG, member firms enter into service, worldwide. To that end, the member firms undertake to several other agreements covering aspects of their membership in implement the global strategies and plans and to maintain the the EY organization such as the right and obligation to use the EY minimum scope of service capability. They are required to comply name and the sharing of knowledge. with common standards, methodologies and policies, including those regarding audit methodology, quality and risk management, Member firms are subject to reviews that evaluate their adherence independence, knowledge sharing, human resources and to EYG requirements and policies governing issues such as technology. independence, quality and risk management, audit methodology and human resources. As necessary, special focus reviews are performed Above all, EYG member firms commit themselves to conducting to address situations or concerns as they arise. Member firms unable their professional practices in accordance with applicable to meet the quality commitments and other EYG membership professional and ethical standards, and all applicable requirements requirements are subject to separation from the EY organization. EY Ukraine organizational structure EY Ukraine is part of the EMEIA Area, which comprises EYG entity for the EYG member firms in the EMEIA Area. EMEIA Limited member firms in 99 countries in Europe, Middle East, India and facilitates the coordination of these firms and cooperation between Africa. Within the EMEIA Area, there are 12 Regions. EY Ukraine is them, but it does not control them. EMEIA Limited is a member part of the CIS Region. EY (EMEIA) Limited (EMEIA Limited), an firm of EYG and has no financial operations and does not provide English company limited by guarantee, is the principal governance any professional services. Partners’ Board Managing Partner • People Board • Corporate Responsibility Committee Client Service, Service Lines Heads Core Business Services Marketing Transaction Finance & Business In-house Legal Assurance Advisory Tax & Law Development Advisory Human Information General Resources Technology Administration Audit Performance Transaction Corporate Tax improvement Support Fraud Investigation & IT & ITRisk Corporate Dispute Law Services Finance Services Financial Human Valuation & Accounting Risks Capital Business Services Modeling Cleantech Global and Sustainability Academy Real Estate Сompliance & Services of Business Advisory Reporting International Tax Services 34 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 GRI INDEX. Required general standard disclosures General Standard GRI Description Reference/Direct answer Omissions External Disclosures code assurance Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Letter from EY Ukraine managing partner, page 1 not assured Analysis of the organization Organizational G4-3 Name of the organization Cover page not assured Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services About EY, page 6 not assured G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters At a glance, EY Ukraine, page 2 not assured G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates About EY, page 6; At a glance, EY Ukraine, page 2 not assured G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form About EY, page 2 not assured G4-8 Markets served Applying an industry focus, page 11 not assured G4-9 Scale of the organization About EY, page 6; At a glance, EY Ukraine, page 2 not assured G4-10 Number of employees About EY, page 6 not assured G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective People, page 19 not assured bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Supply chain and procurement, page 15 not assured G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period no significant changes during reporting period; not assured regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, all employees from Donetsk office were relocated or its supply chain to Kyiv or other cities during summer-fall 2014 G4-14 Precautionary approach Demonstrating environmental stewardship, page 30 not assured G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and Demonstrating environmental stewardship, not assured social charters, principles, or other initiatives page 30 G4-16 Memberships of associations Contributing to the public discourse, page 16 not assured Identified Material G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated All data in the report refer to not assured Aspects and financial statements or equivalent documents Ernst and Young LLC and Ernts and Young Boundaries Audit Services legal entities G4-18 Process for defining the report content and boundaries «Determining report content not assured and materiality, page 3» G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining Determining report content and materiality, not assured report content pages 3-5 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization Determining report content and materiality, not assured pages 3-5 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization Determining report content and materiality, not assured pages 3-5 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided Reporting cycle has changed from annual to not assured in previous reports, and the reasons for such biannual; most data in the report are calculated restatements. for 2 years, if not stated otherwise G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in no significant changes not assured the scope and aspect boundaries Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholders and mechanisms of engagement, not assured Engagement page 5 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholders and mechanisms of engagement, not assured with whom to engage page 5 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement Organization’s approach to stakeholder not assured engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Determining report content and materiality, not assured stakeholder engagement page 4 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period About this report, page 3 not assured G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About this report, page 3 not assured G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report, page 3 not assured G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 37 not assured or its contents G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI Index, pages 35-37 not assured G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to About this report, page 4 not assured seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including How EY is organised, pages 33, 34 not assured committees of the highest governance body Ethics G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of Code of Conduct, page 13; EY values, page 19 not assured and Integrity behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 35 Required specific standard disclosures (DMA and indicators) Material Management approach Indicator Reference/Direct answer Omissions and, External topics if applicalbe, reason assurance for omission EY Ukraine’s economic performance is of significant value to our stakeholders, and ourselves because it directly impacts the financial position of our stakeholders, in particular suppliers, government, community engagement, and our people and partners. We are guided by Vision 2020 plan that includes our purpose, ambition, strategy and positioning. There are annual financial and non-financial performance drivers/ KPIs and items Indicator is disclosed Economic that influence the economic contribution such as quality, a flexible partially. Information not EC1 Performance, page 6 performance switch between audit and advisory services, client relationships, is deemed as assured and client satisfaction. A key driver with respect to our client confidnetial. centric market approach is our commitment to delivering exceptional client service. Our actual performance is monitored on a weekly and monthly basis against the plan, prior-year data and KPIs. If needed, corrective action is taken immediately. ASQ allows our stakeholders to tell us what was worked well and what needs to be improved. Attracting and retaining talents is crucial for EY business. EY At a glance, page 2; not Ukraine allocates lot of resources to deal with people matters: LA1 People, pages 19, 22 assured Human Resources department, People Board, counsellors and counselling champions. Open and honest communication starts during the recruiting phase and continues in the form of ongoing Providing competitive not feedback as well as annual performance reviews and goal setting. LA2 compensation and assured Each employee has a dedicated counselor whom they can also turn benefits, page 23 to if they wish to voice any concerns. The People Board serves to ensure that employee issues receive adequate attention at not LA3 People, page 22 top management level. Professional and personal development assured and education is of significant value to EY Ukraine and our Labour stakeholders, especially (potential) employees, because it directly not adds to the quality and innovation levels of our service provision, LA9 People, page 20 practices assured satisfying the ambition levels of our people and enhancing their career perspectives. Based on the EY Global People Strategy, an EY Global Learning & Development (L&D) strategy has been not LA11 People, page 19 developed. The average number of hours spent on L&D was 55 per assured Client Service staff in FY14. We are aware and proud that many employees use EY and its educational opportunities as a good no data for minorities; not start in their careers, we do not see the departure of as negative LA12 People, pages 19, 21 no minorities identified assured but rather as expanding our network. Occupational health, safety and comfort at work are being supported by number of programs, among them life and medical insurance, Health days in the office, Celebrating and supporting not LA13 sport events, programs for parents, flexible working arrangements. diverse talent, page 21 assured Independence, integrity & ethics and anti-corruption are of significant value to EY and its stakeholders, because they show how Client acceptance and not EY is able to remain professionally objective and independent in SO3 service delivery, pages 14 assured delivering services to our clients and thus to (business) society as a whole. Each individual carries personal responsibility for preventing and reporting any corrupt behavior. The general counsel advises Antion risk management issues and is responsible for operational Compliance with applicable not corruption execution. The Anti-bribery Policy identifies our obligation to SO4 legal requirements, assured practices comply with anti-bribery laws, providing more detailed definition pages 13, 14 of what bribery is and identifying reporting responsibilities with respect to bribery of or by our people, as well as in the event of discovering bribery at our clients. Through a mandatory web Compliance with applicable not based training that was launched in May 2014 all employees were SO5 legal requirements, page assured updated on how to recognize, prevent and resist bribery. 14 Protection of client information is of significant value to ourselves and our stakeholders, mainly clients, because the nature of our services allows us to obtain insight into business sensitive Assessing service quality, not PR5 information, which is also stored in our files. This may include page 16 assured information about strategic organizational aspects providing competitive advantage to our clients. Our professionals are bound to confidentiality on the basis of professional regulations, as Customer well as by law. Guidance about how to deal with confidentiality satisfaction, is provided in several internal and external sources: professional customer regulations, applicable law, EY’s Global Code of Conduct and not PR8 Data privacy, page 14, 15 data EY’s Global Insider Trading Policy, while the Global Personal Data assured privecy Privacy Policy and our Document Retention Policy deal with the use, protection, and preservation of data, respectively. EY has established a Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) Program to comply with European data protection law, specifically regarding transfers Compliance with applicable of personal data between EY member firms. When confidentiality not PR9 legal requirements, page topics arise, EY’s in-house legal department is involved and takes assured 14 appropriate action if necessary. 36 | EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 EY specific KPIs material EY Specific KPI Reference/Direct answer EY3: EY support of entrepreneurship Supporting entrepreneurship, page 28 EY4: sustainability in our EY services Demonstrating environmental stewardship, pages 30-31 EY8: Governance practices How EY is organised, page 32 United Nations Global Compact. The 10 principles The 10 principles Our Commitment Referneces in the report if any Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and We comit ourselves to support and respect internationally proclaimed p. 15, 27 respect the protection of internationally human rights. We extend our commitment to our suppliers through our proclaimed human rights; and Supplier Code of Conduct. There are no indications that our supply chain contains major risks in the area of human rights. Principle 2: make sure that they are not There were no incidents of violations of human rights in the reporting period complicit in human rights abuses. within EY Ukraine and its supply chain. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the We comit ourselves to uphold freedom of association and recognition of p.19 freedom of association and the effective the right to collective bargaining. 100% of EY Ukraine employees signed recognition of the right to collective collective bargaining agreement and are provided options to voice out any bargaining; idea or complaint in an open or anonymous way. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of The Company does not use forced or compulsory labor. forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child The Company does not use child labor. labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination There were no incidents of discrimination in respect of employment and p.21 in respect of employment and occupation. occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a We comit ourselves to support a pecautionary approach to environmental p. 30 precautionary approach to environmental challenges. challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. p. 30 greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development We do encourage development of environmentally friendly technologies. p. 30 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Anti-corruption is of significant value within EY. 100% of EY Ukraine p. 13, 14 corruption in all its forms, including extortion employees have undergone anti-corruption training(s) in the reporting and bribery. period. Contacts Your questions and feedback about this report can be addressed to Natalia Telenkova CR manager, Head of EY Ukraine CR committee +38 044 4903000 +38 067 5077370 Natalia.Telenkova@ua.ey.com EY Ukraine sustainability report. 2013 2014 | 37 EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY works together with companies across the CIS and assists them in realizing their business goals. 4,800 professionals work at 21 CIS offices (in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Novosibirsk, Ekaterinburg, Kazan, Krasnodar, Rostov-on-Don, Togliatti, Vladivostok, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Almaty, Astana, Atyrau, Bishkek, Baku, Kyiv, Donetsk, Tashkent, Tbilisi, Yerevan, and Minsk). EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2015 Ernst & Young All Rights Reserved.
