Sustainability Report 14/15 For people in motion Welcome We believe that our sustainability work is the road to success, and with this report we hope to showcase our strengths and tell you how we are working to deal with our weaknesses. It focuses on our impact on the environment, climate, social -11.2 per cent issues and the economy. “We” in this report means OKQ8 in Sweden and Q8 in Denmark, which merged in August 2012. We share the same In 2014 we reduced our total aims and values and have the same management, but we energy consumption by 11.2 work under different brand names in Denmark and Sweden. Until now we have issued separate reports, but this year we per cent compared with the have merged them into one. previous year. This is also the first time that we are reporting according to GRI G4. GRI stands for the Global Reporting Initiative and is quite simply an international standard for sustainability reporting. G4 is the latest version and means we can focus more on the things that are actually important to us as a company. To identify the most important aspects we carried out a materiality analysis in dialogue with our stakeholders, which you can read more about on page 25. If you would like more information or have any questions please feel free to contact Malin Eklund, Head of Communications & CSR. Our project to reduce food waste in Denmark bore fruit – 24 tonnes Contents of Danish pastries were converted into rum truffles in 2014. Welcome 2 CEO’s comments 4 Sustainability goals 5 Our vision of a service station 6 Sustainability in motion 8 Our range of products and services 9 A meeting place and a resource 10 The fuels we offer, and why 12 Assessing and choosing fuels 13 Traceability 14 Energy consumption and carbon emissions 16 Lower impact fuels 17 The range of fuels on offer differs slightly Spills and leaks 18 Fuel Denmark Sweden Station network, transport and storage 19 Petrol • • Driven by our employees 20 Diesel • • between our Swedish and Danish markets. Training is the route to success 21 E85 • Anti-discrimination and equality 22 Electricity • Safe with us 23 Ethanol for low admixture • Our business and our customers 24 Read more about which fuels are available at Autogas • Dialogue with stakeholders and materiality analysis 25 HVO • Customer satisfaction and customer service 26 HVO for low admixture • • There for everyone 27 our service stations and why on page 12. RME • Organisation and ownership 28 RME for low admixture • • Finance and governance 29 Hydrogen • GRI index / Global Compact reference table 30 2 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Tesla charging points at OKQ8 As part of our investment in renewable fuels, in 2014 we began a partnership with Tesla – one of the world’s leading producers of electric cars. Initially, charging points will be available at selected service stations in Sweden. The aim is to expand the initiative in both countries. 121 421 We are proud of our initiatives to reduce social exclusion among young people. In Total pre-tax profit for OKQ8 Denmark 42 young people took part in and Q8 for the 2014/15 “End Youth Unemployment Now”, and in financial year was SEK 421 Sweden 79 interns gained work experience million. within various parts of our business as part of our “Young people on the way” scheme. HVO and RME 11,666 cups of coffee were handed out to GoMore car share customers in 2014. Two renewable fuels are HVO and RME, which stand for hydrotreated vegetable oil and This report covers the requirements in sections 99 a and b of the Danish rapeseed methyl ester. Both Annual Accounts Act. Extracts from the financial statements are given on can be mixed into diesel to page 29 of this report. The full annual report for the 2014/15 financial year reduce climate impact. can be found at okq8.se and q8.dk from late May 2015. Sustainability Report 2014/15 3 CEO’s comments Welcome back results of the dialogue we have conducted with our stakeholders. Our stakeholders tell us what our most important sustainability issues are – see more on page 25. We have We believe in mobility and the driving force of being in motion. Our also switched to reporting in accordance sustainability work is all about enabling movement with the minimum with GRI G4 and are carrying out our first Communication on Progress in line with the negative impact on people and the environment, and being a valued wishes of the UN Global Compact. neighbour that contributes to social development. Our aim is to build Financially, too, things are going well. Our sustainable infrastructure and to become more climate-friendly, without total profit for 2014 was SEK 421 million compromising our financial sustainability. before tax. I am pleased that we are delivering financial results that allow us to continue Our driving force is motion and driving social We are a value-driven company. Our values – to focus on our customers, the service development forward. Our industry is facing Open & Honest, Execution, Customer Focus and stations of the future, new fuels and business major challenges and changes. We are Expertise – guide us in how we deal with both development. seeing growing interest in new vehicles and day-to-day operations and unexpected events. I hope and believe that our hard work to bring new ways to travel. It is a development that We place particular emphasis on being open and about a healthy, sustainable company is paying we welcome and want to be part of. honest. I hope it is evident in this report that we off. Our membership of the UN Global Compact Our greatest climate impact is from the try to report on both the ups and the downs. has provided a clear basis for this work. We are fuels. Reducing our own impact and that I am proud of the way the company proud to be part of the Global Compact and of our customers is a challenge that we engages with the community. Among other consider it only natural to work according to its are pleased to take on; we are aiming high things, we are working to break down social ten principles on the environment, human rights, and hope to be a very involved player that exclusion among young people by helping labour and anti-corruption. leads the industry towards a sustainable them into the labour market in various ways. Naturally, there is always room for future. Rigorous environmental, ethical and This is important work – you can read more improvement. However, I am convinced that financial requirements are at the heart of about it on page 21. we are on the right path and I am looking what we are doing. Over the past year we After nearly three years as a Scandinavian forward to continuing on this journey in the have made sure that sustainability issues company we are more than convinced that company of our capable employees and our are incorporated into our management the merger is a success. We are constantly customers. through the appointment of a new director finding new synergies, particularly within who focuses on precisely these matters. This our sustainability work. This report is itself a means that we can deepen our commitment result of successful work on integration. The Steffen Pedersen to sustainability throughout the company. content of this year’s report is based on the CEO, OK-Q8 AB OG Q8 DANMARK A/S 4 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Sustainability goals Working towards sustainability is our ultimate aim and our greatest challenge. Consequently, we have to be very demanding of ourselves and everyone we work with. Many people find it difficult to see how a must comply with. We have a zero tolerance fuel company can be sustainable, since we policy as regards all forms of forced labour, operate in an industry in which oil and other child labour and any kind of discrimination natural fossil resources are still of great against job seekers, employees and customers. importance. We, however, are convinced All our employees in Denmark and Sweden that the opportunities to do something are covered by applicable legislation on the good outweigh the negative aspects. With work environment and we have strong trade great challenges come great opportunities union organisations in each country, as well to make a difference. To us sustainability is as an active works council in Denmark. There The ten principles of the about more than just the environment; it is are also two employee representatives on UN Global Compact: also about human rights and taking social the Board of Directors, who ensure that our Human rights responsibility. Our goal is to be there for employees’ interests are safeguarded. people on the move in a more sustainable We work actively to reduce our emissions § 1. Businesses should support world. of greenhouse gases, mainly by providing and respect the protection of information on and helping to develop fuels internationally proclaimed human Our ambitions and goals for sustainability with less impact on climate change and the rights; and work are that we will: environment. We are also working to optimise § 2. make sure that they are not – support the development of renewable energy use at our service stations and to complicit in human rights abuses. fuels increase the share of sustainable products in Labour – increase the share of alternative fuels in our range: everything from lubricating oil to § 3. Businesses should uphold the our product range and encourage our car wash programmes and coffee. We want freedom of association and the customers to choose them to guide our customers to good choices – ask effective recognition of the right – reduce carbon emissions from our own us if you are unsure! to collective bargaining; operations We have not yet set an overall Scandinavian § 4. the elimination of all forms of – help to reduce social exclusion target for reducing our climate impact, forced and compulsory labour; – work for a safe and secure workplace, free but there are targets for individual areas. § 5. the effective abolition of child from accidents We are working to find indicators that the labour; and departments can use as tools in this work. § 6. the elimination of The way we work on this may vary, but it is discrimination in respect of based on a shared commitment and we are UN Global Compact employment and occupation. working to ensure that everyone understands We remain proud to be a part of the UN the value of our sustainability work. Global Compact, which comprises ten Environment principles relating to human rights, labour, § 7. Businesses should support How will we achieve these goals? the environment and anti-corruption. These a precautionary approach to To help achieve the goals we have a Code principles give us guidance as to which environmental challenges; » of Conduct that everyone who works for us sustainability issues we need to work on. § 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and § 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally To us, sustainability is about more than friendly technologies. just the environment; it is also about Anti-corruption human rights and taking social responsibility § 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sustainability Report 2014/15 5 The serviceservicestation station Fremtidens of the future Our vision of a service station Our vision is a strong and vibrant station pleasant lounges for those who want to stay network in which each service station is a bit longer. Our fresh, modern food concept economically viable and fills an important Quick To Go can be found at 108 stations in » role in its location. The important thing for Denmark and 32 in Sweden – where we are us is to be there for people on the move, planning a further 50 during 2015. regardless of how they are getting about. While working to understand our customers’ daily lives and to meet existing demand, we Our vision is a strong and are also trying to reduce the environmental impact of our operations. When we build vibrant station network a new station or make alterations to an existing one, it is of huge importance that the We want our stations to be the obvious buildings are clean, pleasant and inviting, as place to stop off at when travelling – whether well as being energy efficient. to replenish your own energy supplies with From start to finish, it takes roughly two to a freshly brewed cup of coffee and a crisp seven years to establish a new service station. salad, to fill up a vehicle or to put air in the This means that we are constantly looking to tyres. We are therefore investing in a station the future and the stations we are planning concept that focuses largely on high reliability today must be able to remain in place for 30 and user-friendliness at our pumps as well as to 40 years. 6 Sustainability Report 2014/15 It’s in our being this was started back in 2009. LED bulbs save » A lot of the things that make a big difference large amounts of electricity because they are at our service stations are things you don’t extremely energy efficient while still providing see. Our owners demand that our business decent lighting. As a customer you may not always notice these measures, but we want you to know Many of our stations have both visible that the stations being built today are modern and invisible solutions that help make buildings constructed with consideration and care for both nature and our customers. Since our stations more sustainable. 2012 we have been building according to our manual for new sustainable stations, which operates at the forefront of safety and sushas so far resulted in five state-of-the-art tainability work, and this permeates the entire service stations in Sweden. Energy efficiency company. Many of our stations have both and choice of materials are important to visible and invisible solutions that help make us both in Sweden and in Denmark, and we our stations more sustainable. cherry-pick the best from the two countries so Our most modern stations have both solar that we can continue to develop. panels and sedum roofs, and their frames are built of glulam beams that are less energyBeyond the service station intensive to produce than steel girders. Our Danish customers may also have noticed Our stations have what are known as spill our involvement in the Danish Road Safety zones that drain to oil separators. Council. This collaboration aims to lower speed, Our first sustainable service station, the which among other things reduces braking Green Building certified OKQ8 Häggvik, set distances and results in fewer accidents. a new standard for our stations and all new The Road Safety Council project has now stations built since then must maintain the been completed and in 2015 we will instead same high standard. In Denmark a similar concentrate on our project to reduce food project was carried out a few years ago, waste and our collaboration with Solvatten – focusing on energy efficiency. When we make read more on pages 8 and 9. alterations we upgrade the technology and Naturally, all our stations have committed use what we have learnt from our newest employees who are happy to help. A number stations. Another advantage is that we can of our employees are also helping out with our benefit from the projects we have carried social initiatives “End Youth Unemployment Deposits on bottles and cans out in each country and transfer know-how. Now” and “Young people on the way” by acting for Vi-skogen One project currently in progress is switching as mentors to the participating young people. Our service stations in both countries lighting to LED bulbs in Sweden. In Denmark You can read more about this on page 21. have collecting points for bottles and cans on which a deposit is paid. In Sweden all the money collected from these deposits is donated to Vi-skogen, which helps us to offset some of our greenhouse gas emissions. Collections are relatively small at present, but we hope to improve this. In 2014 we collected nearly SEK 400,000 from deposits, which corresponds to around 20,000 trees. Sustainability Report 2014/15 7 The serviceservicestation station Fremtidens of the future OKQ8 has produced an index for sustainable motoring in Sweden. Read more about it at okq8.se Reducing footprint Whichever means of travel you choose, we want to help make your journey more sustainable. Our service stations make a real contribution to reducing the footprint left by travellers. For example, if you wash your car here rather than on the street or on your drive we make sure that all the dirty water is collected and treated so that heavy metals and other pollutants do not run off into groundwater or into surface water drains. Often we can also offer environmentally sound car washing products and give advice on alternative fuels that reduce emissions. Food waste project Quite often, people visiting us are looking for something to eat. We have a wide range of both hot and cold food that is quick, fresh and delicious. One problem that we have noticed is that it is difficult to estimate consumption and some food looks less appealing after an hour or two in the shop. So in 2014 the Food Waste Project started in Sustainability in Denmark, which is about making better use of the foods we have. As everyone knows, buns and pastries are motion at their best when freshly baked – but that does not mean they have gone off by the end of the day. In Denmark, as part of the Food Waste Project we converted 24 tonnes The car has long been a symbol of freedom and there are many of Danish pastries that had not been sold before losing their freshly baked appeal into indications that it will continue to be important to mobile people. We » rum truffles. therefore sell fuels that today’s cars run on, but we also focus a great deal Sound a bit odd? It’s not – they are still on other means of travel and new fuels. good to eat and completely safe; they have just been made into new Cars are increasing in number, but they are delicious products. The getting ever more fuel efficient – which In Denmark we converted Bakery category makes means fewer stops to refuel. Nonetheless, 24 tonnes of unsold Danish up roughly half of our we believe that we have much to contribute, food sales, so there is a both today and in 20 years’ time. The pastries into rum truffles in order significant environmental important thing is not how people travel, to reduce food waste. gain to be made here. but that they are able to do so. We can help What’s more, our surveys make the journey more sustainable. show that customers find We have equipped some of our service can offer the service demanded by customers the quality of the newly made products to stations with cycle storage facilities. This is both today and tomorrow. Whether you are be very good. We are currently implementing a project that we are hoping to be able to getting about by car, bike, skateboard or the Quick To Go food concept in Sweden and develop. We are also putting a great deal of pram, it makes no difference – you are always the plan is to take up the issue of food waste effort into being one step ahead, so that we welcome at our stations. there too. 8 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Our range of products and services We work to achieve a broad product range with a great focus on sustainable products. We » want to increase the number of products and food that have little impact on climate and the environment and that are made under decent conditions. Our range includes many products with Solvatten is a Swedish various labels to help customers make good invention that is as We want to increase the choices. These include Fairtrade, EU organic, simple as it is brilliant. number of products and KRAV, Ø-mærket, Fuldkornsmærket and the Dirty water is poured “Swan” – the Nordic ecolabel. Where oil into a special can that foods that have little impact on products are concerned, we require these is then placed out in the climate and the environment. to be of consistently high quality and to sun. Using the power be environmentally compatible as far as of the sun and various possible. All suppliers must comply with our filters inside the can, the water is purified H N CAR ERE Code of Conduct. We aim to increase the until it is clean enough to drink. One CL EA share of sustainable products in our product Solvatten can can purify up to 33 range overall, and this applies not just to litres of water a day, for at least TEN ® fuels but also to food and other products. seven years. Our collaboration with S O LV AT Solvatten now spans Scandinavia DA AN Service Assistance and continues to expand, from simply 4L IT RE UG N SO RI As well as food, newspapers and motoring donating money to Solvatten during F CLEA N W ATE products, we can of course help with all kinds a limited campaign period to becoming of problems with your car. On the first Thursday part of our car wash offering – all year of each month our staff are outside at all our round. For each car wash, you as a customer manned service stations to assist with a variety donate four litres of clean drinking water to of servicing and maintenance. We call it Service Uganda. Together we can help those who Assistance and it includes helping with matters need it most. such as changing wiper blades, checking type pressures and topping up oil. A well looked after car has less impact on the environment and will keep going for longer. Hire cars For those who do not have their own car but need to travel or transport something, we also offer rental cars in Sweden. When you hire a car from us you can be sure that it will be of a high environmental standard. Emissions from our cars do not exceed 120 grams CO2 per kilometre. We offer carbon offsetting for all rental cars. Visit www.okq8.se to find your nearest service station offering car rental. Car wash water provides clean water with Solvatten If you wash your car with us you not only get a shiny car, but also help provide more clean water for vulnerable families in Uganda. Sustainability Report 2014/15 9 The service station of the future A meeting place and a Andréa Haag is Scandinavian Head of Engineering & Network and is responsible for the “Service Station of the Future” project. Her job includes finding the best locations for the service stations and making sure that smart investments are made that contribute to sustainable stations, where we offer the services and products demanded by customers – both today and tomorrow. 10 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Mårten Lilja » Vice President/Head of Residential Division Riksbyggen Can filling stations be built next to housing in order to satisfy people’s need Our service stations are more to travel, even in increasingly densely populated cities? than just pit stops – they – It’s difficult to put a traditional petrol are meeting places for people in station close to residential buildings. As a developer of sustainable and motion. attractive residential environments, we at Riksbyggen see the ideas and thoughts concerning shifting the focus from today’s petrol station to the service station of the future as very positive. Such a service station – offering a wide range of services for various sustainable What is the “Service Station of the Future”? means of travel – would naturally find a It is an approach to finding a template for place in the modern city. All the better if various station types in and around major it is architecturally appealing as well. cities – that’s why internally it’s also known as the City Project. It’s about identifying and researching hopes, difficulties, potentials and ideas of what the stations might look like and how they might function. The approach started in Stockholm, where the need was greatest, but applies to all our major cities in Scandinavia. Both Stockholm and Copenhagen are examples of rapidly growing cities. There is increasing demand not only for housing, but also for service The eco city: A service station in a densely best use of the land and/or find a good way outlets for the people who live there. At populated area where we focus on a smaller of working with others. We are also looking present, filling stations are often seen as “not but well-adapted product range and a at what our strengths are in Denmark and desirable” in densely populated places, but greater level of service for city dwellers on Sweden respectively, so that we can build the need to be able to get around and to get the go. The space is limited and there is less on these. Copenhagen is a cycling city, and good services close to your home is not going demand for certain fuels, but people still we have two cycle maintenance facilities to reduce – rather the opposite. Through this need a place to fix their bikes and to get help here and in the surrounding area. We are project we want to show that it is possible with lubricating pram and buggy wheels. now testing this out at some Swedish service to build safe and attractive stations even in The shopping centre: This is a larger station stations. This is typical of the kind of thing that densely populated areas, and that they can next to public transport. All our fuels and I believe will be important at our city centre actually contribute to wellbeing in the area. washing concepts should be available. service stations. It is important to account for The traffic portal: These stations are fairly everything, from customer demand to political What kind of stations have you come traffic-oriented because they are situated and architectural perspectives, and we are up with? at transport hubs for cars, buses, trains and working hard on this. We describe three types of station that cover bikes. Here commuters might need a light our demands and visions pretty well. snack to eat on the go, might want to collect What will the service stations look their parcels or ready-packed groceries on like visually? resource their way home, or just have a nice break on We have brought in three architectural route. Perhaps we should also offer bike hire practices to come up with proposals. and replacement tyres. The important thing is that the stations are adapted to their location and that What happens now – what’s the next step? they match our profile and appeal to our Many of these locations are of course highly customers. It all has to be connected. Our sought after, not only by competitors but also service stations are more than just pit stops – by other players within services or housing. they are meeting places for people in motion, Competition is tough these days, so we have and people need to see and feel that. to show that our business represents the Sustainability Report 2014/15 11 Our fuels In 2014 it was agreed that we would supply LNG (liquid natural gas) to the Samsø Ferry – the first The fuels we offer, domestic ferry to run on LNG. and why When we choose fuels for our pumps, it all comes down to product quality, sustainability and demand. Politics, legislation and social trends also play a part, of course. Most cars in Scandinavia today run on petrol everyone who drives on alternative fuels such or diesel, even if there is a trend towards more Fuels sold % as electricity, E85, RME, HVO or hydrogen. It is renewables. We want to help people move Denmark 2013 2014 a case of striking a balance between always about. That means we have to adapt to the Diesel 60.4 61.8 offering as much fossil fuel as is needed to means of travel chosen by our customers. You Petrol 24.8 24.5 keep customers’ vehicles going, and at the could say that the customer chooses which Fuel oil and other oils 9.6 8.6 same time giving renewables a helping hand fuel to use when choosing a car. HVO (admixture) 2.2 2.2 in order to move development on and enable Making free movement possible for our RME (admixture) 1.7 1.6 us to aspire to being a sustainable company. customers means supplying the fuels that Ethanol (admixture) 1.3 1.2 our customers need. The fact that we do not Less RME in Diesel Bio+ LPG <0.1 <0.1 ourselves extract oil or own any refineries In autumn 2014 the media drew attention is a strength. It means we can sell the Sweden 2013 2014 to the fact that certain vehicle models of products that the market demands and take Diesel 42.1 43.6 various makes were having problems with part in testing new, more sustainable fuels. Petrol 42.0 39.6 fuel filters clogging, and biodiesel was stated We can also actively work for sustainable Fuel oil 5.7 5.0 as the cause. Bil Sweden picked out OKQ8’s development by switching to selling more HVO (low admixture) 4.2 4.7 diesel, RME, and a lack of additives was given renewables when customers demand this. RME (low admixture) 1.9 2.4 as the cause. Despite the fact that OKQ8’s Naturally, we are already investing heavily diesel complies with Swedish and European E85 1.9 2.2 in our renewables range. In Denmark we are standards, the admixture of RME was reduced Ethanol (low admixture) 2.1 2.0 meeting our required quota by mixing five from seven to five per cent as a precaution. RME <0.1 0.4 per cent bioethanol into the petrol and seven This is not an isolated problem – it has been HVO <0.1 <0.1 per cent renewable fuel into the diesel, at reported in many parts of Europe with diesel Autogas * * energy level. Under an EU directive, 10 per from different suppliers. OKQ8 is working with cent of the energy in the transport sector is * In Sweden we have also sold autogas (around 11,000,000 Nm3), LNG and biogas. At certain stations we have also others in the industry to overcome the problem. to be renewable by 2020 – a target that we supplied electricity for charging and in Denmark we have supplied hydrogen. OKQ8 also works continually on developing the already achieved in Sweden in 2014. products and will restore the environmental We want to be an obvious choice for performance of Diesel Bio+. 12 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Assessing and » choosing fuels We assess the products The criteria for our fuels vary, but they all have in based partly on emissions common the fact that we are trying to achieve products of greenhouse gases and of the highest quality with the minimum possible impact on people, society and the environment. production conditions. When assessing the products we look at their technical properties, and among the things we judge them on are emissions of greenhouse gases and production conditions. Both environmental and climate aspects are important, as are safety and efficiency. The suppliers must comply with our Code of Conduct, in which we set sustainability requirements and The EU’s renewable energy directive request that they take social and environmental responsibility and work for sustainable fuels to combat corruption and the formation of cartels. We will work to have as little environmental impact as possible, The Swedish Energy Agency has produced as soon as possible. This includes being involved in leading the a number of criteria for sustainable development of renewable fuels. We have got further in Sweden at biofuels based on an EU directive: present, but we are looking at how we can take this issue, and our • Greenhouse gas emissions shall be know-how, to Denmark. In both countries we sell petrol and diesel reduced by at least 35 per cent by 2016, because the market demands it, but as the vehicle fleet changes with gradually higher requirements up we are focusing on environmentally sound and climate-saving to 2020 alternatives. We want to be involved in developing fuels by taking • The felling of primary forest is part in tests and being a good partner in the development projects prohibited that we participate in. • Raw material shall not be grown on Our policy “Safe, Healthy and Sustainable” states that we will focus natural or non-natural highly biodiverse on those aspects that have the greatest effect. For this reason, we grassland prioritise carbon dioxide emissions when choosing which fuels to • Raw material shall not be grown on develop and put resources into. wetlands and peatland • Raw material shall not be grown on land with high carbon stock Sustainability Report 2014/15 13 OurVåra fuels drivmedel Refining 3 Transport 2 Trading on commodity exchanges 1 This is where we come in into the picture. We are distributors of oil and biofuel products and have no production of our own. Extraction 6 Distribution 7 Depot storage 5 Sales Traceability biofuel of 5.75 per cent of the total volume of fuel sold. This quota is mainly achieved by low admixtures of ethanol added to petrol and FAME in diesel. A small proportion of HVO is also used by one of our suppliers to Working on traceability throughout the supply chain, from raw material meet the quota. This HVO is made of palm to finished product, is a difficult but important task. The important oil certified according to the International Sustainability and Carbon Certification thing for us is to be able to impose requirements on and conduct a System (ISCC)* and the Round Table on dialogue on sustainability in the supply chain. The aim is to agree on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). In Sweden and methods and rules concerning how the products are to be produced. for our own direct imports into Denmark we have chosen to buy only HVO that is not We do not yet have full traceability for all raw product the raw materials are mixed and of made from palm oil. materials used in the fuel. However, we are various origins. We buy petrol and diesel from For biofuels there is a well-developed working hard to improve this through followrefineries close to home and the renewable regulatory system and many conditions up and by imposing requirements on our alternatives from producers in Europe. have to be met in order for the end product suppliers. We buy in finished products, never In the case of fossil fuels we report origin in to be classified as biofuel. In 2014 all our the raw materials, which means that we have accordance with the requirements laid down volumes of biofuel were verified sustainable no direct contact with the producers of the in the Fuel Act and the Fuel Quality Directive. in accordance with a European Commission raw materials. This contains a requirement that by 2020 approved voluntary certification system, or We try to set similar requirements for both we must supply fuel with at least six per cent were approved as sustainable by the Swedish fossil fuels and renewables. Where our fossil lower greenhouse gas emissions compared Energy Agency. To verify sustainability at fuels are concerned, we are less able to check to the base year of 2010. According to every stage we carry out assessments of the their origin and set requirements than we are provisional calculations by the Swedish systems used by the suppliers. These cover for biofuels, which are governed by an EU Energy Agency, in 2013 OKQ8 supplied fuel everything from environmental aspects regulation. We would like to see clearer legal that had 7.2 per cent lower greenhouse gas of cultivation to social conditions. We thus requirements on the producers to report the emissions than the set base year; in other impose requirements on the whole of their origin of the raw material. We know which words, we have already achieved this target. operations, including those parts that do not country the oil comes from, but in the end In Denmark there is a mandatory quota for directly affect us and the products we buy. *Environmental, social and traceability certification which qualifies biomass for legal recognition under the targets set by the European Renewable Energy Directive 2009/28/EC (EU RED). 14 Sustainability Report 2014/15 » Increased traceability is essential if we are to be able to supply truly sustainable fuels. We check and audit our suppliers’ certification and management systems, Those growing the raw materials must have systems and protection for biodiversity. The requirement for biofuels is that they must result in at least 35 per cent reduced emissions of greenhouse gases compared with fossil fuels. Our control system is approved by the Swedish Energy Agency and can carry out site visits to check up. and we regularly report the total volume However, we cannot carry out unannounced supplied, origin and emissions. The emissions inspections because their premises are often reduction in Sweden in 2014 averaged 55 per protected locations. The challenge lies in cent for ethanol, 88 per cent for HVO and 38 4 checking the subcontractors that we do not per cent for RME. In Denmark the emissions currently have direct contact with. We carry reduction in 2014 averaged 40–60 per cent out a risk assessment of all suppliers when for FAME, 58 per cent for HVO and 55 per we start working with them, after which we cent for ethanol. draw up an audit plan. All our suppliers of Since we do not own any refineries of our biofuel are certified according to one of the own, we join the chain relatively late. This European Commission’s voluntary systems, makes our work to check our suppliers’ work which also means that they are third-party substantial and important. We believe that checked. For the coming financial year we increased traceability is essential if we are to intend to develop and improve our risk and be able to deliver truly sustainable fuels and supplier assessment, and to follow up and therefore we attach great importance to this. audit at least all our suppliers of fossil fuels. In addition to the fuels, we like to choose products for our range that have been Our biofuels are: checked by a third party, such as Fairtrade or • RME, which is made from rapeseed the Swan eco-label. However, the main focus • ethanol, which is made from wheat, maize of our work on traceability and control of or sugar beet supply chains is on the fuels. • HVO, which is made from vegetable oils More information on the countries of and animal fats origin of raw materials for our fuels can be Cultivation 1 • biogas, which is made from residual found in the Sustainable Motoring folder at products OKQ8.se Transport Transport 4 3 Production 2 5 Depot storage We come into the picture here in certain cases. 8 7 Sales Growing biomass absorbs 6 carbon dioxide Distribution Sustainability Report 2014/15 15 Energy consumption Emissions CO2 (tonnes) Total CO2 emissions 8,616,740 (8,808,840) MWh Related to our customers’ Our fuels 197,757 fuel choices (Scope 3) 175,694 Fuels 8,564,460 2012/14 2014/15 Related to our operations Energy consumption in our own operations in Denmark and Sweden. Consumption includes offices, service stations, depots, fuels and According to GHG protocol energy consumption in distribution. Activity tonnes tonnes per scope Scope 1 4,974 Total 52,280 Scope 2 33,668 Scope 3 13,638 Scope 1 765 Stations and IDS 31,924 Scope 2 31,159 Scope 1 1.474 Distribution 14,511 Scope 3 13,037 Energy consumption Scope 1 1,307 Lubricant production 2,265 Scope 2 958 Scope 1 1,168 Business travel 1,769 Scope 3 601 and carbon Scope 1 237 Depots incl. VOC 1,440 Scope 2 1,203 Scope 1 23 Offices 371 Scope 2 348 emissions Last year’s total emissions amounted to 45,398 tonnes. The bulk of the increase relates to higher emission factors for the electricity we consumed at our service stations, depots and offices in Sweden. There is no getting away from the fact that our operations have an We want to continually improve our environmental impact, which is why we want to make active efforts to reduce business and we carry out regular checks our environmental footprint. Our fuels account for more than 99 per cent of our throughout the organisation. For example, this might take the form of Climate Walks in total climate impact, while the remainder is associated with our own operations. Denmark or self-assessments in Sweden. In both cases the aim is to review the various The fuel industry has a great responsibility, Reduced emissions from other operations parts of the business and find out what is but also great opportunities. Sustainability Obviously we need to work on reducing not working that well so that we can come is important to us and we want to reduce emissions from our own operations too. Our total up with suggested improvements. One both our own environmental impact and that energy consumption reduced in 2014 by just important measure is the installation of of our customers. That’s why we’re working over 22,000 MWh, which is 11.2 per cent. The energy monitoring systems at a further to reduce energy use in all parts of our own reduction is due to measures such as installing 400 or so stations, providing significant operations and to improve our fuels. LED lighting, which is very energy efficient, at opportunity for comparisons and more our service stations. Despite this, our carbon energy savings. Some of the emissions are Reduced emissions from fuels emissions increased because of new emission from journeys between offices, which we To really reduce our emissions we need to factors. This means that some of our electricity are reducing by greater use of telephone work on our fuels. One major challenge for consumption is estimated to produce greater and video conferencing. Another significant us is to influence our customers’ choice of carbon emissions than in previous years. element is the transportation of the fuels. To fuels. To reduce emissions we are working We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, an ensure competitive distribution, we decided to mix in a low admixture of renewable raw international reporting standard, to measure to move our remaining transportation to materials and to offer sustainable alternative and report our carbon emissions. This year external contractors in Sweden too. The fuels. Diesel BioMax, which has been tested the focus was on producing figures for the contractors must meet our requirements in Sweden over a two-year period, is a fuel whole of our Scandinavian operations and on regarding minimising driving distances and made of 100 per cent HVO that has proved reformulating the existing Swedish and Danish fuel consumption. Through careful route capable of reducing emissions by up to 90 targets into realistic but challenging goals that optimisation and cooperation with other per cent. You can read more about it on the are shared throughout our business. 2014 will depots we can reduce emissions. next page. be the base year for the measurements. 16 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Lower impact fuels We believe that a sustainable society is possible, and necessary. That’s why we are putting the most resources and energy into our renewable fuels. The market for renewable fuels is one of the Diesel BioMax – progress report » things that differs most between Denmark In 2012 OKQ8 launched Diesel Bio+, a diesel and Sweden. Various renewable fuels are containing up to 25 percent renewable raw offered at OKQ8’s stations in Sweden. We try materials. The next step was to test a new to adapt to satisfy as synthetic renewable diesel that goes by We are investing heavily in many different needs the name of Diesel BioMax, together with as possible. In Denmark, Volvo, DHL Freight and Renova. This is a renewable fuels that work in on the other hand, the 100 per cent synthetic diesel, HVO, which petrol and diesel engines. political situation, taxes is made from hydrogenated vegetable oils and legislation make and animal fats and can be used in ordinary it more difficult to offer a greater variety diesel engines. Tests have been under way for of biofuels. Here we work on admixtures of two years and were concluded in December renewables based on the current legislation 2014. The results show that Diesel BioMax on mandatory quotas and we are reviewing has extremely good technical properties and opportunities to introduce renewable and can reduce carbon emissions by up to 90 per alternative fuels such as hydrogen and electric cent. Following the tests, Renova decided charging posts. We also make sure that the to expand the use of Diesel BioMax to a staff are very knowledgeable about how to greater part of its fleet. In other words, this reduce energy consumption. A car that is sold has been a hugely successful project that today will be on the road for many years to we hope to be able to develop during the come. Since most cars today are still powered year in the market for heavy vehicles. We by petrol or diesel, we are investing heavily have also introduced Diesel BioZ for heavy in renewable fuels that work with petrol and vehicles. This product is an admixture of diesel engines. This way we make it easier for HVO in regular diesel but does not contain customers to switch to a more sustainable fuel RME. It suits customers who need a product without have to change their car. with a long storage life and a slightly better technical margin. OKQ8 + Tesla = true Tesla is a leading manufacturer of electric cars, supplying futuristic high-tech vehicles. As part of our investment in renewable fuels, in 2014 we began a partnership with Tesla in which charging points known as Superchargers are installed at a number of our service stations. Tesla drivers can use them to rapid-charge their cars. Initially these are at selected service stations in Sweden, but we are continually reviewing strategic locations to which we can expand this collaboration. At more and more stations around Sweden, and hopefully soon in Denmark, we are also installing our own charging posts for all kinds of electric cars. Sustainability Report 2014/15 17 Our fuels 175 litres Spills and leaks Every spill or leak is different, but we have clear routines for preventing mistakes. If something happens nonetheless, we make sure that we learn from what went wrong so as to avoid similar situations in the future. Prevention and remedial measures Spills In autumn 2014 we unfortunately We have safety rules at service stations Every delivery, loading and unloading of suffered a major leak at our IDS facility and depots that must be complied with by fuel involves a risk. We work continually in Padborg, Denmark. The leakage everyone who handles the fuels, and these to minimise the number of spills through rate was not high, but as the leak rules also apply to our transport contractors. preventive measures. In 2014 we had more went on for a lengthy period it spread If these are followed to the letter, the risk than 380,000 deliveries in the two countries considerably and an area of around of leaks reduces considerably and any leak and five significant spills were reported 2,800 m² was contaminated. We can be discovered quickly. We measure the in connection with these, with a total of measure the pressure in our tanks and pressure in tanks and pipelines in order to 175 litres leaking into the environment. pipelines, but in Padborg the leak was discover any leaks. If a leak is discovered, We distinguish between spills into the not found until it had penetrated into all the pumps are stopped and all activity environment and spills onto surfaces where the ground. Unfortunately, our wellon site ceases in order to minimise the they are collected, such as the pump developed volume control system was effects. Stopping the leak is the priority, and forecourt at the service stations. not sensitive enough to discover this to discover the size of the leak we bring in All spills are recorded in our incident very slow leak. We are now surveying experts to survey its extent. One of the most reporting system. Significant spills are defined the situation very carefully and carrying difficult aspects of a leak is understanding as discharge to the environment requiring out a thorough clean-up which may the consequences and how they may affect clean-up, such as mechanical excavation, take a number of years. the area in the short and long term. pumping and/or chemical treatment. The structure that gave way in Padborg also exists at other facilities in Next steps DripStop Denmark and we have carried out extra Depending on where a leak takes place, the To reduce the risk of small spills while checks on these. None exhibited any possibilities and the level of clean-up needed refuelling vehicles at the service stations we damage. Nonetheless, we are changing varies. An assessment is also made of the have started installing what are known as the structure to ensure that this does background level in the area and what is due DripStop valves on our diesel pumps. This not happen again. We will also take to leakage from the facility. We are in close reduces the risk that drops left in the nozzle more frequent measurements on tanks dialogue with the authorities, and with them we will drip out when refuelling is complete. As and pipelines and reduce permitted produce a plan for the clean-up work. This might customers, people can also remember to tolerances. include bringing in pumps and sucking up the keep the nozzle in the tank for a few extra fluid through holes in the ground, for example. seconds to avoid spills and drips. 18 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Station network, transport and storage Cars made today are much more fuel-efficient than previously, so people do not need to stop to refuel so often. The challenge for us is to continue operating service stations in a way that ensures they remain economically viable. Station network Depots and transportation Our station network extends from southern After purchasing the fuels from our suppliers we Denmark to northern Sweden. We have store them in one of our ten depots in Sweden nearly 1,000 stations in total. Some are and Denmark. We also have access to a number automated stations, some are specially of depots through partnership agreements with » adapted for heavy vehicles and others other parties. All transportation to and from the have 24-hour shops and cycle maintenance depots is carefully planned to minimise driving facilities. In 2014 we closed a number distances and thereby reduce environmental of our IDS service impact. Drivers receive appropriate training in stations, which serve eco-driving, maximising safety and preventing We have nearly 1,000 heavy vehicles. Our spills at depots, stations and on customers’ stations in total in IDS network now has 30 and 35 stations premises. In Århus we have a completely new loading bay which was specifically designed Scandinavia.” respectively in Denmark with a high level of safety and a good work and Sweden. environment in mind. Sustainability Report 2014/15 19 Employees Affären Driven by our employees Our business could not function without our fantastic employees. That’s why it’s important for us to retain those we have and attract new talent. We believe that happy, motivated employees want to be. This is particularly important at Of our just over 3,500 employees are essential to a thriving company. Naturally, the service stations, because that is where (excluding franchises and associations), 100 we work to ensure that our employees are we come face to face with our customers. per cent of those in Sweden and 82 per cent happy and are not exposed to risks. We Having shared values and a feel for right of those in Denmark are covered by collective want everyone who works for us to feel and wrong within the company is even more agreements. The fact that it is not 100 per that they can develop and to feel secure in important now that we are a Scandinavian cent in Denmark is because station managers and proud of their work. To achieve this we company. New employees who join us are and office employees are able to negotiate have clear policies and goals for everything given a range of web-based courses on their own contracts when they are appointed. from sickness absence to discrimination everything from who we are as a company to We believe in cultivating talent within and equality, but we are convinced that the the environment and conflict management. the company and that the right person is greatest driving force is our values. Being Everyone who works for us is covered by our more important than having exactly the a value-driven company means that we all Code of Conduct. right expertise to start with. Throughout the show in word and deed what is right and organisation we have very committed people wrong, and we know in our hearts what we Security and development with an in-depth knowledge of our various should do. We may not have quite got there In both Denmark and Sweden we are in close operations. Another factor in our success yet, but we are working hard to achieve this. contact with trade unions and works councils. is that many of our employees are highly We want to be an attractive employer This is important, because we want all our committed to sustainability issues, even and attract skilled employees to our service employees to feel secure that their rights where this is not the primary qualification stations, depots and offices. The aim is that will be safeguarded and because it helps us that was demanded. This means that everyone who works for us will reflect our resolve any disputes. There are employee sustainability issues have an established values and the sustainable organisation we representatives on our Board of Directors. place in their daily work. 20 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Sofia Gustavsson former intern, “Young people on the way” How has “Young people on the way” helped you into the labour market? – It started with a proper job interview, which I learnt a lot from because it gave me a feel for what happens when you apply for a job. When I was an intern I had very good support the whole time, but I was also encouraged to take responsibility myself to a great extent. After my internship I got a job with OKQ8 Customer Service and in the summer I will be looking after and training summer staff. Training is the route to success Expertise is one of our core values, and we “End Youth Unemployment Now” and could not manage without skilled employees. “Young people on the way” We offer training and skills transfer at Youth unemployment is high in both Sweden all levels within the organisation so that and Denmark, leading to social exclusion. employees feel they are developing. It is We want to be part of building society and a way of getting both individuals and the we believe that we can make a difference organisation to grow. through initiatives to help young people into We believe that employees who see working life. We have therefore started two potential for development within the initiatives that we are particularly proud of: company are more likely to stay with “End Youth Unemployment Now” and “Young us. That results in stability and security, people on the way”. In Sweden we offer both for them and for the company, and internships with guidance to provide young makes a general contribution to society people with work experience and a foot in because the individuals become strong and the door to the labour market. In Denmark knowledgeable and build up their self-worth. we offer mentoring for young people as well » We want employment with us to make our as free access to boot camps where they employees attractive in the labour market, get to learn about the labour market and regardless of whether they stay with us or how to apply for jobs. choose to move on elsewhere. The primary aim is to We have specially designed training courses for all parts of our business and build increase young people’s self-confidence and We focus on giving all our expertise through involvement in various hopefully help to reduce employees relevant training. projects. In spring 2015 we launched a new youth unemployment. Scandinavian training tool, Performance in As we are widespread Motion. Both station and depot staff and geographically, from the south of Denmark senior management take part in training to the north of Sweden, we are able to to help us improve safety and customer support young people in very many different satisfaction as well as providing personal places. The initiative is successful and allows development. This may cover anything from us to create good relationships with young handling food and eco-driving to leadership people, and has also awakened curiosity and and anti-competitive activities. generated increased pride internally. Sustainability Report 2014/15 21 Achieving a 40/60 gender breakdown among our Danish Board of Directors was our goal – and we achieved it back in 2013! Employees Gender breakdown 2014/15 % 30 32 34 40 43 70 68 66 60 52 57 48 or s rd s er er s ers ee s Women oa re ct tb an ag ag an an ag oy pl Men Di en m of em rm rm n m re d io he io he ar ag en Ot at Ot Bo an rs St M he Ot In Denmark we have achieved gender balance in the Board of Directors as described in the Danish Financial Statements Act. The Danish Board of Directors is made up of two women and three men. We are working Anti-discrimination actively to achieve greater gender balance throughout the Group at other management levels; in 2014, for example, a greater gender balance was achieved among other senior managers. In 2014 our active work resulted in three women at senior management level, including Head of IT and Deputy Finance Director – two areas in which the applicants have often been male-dominated. and equality We want everyone to feel welcome and seen when they come to us. This applies both to employees and customers. It is incredibly important to us. We want to be an inclusive workplace and see it as a strength if women and men are we believe it is important to have a healthy represented equally at all levels of the comcorporate culture. That’s why we work pany. Today there is a relatively good gender actively on cultural issues throughout our balance throughout the organisation. We organisation. Openness and honesty must work hard to attract and recruit women with » permeate our organisation, and that includes the expertise we are looking for at managetreating each other with respect and not ment level. The current management team differentiating between people – for example on grounds of gender, skin colour or sexual orientation. We work to ensure that this is taken for granted among all our employees, We work hard to attract and recruit which is why all new employees must sign up women with the expertise we are to our Code of Conduct. Employees who feel they have suffered looking for to managerial positions. discrimination can turn to our HR department. We have a zero tolerance approach to discrimination. So far, however, we have is made up of three women and four men. had no incidents that could not be resolved We also work actively to survey pay in both through mediation. We try to be a company countries in order to bring to light any deficits that reflects society. The same opportuniand make sure that pay is always set based ties must be available to everyone, and we on expertise and levels of responsibility. 22 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Safe with us We work continually to prevent anyone Udviklingen af vores arbejdsmiljø suffering an accident at work. We regularly 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 monitor and review the work environment, Deaths 0 0 0 and carry out checks to find any safety risks. Industrial injuries involving absence 20 15 10 LWC*, own employees Industrial injuries involving absence per 200,000 hours Naturally we make sure that we maintain IDI* rate Industrial injuries involving absence our stations so that daily operations function LWC*, contractors 7 4 1 1 properly and our customers and employees LWC* Severity Rate** for own employees 3.4 9.3 2.5 feel safe. This includes, for example, making LWC* Severity Rate** for contractors 2.3 6.5 0.1 sure that our stations are well lit and that 0 there are no slippery surfaces. Robberies and attempted robberies 17 22 8 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 Nonetheless, our stations may suffer Safety walks 2,062 2,493 2,657 a robbery or accidents may happen. *A n Industrial Disabling Incident (IDI) is defined as an accident resulting in at least one day’s absence. Unfortunately it is impossible to foresee Incident reports/near misses 590 320 424 The IDI rate is calculated as the number of accidents involving absence per 200,000 working hours. everything that might happen, but we take Incidents/accidents, customers (e.g. 32 39 39 slipping, collisions, etc.) all incidents seriously and work continually to maximise safety. We have an incident *Lost Workcase Days **Number of days absence/number of hours worked x 200 reporting system in which all incidents are recorded so that we can produce statistics, our customers and employees. We have see trends and take preventive action. action plans and routines for different types Whether it is injuries, sickness or attempted of incident, and all our personnel have to be robberies, our first priority is the safety of familiar with these. 180 170 160 Sustainability Report 2014/15 23 Forretningen og kunden Our business and our customers » Our mission is to be an enabler for people in motion. People’s need to travel and move around is not diminishing, so we are there for anyone The formation of a Scandinavian organisation who wants to go somewhere. However they has brought many synergies, and we would dare choose to travel, we want to help make it as comfortable and sustainable as possible. claim that today we are bigger and better than ever. Meeting our customers’ needs and working to achieve a financially and environmentally dare claim that today we are bigger and sustainable business is important to us and better than ever. We are a company active in to our owners. We have to run our business two markets. The differences between them profitably and be on the lookout for changes mean we can learn a lot from each other, and that affect our industry. A lot of this work the similarities mean there are many synerinvolves analysing the world around us and gies. For example, we have gained a fresh new conducting dialogue with our stakeholders. food concept in Sweden and more really good The formation of a Scandinavian organisamotoring products in Denmark. Put simply, tion has brought many gains, and we would more of the good things. 24 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Dialogue with stakeholders and materiality analysis We try to always be in dialogue with Our main stakeholders engagement, the work environment and our stakeholders. Outside views and The following stakeholders have been safety, and our work on health and safety information are necessary and useful represented in both Sweden and Denmark: for our customers and employees. Our work owners, business customers, customers to prevent and minimise the risk of spills is if we are to meet the needs that exist from the public sector, suppliers, partners, limited by how much of our value chain we both now and in the future. Before environmental organisations and other can control; in other words, where we can preparing this report we conducted interest groups. The in-depth interviews implement measures to reduce the risk of a materiality analysis along with consisted of both open questions and a spills by us, those driving our tanker vehicles selected Swedish and Danish prioritisation exercise based on our list of and our customers. stakeholders in order to get their GRI aspects. With the move to G4, the GRI’s new revised To include the perspective of individual guidelines, we have chosen to focus our views as to what our most important private customers we also analysed the external sustainability communications on sustainability aspects are. industry and the world around us. We worked the areas that proved to be most relevant. the results of this analysis into the concluding These are also areas that we can see we Our materiality analysis began with an internal workshops in Sweden and Denmark. The could influence in some way, making a workshop based on the GRI’s overall list of analysis and our internal assessment resulted difference with our sustainability work. aspects, from which we extracted those GRI in the following priorities: See chart below. In addition to these areas, we naturally aspects that are relevant to our business. We The boundaries and how much we can work on ensuring that we comply with the supplemented this with our own aspects, which influence these material aspects vary. Our applicable legislation in all areas. At the same we call topics. customers’ climate impact from their choice time, we work on areas that we consider to be Starting from this list appropriate to our of fuel, and the supply chain for both fuels so-called hygiene factors, such as budgeting business, we produced a basis for our dialogue and other parts of our product range are resources and working to develop everyone with stakeholders. The external stakeholder outside our organisation. Aspects within our who works for us. analysis consisted of in-depth interviews with own organisation are economic performance, representatives of our main stakeholder groups. customer satisfaction, community These are our most material sustainability aspects. They therefore also form the core of our sustainability report. • Sustainability in the fuel supply chain See our GRI index on pages 30–31 • Origin labelling for fuels • Minimising the risk of spills Our stakeholders’ priorities • Climate impact – fuel mix • Influencing choice of fuel • Occupational health and safety • Customers’ health and safety • Healthy product range • Lobbying • Customer satisfaction • Anti-discrimination • Equality and diversity • Community engagement • Building new premises and alterations to existing • Monitoring the product range • Anti-corruption (environment and social requirements) • Anti-competitive behaviour • Economic performance • Wastewater • Our energy consumption • Our water consumption • Transportation (excl. CO2) • Road safety • Local sourcing • Customer privacy • Whistleblowing – system for dealing with non-compliance • Careers and staff development • Training of personnel Other GRI aspects judged to be not material or relevant OKQ8’s priorities (based on impact and significance) Sustainability Report 2014/15 25 Forretningen og kunden Customer satisfaction and custom Having satisfied customers is essential to running our business. We therefore work actively to earn trust and to adapt our services to customers’ needs. We survey customer satisfaction regularly we are getting it right with our products that you can contact with any questions or among various customer groups in order to and services. For example, we use mystery for help. Every day we receive thousands of measure how well we are living up to our shoppers at the service stations who act emails, phone calls and Facebook messages own and our customers’ expectations year as customers and assess how well we are that we try to answer as quickly and accurately by year. In 2014/15 we conducted our first succeeding in meeting various customer as possible. At Customer Service we measure Scandinavia-wide customer survey within the needs. In 2014 more than 2,000 visits were not only satisfaction but also accessibility, by B2B segment. The survey showed that our made by mystery shoppers. The results were monitoring waiting times. We try to be very main strengths are reliability of supply, high very good and show that we have further accessible – with short waiting times, a product quality and availability. The overall improved the level of service we offer. A high resolution rate and always a friendly average was 4.2 out of 5. This result shows major customer survey for the Scandinavian welcome. As part of our Customer that we are on the right track and that our station network is planned for summer 2015. Service we also give our customers tips customers appreciate our efforts. to make their lives easier, such as telling Our operations are broad and we address Customer Service them about our banking services or which many different customers, so we carry out a In addition to our service stations, we also fuels might work best in their vehicles, or how number of different surveys to ensure that have a large Customer Service department to reduce their environmental impact. 26 Sustainability Report 2014/15 There for everyone Our goal is for everyone to feel seen when they come to us. We try to present a personal, cheerful and helpful face. We want to be on hand, to make life easier and to be a friend on the road for everyone on the move. We do not always succeed, but our aim is with good offers, advantageous interest rates that everyone should feel welcome and that and one per cent cash-back on all purchases. we should be able to meet their needs so as The important thing is not how you are to make their journey as smooth as possible. getting about, but the fact that you can. Mobility and movement must be easy GoMore is a company that aims to make car and enjoyable. Sometimes you want to sharing easier. Our partnership with GoMore fix your car yourself, while other times it is means their customers get that little bit easier to come to us for help with anything extra on their travels. In Denmark we are from refuelling and changing wiper blades partnering with GoMore at all our service to washing your car. We have smart card stations, while in Sweden this is currently solutions that make refuelling easier, both being tested at selected service stations. for personal customers and for business When GoMore customers stop at our service customers. We also have a bank in Sweden, stations we give a free coffee to everyone in » and OKQ8 VISA aims to provide customers the car. In 2014 we gave out 11,666 cups. When GoMore customers stop at our service stations we give them free coffee. er service Matias Møl Dalsgaard CEO / Co-Founder GoMore Phishing What is GoMore and how does the Sometimes our attention is drawn to fake partnership between you and Q8/OKQ8 emails that appear to come from us. This is work? known as phishing and it is a known type of – GoMore is a platform for car sharing fraud aimed at getting personal details, codes and car rental between private and account numbers via the internet. Often individuals. We have around 300,000 members in Scandinavia. We think that the perpetrators send an email that appears Q8 and OKQ8 have good products, to come from a trusted source encouraging such as good coffee, and we want our the recipient to provide their details. We customers to get that little bit extra. never request personal or account details by When they stop at the service stations email. If you receive such an email, you can they get a free coffee, and the service station gets new customers – a clear be sure that it is not from us. We tell our win-win situation! Victim of phishing? customers not to click on any links. If Sweden: they have done so nonetheless and 020-65 65 65 +46 8 506 811 (abroad) given out their details, they can call us Denmark: 24 hours a day to block their card. 8020 8888 Sustainability Report 2014/15 27 Forretningen og kunden 5 Organisation and ownership OK-Q8 AB is owned 50 per cent each by OK ekonomisk förening (OK Economic Association) and Kuwait Petroleum International. OK-Q8 AB in turn owns Q8 Danmark, but we see ourselves as one company with a shared mission. Both our owners are highly committed to also dealt with by our Sustainability Committee, Managers from our divisions come together in sustainability matters, and this permeates which recommends our sustainability strategy, this team. the entire business. Our instructions from sustainability goals and sustainability activities, OK ekonomisk förening (OK Economic our owners are clear: we must work to be a after which the management decides on these. Association) is the largest of seven OK sustainable company not just environmentally, Our Sustainability, Social Responsibility associations in Sweden, with nearly a million but also economically and socially. This and Communications Director chairs the members. Kuwait Petroleum International can be seen in a number of our initiatives Committee. The heads of the following is based in the Netherlands and is owned by and particularly in the fact that we have functions are represented on the Committee: Kuwait Petroleum Corporation, which is in turn appointed a new director to focus specifically Communications, HR, Operations Direct owned by the Kuwaiti state. In 1999 a joint on sustainability matters. Her job is to make Market, Distribution, Marketing and venture was started between OK ekonomisk sure that we get even better at integrating Engineering. förening and Kuwait Petroleum International. sustainability into our business, so that they are Alongside the Committee, we have a team On 1 August 2012 OKQ8 in Sweden and Q8 in not two separate processes. that deals with matters with a particular Denmark together formed one of Scandinavia’s Environmental aspects and our impact are focus on health, safety and the environment. largest fuel companies. 28 Sustainability Report 2014/15 0/50 Financial value – generated and distributed SEK m Net sales, Group 37,238 Purchases of goods and services (suppliers) 22,197 Excise duties (state – society) 13,944 Salaries and other remuneration (employees) 695 Corporate tax (state) 44 Financial expenses (lenders) -21 Donations (society) 2 Profit (retained by the company) 377 In 2014/15 interest income exceeded our interest expenses. The financial result above represents profit for the year after tax and financial items. Donations to society is a rough combined total for our direct donations to not-for-profit organisations. It excludes resources in the form of working time dedicated to community engagement. The figures for the table above were taken from the Group’s financial results, which can be found in full in the annual report. Finance and governance Financial stability is part of being a sustainable company. Stable finances enable us to work long-term on our social and environmental responsibilities. Our overall profit for 2014/15 was SEK 421 million before tax. Despite strong sales during the year, with volumes largely maintained, profit for the year declined compared with OK-Q8 AB’s Board of Directors: the previous year. This is mainly due to the accounting effect of the substantial fall in Board members, price on the oil market. Nonetheless, we can OK ekonomisk förening look back on a positive year for the Group. Göran Lindblå Chairman Our sector is sensitive to economic Ines Uusmann fluctuations and political measures. Prices of Lennart Hjalmarson raw materials for our fuels are affected by many factors that are difficult for us to control. Board members, Political and religious unrest and natural Kuwait Petroleum International phenomena in the countries of origin are Anthony Saunders » just some of the factors. At home, the main Azzam Almutawa determining factor is how the fuels are taxed. Khaled AL-Mushileh Our Board of Directors produces a strategy, aims and Employee representatives Our sector is sensitive to guidelines, and makes sure Torbjörn Hage (Unionen) New representative to be that we have a functioning economic fluctuations and control system and that appointed shortly (Transport) political measures. we comply with legislation, agreements and ethical guidelines. Each Board meeting reviews what has happened in the company as regards health, safety and the environment. Sustainability Report 2014/15 29 GRI index This sustainability report is for the financial year from 1 March 2014 – 28 February 2015. It is the Group’s first joint sustainability report and integrates the reports published previously by OKQ8 in Sweden and Q8 in Denmark. The sustainability report has been prepared based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines, at “Core” level. The report has been reviewed by an external auditor to make sure that in conjunction with the Danish annual report it meets the requirements of CSR reporting in Danish legislation (Danish Financial Statements Act, sections 99 a and b). The report has not been subject to any other external review. In 2014 OK-Q8 AB including Q8 Danmark A/S and the other subsidiaries signed up to the UN Global Compact, and this report thus also acts as the Group’s first Communication on Progress. GRI generic indicators Page Indicator Description Comments reference G4.1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainable development 4 G4.3 Name of the organisation OK-Q8 AB and Q8 Danmark A/S. 30 G4.4 Primary brands, products and/or services IDS, OKQ8, Q8, Q8 Oils, F24, OKQ8 Minipris, OKQ8 Visa. 30 G4.5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Stockholm. 30 G4.6 Countries where the organisation operates Sweden and Denmark. 30 G4.7 Nature of ownership and legal form 28 G4.8 Markets served Sweden and Denmark. 30 G4.9 Scale of the organisation 20, 29 G4.10 Total workforce by employment contract, gender and region The workforce is not reported by employment contract and region. 22 G4.11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 20 G4.12 The organisation’s supply chain 14–15 G4.13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, 2 structure or ownership G4.14 Whether and how the precautionary principle is addressed The precautionary principle is incorporated into Swedish legislation in Miljöbalken, 30 the Swedish Environmental Code. In Denmark there are similar requirements in the Danish Environmental Protection Act. In the Group consideration is given to the precautionary principle when purchasing goods and materials. G4.15 Economic, environmental and social principles and standards to which the organisaUnited Nations Global Compact. 5 tion subscribes or which it endorses G4.16 Active memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and advocacy Svenska Petroleum och Biodrivmedel Institutet (Swedish Petroleum and Biofuels 30 organisations Institute), Klimatneutrala godstransporter på väg (On the Road to Climate Neutral Freight Transportation), Energiog olieforum (Danish Oil Industry Association), Danske olieberedskabslagre (Danish Central Stockholding Entity). G4.17 Any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements but not not covered by the report relevant G4.18 Process for defining the report content 25 G4.19 Material Aspects identified 25 G4.20 For each material Aspect, report whether the Aspect is material within the organi25 sation and for which entities G4.21 For each material Aspect, report whether the Aspect is material outside of the 25 organisation and if so, where G4.22 Any restatements of information provided in previous report(s) This is the first integrated report and hence many indicators have 2014/15 as the 30 base year. Other changes are commented on next to the indicator. G4.23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect This is our first integrated report and therefore it has only limited comparability with 30 Boundaries previous reports by OKQ8 in Sweden and Q8 in Denmark. G4.24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Customers – both personal customers and business customers, authorities, 25, 30 municipalities, government, suppliers, environmental organisations, consumer organisations, business organisations, trade unions, owners, lenders, neighbours of the service stations and employees. G4.25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders The groups that are impacted by and/or impact the company’s operations, such 25, 30 as members, customers, interest groups, authorities and suppliers, and that have a vested interest in contributing to the sustainability work of OKQ8 and Q8. G4.26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type Ongoing dialogue includes association meetings at which our owners/customers (the 25, 30 and by stakeholder group OK members) have great opportunities for dialogue. Dialogue is also conducted with, for example, neighbours and other stakeholders at our depots – here with particular focus on safety issues. Through our sales staff we have continual dialogue with our business customers. We take part in seminars and conferences at which many stakeholders (NGOs, customers, other sectors, authorities) are represented and where we then conduct a dialogue. G4.27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, See above and the description of our materiality analysis. 25, 30 and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns G4.28 Reporting period Financial year March 2014–February 2015. 30 G4.29 Date of most recent previous report May 2014 in Sweden and Denmark. 30 G4.30 Reporting cycle Annual. 30 G4.31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Malin Eklund, Head of Communications and CSR. 30 G4.32 GRI Content Index 30–31 G4.33 Policy with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 30 G4.34 Governance structure, including committees and board responsibilities for econo28–29 mic, environmental and social impacts G4.56 Values, principles and codes of conduct 5 30 Sustainability Report 2014/15 Produktion: Futerra Sustainability Communications GRI material aspects and indicators Page Aspect Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) Comments reference ECONOMIC Economic DMA 29 performance EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, opera29 ting costs, employee compensation ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions DMA 5, 16–17 EN 15 – Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 16 EN 16 – Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 16 EN 17 – Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 16 EN 19 – Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 12, 16 Reduce risk of spills DMA Reformulated Aspect. 18 EN 28 Significant spills 18 SOCIAL Occupational health DMA 5, 20–24 and safety LA 6 – Fatalities, occupational injuries, absenteeism Includes customer accidents. Injuries and absence are not reported by region or gender. 23 Customer health DMA Reformulated Aspect. 23 and safety Number of customer accidents Own indicator. 23 Customer satisfaction DMA 26 PR 5 – Customer satisfaction 26 OTHER Community DMA Self-formulated Aspect, known as a topic. 21 engagement Number of young people involved A key element of our community engagement is our work with “Young people on 3, 5, 21 the way” and “End Youth Unemployment Now”. We have therefore produced our own indicator for this work. Sustainable supply chain DMA Self-formulated Aspect, known as a topic. 8-9 – rest of product range No indicators. For this Aspect there are no indicators to report for 2014/15. – Fuel traceability. DMA Self-formulated Aspect, known as a topic. 14–15 – Healthy product range DMA Our materiality analysis resulted in this Aspect. We work on this in our product range – in various ways, but we are unable to report on our sustainability management in relation to this Aspect for 2014/15. No indicators For this aspect there are no indicators to report for 2014/15. – Boundaries for indicators reported and other key indicators are described in more detail at okq8.se and q8.dk. Global Compact reference table Page Principle reference HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 8–9, 14–15 human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 8–9, 14–15 LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 5, 20, 29 of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 8–9, 14–15 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 8–9, 14–15 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 22 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 5, 14–15, 30 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 5, 12–13 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5, 12–13 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and 5, 13 bribery. Sustainability Report 2014/15 31 Drive safely!
