GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 T-Mobile Czech Republic Statement of Continued Support by the Managing Director I am pleased to confirm that T-Mobile Czech Republic supports the ten fundamental principles of the United Nations Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. In our first Communication on Progress (COP), we describe the activities that we have carried out to integrate the Global Compact principles in our corporate strategy, culture and everyday work. We want to share this information regularly with our customers, employees, suppliers, and partners as well as with the general public. Yours faithfully, Milan Vašina Managing Director, T-Mobile Czech Republic a.s. CONTENTS General information about the company 4 Our company and the UN Global Compact 8 Human Rights 9 Company’s approach and objectives 10 How to achieve the objectives 11 Examples, results, outcomes 12 Labour 13 Company’s approach and objectives 14 How to achieve the objectives 15 Examples, results, outcomes 16 Environment 17 Company’s approach and objectives 18 How to achieve the objectives 19 Examples, results, outcomes 20 Anti-Corruption 21 Company’s approach and objectives 22 How to achieve the objectives 23 Examples, results, outcomes 24 Strategies and objectives for the coming years 25 Interesting projects, examples 27 3 GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY 4 WE LIVE AND T-Mobile Czech Republic has been operating in the Czech BREATHE OUR market since 1996, and has been a member of the international telecommunications group Deutsche Telekom since 2002. It has CUSTOMERS approximately 4,000 employees. It is the number-one operator in the Czech mobile market: nearly six million customers use its services. In the past two years, the company has undergone significant changes. After the acquisition of and merger with the sister company T-Systems Czech Republic in 2013, the “new” company was being aligned in terms of human resources and procedures. The following year saw yet another amalgamation project, this time with GTS Czech, which was purchased by the parent company Deutsche Telekom AG. The company thus became an integrated operator: in addition to mobile and fixed-line telecommunications services, it offers a broad portfolio of IT services and systems-integration solutions under the T-Systems brand for corporate customers and public administration bodies. The integration with T-Systems and GTS was a demanding task involving a number of extensive transformation activities, which the company completed successfully and used as an opportunity. It helped it to strengthen its competence and expand its portfolio of ICT solutions. The next step was to develop an integrated organisational structure, streamline the management structure and change the logo, which is in line with the international strategy of Deutsche Telekom. Since 1 January 2015, the existing T-Mobile and T-Systems brands have been replaced by a simple T. The GTS brand continues to be used in the corporate segment. 5 T-Mobile holds a number of certificates: ISO 9001 – Quality Management System, ISO 14001 – Environmental Management System, ISO 20000-1 – Service Management System, ISO 22301 – Business Continuity Management System, and ISO 27001 – Information Security Management System. The company’s activities are subject to annual independent audits that are performed by reputable companies. By obtaining and maintaining these international certificates, T-Mobile proves to its customers, suppliers, employees and public administration bodies that it has applied a consistent approach in these areas, which is aimed at continuously improving the company’s operation. 6 Grant programmes for non-profit organisations are part of the Mluvme spolu (“Let’s Talk to Each Other”) pillar. In 2014, T-Mobile distributed nearly CZK 3 million to support nine non-profit organisations. The common themes of the supported projects are the inclusion of different social groups TAKING A RESPONSIBLE and communities in the society, their mutual communication, APPROACH TOGETHER cooperation and integration. WITH OUR EMPLOYEES T-Mobile organises T-Mobile Rozjezdy (“Takeoffs of the Year”) project, a country-wide programme to support start-up businesses, which has already successfully completed five editions. A part of the Rozjeďme to (“Let’s Start it Up”) pillar, the Takeoffs of the Year project aims to small start-up businesses. This group of the population is at risk of unemployment and includes mainly parents with young children, recent graduates, the longSince its establishment, T-Mobile has placed emphasis on term unemployed, the disabled and elderly people. The support taking a responsible approach to business and society. The consists in free workshops and seminars to help start a business company has received, among other awards, Employer of the and the possibility of winning financial support and a package Year, Employer of the Decade, Company of the Year: Equal of services, which are awarded to the originators of the best Opportunities, and the Via Bona award for the involvement of business ideas. A total of 312 start-up projects registered in the employees in philanthropic and volunteer activities. In 2012, the fourth edition of Takeoffs of the Year, with prizes being distributed magazine World Finance named T-Mobile Czech Republic the among 59 participants. The workshops and seminars have been Best Wireless Telecoms Provider in Eastern Europe. In 2014, attended by more than 500 small business owners. T-Mobile was the founding member of the local UN Global Compact network in the Czech Republic and is a member of The Pomáhejme si (“Let’s Help Each Other”) pillar is intended the Association of Social Responsibility. Detailed information solely for the company’s employees and supports their regarding T-Mobile’s social responsibility activities can be found volunteering and charitable activities and responsibility. The at www.prosvetkolemnas.cz. traditional activities include the Den pro dobrý skutek (“One Day for People in Need”) programme, when employees can spend one Social responsibility is part of T-Mobile’s corporate strategy working day in a year volunteering in non-profit organisations, the and is based on six pillars. The fundamental Pro svět (“For the selection of the Volunteer of the Year and Pomáhejme příběhům World”) pillar covers in particular the areas of human rights, (“Supporting Stories”), an internal fundraising campaign. The labour conditions, anti-corruption efforts, the Supplier Code of second edition of this campaign was organised in 2014 to raise Conduct and environmental protection. funds for people in the vicinity of our employees, who are in difficult life situations. T-Mobile matched the amount donated by The Vymysleme to (“Let’s Think it Up”) programme focuses the employees by up to CZK 30,000 for each project. A total of on the use of T-Mobile’s know-how in information technologies CZK 831,400 was thus raised to support those in need. and the implementation of information technologies in CSR. In the past, the company participated in the introduction of Donor The first edition of the long-term educational programme SMS (DMS) in the Czech Republic and initiated the creation of entitled the T-Mobile Fund Academy was organised last year a special category – Application for a Better World – within the under the Rozvíjejme se (“Let’s Develop”) pillar. Finance is not Mobile Application of the Year contest. the only support provided to non-profit organisations; they can also receive free training. Six non-profit organisations took part T-Mobile has long supported the development of new in the programme within which they received free specialist applications and solutions that are socially useful, for example, consultations and coaching and their members could attend to help people who are disadvantaged in a certain respect, seminars free of charge for one year. Training was provided by cultivate our environment or change the world for the better in T-Mobile employees who were happy to share their knowledge any other manner. The company also developed the Snadněji and expertise with people from foundations and civic associations. pro seniory (“Making it Easier for Elderly People”) application In addition to the Academy, the company continued to organise and a donor application for the Dobrý anděl (“Good Angel”) regular workshops for the non-profit sector, which were focused, endowment fund, with which it has long been cooperating. for example, on PR and human resources. 7 OUR COMPANY AND THE UN GLOBAL T-Mobile is the first international corporation active in the Czech Republic to adopt the ten fundamental principles of the COMPACT UN Global Compact at a local level. The company is also the founding member of the local network of this global initiative in the Czech Republic. The parent company Deutsche Telekom has been its member for several years, therefore Czech T-Mobile also fully endorses the principles adopted within this platform. The support of the UN Global Compact and involvement in the establishment of the Czech network is a logical step and is fully in line with the company’s long-term social responsibility strategy. As a member of the local UN Global Compact network, the company wants to contribute towards raising the quality of corporate social responsibility and propagating international know-how. It aligns its mission as well as everyday operations with ten universally accepted principles of social responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption efforts. The company supports and respects internationally proclaimed human rights and makes sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. It recognises the right of employees’ association and collective bargaining. An important area on which the company focuses is the prevention of any discrimination in respect of employment. A key area of T-Mobile’s social responsibility is the preventive approach to environmental protection. The company promotes the adoption of a more responsible approach towards the environment and supports the development and propagation of environmentally friendly technologies. T-Mobile has made a considerable efforts in the area of the fight against corruption in all its forms, including bribery and extortion. One of the important milestones in this respect is the cooperation with Transparency International. Social responsibility also includes adhering to the compliance rules and the Code of Conduct. 8 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 9 COMPANY’S APPROACH AND OBJECTIVES Human rights due diligence also requires companies to communicate externally on how they implement their responsibility to respect human rights. Telekom annually publishes an overview of its activities in the Corporate Responsibility Report and the Human Resources Report. Awareness-raising on human rights and stakeholder engagement methods are undertaken As part of its responsibility as a member of the international in different forms within the Group, ranging from in-person Deutsche Telekom Group, T-Mobile is committed to respect meetings and webinars to break-out sessions at the Sustainable and protect human rights. The company implements and Procurement Dialog Day which was held in 2014. organises its activities relating to human rights in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Within its focus on equal treatment and prevention of discrimination, Rights (Guiding Principles). The Guiding Principles stipulate T-Mobile has been acting in line with the “Respect and integrity that companies should undertake ongoing human rights due guide our behaviour” principle. This requires in practice that all diligence to identify, prevent and mitigate human rights impacts employees act with respect, recognition and understanding in and take them into account in their operation. relation to others. The corporate responsibility to respect human rights is The company strives to create an environment of mutual tolerance integrated in the Group’s fundamental regulations and policies, and trust by respecting the individuality of others. It acts openly such as the Code of Conduct and, explicitly, in the Social and honestly and supports and cultivates individual and cultural Charter. In 2013, the Social Charter was revised to establish diversity – with respect to age, sex, religion, aptitude, ancestry or Points of Contact for Human Rights within the Group, among sexual orientation. The different cultures, languages and marital other changes. statuses of employees enhance this diversity. The observance of the Social Charter by the individual T-Mobile respects its customers, partners, suppliers, Telekom Group companies is analysed every year in the Social shareholders as well as society and does not tolerate any form Performance Report. of unlawful discrimination or harassment, whether within the company or in its business relations. The company always Information about human rights violations or related questions reviews its actions and behaviour and addresses any behaviour can be submitted via the Telekom Group whistle-blower system that is unethical, unlawful or at variance with internal regulations in different ways: to a central or local compliance unit, through and policies. e-mail or via a hotline, but also anonymously if the person reporting a violation or submitting a question so desires. The “Best place to perform and grow” is another principle applied by the company. To fulfil it, the company supports As part of the human rights due diligence framework, the equal opportunities and the diversity of human resources, Contact Point takes steps to understand the potential human while respecting cultural and legal differences. This approach rights risks linked to the Group’s operations, products and is in line with the Group’s policy and is also incorporated services and assesses actual impacts through a countryin the Code of Conduct and the Group Policy on Employee level approach. The Guiding Principles require companies to Relations. The company strives to raise employees’ awareness of integrate a human rights perspective into the relevant business unequal treatment and discrimination and, through a pro-active areas and internal processes. As an example of this, Telekom approach, support the determination of victims to report any integrated a human rights perspective into the due diligence unlawful conduct, without having to fear for their job position. activities of mergers and acquisitions. 10 HOW TO ACHIEVE THE OBJECTIVES Any form of discrimination is prohibited in employment relationships; in particular discrimination in connection with the right to employment, access to employment, employee working conditions, remuneration for work, provision of other financial contributions and cash value benefits, employee learning and training and career advancement opportunities. In view of this, all employees are obliged to act in such a way as to avoid any unequal treatment and discrimination. Discrimination, however, does not include actions where there is a relevant reason consisting in the nature of the work performed and where the respective requirements are adequate given the nature of the work, or where such actions are permitted by and/or set out in the legislation (e.g., the minimum experience required for certain work, specialist qualification requirements or procedures aimed at protecting women on the grounds of pregnancy and maternity, persons with disabilities or those under the age of 18 years). If an employee engages in unequal treatment or discrimination, such actions can be regarded as a violation of the employee’s duties arising from the laws and regulations relating to the work performed by the employee. 11 EXAMPLES, RESULTS, OUTCOMES The employees in the HR Business Partnering Department provide consultations to respond to questions that relate to potential violations of the equal treatment and non-discrimination rules. They also adopt any general measures which they at their discretion consider to be necessary and appropriate to ensure compliance with the equal treatment and non-discrimination rules. They are also obliged to ensure that any information received within an investigation based on a report of discriminatory actions is stored, kept and archived in accordance with the company’s applicable internal policies. Employee surveys show that employees follow the Code of Conduct and apply it in their everyday work. 12 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 13 diversity in management positions. In addition to an extension of the group of employees with high potential, T-Mobile expects COMPANY’S that greater diversity at the management level will contribute APPROACH AND towards increasing the company’s value from the long-term perspective. OBJECTIVES T-Mobile upholds the right of association and the right of collective bargaining. In 2008, the company signed a collective agreement with the Roztyly Trade Union Organisation. The collective agreement was concluded for five years and was later extended (and a new collective agreement was signed) based T-Mobile cares about its employees. It makes substantial on collective bargaining. efforts to create an appropriate working environment, support development and learning, and promote the work-life balance The collective agreement defines individual and collective of its employees, for example, by offering flexible work relationships between employees performing work for the arrangements and part-time jobs. employer on the basis of employment contracts, the trade union organisation and the employer. The company does not discriminate in any area. On the contrary, it supports diversity, as diversity – whether employee The collective agreement also determines the extent and rules competencies or individuality – increases the ability for for the provision of mutual information between the parties in technological innovation, and therefore success in business. the periods of the preparation and drafting of the collective Human resources, competence development policies and agreement, collective bargaining and the performance of the procedures applied within the company can help utilise the collective agreement. The parties to the collective agreement potential and experience of all individuals. This is emphasised declared their common will to: by the principle “Respect and integrity guide our behaviour“. Therefore the attitudes and ways of thinking which cross Maintain and develop the employer’s prosperity and national and cultural borders are of key importance. thus also satisfy the growing needs and interests of the employer’s employees; In consideration of these aspects, T-Mobile strives to create Constructively establish and maintain relationships based equal opportunities for all existing and prospective employees, on trust and cooperation between the employer and the regardless of their sex, origin, handicap, sexual orientation, employees and the trade union organisation, with an religion, trade union membership or political affiliation. Similarly, objective to encourage and boost employees’ confidence in it endeavours to develop a platform for faster development of the employer’s objectives; competences of previously disadvantaged persons. This is also Respect the principle of cooperation between the parties facilitated by human resources recruitment procedures that in the area of employment; create adequate supporting structures backed by good results. Reward employees at all levels for their contribution to the employer’s benefit; The rule of non-discrimination on the basis of sex is taken Support and uphold procedures that will not lead to the seriously. Deutsche Telekom was the first of the large non-observance or contesting of the parties’ rights and corporations with global presence to introduce quotas in 2010 entitlements. stipulating the minimum percentage of female managers, which are respected by the company: by the end of 2015, The trade union organisation is a member of the Trade Union women should have 30% representation in middle and senior of Employees in Postal, Telecommunications and Newspaper management. This rule applies globally, with the exception Services and the Czech-Moravian Confederation of Trade of the countries where it is not admissible pursuant to the Unions and has been using the expert capacities of these local legislation. In such cases, it is regarded as a declaratory entities to promote social dialogue. expression of an intention to gradually increase employee 14 HOW TO ACHIEVE THE Equal opportunities are an integral part of T-Mobile’s corporate culture. Being reflected in all of the company’s activities, they OBJECTIVES are incorporated in a number of documents and communicated at all levels through a broad range of activities. The company actively promotes diversity, which is based on three pillars:  ender: T-Mobile supports women and prepares various G development activities focused on boosting their confidence and using their strengths. It strives to eliminate gender stereotypes within a workshop focused on the differences T-Mobile strives to create a good working environment for its between men and women in their communication. employees, who can use flexible work arrangements, the most W-lab, a long-term development programme for women, is popular of them being the home office. Employees can also ask intended for female employees who bring something extra for part-time work or staggered hours. Where their job position to the company and are willing to work on their further permits, employees can also use the flexitime scheme following development. During the programme, they work on a project an agreement with their manager: they have to be at their assigned by management, participate in development workplace between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m., the decision on how activities, and use coaching/mentoring and internal they will schedule the remaining working hours is up to them. on-the-job development. The company promotes and offers tickets to various conferences intended for women (e.g. Beyond the statutory minimum, employees can take two days of TEDx Woman Prague and Všem ženám (“For All Women”)) paid leave in a year, one extra week of holiday and, based on an and invitations to workshops and networking events. agreement, unpaid leave or a sabbatical of up to six months.  ge: The cooperation with students and schools includes A Supporting employees’ health and increasing occupational the company’s membership of the Alliance for Youth, health care are also important issues. Above-standard health partnership with the Faculty of Business Administration care is available not only for the employees but also for their of Prague’s University of Economics, consultations on family members. The company regularly organises lectures and student essays and theses, lectures, and visits to the workshops regarding prevention and health care for employees, company’s premises. T-Mobile endeavours to launch its as well as single-event healthcare activities at the workplace. own development activities for students. When recruiting employees, we disregard the age of the candidate and do T-Mobile’s strategy also includes employees’ development and not discriminate. Colleagues over the age of 50 years are learning. Employees can take advantage of different important and the company appreciates their work. The development opportunities both at T-Mobile and within the only relevant criteria are qualification and experience, as is Deutsche Telekom Group. The T-Mobile University has been the case with other candidates. Upon celebrating a jubilee organising workshops, training, conferences, webinars and (50 and 60 years), the employees are invited to a lunch e-learning for the company’s employees for three years now with the company’s management, and can also use special and it has met with a positive response from them. Other care and HR consultations as well as attend workshops activities organised by the company include coaching, job dedicated to issues of current interest. shadowing and mentoring. The company also offers further management development to the managers. Every year, the  andicap: The company’s objective in this area is to ensure H company endeavours to come up with new themes and that employees do not have to constrain themselves for development activities. reasons of health. The company therefore strives to arrange, as far as possible, that employees feel better at work. 15 EXAMPLES, RESULTS, OUTCOMES T-Mobile regularly organizes employee surveys. The results Positive feedback for T-Mobile is its recognition in awards, achieved during several of such surveys, which relate to the such as the Equal Opportunities and Family Friendly activities described above, are given in the table below. They Company, where the expert public also appreciates the show the percentage of the employees whose answers to company’s approach to employees in this respect. the questions represented the two best evaluations from the evaluation scale: The Code of Conduct is a basis for me during my everyday work. 90% How do you feel at our company? 72% Would you recommend our company as a very good employer? 74% Our company offers adequate learning and development opportunities for my professional growth. 63% 16 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 17 COMPANY’S APPROACH AND OBJECTIVES T-Mobile’s approach to environmental protection is based on the fundamental document within EMS (ISO 14001) – Environmental Policy, which was approved by the top management and is available at www.t-mobile.cz. The areas of the company’s primary focus are based on important environmental aspects (EA), which were identified and are defined within the EMS that is in place at the company (the EA Register). These include power and material consumption, waste generation and emissions into the air. In relation to power consumption, T-Mobile focuses especially on its mobile network operation (GSM/LTE technologies, air conditioning – transmitters, nodes and exchanges), administrative buildings (lighting, ventilation and IT), T-Mobile shops (lighting and ventilation), and, to a lesser extent, power consumption for central heating and natural gas and propane-butane heating of administrative buildings and at T-Mobile shops. As regards material consumption, materials consumed within administrative and business activities include paper and toners and fuel for company cars. In relation to waste management, T-Mobile monitors mixed municipal waste, plastics, discarded electrical and electronic equipment, and batteries and, in relation to emissions into the air, emissions generated by the operation of company cars and alternative energy sources. 18 HOW TO ACHIEVE THE OBJECTIVES In accordance with the internal policy, the CSR Unit in Environmental programmes can be primarily designed as cooperation with the Technology Department defines purely environmental or as programmes where the economic environmental objectives, target values and programmes with or technological objective of the project or change also has respect to important EAs. an impact on the environment (e.g., these include in particular The programme objectives are: control and maintain, improve projects involving the GSM/LTE network technologies). and study or investigate. The second category includes, for example: The “control and maintain” objective is suitable for those  mart devices to control temperature on transmitters. S important environmental aspects which are subject to statutory Control units installed on 1,300 transmitters use the environmental requirements, as the company undertakes existing emergency ventilation and are cooled by means to observe them in its policy. The company is committed to of outdoor air circulation. They ensure smart control of air maintain compliance with the operational conditions stipulated conditioning and heating. At the same time, the temperature in the operating instructions. The target value is always set as in technology containers and rooms was increased from permanent. 23 to 30°C; Efficient power supply for the GSM network. Following the The “improve” objective is used for those important aspects modernisation of the GSM network, power consumption where an improvement can be reached, such as reduction of individual pieces of equipment and devices decreased, of emissions, waste, and waste water and consumption of as did the efficiency of power supply units because the resources, and which are not mandatory according to their capacity was not used as much as it had been before. environmental legislation. The target values are, if possible, By removing redundant rectifiers, capacity utilisation and measurable. efficiency of the sources again increased; State-of-the-art air conditioning at the headquarters in The “study or investigate” objective is applied to those important Prague’s Roztyly district. The air conditioning in technology aspects where an improvement is being considered but where rooms is more efficient, as it uses cool outdoor air circulation it is first necessary to do a feasibility study in order to identify to control the temperature; the necessary resources. If the necessary resources are found Green site at the headquarters in Prague’s Roztyly district. to be acceptable, the “study or investigate” objective is followed Green energy powers the outdoor and indoor GSM and by an objective to improve. A “study or investigate” objective 3G coverage. The experimental laboratory was set up to can be cancelled if the study reveals that changes leading study the possible use of renewable energy sources in the to an improvement are unacceptable for the company either T-Mobile network. financially, technologically or logistically. All the important EAs are monitored and measured. 19 EXAMPLES, RESULTS, 3. Introduction of electronic invoices OUTCOMES Aspect: Paper consumption Environmental protection programmes can be divided into Objective: Improve permanent and time limited. Target value: Postage saving, no value defined for paper saving 1. Installation of LED lighting in the company’s Description: The business case was not based on paper underground parking lots in Prague’s Roztyly district saving but on the introduction of a fee for and in Hradec Králové print invoices and on postage saving. Monitored by: CSR Aspect: Power consumption Implemented by: Several organisational units Objective: Improve Beginning: Implementation began in 2007 Target value: Reduction of power consumption; no – January 2008 value was set End: Underway Description: Installation of LED lighting in underground Costs: CZK 37,774,000 (the cost of the entire parking lots, as LED lights have lower project; electronic invoices were a part power consumption as compared with of that project); cost of the supporting the original fluorescent tubes. initiative in cooperation with UNICEF: Monitored by: Facility Service Unit production – CZK 100,000 + donation of Implemented by: Facility Service Unit CZK 223,023 to UNICEF. Beginning: December 2013 Benefit: At the end of May 2010, electronic End: Underway invoices were used by 178,971 customers, Costs: CZK 350,500 which translates into a saving of approx. Benefit: According to calculations, the investment 3 sheets of paper x 178,971 per month. should pay off in 1.62 years. On the For each saved sheet of paper, T-Mobile basis of actual measurements, the contributed CZK 1 to UNICEF to support calculated annual energy saving a programme within which drinking water is 55,450 kWh/CZK 137,700. CO2 was to be arranged for up to 880 families emissions will reduce by 27.75 tonnes. in need (10 litres of water are necessary to produce one A4 sheet of paper). 2. Car fleet optimisation Electronic invoice activations Status as at Number of active users T-Mobile is aware of the global impact of greenhouse gas January 2009 29,069 emissions. Therefore it carefully monitors CO2 emissions July 2009 53,955 generated by the operation of its car fleet. The company has July 2010 243,094 suceeded in reducing CO2 emissions in the air thanks to its car July 2011 463,099 fleet optimisation, purchase, maintenance and operation of July 2012 544,435 company cars. June 2015* 899,062 CO2 emissions (t) September 2015* 1,000,000 4000 Linear (CO2 emissions (t)) 3335 3124 2980 3191 3248 2871 * Note: In June 2015, a total of 11,951.9 kg of paper was used for print invoices 2677 as compared with January 2015 when paper consumption was 12,668.6 kg. 2000 2159 The objective to improve has been fulfilled continuously. One million e-mailed invoices will help save 468 full grown trees annually, which produce oxygen for 23,400 people. A total of 15,380 kg of paper is saved monthly. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 21 COMPANY’S APPROACH AND OBJECTIVES T-Mobile puts great emphasis on ensuring that all employees act in accordance with the rules of ethical conduct and observe all laws, regulations, standards and internal policies. It is committed to act in accordance with the rules of ethical conduct and observe local and international laws, regulations, norms, standards and internal policies (e.g., the TMCZ Code of Conduct, Civil Code, Criminal Code and FCPA). No unlawful or unethical conduct or violation of internal rules, such as corruption, bribery, embezzlement and insider trading, is tolerated at the company under any circumstances. The compliance management focuses on addressing:  iolation of the rules by employees in order to “obtain V a benefit” for the company, e.g., active corruption, violation of the competition rules and regulatory rules (as these are set by the Czech Telecommunications Office, CTO); Individual misuse of tangible and intangible assets for a person’s own benefit, e.g., theft, embezzlement, passive corruption and disclosure of a business secret; Violation of other laws and internal policies, e.g., ethical and moral principles, internal rules applicable to sponsoring, gifts and lobbying. T-Mobile observes all relevant regulations valid both in the Czech Republic and internationally and has put in place a robust programme to prevent corruption and fraud, which complies with the formal and procedural standards. The company is subject to regular internal and external audits and has been actively engaged in the area of ethical conduct and compliance. 22 HOW TO ACHIEVE THE OBJECTIVES The purpose of compliance within the Deutsche Telekom Group The responsibilities of the Compliance Unit fall within four basic is to achieve the highest degree of transparency, openness areas: and moral integrity, as well as to ensure that its employees act ethically, which is the foundation of the T-Spirit. Deutsche 1. Compliance strategy and reporting: Telekom currently focuses mainly on the compliance with the Devising and implementing strategies and procedures; anti-corruption rules, as risks associated with a breach of these Monitoring the compliance with the principles on a regular rules are high, and damage thus caused can be immeasurably basis; costly. Reporting to Deutsche Telekom. The company puts an emphasis on the responsibility of each 2. Information and prevention: employee and the Compliance Unit provides support in relation Training for employees; to the observance of the laws, regulations and ethical values in Consultations for employees (the Ask me! portal); our everyday work. All employees are obliged to observe the Preparing and implementing policies; compliance rules. Compliance-related activities are managed Approving agreements related to compliance. by the Compliance Team within the Legal and Compliance Department. 3. Detection: Detecting, investigating and evaluating cases; Receiving reports of actual or alleged violations of the compliance rules, laws and regulations (the Tell me! portal); Performing regular audits and checks as to the observance of the compliance principles at the company. 4. Reaction: Imposing sanctions, proposing and implementing remedial measures; Documenting and solving cases (case management). TMCZ Compliance System Compliance strategy Information and prevention Detection Reaction Policies and procedures ® Tell Me portal ® Ask Me portal ® Sanctions and remedial measures ® Detection, investigation ® Training ® Case management ® Regular audits and checks ® E-learning courses ® Monitoring & Reporting Communication 23 EXAMPLES, RESULTS, OUTCOMES Compliance rules at T-Mobile The Code of Conduct is a document that applies to all employees of the Deutsche Telekom Group. This tool facilitates The Anti-Corruption Policy defines the rules for preventing the achievement of the T-Spirit corporate values in everyday corruption and avoiding conflicts of interest, granting and operations and links these values with the standards set receiving benefits and invitations to/from third parties, out within the existing legislative and internal rules. It is sponsoring, and agreements with consultants. a requirement that the company imposes on itself, but it is also a commitment communicated externally. The purpose of the policy is to set the basic rules to ensure that employees’ actions are compliant with the laws and regulations The Compliance Unit organises training focused on the in force to combat bribery, corruption and similar misconduct. observance of the compliance rules for new employees as part of the induction days and for existing employees, as well as The policy aims to define the rules in accordance with the e-learning courses. Participation in training is monitored and international legislation and the rules applicable to the Deutsche results are archived for the purposes of audits. Telekom Group and to support the efforts to establish fair business practices in the Czech Republic. T-Mobile is subject to regular internal and external audits. According to the available information, T-Mobile was the first T-Mobile regularly evaluates the compliance with the policy company in the Czech Republic to successfully undergo an through the Annual Report on the Compliance with the external audit of its compliance management system (which Anti-Corruption Measures, which employees confirm. is a management system for monitoring the compliance with the laws and internal regulations focused on the fight against corruption and fraud). The goal of the audit, performed by an international “big four” audit firm, was to assess whether the company had the right processes which could sufficiently detect law-infringement risks and whether it had measures in place which would minimise risks in this area in the future. The original certification was performed in 2010; an audit to increase the certification level was carried out in 2013. The company has committed itself to clear and transparent business activities and strong resistance against corruption and fraud. The company has issued a Code of Conduct for all of its employees and set up firm rules with respect to, e.g., the conclusion of contracts, the provision of presents and benefits or invitations to social events. Special attention is paid to the monitoring of relationships with public officials. 24 STRATEGIES AND OBJECTIVES FOR THE COMING YEARS 25 In the coming years, T-Mobile will continue to implement its objectives set within its CSR strategy, particularly in the following areas: HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT The company will continue to support and respect T-Mobile will strive to be the leading telecommunications internationally proclaimed human rights and will strive to operator in the Czech Republic in terms of the improvement make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. of the quality of the environment by minimizing waste and Within its focus on equal treatment and non-discrimination, emissions, re-using and recycling, reducing the use of it will apply the principles “Respect and integrity guide our natural resources and supporting the efforts to prevent behaviour” and “Best place to perform and grow”. To fulfil pollution within the company. the latter, it will promote equal opportunities and diversity T-Mobile will continue to operate its facilities and carry out of human resources, while respecting cultural and legal its activities in accordance with the environmental laws and differences. regulations in force. The company strives to create an environment of mutual T-Mobile will regularly review the environmental aspects and tolerance and trust by respecting the individuality of others. set targets and programmes for the constant improvement of the environment in compliance with its sustainable development strategy. LABOUR The company’s employees will be appropriately trained to observe the environmental laws, regulations and procedures T-Mobile’s key objectives in the area of labour are to create in force at work, to be aware of the benefits of environmental an appropriate working environment, support development protection, and to accept personal responsibility for and learning, promote the work-life balance of its employees, environmental protection. non-discrimination and diversity. The company will cooperate with its customers in The company will endeavour to create equal opportunities determining and meeting their environmental needs and for all existing and prospective employees, regardless of targets in accordance with T-Mobile’s environmental policy. their sex, origin, handicap, sexual orientation, religion, trade union membership or political affiliation. ANTI-CORRUPTION T-Mobile is the leading company in terms of transparent and legal business activities in the Czech Republic, thus contributing to the cultivation of the country‘s business and social environments. The company will continue to observe its compliance management system and all its constituents to maintain its reputation in the eyes of its employees, customers as well as business partners. 26 INTERESTING PROJECTS, EXAMPLES 27 HYBRID SITE AT T-MOBILE’S HEADQUARTERS IN PRAGUE’S ROZTYLY DISTRICT I The purpose of the pilot project focused on the use of the latest environmentally friendly technologies to power the Deutsche Telekom mobile networks is to verify the possible use of alternative energy sources as well as energy saving. The project was designed and implemented in 2010 and the operation was evaluated in 2012. The project combines six energy sources: H2 –> 2H + e 2H + O + 2e – > H2O Primary source: solar and wind power sources installed on the roof of the building; Backup sources: hydrogen and methanol on the plot A polymer membrane fuel cell consists of two electrodes situated behind the building (their capacity depends on the with a thin layer of carbon being deposited on their surface; load, it was designed to be 96 hours); the carbon layer contains a small amount of platinum and Power grid if the PPS (photovoltaic power source) and WES serves as a catalyst. The electrodes are separated from each (wind energy source) do not generate enough power; other with a thin polymer membrane that allows positively Battery as a backup when switching between the different charged ions – protons – to pass through (in the case of catex energy sources (the start-up time of hydrogen cells is one membranes). Hydrogen is channelled to the anode where it is second); split on the catalyst layer into positively charged ions (protons) The installed capacities are 15.8 kW (PPS), 3 kW (WES), and electrons. Protons pass through the polymer layer, electrons 6 kW (hydrogen) and 5 kW (methanol) and the maximum are forced to travel along an external circuit and therefore can load is 8 kW (it is around 6 kW). do a useful job. On the cathode, two positively charged hydrogen ions (protons) combine with two electrons and an oxygen atom The source is used for 2G, 3G and LTE technologies within the to produce water (given the operating temperature of a fuel cell, building and in its vicinity. The total annual share of renewable water is usually in the form of steam). Pure oxygen, or more often energy sources in the total consumption is approx. 30% oxygen as part of the air, is channelled to the cathode side. (CZK 75,000 per year). The costs of producing 1 kW/h by the methanol source are The PPS consists of 72 panels, each at a 25° angle and having approx. three time higher than in the case of a diesel generator. a capacity of 220 W, i.e. 15.84 kW in total. The efficiency of the It is a mixture consisting of 64% methanol and water. Methanol WES is lower; it has a vertical axis of rotation and is thus not is first reacted to hydrogen and then used in the same manner dependent on the wind orientation. It has 3.3 meters in diameter as in the hydrogen source. and is 2 meters high. The wind turbine is equipped with a brake; if the PPS generates sufficient power, the WES does not work. Direct Methanol Fuel Cells (DMFC) work on the same basic principle as PEM membrane fuel cells that use compressed The costs of producing 1 kW/h by the hydrogen source are hydrogen as fuel: On the anode, methanol is split into hydrogen approx. three time higher than in the case of a diesel generator. cations that pass through the membrane, free electrons that Compressed (gaseous) hydrogen is stored in pressure vessels. travel through the external circuit, and carbon dioxide as a waste product. On the cathode, free electrons from the external circuit A fuel cell is a device that converts the chemical energy from combine with hydrogen cations, which passed through the a fuel, which is supplied continuously and contains an oxidising membrane, and with oxygen from the air to form water (see the agent, into electricity through an electrochemical reaction. picture illustrating how a methanol fuel cell works). 28 This type of fuel cell also produces CO2; therefore this is not T-MOBILE RECEIVED THE ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT a purely carbon-free technology at the location where it is used. CERTIFICATE FOR 2014 A study by a renowned Danish consulting company COWI of February 2012 revealed, however, that if we measure carbon T-Mobile has been recycling electrical and electronic equipment emissions along the way from the basic raw material to the (EEE) for several years. In 2014, the company returned device which consumes the energy produced (a so-called 12 televisions, 44 monitors and 12,523 kg of small electrical well-to-wheel analysis), methanol fuel cells produce less and electronic appliances. ASEKOL, a non-profit organisation emissions under comparable conditions than compressed arranging EEE waste return, awarded an Environmental Audit hydrogen fuel cells. This is due to the different industrial Certificate to T-Mobile for its contribution to EEE waste sorting methods for generating hydrogen and methanol: while hydrogen and return for the benefit of the environment. is now produced largely from fossil fuels, methanol can also be made using renewable energy sources such as biomass. The Environmental Audit Certificate is based on a Life Cycle Methanol is also much easier to store and distribute, which Assessment (LCA) study which assesses the system for the eliminates other handling and transportation processes that return of end-of-life CRT televisions, computer monitors and alone produce CO2 emissions. small electrical and electronic appliances. It evaluates their collection, transportation and processing up to the phase of final recycling of individual parts of discarded appliances and their use in new products. Impacts on the environment are quantified for each part. The study clearly showed that the return of EEE, including the smallest appliances, has a considerably positive impact on the environment. Last year, the recycling scheme helped T-Mobile save 311 MWh of electric power, 21,740 litres of crude oil, 1,202 m3 of water and 6 tonnes of primary sources. The company reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 58 tonnes of CO2-equivalents and the production of hazardous waste by 249 tonnes. Solar panels Control system Roztyly mobile network Wind turbine PRE grid Charging Hydrogen fuel cell Battery Methanol fuel cell 29 T-MOBILE ACTIVELY CONTRIBUTES TO CUTTING CORRUPTION IN THE CZECH REPUBLIC In 2014, on the occasion of the International Anti-Corruption Day, T-Mobile has observed the date of 9 December as the International T-Mobile was the first mobile operator in the Czech Republic to Anti-Corruption Day since 2003, when the UN General Assembly establish cooperation with Transparency International Czech adopted the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. This Republic, a non-governmental organisation whose objective day also became an official important day. is to monitor the state of corruption in the Czech Republic and actively contribute to its reduction. T-Mobile observes the International Anti-Corruption Day as do the other members of the Deutsche Telekom Group. The Transparency International Director David Ondráčka gave company is committed to act in accordance with the rules aimed a speech in the conference hall at T-Mobile’s headquarters in at preventing corruption. For this purpose, it has introduced the Prague’s Roztyly district on the current state of corruption in the applicable internal policies and performs regular checks and Czech Republic and the fight against it. Mr. Ondráčka’s speech audits of the entire compliance system. reinforced T-Mobile’s efforts in adopting measures to prevent corruption. Mr. Ondráčka stated that in the past twenty years, the fight against corruption has become a major issue which is on the agenda of international organisations, governments and businesses. He emphasised the role of compliance in organisations and the importance of internal control mechanisms. 30 Company’s address: T-Mobile Czech Republic a.s. Tomíčkova 2144/1, 148 00 Praha 4 http://t-mobile.cz/ Report contact person: Eva Karasová, CSR Manager e-mail: eva.karasova@t-mobile.cz Graphic design: Cellula, s.r.o. For more information: www.prosvetkolemnas.cz Mluvme spolu
