KENYA BIXA LTD COP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES By Laban Kiptoo Safety Manager: Period covered: March 15th 2014 to Feb 5th 2015 Commitment Letter I am pleased to confirm that Kenya Bixa Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact it’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. David Kisa General Manager 1.0 HUMAN RIGHTS  Kenya Bixa Ltd has a human resource policy, which in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, details employees’ rights and resources within the organization. The policy includes guidelines related to professional ethics, best management practices as well as other clauses that aim to protect employees and external parties in the conduct of daily operations. The Company revises this document on a continuous basis, to ensure that it follows the organization’s growth path, reflects encountered experiences and issues and contains timely and accurate provisions for the protection of its stakeholders. IMPLEMENTATION  Kenya Bixa Ltd, in its labor contract, guarantees a culture of openness, honesty and transparency. Staff is encouraged to discuss issues encountered in the work place so as to find adequate solutions and prevent similar situations from happening in the future. The Human Resources department is responsible for receiving employees’ issues and suggestions to improve the overall quality of the work environment, while respecting privacy. HR will then commit to resolve the issues are resolved in conformity with the country’s laws and Universal Human Rights principles. KENYA BIXA LTD COP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES By Laban Kiptoo Safety Manager: Period covered: March 15th 2014 to Feb 5th 2015 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES  To date, the Company has not encountered major incidents of Human Rights violation, due to senior management frequently reassessing the Company’s policies and ensuring that its employees and stakeholders are treated fairly and equally. Kenya Bixa also encourages its external partners to follow its steps and act ethically in the work place which contributes to a healthier business environment and fewer cases of violation. 2.0 LABOUR  Kenya bixa Ltd recognizes the importance to provide an organizational culture based on respect and trust. As a result, the Company benefits in terms of productivity and growth. The Human resource policy clearly states employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. Within the coming year, Kenya bixa Ltd aims to incorporate in its compensation packages a wider range of employee’s benefits and foster a greater sense of ownership within the organization. IMPLEMENTATION  Kenya Bixa has written guidelines to ensure that Labor Rights are respected and in case of violation, resolved with the best interest of the neglected party at heart. Below are a few examples of implementation measures taken by the Company: Employees are aware of their rights and responsibilities; Complaint/suggestion system is in place allow effective communication between top management and the staff.  MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES  Human Resources and senior management work in hand to ensure that all employees are given access to the same resources and treated equally in the work place. Kenya bixa ltd is proud to encourage freedom of speech and diversity in the work place, having employees from different rgions, religious and educational backgrounds. KENYA BIXA LTD COP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES By Laban Kiptoo Safety Manager: Period covered: March 15th 2014 to Feb 5th 2015 The Management and the Union have a collective bargaining agreement for improvements of staff welfare 4. ENVIRONMENT  Kenya Bixa Ltd is an a company is focused on sustainable, low-carbon and clean technology initiatives. IMPLEMENTATION  Kenya Bixa Ltd business solutions aim to find innovative ways to fight climate change and raise awareness among the population.  There is in place selected Environmental and health Safety Champions who monitor and sensitize staff of Safety at work place  Accidents are Monitored every Month and analysis are shared with the departments  Company has put in place simple guidelines to reduce energy consumption in the work place and raise awareness among its stakeholders. Examples are:  Windows shut when using air conditioning; Turn off lights, air conditioning, computer equipment, including desktops, upon leaving the office; MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES  The Company has put in place a fertilizer plant that utilizes Poultry waste and the Waste from the Factory to produce 10.5 T of Organic fertilizer per day  We also have a biogas plant that that produces 120M3 of methane Gas per day which is utilized in steam production to replace Firewood and Diesel  There was Nil major accident in the year 2014 with only 5 minor injuries which is an improvement from year 2013 4.0ANTI-CORRUPTION In order to avoid violations, the Company holds a strict zero-tolerance policy for corruption and bribery. The Human resource Policy, available to all employees, contains the Company policy and protocol to follow in the incidence of corruption and bribery KENYA BIXA LTD COP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES By Laban Kiptoo Safety Manager: Period covered: March 15th 2014 to Feb 5th 2015 violation. In case staff is confronted to situations where corruption and bribery are likely to take place, the Company’s protocol provides guidance on how to react and report this type of violation. IMPLEMENTATION  The selection of business partners and opportunities is done through a competitive bidding process, based on transparency and fairness, as to encourage market competitiveness and avoid corruption. Additionally, the Company works with an online platform where employees’ work and responsibilities can be tracked, allowing senior management to closer monitor projects and the way business is conducted with external parties. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES  As a result of the Company’s policy, all employees are made aware of consequences related to corruption and bribery violations. Senior management ensures that junior and mid level employees are not put in situations where they can prove guilty or victim of such violations.
