Drottninggatan 2 Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm Tel +46 8 700 17 00 Fax +46 8 10 25 59 Bankgiro 5435-4006 Postgiro 45 59 10-0 Reg No SE 556008-3585 Stockholm April 2015 Communication on Progress 2014 Ratos signed the UN Global Compact in 2013. As part of our commitment to this initiative, I am pleased to report on our activities and progress in our first Communication on Progress and to reconfirm our support for the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report covers the fiscal year 2014, and consists of this letter and an extract from our annual report 2014. In the extract, we outline our approach to integrating the principles into our active ownership and give examples or actions and activities taken by us and our holdings during the year to progress our work. With this communication, we want to emphasize our ambition to continue to integrate the Global Compact principles into our business: into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Best regards Susanna Campbell CEO, Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership – extracts from the Annual Report 2014 Ratos owns and develops Nordic companies Ratos is an active owner and creates value by developing operations in existing holdings combined with carrying out value-creating transactions. Value creation with Ratos as owner Long tradition of active ownership Ratos’s focus and goal as an active owner is to contribute Ratos has a long tradition of active ownership. The busito long-term and sustainable operational development in ness originated in the steel wholesaler Söderberg & Haak, the holdings and to carry out value-creating transactions. which was founded in 1866. Ratos was listed on the stock Ratos invests in Nordic companies where our core experexchange in 1954, at the time as a mixed investment comtise as a professional, active and responsible owner over pany. Today Ratos is a listed private equity conglomerate. time creates good value growth. Added value is created in Ratos is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Read more about connection with acquisition, development and divestment our active ownership in the annual report. of these primarily unlisted companies. This provides stock market players with a unique investment opportunity. People are the key Ratos has a company-specific return target (average anValue growth at Ratos over time is decided by our nual return on invested capital, IRR) which is at least transactions and how well we succeed in implementing 15-20%, depending on market and company-specific facambitious plans in the holdings. Ratos’s organisation, and tors. Since 1999 our average IRR has been 24% on the tothe boards, management groups and employees in our tal of 38 completed exits. Read more about Ratos’s vision, holdings all play a key role. Ratos’s investment organisamission, targets and strategy in the annual report. tion currently has some 25 people who are responsible for developing the holdings and finding new investment opportunities. Ratos has a total of approximately 50 employees and some 15 Industrial Advisors who support the business. Value creation through Förvärv Utveckling Försäljning responsible ownership C EO’ s com m e nts Ratos’s key task is to create value in our holdings. By In many cases, medium-sized Nordic companies face conducting structured sustainability initiatives as an active the same challenges as larger groups. With more limited and responsible owner, while at the same time adapting resources, however, they are forced to work in a smarter our demands and support to each individual holding, we andFörvärv more integrated wayUtveckling in order to meet the expectaFörsäljning preserve and create values for the holdings and Ratos. tions of their stakeholders. As a responsible owner we will In 2013, Ratos became a signatory to the UN Global continue to make demands but we will also support our Compact’s ten principles for responsible business operaholdings in their work with continual improvements within tions as well as the UN Principles for Responsible Investissues related to human rights, working conditions, the ment, PRI. We also drafted a new CR framework, based environment and business ethics. on the Global Compact’s principles, which clarifies our demands and expectations on the holdings. During 2014 Acquisition Development Susanna Campbell Divestment we have worked to implement this updated CR framework. CEO Company-specific value creation Ratos’s work with sustainability or Corporate Responsibility (CR) is based on a value-creating perspective. It is yet another means for us as an active owner to preserve Acquisition Development Divestment and create values in our holdings. Sustainability issues are strategic, where a good CR standard is becoming increasingly essential for doing good business, both for Ratos and for our holdings. Key CR issues for the parent company, Ratos AB, the holding period – from decision processes ahead of an include transparency, good business ethics and financial acquisition to a responsible divestment. strength. In addition, talent development, good corporate governance and integration of issues relating to the Acquisition environment and social responsibility in the investment Before making new investments, as part of the due diliprocess and ownership of the holdings are key CR issues. gence process Ratos performs an evaluation of risks and For the Ratos Group the biggest CR issues and chalopportunities as well as the company’s maturity level and lenges are linked to the operations we own. Ratos is values within sustainability. Ratos’s investment teams are sector-neutral which means that our holdings are affected responsible for this evaluation, supported by Ratos’s CR by a large number of different issues. These depend, Manager and external advisors for specific issues. Only in among other things, on their operations and geographic exceptional cases does this analysis result in us rejecting footprint. It is therefore important that we have companyan investment. Rather it forms the basis for the CR plan specific efforts, i.e. that focus and demands relate to the that is drawn up to develop sustainability work during the CR issues that are relevant to each holding. period of Ratos’s ownership. Ratos also has a number of exclusion criteria as guidance. Value creation through responsible ownership We cannot invest in companies that operate in the arms In autumn 2013, Ratos became a signatory to the UN industry, contribute to environmental damage, produce Global Compact and Principles for Responsible Investment, or actively provide pornography or manufacture tobacco PRI, principles for responsible business operations and products. responsible investments. These undertakings, together with Ratos’s CR framework which describes our expectaDevelopment tions and demands relating to sustainability work in the The Global Compact’s ten principles within the four areas holdings, provide the base for Ratos’s CR work. human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corrupPRI’s principles relating to the environment, social tion, guide our demands on and work with the holdings. responsibility and corporate governance are an integrated As a responsible owner Ratos must be clear about its part of the exercise of our ownership role throughout expectations and demands on the holdings relating to CR. R atos ’ s CR fr amework for subsidiaries Voluntary Level 3. Own initiatives Requirements for Level 2. Ratos’s additional modules relevant companies Own operations Business Own production/ with increased Increased partners with Increased risk increased risk for risk of violations product liability increased risk of corruption/ employees against HR* and of crime against irregularities labour HR* and labour Requirements for all Level 1. Ratos’s CR standard companies Strategy and Human rights Business ethics, Environment governance and labour anti-corruption * HR= human rights We set appropriate, specific and clear requirements for guidelines and follow-up of the holding’s sustainability each holding based on their activities. An updated CR work as well as assisting Ratos’s holding teams – and framework, which presents Ratos’s requirements for its where necessary the holdings. subsidiaries, was launched in 2014 (see illustration above). The CEO and management of each holding have The framework is based on the principles in the operational responsibility for the company’s CR work. Global Compact and has several levels: a basic level, The company’s board has ultimate responsibility for Ratos’s CR standard, which applies to all subsidiaries, and ensuring the company complies with Ratos’s and the a number of additional modules with requirements for company’s policies and guidelines. The people responspecific companies based on their operations and marsible for the holdings at Ratos ensure that each holding ket presence. The framework is a combination of policy meets Ratos’s CR requirements and perform an annual requirements, practical implementation and indicators for review of CR work at the holdings. follow-up. In addition, Ratos encourages own initiatives In the holdings which are associated companies, Ratos’s which strengthen the holding’s CR work and sustainable ability to exert an influence is different which is why demands business development. and processes can vary. The management of each holding is responsible for drafting a plan for how the CR framework will be impleHow we contribute as owner mented and complied with in operations. The holdings’ Ratos’s aim is to strengthen the holdings’ sustainability boards have overall responsibility and are expected to work during the holding period. We do this through: receive a report about and discuss how CR work is develClear demands and expectations: provided among oping at least once a year. other things through Ratos’s CR framework. A continuous dialogue is conducted with management Networks: experience and expertise is shared between and CR managers in the holdings through Ratos’s holding the holdings and via the Ratos CR Forum. teams and the board and through Ratos’s CR manager. CR handbook: material for the holdings within various sustainability areas. Divestment Resources: ongoing dialogue, sounding-board and trainRatos will carry out responsible divestments, in accordance ing for the investment organisation and holdings. with our business model, where we combine long-term good development with the highest possible returns. Focus and development during the year Examples of Ratos’s work in the holdings during the year Responsibility, governance and follow-up based on the Global Compact’s four areas. The base of CR at Ratos is the policies adopted by the Ratos Board, in particular the policy for Corporate Responsibility and responsible investments, the code of 1 Human rights and 2 Labour conduct and the environmental policy. Good health and a good working environment for the Ratos’s code of conduct, which applies to both Ratos employees which encourages performance and employee and the subsidiaries, describes the principles in accordinvolvement, as well as skills development and career ance with which employees are expected to act. Since opportunities are prioritised issues for Ratos and the 2014 all subsidiaries owned by Ratos for at least one year holdings. Most (80%) of the Group’s 21,000 employees have their own code of conduct which complies with work in the Nordic countries or elsewhere in Europe. Ratos’s code. New holdings are expected to implement In addition, for some holdings aspects including guarsuch a code of conduct within one year. anteeing human rights, reasonable working conditions and Ratos’s CEO together with the CR Manager, who freedom of association are focus areas both in their own is part of Ratos’s investment organisation, have overall operations and for their suppliers and partners. As an responsibility for Ratos’s strategy and work within CR. owner Ratos makes it clear that human rights and the rights The CR Manager defines and coordinates requirements, and working conditions of employees must be respected. Examples of activities in 2014 4 Anti-corruption Supplier follow-up with a focus on human rights and workFor an owner company like Ratos credibility, sound ethical ing conditions were themes at the Ratos CR Forum in May. values and regulatory compliance are essential for our During the year HENT introduced clearer written ability to do business. Corruption is a widespread probinstructions about human rights and working conditions lem in the world which leads to ineffective markets and for its subcontractors. major costs for companies as well as significant costs for Arcus-Gruppen continues to work in accordance with many countries in the form of limited development. the Nordic Alcohol Monopolies’ Code of Conduct Several of Ratos’s holdings operate in sectors or marwhere working conditions linked to viticulture are a key kets where there is a heightened risk of corruption and component. must therefore have preventive processes in place. 3 Environment Example of activities in 2014 The parent company Ratos’s environmental impact comes As a member of the Swedish Leadership for Sustainable primarily from business travel and energy consumption, Development, coordinated by the Swedish International and then from waste and purchasing of goods and services. Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), Ratos has The direct environmental impact is limited, however, and attended network meetings, exchanges of experience the biggest impact is through our holdings. related to anti-corruption work and drafting proposals Climate consideration includes encouraging the holdfor anti-corruption objectives for the UN’s new global ings, where relevant, to develop sustainable or “climate development goals. smart” goods and/or services and helping the holdings to Ensured that all subsidiaries have a code of conduct with focus on energy efficiency and work to reduce their emisa clear position against corruption in accordance with sions of greenhouse gases. Ratos’s own code. Procured a whistleblowing system, available to all holdExamples of activities in 2014 ings. Launched at Ratos AB and HL Display as a first Updated environmental plan for Ratos AB. step. Transfer to 100% renewable energy supply for Nordic Implemented an updated code of conduct, including Cinema Group’s 40 SF Bio cinemas in Sweden. internal training at KVD, Biolin Scientific and Euromaint, Mobile Climate Control won an order with delivery to among others. New York’s public transport where the key to success was a clear reduction in fuel consumption (about 10%). Inwido reduced its energy consumption per unit of product by 4.5%, through some 30 different measures. CR Work at R atos Activities 2014 Planned activities for 2015-2016 Ratos AB Ratos AB P  reparations for updating Ratos’s exclusion criteria for new F irst report to Global Compact and PRI. investments. Develop Ratos’s external reporting on CR and responsible Implementation of Ratos’s tools and processes for inclusion ownership. of CR issues in due diligence processes. Develop CR perspective relating to Ratos AB’s suppliers. Dilemma training and training related to climate change and Evaluate systems for climate calculations and reporting for planetary boundaries for Ratos’s organisation. holdings. Publication of Ratos’s CR handbook 1.0. Evaluate systems for feedback from subsidiaries’ work with Updated environmental plan for Ratos AB produced. CR and compliance. Evaluation and implementation of a whistleblowing system. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Implementation of Ratos’s CR framework. F irst feedback on Ratos’s CR framework from subsidiaries Implementation of updated code of conduct, in line with for 2014. principles in Ratos’s code. Focused dialogue with and support to holdings about specific issues. Implementation of relevant modules from Ratos’s CR framework. Förvärv Utveckling Försäljning Vision, mission, targets and strategy Förvärv Utveckling Försäljning Bu s i n e s s m o d el Acquisition Development Divestment Acquisition management and employees to conduct operations Ideas for potential acquisitions come from many sources. in an effective manner. We exercise our ownership A large number originate from active efforts to find role actively and with an operational focus in order to companies and situations that are Development suitable for Ratos. Acquisition increase earnings and sales in the holdings over time. Divestment In addition, we participate in processes conducted by Approximately 70% of value creation in exits made so investment banks and other advisors. far is derived from this operational development. Development Divestment It is during the holding period that most of Ratos’s Our active exit strategy includes an assessment of future value creation takes place. How well an acquired returns potential as well as Ratos’s ability to contribute company develops depends, among other things, on to further development of the holding. Ratos does not the chosen strategy, development of the industry and set any limit on its holding period and we place great the economy, as well as the ability of the company’s importance on making a responsible exit. Vision Investment strategy Ratos shall be perceived as the best owner company in Holding at least 20% and normally the principal owner. the Nordic region. Investment size. Normally at least SEK 250m up to SEK 5,000m in equity. Ratos does not invest in early phases Mission of companies’ life cycles. Ratos is a private equity conglomerate whose business comprises acquisition, development and divestment of Preferably unlisted companies. preferably unlisted companies. Nordic acquisitions. We invest solely in companies with Ratos’s mission is to generate, over time, the hightheir head office in the Nordic region. Add-on acquisiest possible return through the professional, active and tions via our holdings can be made globally. responsible exercise of its ownership role in a number of Sector generalist. Ratos’s core competence is to be an selected companies and investment situations, where Ratos active owner which is independent of sector expertise. provides stock market players with a unique investment We have therefore chosen to be sector-neutral. opportunity. Added value is created in connection with acquisition, development and divestment of companies. Focus on own deal flow. Active exit strategy. Ratos does not have any set limit on its ownership period. Every year, an assessment is made of the future return potential of each holding and Ratos’s ability to contribute to the holding’s continued development. Ratos’s ownership model How Ratos works as an owner varies since every investment situation is unique, but there are some common denominators. Ratos’s focus and goal as an active owner is to contribute to long-term and sustainable operational development in the holdings and the ownership model is based on four key pillars: common values for Ratos’s activities, a focus on value creation, well-planned corporate governance and a number of tools that can support operational development in the holdings. 1. Values 2. Focus on value creation Ratos’s exercise of its ownership role in the holdThe focus on value creation applies throughout ings is based on the basic values professional, active our entire holding period but the effects must also and responsible. The value-adding stages acquisibe long term and sustainable for the future. There tion, development and divestment are characteris no set time for how long Ratos is an owner. ised by these values. How Ratos exercises its ownership role varies in different companies, but common denominators are a well2. Focus o planned, firmly established and creat n v communicated strategy and ion business plan with goals that alue are linked to Ratos’s 1. Valu return target. es nce OWNERSHIP MODEL er na 3. Governance 4. Toolbox ov There must be a transpar4 . To Ratos uses its experience G . ent and clear governance o lb ox offer the 3holdings base to structure. Managements in our access to skills and an exchange holdings must have a clear and of experiences within a number complete operational mandate and of areas. Through our network we responsibility. Boards must consist of can offer broad industrial expertise. people who bring strategic expertise and Ratos’s employees also have experience of industrial experience with a chairman of the strategy projects, business analysis, transactions, board recruited outside the company. In addition to financing, accounting, CR and brand issues. An exthe traditional structure, we have our troikas (CEO, change of experience between the holdings is also chairman of the board and Ratos) which contribute to important. efficiency by preparing key issues. Holdings in brief Ratos invests in medium-sized companies in the Nordic region and has a portfolio with 18 holdings. The biggest segment in terms of sales is industrials, followed by services and consumer goods. An overview of Ratos’s holdings is presented below and a detailed description of each holding is provided in the annual report. 18 holdings with total in lan 3 F d sales of SEK 38 billion N HO OR A 4 W LDING Y S W EDE H O S LDING 10 S N 2.0 operating profit SEK billion and H O LDING S 21,000 mar En 1 D k employees OL H G DIN Our holdings In dustriALS AH Industries DIAB HENT HL Display Ledil Danish supplier of metal Global company that manuA leading Norwegian International supplier of Leading global player components, modules, sysfactures and develops core construction company products and solutions for within secondary optics tems and services to the material for sandwich comthat focuses on newbuild in-store communication (lenses which focus light wind energy, cement and posite structures including public and commercial and merchandising. from a source to achieve mineral industries. blades for wind turbines. real estate. a desired lighting solution) for LED lighting. Sales SEK 781m Sales SEK 1,157m Sales SEK 4,865m Sales SEK 1,509m Sales SEK 243m Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating profit SEK 12m profit/loss SEK -4m profit SEK 159m profit SEK 60m profit SEK 61m Ratos’s holding 70% Ratos’s holding 96% Ratos’s holding 73% Ratos’s holding 99% Ratos’s holding 66% Investment year 2007 Investment year 2001 Investment year 2013 Investment year 2001/10 Investment year 2014 www.ah-industries.dk www.diabgroup.com www.hent.no www.hl-display.com www.ledil.com OIL & GAS CONSUME R S E RVIC ES Aibel GS-Hydro KVD Nordic Cinema Group Leading Norwegian supplier Global supplier of nonSweden’s largest independThe Nordic region’s largof maintenance and modiwelded piping systems to ent online marketplace est cinema group with 65 fication services as well as the marine and offshore offering broker services wholly owned cinemas new construction projects industries, among others. for second-hand vehicles. with 436 screens in Sweden, within offshore on the The number of unique visiFinland, Norway and the Norwegian continental tors totals approximately Baltic countries. shelf. 200,000 per week. Sales SEK 9,319m Sales SEK 1,315m Sales SEK 315m Sales SEK 2,612m Operating profit SEK 22m Operating profit SEK 100m Operating profit SEK 44m Operating profit SEK 366m Ratos’s holding 32% Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 58% Investment year 2013 Investment year 2001 Investment year 2010 Investment year 2011/13 www.aibel.com www.gshydro.com www.kvd.se www.nordiccinemagroup.com www.kvdnorge.no www.kvdauctions.com www.bilpriser.se Sales breakdown by geographic market Sales breakdown by segment Consumer Services 10% Industrials 34% Rest of the world 5% Eastern Europe 4% North America 5% Nordic countries 71% Business Services 21% Western Europe 15% Life Science 1% Consumer Goods 19% Oil & Gas 15% Holdings’ sales to 100%, except for Aibel and Inwido which are included with Ratos’s holding. Holdings’ sales to 100%, except for Aibel and Inwido which are included with Ratos’s holding. CONSUM E R GOODS Mobile Climate Control Arcus-Gruppen Hafa Bathroom Group Inwido Jøtul Offers complete climate One of the Nordic region’s With the Hafa and Develops, manufactures One of Europe’s largest systems mainly for buses, leading suppliers of wine Westerbergs brands a and sells windows and manufacturers of stoves off-road and defence and spirits. The group’s leading Nordic company exterior doors in the and fireplaces. The comvehicles. best-known brands include within bathroom interiors. Nordic region and selected pany dates back to 1853 Aalborg and Lysholm Linie countries in northern and the products are sold Aquavit. Europe. worldwide. Sales SEK 1,021m Sales SEK 2,548m Sales SEK 206m Sales SEK 4,916m Sales SEK 920m Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating profit SEK 106m profit SEK 245m profit/loss SEK -4m profit SEK 376m profit/loss SEK -22m Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 83% Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 31% Ratos’s holding 93% Investment year 2007 Investment year 2005 Investment year 2001 Investment year 2004 Investment year 2006 www.mcc-hvac.com www.arcus.no www.hafabg.com www.inwido.com www.jotulgroup.com BUSINESS S E RVICES LIFE SCIE NC E Bisnode Euromaint Nebula Biolin Scientific A leading European supIndependent maintenance Provider of cloud-based Offers advanced analytical plier of decision support company for the rail transservices, IT infrastructure instruments for research, within business, credit and port sector in Sweden, and network services to development and diagmarket information. Germany, the Netherlands small and medium-sized nostics. and Latvia. enterprises in Finland. The company has approxima­ tely 39,000 customers. Sales SEK 3,502m Sales SEK 2,274m Sales SEK 261m Sales SEK 215m Operating profit SEK 298m Operating profit SEK 57m Operating profit SEK 85m Operating profit SEK 32m Ratos’s holding 70% Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 73% Ratos’s holding 100% Investment year 2005 Investment year 2007 Investment year 2013 Investment year 2010 www.bisnode.com www.euromaint.com www.nebula.fi www.biolinscientific.com We at Ratos Today approximately 25 people work in Ratos’s investment organisation and are responsible for developing our holdings and finding new investment opportunities. Ratos has a total of approximately 50 employees and some 15 Industrial Advisors who support the operations. Organisation HR issues and talent development The employees in the investment organisation have long Together with the managements and boards of our holdexperience of operational development, often from a ings we develop ambitious business plans in order to background as management consultants. They are continachieve our return target. How well we succeed depends, uously involved with investment processes, and lead the among other things, on the ability of management and work in Ratos’s holdings together with each company’s employees to conduct operations efficiently and implement board and management. the business plan. This requires experience, knowledge and Each holding has a dedicated team which consists of expertise within the holdings and this is why HR and talent two Ratos employees where one is responsible for the development are prioritised issues for us as owners. holding and one or both are also members of the board. We are also keen to ensure that our holdings are The team is often the same throughout the entire holding attractive employers and we therefore conduct a number period, from acquisition to exit. In this way we create of HR initiatives to attract, develop and retain skilled continuity and build trust between Ratos and the manageemployees and talents. ment and board of each company. We also bring together CEOs, boards and manageRatos also has some 15 Industrial Advisors. They act ment groups at various training and development events. as advisors in investment processes and company developThis is another strength of Ratos’s business model – the ment and are often board members in the holdings as ability to make a tangible contribution to the exchange of well as members of our Advisory Boards. In addition, experience between different companies, industries and Ratos works on an ad-hoc basis with a broad network of environments. industrial advisors who have long experience of Nordic business life. A presentation of our Industrial Advisors is Ratos’s presence in the Nordic region available at www.ratos.se. The Nordic countries differ in several respects, includRatos’s ownership aims to be professional, active ing corporate structure, sector distribution and business and responsible. Our work is based on these three core culture. To improve our contact base, we have set up values and on the way employees act towards each other an Advisory Board in Denmark, Finland, Norway and and our stakeholders. By acting responsibly we ensure Sweden. These consist of people with many years of that the business is conducted in a correct and ethical industry experience. They act as Ratos’s representatives manner and in accordance with expectations from our and contribute with knowledge of local business life and holdings, shareholders and other stakeholders. with their individual networks. R ATOS ’ s HR initiatives Ratos Talent Award Some of our HR Ratos Talent Award was presented for the third time in initiatives 2014. The award was established to increase the focus on Network Days talent development in our holdings. The ability to attract Chairman and retain talent in the organisations is a decisive factor Forum for the long-term success of the companies. CEO Summit Ratos Talent The three prize winners in 2014 were: Award Thorstein Roxrud, manager Bisnode Analytics and CFO Executive Marketing Automation in Norway Development Carlos Franco, responsible for DIAB’s balsa operations programme in Ecuador Mariusz Król, MD of Mobile Climate Control Poland Involved force in community Ratos has a long history of being a responsible owner with a strong community involvement. Today Ratos works to manage and develop this inheritance with broad involvement from our employees. Focus today Since 2008, Ratos has also supported particularly vulnerTogether with our partners (who are described below) able people in our community through the Cooperation Ratos is involved in the development of the communiAgainst Trafficking (IMTR). ties in which we operate. For Ratos the involvement of our employees is important since they contribute in Education and research various ways with their time and their core expertise in Education and research are cornerstones for the conoperational development and entrepreneurship. In 2014 tinued development of our society. Ratos supports the approximately 25% of our employees took part in some Stockholm School of Economics and the Centre for Busiactivity together with our cooperation partners. ness Policy Studies (SNS). Entrepreneurship Other Entrepreneurship is a key component of Ratos’s history As a result of the escalating unrest in Gaza, Syria and Iraq, as and also has clear links to operations today. well as the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, Ratos made a conInkludera Invest, with which Ratos started a collaboratribution to Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) during the year. tion in 2014, is a non-profit organisation that works to comTo read more about Ratos’s community involvement, bat marginalisation in Sweden by backing social entreprevisit Ratos’s website and the websites of the organisations neurs who have developed solutions to social challenges. In mentioned here. addition to providing the organisation with financial support, during 2014 Ratos’s employees assisted Inkludera Invest’s entrepreneurs by acting as mentors and sounding boards as well as holding workshops on corporate governance, for example. Ratos also contributes with expertise and as a discussion partner for Inkludera Invest’s own organisation. CEO Susanna Campbell participates in the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences, IVA, project Prince Daniel’s Fellowship and Entrepreneurship Programme, a project aimed to encourage and inspire young people to dare to consider entrepreneurship as an option. Children and young people Interview with Golnaz Hashemzadeh CEO and founder of Inkludera Invest Ratos has cooperated with Mentor Sweden since 2006 and is today one of its main partners. Mentor Sweden Why is an organisation like Inkludera Invest necessary? We can see that there are strong social entrepreneurs who works to give young people a strong self-image and a have developed innovative solutions to Sweden’s social chalbrighter future outlook by offering various mentorship lenges. These are people who are experts on their target programmes as well as activities for parents. During the groups and who with enormous commitment have built up year Ratos’s employees together with Mentor have proways to include vulnerable people in Sweden. Inkludera Invest vided inspiration and spoken to students about their own is needed to provide a business perspective and together with these entrepreneurs to strengthen and spread these solutions work as well as teaching business skills and codes. Ratos and ensure that as many people as possible benefit from them. has also supported Mentor International’s establishment in the other Nordic countries. What does collaboration with Ratos mean for you? For us at Inkludera being able to engage and consult with Ratos also supports the Danish Børnehjælpsdagen (The Ratos’s employees means a lot. They have exactly the expertise Children’s Aid Foundation), which aims to improve condithat we want to strengthen our entrepreneurs with. Ratos’s tions for children living in children’s homes in Denmark. employees help to make board work in our operations more professional and effective, to develop business and expansion Vulnerable people in communities in which models and build organisational structures with a clear division of responsibility. They also help to develop Inkludera’s own we operate processes. With Ratos’s help we can, for example, define what Ratos is involved in its immediate community through colsupport the entrepreneurs need in different phases and how laboration with the Stockholm City Mission. Since 2004 we decide when it is time to end our involvement with each we have supported Klaragården which is run by the Stockone. Ratos’s financial contribution also means we can work holm City Mission and is a refuge for vulnerable women in with more entrepreneurs and thus spread more solutions and reach more people. the Stockholm area. R atos ’ s Internal Ris k Process Ratos’s internal risk process takes into account a broad spectrum of risks: strategic, operational, financial risks as well as risks related to compliance and sustainability issues such as the environment, social responsibility and business ethics/corruption. Stage 1 Stage 2 Collection of risk reports from subsidiaries established and approved by each subsidi iscussion and adoption of final risk D ary’s board, confirmed by the chairman Q4 Q1 report in Ratos’s management group of the board to Ratos’s CEO Each company team presents and Processes for R isk report is presented and then risk management discussed in Ratos’s Audit Committee discusses subsidiaries’ risk analysis Discussion and adoption by Ratos’s with the CR Manager in the subsidiaries are Board The CR Manager aggregates and carried out regularly compiles an overall Group risk during the year. Structure report and presentation are adapted to each Stage 4 subsidiary’s organisaStage 3 If required short update to the Audit tion and operaF ollow-up of items from Board discussion Committee tions. Review of risk process based on feedQ3 Q2 back from Board and Audit Committee Focus on major changes in the risk map and status update action plan for GroupRelevant items are included where neceswide risks sary in Ratos’s as well as the subsidiaries’ strategy discussions Internal control own operations and the holdings are summarised and discussed in The Board has ultimate responsibility for preparing an effective process Ratos’s management and Board. for Ratos’s risk management and internal control. The purpose is to As part of good corporate governance, the holdings are expected provide reasonable assurance that operations are conducted in an to have a continuous process for identifying, assessing and managing appropriate and effective manner, that financial reporting is reliable and their risks. Each holding’s CEO and management have operational that laws as well as internal regulations are complied with. This work responsibility for having an appropriate risk management process in is conducted through structured board work as well as by tasks being place which is approved by the holding’s board. delegated to management, the Audit Committee and other employees. During the year Ratos worked to strengthen its subsidiaries’ risk Responsibility and authority are defined in instructions for powers of processes through clearer communication of expectations, requireauthorisation, policies and manuals which provide guidelines and guidments and responsibilities, which requires a structured effort. All ance for the Group’s operations and employees. subsidiaries’ chairmen were asked in 2014 to confirm to Ratos’s CEO Furthermore, the board of each subsidiary is responsible for ensurthat the company concerned has implemented an appropriate process ing that the company in question complies with laws and regulations as for management of the holding’s risks. well as for compliance with internal policies and guidelines. Ratos’s greatest risks are summarised in the Director’s report in the annual report. Ratos’s risk management process Ratos supports the subsidiaries with proposals for structure, models, Ratos conducts an annual review of risks where significant risks in its etc., for work with risk management, see illustration below. Recomme nde d ris k management process for R atos ’ s subsidiaries Identification Classification Management Reporting Report to owner 1 Identification – Ratos recommends a broad process where 3 Management – a plan for how identified risks should be manall relevant operational and strategic areas are covered, in order to aged should be drawn up with activities and means to eliminate/ identify the companies’ biggest risks. Each holding should identify reduce/monitor the risk and specifying who is responsible. and discuss risks at a suitable level in the organisation in a companyadapted process. 4 Reporting – the risk assessment and management plans should be presented and discussed in each company’s board at least once 2 Classification – classification and ranking of identified risks, a year. for example based on probability, degree of impact, type of risk and time perspective. 5 Report to owner – a report which summarises the biggest risks at Ratos and the holdings is compiled and presented to Ratos’s Board annually. Drottninggatan 2 Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm Tel +46 8 700 17 00 Fax +46 8 10 25 59 www.ratos.se Reg. no. 556008-3585
