The Biofore Company YEAR OF PROGRESS ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CONTENTS Contents UPM Group 1 UPM in brief 3 Review by the President and CEO 5 Strategy 11 UPM as an investment 13 Financial targets and earnings sensitivities 14 Risk management Businesses 15 UPM Biorefining 19 UPM Energy 21 UPM Raflatac 23 UPM Paper Asia 25 UPM Paper ENA 27 UPM Plywood 29 Innovations and R&D Stakeholders 31 Creating added value through stakeholder engagement 35 UPM’s tax policy promotes compliance, risk management, transparency and efficiency 37 Continuous collaboration with customers 39 Suppliers are an integral part of UPM value creation 41 People enable company transformation 44 Significant change in UPM’s safety culture Responsibility 45 Responsibility supports business development 49 Taking care of the entire lifecycle 50 Yesterday’s waste is today’s raw material 51 Energy efficiency improved and climate actions recognised 53 UPM ensures that all wood and wood fibre is sustainably sourced 54 Responsible use of water 55 UPM’s material balance 2014 57 GRI content index 59 Independent assurance report Corporate governance 60 Corporate governance 65 Board of Directors 67 Group Executive Team Accounts for 2014 69 Contents 137 Key financial information 2005–2014 139 Additional responsibility information 141 UPM businesses on a world map 144 Addresses 146 Annual General Meeting UPM – The Biofore Company VISION As the frontrunner of the new forest industry UPM leads the integration of bio and forest industries PURPOSE We create value from renewable and recyclable materials by combining VALUES Trust and be trusted Achieve together into a new, sustainable and innovation-driven future. expertise and technologies within Renew with courage UPM integrates bio and forest industries and In 2014, UPM’s sales totalled EUR 9.9 billion. UPM has production Cost leadership, change readiness, engagement and fibre-based, energy-related and builds a sustainable future across six business plants in 13 countries and a global sales network. UPM employs safety of our people form the foundation of our success. engineered materials businesses. areas. Our products are made of renewable approximately 20,000 employees worldwide. UPM shares are raw materials and are recyclable. listed on the NASDAQ Helsinki stock exchange. At the end of 2014, UPM had approximately 90,000 shareholders. UPM BIOREFINING UPM ENERGY UPM RAFLATAC UPM PAPER ASIA UPM PAPER ENA UPM PLYWOOD UPM Biorefining consists of pulp, timber and UPM Energy generates cost competitive lowUPM Raflatac manufactures self-adhesive UPM Paper Asia serves growing markets with UPM Paper ENA produces magazine UPM Plywood offers plywood and veneer biofuels businesses. UPM has three pulp mills emission electricity and operates in physical label materials for product and information labelling materials globally and fine papers papers, newsprint and fine papers for a products, mainly for construction, vehicle in Finland and one mill and plantation operand derivatives trading on the Nordic and labelling for label printers and brand ownin Asia. The operations consist of the UPM wide range of end uses in 17 efficient paper flooring and LNG shipbuilding as well as ations in Uruguay. UPM operates four sawCentral European energy markets. UPM’s ers in the food, personal care, pharmaceutiChangshu paper mill in China and labelling mills in Europe and the United States. The other manufacturing industries. UPM is the mills in Finland. UPM‘s biorefinery producing power generation capacity consists of cal and retail segments, for example. UPM and packaging materials production lines at main customers are publishers, cataloguers, leading plywood supplier in Europe, with wood-based renewable diesel started up in hydropower, nuclear power and condensing Raflatac is the second-largest producer of the UPM Tervasaari and UPM Jämsänkoski retailers, printers and distributors. UPM has production in Finland, Estonia and Russia. early 2015. The main customers are tissue, power. UPM Energy aims to grow on the self-adhesive label materials worldwide. mills in Finland. The main customers are a global paper sales network and an effiUPM Plywood aims to strengthen its market specialty paper and board producers in Nordic CO2 emission-free energy market. UPM Raflatac aims to advance in growth retailers, printers, publishers, distributors and cient logistics system. UPM Paper ENA position in selected end-use segments and pulp, fuel distributors in biofuels and conmarkets and strengthen its position in film paper converters. UPM Paper Asia seeks focuses on cost leadership and improved to increase value and customer-oriented struction and joinery industries in timber. and specialty labelstock products. growth in labelling materials globally and profitability to maximise cash flow. service offering. UPM aims to grow as a reliable pulp supplier in high quality office papers in Asia. and seeks growth in advanced biofuels. OTHER Wood Sourcing and Forestry secures competitive wood and biomass for UPM businesses and manages UPMowned forests. In addition, UPM offers a wide range of wood trade and forestry services to forest owners and OPERATIONS forest investors. UPM Biocomposites and UPM Biochemicals business units are also included in Other operations. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS UPM’S BUSINESS PORTFOLIO IN FIGURES Operating profit *) Operating cash EPS *) ROE *) Gearing Sales 2014*) EUR 9,868 million EBITDA 2014 EUR 1,287 million Capital employed 2014 EUR 10,944 million EUR 847 million flow per share EUR 1.17 8.3% 32% EUR 2.33 UPM Biorefining 18% UPM Biorefining 28% UPM Biorefining 26% +24% +68% +29% +1.9pp –9pp Other operations 4% UPM Plywood 4% UPM Energy 4% Other operations -2% UPM Plywood 5% Other operations 13% UPM Plywood 2% UPM UPM Paper Employee Lost time accident Share of Supplier Code qualified Share of UPM Paper ENA 21% ENA 49% Raflatac engagement frequency certified wood supplier spend ecolabelled products 11% UPM Paper 63% 4.4 83% 67% 76% ENA 30% UPM Energy UPM Energy +3pp –18% +3pp +3pp +1pp UPM Paper 16% 25% Asia 10% UPM Paper UPM Paper Asia 14% UPM Raflatac 9% UPM Raflatac 5% *) Unconsolidated Asia 8% *) excluding special items CONTENTS 1 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 2 A year of progress Good earnings for the 2014 dividend is EUR 0.70 per share. Outlook momentum in 2014 The proposal indicates confidence in UPM’s UPM has a versatile business portfolio and UPM showed good performance throughout stable outlook and its ability to continue on its many growth businesses. The improved profit2014. Our operating profit improved by 24% journey of transformation. ability achieved in 2014 is expected to continue year-on-year thanks to the successful profit Overall, the company performance has in 2015 and we have potential to improve furimprovement actions. Return on equity excludprogressed as planned and I would like to thank ther. UPM made good progress in The year was the first full year of operation for ing special items was 8.3% for the full year and all UPM employees for a good 2014. Our profitability is underpinned by the EUR UPM’s new business structure. The structure cash flow per share was EUR 2.33. 150 million profit improvement programme as 2014. We advanced both our – based on six business areas – brought clarity I’m especially pleased with our excellent cash Responsibility brings a competitive well as the first positive impacts from the comprofitability improvement as and focus to implementing UPM’s agenda for flow. Following the consistently strong cash flow, advantage pany’s growth projects. In the beginning of the well as our growth projects. each of the businesses. It sharpened our operaour balance sheet at the end of 2014 was the Our target is sustainable operations that will year, profitability is affected by lower publications in the customer interface. At the same strongest ever in the company’s history. We were bring us competitive advantages and future tion paper prices and lower electricity sales time, we were able to carry out the short term able to reduce our net debt by EUR 639 million growth in various businesses. prices. The current weakened euro and lower oil profitability improvement programme in an through the course of the year. To enhance transparency towards our stakeprice are supportive for the company’s earnings. efficient manner. Target savings of EUR 200 All six UPM businesses performed well in holders, we use the Global Reporting Initiative Our goal is to enhance the value of UPM million were achieved earlier than expected and 2014 and four of them reached or exceeded their (GRI) reporting framework. With this report, businesses further. a new target of EUR 150 million was set for the long-term return targets. we also want to highlight the value our busiThe versatile use of forest biomass, competiyear 2015. UPM Plywood, UPM Energy and UPM nesses create in terms of the economic, social tiveness and being at the forefront of developIn addition the growth projects progressed Paper Asia deserve special recognition for conand environmental success of the company and ments will also advance UPM’s Biofore strategy well during the year: The Lappeenranta bioresistent improvement and strong results. Thanks throughout value chain. in 2015. finery started commercial production of to cost savings, UPM Paper ENA (Europe & Furthermore in 2014, UPM’s consistent With good performance in our businesses, advanced renewable diesel in Finland in the North America) also succeeded in improving work in the area of responsibility received strong cash flow and leading balance sheet in beginning of January 2015 – a historic mileprofitability and generating strong cash flow in third-party recognition. The company was listed the industry, we are in a unique position to stone after eight years of R&D, piloting and very difficult market conditions. in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the simultaneously distribute an attractive diviconstruction. UPM Biorefining’s profitability was impactthird time in a row. The companies that perform dend, implement focused growth projects and The pulp expansion projects progressed in ed by lower hardwood pulp prices, but benefited better against sustainability criteria than their act on strategic opportunities. Finland and in Uruguay, and investments were from improved efficiency in production. UPM competitors are selected in the indices. made in labelling materials, woodfree speciality Raflatac showed volume growth and stable 2014 was also a year where UPM made paper and self-adhesive labels in China and results, but did not fully reach its market strong progress in its efforts to make the comPoland. Through these projects, we target an potential. pany a safer place to work. The Step Change in EBITDA impact of EUR 200 million. The UPM’s Board of Directors decided on a new Safety initiative has reduced the lost-time acciprojects will be completed in 2015 and we dividend policy targeting an attractive dividend dent frequency by 70% in just three years. Every expect to see the first financial results of the of 30–40% of UPM operating cash flow per UPM employee can take pride in creating a Jussi Pesonen growth projects as the year progresses. share. Based on this policy, the board’s proposal safer working culture within UPM. President and CEO DRIVING PERFORMANCE AND TRANSFORMATION RESOURCE EFFICIENCY – UPM’S CORNERSTONE +18% Usage of recovered paper The UPM transformation continues to ensure long-term sustainable value More with Biofore describes how UPM aims creation. UPM’s structure of six separate businesses promotes top performance to create more with less in all its operations. –20% Electricity consumption More recycling as well as enables implementation of business portfolio changes. Have a look at the development we have per tonne of paper Efficient processes Product lifetime optimisation achieved over the last ten years. End-of-life systems –25% Less energy Process wastewater Systematic energy management GROUP DIRECTION IMPLEMENTATION IN BUSINESSES OUTCOMES volume per tonne of paper Energy efficient processes and technologies Less air emissions Vision and values Business area strategies Top performance Less water usage Water management optimisation Portfolio strategy Commercial excellence Competitive advantage –32% Advanced technologies Business targets Growth projects Value creation Total amount of solid Less effluent Capital allocation Profitability improvement programmes Shared value with stakeholders waste to landfills Code of Conduct Innovation License to operate Responsibility targets Less waste Waste and sidestream utilisation Efficient technologies CONTENTS 3 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 4 A year of progress Shifting gear in UPM transformation UPM’s strategy includes short-term actions to drive 1 2 3 4 performance, mid-term projects to capture highreturn growth opportunities SHORT TERM PROFITABILITY MID-TERM FOCUSED BUSINESS PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT and long-term development work to create new high PROGRAMMES GROWTH PROJECTS AND VALUE CREATION FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH value added growth. UPM is implementing profit improvement UPM is investing EUR 680 million in 2013– UPM aims to develop its business portfolio UPM is developing new businesses based on its The company is developing actions in all businesses to further improve 2016 in the following four growth projects, to increase its value and to create growth. extensive know-how and strong position in the its business portfolio in cost competitiveness and advance towards targeting an EBITDA impact of EUR 200 forest biomass sourcing and processing value order to increase its value top performance in the businesses’ million when all the projects are fully • Performance: targeting top performance in chain. Ecodesign represents business opportunities respective markets. operational. each business with large target markets and high added value. and to create growth. • The profit improvement programme, launched • Pulp: 10% (340,000 t) capacity increase in • Grow: focused high-return growth investments in August 2013, achieved its target of EUR the existing pulp mills and synergistic mergers and acquisitions BIOFUELS 200 million of annualised fixed and variable Advanced renewable diesel suitable for cost savings in Q3 2014. This was reflected in • Biofuels: Lappeenranta biorefinery and • Simplify: best value realisation for UPM all diesel engines UPM’s 2014 operating profit, up 24% from the start of the UPM Biofuels business 2013. • Consolidation in European paper market BIOCOMPOSITES • New labelling materials and speciality papers without allocating more capital Renewable materials to replace oil-based • UPM announced a new profit improvement production unit in China materials e.g. in injection moulding programme in November 2014, targeting EUR 150 million of fixed and variable cost savings • Self-adhesive labels: 50% increase in selfBIOCHEMICALS by the end of 2015. The plan includes the adhesive labelstock production capacity in Asia Renewable performance chemicals and permanent closure of four publication paper Pacific and expansion of high-value-added drop-in alternatives for oil-based chemicals machines in Europe. filmic labelstock production capacity in Poland STRATEGY IN ACTION PULP: BIOFUELS: 10% capacity increase 3 4 Lappeenranta biorefinery LABELLING MATERIALS: 2 Changshu expansion UPM UPM Biorefining Paper Asia SELF-ADHESIVE LABELS: Advancing in growth markets and in higher value added UPM products UPM Raflatac Plywood 1 UPM UPM Paper Energy ENA New labelling materials and speciality paper production unit at UPM Changshu in China is scheduled to be completed CONTENTS by the end of 2015. 5 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 6 Biofore strategy in a changing operating environment The world around us is changing rapidly and DRIVERS FOR UPM’S BUSINESSES Growth markets: UPM has an attractive the future will bring both opportunities and platform for growth in Asia, Latin America and challenges that we have never before experiEastern Europe in its pulp, paper, label materienced. Global demand for resources – oil, food, THEME Low-emission and Fast moving consumer Advertising, office Bio-based als and wood products businesses – serving water and energy – is surging, driven by global growing consumption in a sustainable way. population growth, urbanisation and an renewable energy goods, retail communication materials expanding middle class in the emerging markets. Efficient operations: Cost efficiency and Climate change has already emerged as a major scalable operations are important in all busiglobal phenomenon. Furthermore, the shifting TRENDS Uncertain energy prices and security of Global population growth Digitalisation – from print to screen Raw material scarcity nesses, but form the cornerstone of success in of economic power from West to East and the supply the mature European and North American increasing pace at which business is conducted Ageing population in developed markets Change in economic gravity from mature Sustainability and renewability graphic paper business. and digital technologies are becoming integratIntegrating European markets to emerging markets ed into our everyday lives is changing the operGDP growth, urbanisation and expanding Access to clean water Innovation: UPM’s know-how and strong ating environment considerably. Climate change middle class in developing markets position in the wood processing – or biorefining UPM’s Biofore strategy fits well into this Biodiversity loss – value chain is utilised to innovate new sustainchanging world. Change in consumer behaviour able businesses with large target markets and Replacing oil-based materials higher added value. Many of these new renewRenewables: UPM’s products are based on able alternatives will replace non-renewable sustainably-sourced renewable raw materials. IMPACT Increasing regulation, uncertain rules Growth opportunities for pulp and Declining graphic paper consumption in Increasing raw material costs and products. ON UPM for energy markets value-added labelling solutions in mature markets uncertain availability More with Biofore: Making more out of developed markets Responsibility: UPM applies the same high less is central to UPM’s resource efficiency as Preferential treatment of renewable Different decline rates in different paper Increasing interest for sustainable products standards for environmental performance, well as a major source of cost efficiency and energy Attractive growth prospects for pulp, end uses and solutions safety at work, responsible sourcing and code competitiveness. label materials, wood products and office of conduct everywhere in the world. Cost for emissions papers in developing countries Higher demand growth for most of UPM’s New business opportunities with Recycling: Most of UPM’s products are products in developing markets ecodesign The majority of the global change drivers recyclable and UPM recycles many of them into support UPM’s businesses in the long term, but new products such as paper, biocomposites and UPM’S Focus on cost competitive low-emission Grow in cost competitive pulp Continuous improvement in cost competiUse of renewable raw materials they do not affect all UPM businesses equally. energy. RESPONSE energy sources tiveness This means that strategic direction, targets and Grow in labelling materials and selfResponsible sourcing actions vary throughout different UPM busiEnergy: In energy generation, whether in Increase energy efficiency adhesive labelstock in developing markets Focus on more attractive paper end-use nesses in order to capture opportunities and electricity, heat or biofuels, UPM’s operations segments Increase materials efficiency mitigate challenges in both short and long term. are based on reliable, low-emission and cost Grow in advanced biofuels Grow in higher value-added labelstock competitive energy sources. UPM is continuproducts in developed markets Adjust graphic paper production capacity Recycling and reuse of production waste ously improving its energy efficiency. Plywood solutions for LNG tankers to profitable customer demand Grow in office papers in APAC UPM’s global biodiversity programme Supply wood products outside Europe Develop new businesses in biofuels, biochemicals and biocomposites The world’s first biorefinery producing wood-based renewable diesel has started up in Lappeenranta, Finland. CONTENTS 7 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 8 UPM Biofore strategy 1 SHORT TERM PROFITABILITY PROGRAMMES 2 MID-TERM FOCUSED GROWTH PROJECTS 3 BUSINESS PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT AND VALUE CREATION 4 NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH in action 2014 New business structure studied during the year, but no significant transBusiness area Strategic targets Actions in 2014 Actions planned for 2015 *) facilitates UPM transformation actions materialised. UPM BIOREFINING Grow in cost competitive, high quality pulp Capacity expansions completed in UPM Pietarsaari Complete the expansion in UPM Kymi 2 and performance New business development reached a signifiand advanced biofuels and UPM Fray Bentos pulp mills, investment started 2014 was the first full year of operation for cant milestone when UPM Biofuels started its 2 at UPM Kymi Ramp up production expansion UPM’s new business structure. The company first biorefinery producing wood-based renewEfficient sawn timber business at the UPM Pietarsaari and UPM Fray 2 consists of six business areas: UPM Biorefining, able diesel as part of the UPM Biorefining Lappeenranta biorefinery started production 2 4 Bentos pulp mills UPM Energy, UPM Raflatac, UPM Paper business area. Utilise synergies and increase added value Asia, UPM Paper ENA (Europe & North in biorefining Reduction in variable costs 1 Ramp up and optimise production America) and UPM Plywood. Other operations Focus on responsibility in the UPM Lappeenranta 2 4 include UPM’s wood sourcing and forestry and and leadership Improvement in efficiency and profitability in Timber 1 biorefinery the UPM Biocomposites and UPM BiochemiCorporate responsibility is an integral part of cals business units. Each business area has a all our operations and is seen as a source of Participate in the EUR 150 million defined strategic role and clear targets, outlined competitive advantage. UPM is strongly com1 profit improvement programme in the adjacent table. mitted to continuous improvement in economic, 2014 was a year of progress and showed that social and environmental performance. Over the UPM ENERGY Profitable growth in Nordic low-emission Successful hedging and physical trading and 1 Continue OL3 construction and the new organisation is capable of delivering past few years, UPM has focused heavily on 2 power generation reduction in costs refurbishment of hydropower plants results. All of the businesses and group funcimproving safety at work and on further improvValue creation in physical trading and Continued OL3 construction 2 Participate in the EUR 150 million tions took part in the EUR 200 million profit ing the environmental performance of its prohedging profit improvement programme 1 improvement programme, launched in August duction units. In 2014, special attention was also Continued the refurbishment of hydropower plants 2 2013. The programme achieved its targets in Q3 paid to responsible sourcing. 2014, ahead of schedule. At that time, further Achieving our ambitious targets requires improvement potential was identified and the high performing people and teams to drive UPM RAFLATAC Profitable growth in higher value films and Reduction in fixed costs through optimisation 1 Complete the investment projects 2 company launched a second EUR 150 million business transformation. This also highlights the specialty labels and expand presence in of the production platform in China, Malaysia and Poland profit improvement programme in November importance of being an attractive employer with developing markets 2014. inspiring and empowering leaders who offer Coating operations were closed in Spain 1 Plan new slitting and distribution Organic growth projects progressed in UPM diverse opportunities to perform and grow. To 2 and in Australia and production was relocated terminals in growth markets Biorefining, UPM Raflatac, UPM Paper Asia ensure the success of our businesses and the 2 and UPM Energy. Most of the current projects people who make it happen, UPM’s manageInvestment projects to increase production capacity Global development in R&D 2 are scheduled for completion by the end of ment is placing particular emphasis on perforin China, Malaysia and Poland started 2015. mance orientation and employee engagement. Participate in the EUR 150 million New slitting and distribution terminal profit improvement programme 1 Business portfolio development progressed 2 through organic growth projects and continued opened in Mexico Read more on UPM’s responsible sourcing (p. 40) forest land sales. M&A opportunities were also and safety improvement (p. 44). UPM PAPER ASIA Profitable growth in labelling materials Construction of the third production unit Complete the investment project 2 2 globally and in high quality office papers in started at UPM Changshu at UPM Changshu in China Asia Reduction in variable and fixed costs 1 Participate in the EUR 150 million 1 profit improvement programme EVENTS IN 2014 UPM PAPER ENA Improve profitability and maximise cash flow Significant reduction in variable and fixed costs 1 Participate in the EUR 150 million 1 16 June: UPM signs a sales agreethrough cost competitiveness and customer profit improvement programme 22 January: UPM closes down the focus Simplified, customer segment-based organisation 1 UPM Docelles fine paper mill in ment for the distribution of UPM Close down four paper machines France BioVerno renewable diesel with 1 North European Oil Trade Oy Closure of the UPM Docelles paper mill 1 in Europe in early 2015 28 February: UPM proceeds (NEOT) with the construction of the third UPM PLYWOOD Profitable growth in selected customer Reduction in variable and fixed costs 1 Participate in the EUR 150 million production unit at its Changshu mill 11 September: UPM is listed as the 1 segments through operational excellence profit improvement programme in China industry leader in the global Dow and customer service Jones Sustainability Index 28 February: UPM announces its WOOD Secure competitive biomass Reduction in wood costs 1 Participate in the EUR 150 million EUR 160 million investment in the 25 September: The Government of 1 SOURCING AND FORESTRY profit improvement programme Kymi pulp mill, Finland Finland decides not to grant an extension to the decision-in-principle 3 April: UPM Raflatac announces for the Olkiluoto 4 nuclear power BUSINESS PORTFOLIO Grow with synergistic acquisitions Studied M&A opportunities, no significant 3 Continue to look for value its plans to increase labelstock plant unit 3 DEVELOPMENT AND VALUE transactions materialised enhancing M&A opportunities production capacity in China and CREATION Simplify with best value realisation for UPM Malaysia 13 November: UPM introduces a Sold 51,000 hectares of forest land in Finland 3 Continue forest land sales 3 new profit improvement target of 24 April: UPM Raflatac announces EUR 150 million — UPM Paper Sold all 7,100 hectares of forest land in the UK 3 its plans to invest in new producENA plans to reduce 800,000 tion capacity in filmic labelstock tonnes of publication paper capacand restructure sheet labelstock ity in 2015 NEW BUSINESS UPM Biocomposites: business creation in Biofuels started as a business within Continue to expand UPM ProFi product UPM Formi and continued growth in UPM UPM Biorefining 2 4 portfolio. Continue to commercialise businesses in Europe DEVELOPMENT 4 ProFi biocomposites UPM Formi 12 June: The UPM Fray Bentos Partnership with Renmatix to test Renmatix’ 4 pulp mill completes the production UPM Biochemicals: further application Plantrose™ process in biochemicals Continue to develop biochemicals 4 permitting process in Uruguay and development and piloting of biofibrils and increases its production level to biochemicals Development of lignin-based products 4 Continue studying technology and IPR 4 meet the mill capacity commercialisation possibilities Commercialise technology and IPR Food freshness indicator technology 4 CONTENTS innovations for core-related activities commercialised to Indicatorium Ltd. *) not a complete list 9 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 10 UPM as an investment UPM share price 2010–2014 and UPM share price 2010–2014 Cash flow-based dividend total shareholder return compared with indices EUR per share % EUR EUR UPM aims to increase profitability, growth outlook and the value of its business 0.80 80 20 20 0.70*) portfolio. The target is to simplify and develop the business portfolio to uncover 16 16 and increase its value. 0.60 60 12 12 0.40 40 With good performance in the businesses, strong cash flow, and leading 8 8 balance sheet in the industry, UPM can simultaneously distribute an attractive 0.20 20 4 4 dividend, implement focused growth projects and act on strategic opportunities. 0.00 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of operating cash flow per share UPM share price UPM share price *) Board’s proposal for 2014 Total shareholder return*) NASDAQ OMX Helsinki (rebased) *) Assuming dividends reinvested in the company DJ STOXX 600 (rebased) Strengths of UPM’s model Attractive UPM aims to increase dividend shareholder value Drive top performance: At the business area level, UPM targets top performance in their respective markets. Strong In 2014, UPM introduced long term return targets for the cash flow six business areas. Four out of the six businesses reached or exceeded their return targets (page 13). To further support the performance in 2015, UPM in November 2014 Focused announced a profitability improvement programme targetinvestments TOP ing EUR 150 million in cost savings by the end of 2015 compared to Q3 2014 earnings. 1 PERFORMANCE Capture growth opportunities: To expand the well performing businesses with positive long term fundaINDUSTRY LEADING mentals, UPM is implementing focused growth projects BALANCE SHEET over the next two years, targeting an EBITDA impact of EUR 200 million when all the initiatives are in full operation. 2 Develop business portfolio: UPM is seeking to simplify and develop its business portfolio in order to uncover and increase its value. Increasing the share of highly profitable businesses with good fundamentals for growth improves the company’s long term profitability and boosts the value of the shares. 3 Strong operating cash flow is important for UPM’S BIOFORE STRATEGY RECEIVES UPM as it enables the realisation of organic growth proEXTERNAL RECOGNITION jects and new business development, as well as paying attractive dividends to UPM shareholders. Industry leader in the Dow Jones Industry leading balance sheet: The company European and World Sustainability aims to maintain a strong balance sheet to enable portfolio Indices for 2014–2015 5-YEAR SHARE PERFORMANCE AND VALUATION MULTIPLES changes that increase UPM’s shareholder value. New businesses: UPM’s expertise in renewable and RobecoSAM’s annual Sustainability 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 recyclable materials, low-emission energy and resource Yearbook 2014 with a Gold Class Share price at 31 Dec, EUR 13.62 12.28 8.81 8.51 13.22 Gold Class 2014 efficiency is the key to developing new, sustainable business distinction Earnings per share, excluding special items, EUR 1.17 0.91 0.74 0.93 0.99 opportunities with high added value. 4 Dividend per share, EUR 0.70 *) 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.55 Responsibility is an integral part of UPM’s Biofore Top position with the highest possible Operating cash flow per share, EUR 2.33 1.39 1.98 1.99 1.89 strategy. Good corporate governance, target-oriented score on A list in the CDP Climate leadership, appropriate working conditions and commuPerformance Leadership Index 2014 nity involvement are essential to UPM’s way of working. Effective dividend yield, % 5.1 4.9 6.8 7.1 4.2 Proactive corporate responsibility work also enables P/E ratio 14.2 19.5 neg. 9.2 13.4 Sector leader for the materials industry business impacts and risks to be efficiently identified and P/BV ratio1) 0.97 0.87 0.62 0.60 0.97 in CDP’s 2014 global Forests Program mitigated. UPM’s consistent efforts in this area continued EV/EBITDA ratio2) 7.5 8.3 6.0 5.8 7.6 to gain external recognition in 2014. UPM BioVerno – the EU’s Sustainable UPM Energy is one of UPM’s Market capitalisation, EUR million 7,266 6,497 4,633 4,466 6,874 Dividend policy Energy Europe Award 2014 growing business areas, covering Attractive dividend: UPM aims to pay an attractive *) 2014: Board’s proposal electricity production and trading dividend, 30-40% of the company’s annual cash flow Read more: 1) P/BV ratio = Share price at 31.12./Equity per share in physical and financial energy per share. www.upm.com/responsibility 2) EV/EBITDA ratio = (Market capitalisation + Net debt)/EBITDA markets. CONTENTS 11 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 12 Financial targets Earnings sensitivities Risk management At the business area level, UPM targets top Changes in sales prices Changing exchange rates can also have UPM’s business operations are subject to various risks which may have an adverse relative performance in their respective markets The biggest factor affecting UPM’s financial indirect effects, such as change in relative effect on the company. The list below is not complete but it explains some of compared with key peers. UPM has also results is the sales price of paper. A change in the competitiveness between currency regions. defined long-term EBITDA margin and ROCE volume delivered has less than half of the effect the risks with their potential impacts and how UPM manages those risks today.1) targets for each of its business areas. In the case of the same percentage change in sales prices. of UPM Paper ENA, these long-term targets FOREIGN CURRENCY NET CASH FLOW are instead defined for cash flow margin and EURm cash flow return on capital employed. EFFECT OF A 10% CHANGE IN PRICES In UPM Energy, where the asset base is ON OPERATING PROFIT FOR THE YEAR USD 810 valued at fair value, the ROCE target is 6%. GBP 500 Risk description Impact Management In the less capital intensive converting industry, EURm JPY 160 STRATEGIC Structural changes in paper usage Continuously operating rates and weak Ensure cost efficiency of operations UPM Raflatac, the ROCE target is 18%. FinalPapers in UPM Paper ENA 509 Others, total 170 result in decline in paper demand which pricing power in the industry RISKS Proactive product portfolio management ly, in the process industry businesses UPM Fine and speciality papers in leads to overcapacity 90 Biorefining, UPM Paper Asia and UPM PlyUPM Paper Asia Delay in OL3 nuclear plant start-up and Material cost overrun Ensure that contractual obligations are wood, the ROCE target is 10-12%, or cash Label materials 125 Cost structure consequent loss of profit and cost overruns met by both parties return in the case of UPM Paper ENA. Plywood 40 The company’s biggest cost items are the cost Arbitration proceedings have been initiated With the current business portfolio, achievSawn timber 29 of fibre raw material and personnel expenses. by both parties ing the business area targets simultaneously Chemical pulp (net effect) 18 would result in a UPM Group operating profit Cost of an acquisition proves high and/ Return on investment does not meet targets Disciplined acquisition preparation to ensure margin of approximately 10%, and ROCE of COSTS, EXCLUDING DEPRECIATION or targets for strategic fit and integration the strategic fit, right valuation and effective approximately 9%. Exchange rate risk of operations are not met integration At the Group level, UPM’s financial targets Changes in exchange rates over a prolonged % 2014 2013 are based on return on equity and gearing. The period have a marked impact on financial Delivery of own products 10 11 Regulatory changes such as EU climate Subsidies for alternative uses of wood Communicate the employment and valuereturn on equity target is at least five percentage results. policy and new requirements for CO2 raw material increase costs added creation impacts of such policies clearly Wood and fibre 31 29 points above the yield of a 10-year risk-free It is the company’s policy to hedge an averemissions Changes to relative competitiveness Invest in new, value-adding uses of biomass Energy 9 10 of energy forms investment such as the Finnish government’s age of 50% of its estimated net currency cash Cost competitive operations Fillers, coating and chemicals 11 12 euro-denominated bonds. At the end of 2014, flow for 12 months ahead. the minimum target for return on equity, as At the end of 2014, UPM’s estimated net Other variable costs 14 13 defined above, was 5.9%. The gearing ratio is currency flow for the coming 12 months was Personnel expenses 15 15 OPERATIONAL Availability and price of major Increased cost of raw materials and potential Improving materials efficiency production inputs like chemicals, fillers production interruptions would lower to be kept below 90%. For 2014, UPM’s return EUR 1,640 million. The US dollar represented Other fixed costs 10 10 RISKS Long-term sourcing contracts and relying or roundwood profitability on alternative suppliers on equity excluding special items was 8.3% and the biggest exposure, at EUR 810 million. Total 100 100 Ownership of forest land and long-term gearing was 32% at the end of the year. Costs totalled EUR 8.7 billion in 2014 forest management contracts (2013: 9.1 billion) Execution of investment projects Material cost overrun, return on investment Disciplined planning, project management does not meet targets and follow-up processes Achievement of the long-term return targets in 2013–2014 Ability to retain and recruit skilled Business planning and execution impaired, Competence development personnel affecting long-term profitability Incentive schemes ROCE % *) ROCE % ROCE % CF/CE % **) ROCE % ROCE % 20 Availability of information systems Interruptions in critical information services Technical, physical and process improvements cause a major interruption of UPM business to mitigate availability risk 16 12 FINANCIAL Major trading currencies like USD Changes in currencies change profitability Hedging net currency exposure move significantly against euro of exports and relative competitiveness of on a continuous basis RISKS 8 currency areas Hedging the balance sheet 4 Payment default or customer bankruptcy Loss of income Active management of credit risks and use of credit insurance 0 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 UPM Energy UPM Biorefining UPM Paper Asia UPM Paper ENA UPM Plywood UPM Raflatac HAZARD Environmental risks; Damage to reputation, possible sanctions Maintenance, internal controls and reports RISKS A leak, spill or explosion Direct cost to clean up and to repair potential Certified environmental management systems Target *) shareholdings in UPM Energy valued at fair value **) cash flow after investments, changes in working capital and restructuring payments damages to production unit, loss of production (ISO 14001, EMAS) Physical damage to the employees Harm to employees and damage to reputation Occupational health and safety systems or property Damage to assets or loss of production Loss prevention activities and systems Operating profit excluding ROE compared with target Net debt and gearing Emergency and business continuity procedures special items % EURm Gearing % % of sales 12 4,500 90 12 3,600 72 9 9 2,700 54 1) A more detailed description of risks and risk management is included 6 in the Report of the Board of Directors on page 70. 6 1,800 36 3 3 800 18 0 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 ■ ROE excluding special items, % ■ Net debt ■ Operating profit excluding Minimum target Gearing ratio special items, % Gearing limit CONTENTS 13 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 14 UPM Biorefining BUSINESSES 15–30 OUR DIRECTION OUR STRENGTHS Operating profit*) EUR million • In Pulp, maintain cost competi• Modern, efficient pulp mills and KEY FIGURES 300 tiveness through continuous business committed to growth 2014 2013 240 operational improvement, grow Sales, EURm 1,937 1,988 as a cost efficient producer • Versatile range of pulp grades Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 217 300 180 suitable for a wide range of Capital employed (average), EURm 2,862 2,825 through low-risk, high-yield 120 end uses ROCE excl. special items, % 7.6 10.6 debottlenecking investments, Personnel on 31 Dec. 2,529 2,376 60 strategic sales co-operation and • Own sales and service network potentially through acquisitions for the global customer base 0 2012 2013 2014 • In Biofuels, commercialise the • World-class logistic platform excl. special items *) investment in the world’s first connecting continents biorefinery producing woodbased renewable diesel and • Sustainable fibre sourcing and outstanding environmental Growth in pulp further develop UPM’s proprieperformance tary technology • In Timber, enhance profitability • Proprietary technology for through efficient use of wood supply, operational excellence wood-based renewable diesel and start-up of the biorefinery • Competitive sawmills with skilled and sharpened commercial global sales strategy Business performance Benefits from integrated production • Synergistic operations from joint Operating profit decreased mainly due to lower In the UPM Biorefining business area, UPM supply chain of wood raw materials hardwood pulp prices. Fixed costs increased combines integrated production of pulp, renewdue to maintenance shutdowns carried out at able diesel and sawn timber with a joint supply for sawn timber, pulp and the UPM Kaukas and UPM Pietarsaari pulp chain of wood raw materials. Pulp mills prorenewable diesel mills in the first half of the year and ramp-up duce renewable energy in their recovery boilers Commercial of the Biofuels organisation. The commissionand provide CO2-neutral biomass-based elecproduction of ing phase of the biorefinery started in July, and tricity. As a residue of the pulp production, wood-based commercial production of advanced renewable mills produce crude tall oil, which is the raw renewable diesel diesel began in January 2015. Profitability in material in the biorefinery producing woodbegan in Lappeensawmill operations improved thanks to based renewable diesel. Sawmills have a central ranta, Finland in further development in sales and production January 2015. management. UPM BIOREFINING VALUE CREATED CAPITALS FORESTRY AND PRODUCTION SALES CUSTOMERS END USES OUTCOMES WOOD SOURCING Synergies in wood sourcing and raw materials Synergistic operations in production integrates Capital intensive process PULP PULP PULP Safe and sustainable industry oo Large modern mills oo Global sales • Tissue, products Engaged high performing oo Professional sourcing oo Efficient production oo Strategic sales • Packaging board, Renewable energy people organisation oo Combined heat and co-operation • Specialty paper and Carbon storing products oo UPM’s certified forests power production oo World-class technical • Graphic paper producers Sustainable forest biomass Low emissions in Finland service from certified sources and oo UPM certified Biodiversity with full traceability BIOFUELS eucalyptus plantations oo World’s first biorefinery Employment Sustainable forest in Uruguay BIOFUELS management producing wood-based oo Regional biofuels Work safety oo Forestry services renewable diesel BIOFUELS Responsible sourcing sales Community wellbeing oo Proprietary technology • Fuel distributors Intellectual property rights oo IPR ROCE Community engagement TIMBER TIMBER oo Skilled global sales TIMBER oo Efficient sawmills network • Construction, furniture, joinery industries CONTENTS 15 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 16 UPM Biorefining BUSINESSES 15–30 WOOD-BASED UPM BIOVERNO IS SUITABLE FOR ALL DIESEL ENGINES UPM’s renewable diesel fuel, UPM BioVerno, is an exceptional innovation. It is produced from crude tall oil, a residue of UPM’s own pulp production. The high quality wood-based renewable diesel reduces greenhouse FIBRE UNITED, gas emissions significantly compared to fossil diesel fuel, and does UNIQUE COLLABORATION not compete with food production. UPM BioVerno is manufactured in Lappeenranta, Finland. The production supports the local economy UPM Pulp and Canadian-based Canfor Pulp’s sales and improves self-sufficiency in traffic fuels. and marketing co-operation started strongly in all its markets in 2014. Customers are able to choose from UPM BioVerno is compatible with all diesel engines in passenger cars, the most versatile range of pulp available on the global buses and trucks – without modification. In Finland, UPM BioVerno market in combination with world-class technical is available in St1 and ABC service stations. service. UPM BioVerno has been granted the Finnish Key Flag Symbol, which As of the beginning of 2014, UPM’s sales network has guarantees the Finnish origins of a product. It has also received represented and co-marketed Canfor Pulp’s products in international awards, such as the EU Sustainable Energy Europe Europe and China, while Canfor Pulp’s sales network 2014 Award, granted by European Commission. Risto Kotilainen (left), has represented and co-marketed UPM Pulp in North Hannu Kykkänen and role in the wood supply chain, America and Japan. UPM BioVerno diesel has been granted certificates for sustainable Thomas Björklöf cheer after as their by-products are used in sourcing, production and product safety. The certifications verify the start-up of the UPM the production of pulp and Based on customer feedback, customers have benefited that the fuel has been produced according to the EU directive on Lappeenranta Biorefinery. energy. In UPM Biorefining, from direct access to a broader product offering for renewable energy, taking into account environmental, social and UPM benefits from efficient use every end use, enhanced product quality and improved transparency aspects. of sustainable wood raw materibusiness planning. als and integrated production. Read more: During the first year of co-operation, former sales www.upmbiofuels.com Business development channels were replaced, sales personnel were trained In 2014, UPM proceeded with and product information was shared. Further benefits efforts to increase pulp capacity are expected to achieve from the technical and logistics through debottlenecking investco-operation. ments, and to improve the efficiency of mill integrates in The co-operation includes six pulp grades and approxiIn January 2014, UPM As a product, UPM BioVerno has been Markets and drivers order to release the full potenmately one million tonnes of pulp sales from eight mills strengthened its fibre offering extensively tested in engine tests and fleet tests, • Chemical pulp demand is growing globally tial of production assets. on three continents. through a strategic sales and and has been found to function like any regular by approximately 2-3% annually, driven by As part of UPM’s growth marketing co-operation with diesel. Due to the high quality, there are no growth in private consumption. In 2014, projects, it is targeting a 340,000 Read more: Canfor Pulp Products Inc. This technical blending limits. UPM BioVerno is global market shipments increased by 2% tonne increase in existing pulp www.upmpulp.com co-operation provides customers also a sustainable alternative – it ensures a compared to the previous year. production capacity with investwith the most versatile range of considerable reduction in greenhouse gas emis• In mature markets, consumption is driven by ments of approximately EUR northern softwood, birch, eucasions, and is refined from a sustainable raw an increasing use of hygiene, packaging and 200 million. These projects are lyptus and mechanical pulp material, a residue from pulp production. UPM speciality products. In developing markets, primarily production debottleavailable on the global market, in BioVerno is a competitive alternative to provide growth is also underpinned by middle class necking investments and estimated to be value In June, UPM received an increased produccombination with world-class technical service. the renewable component in traffic fuels, and is expansion and fast urbanisation. enhancing at low risk. tion permit for the UPM Fray Bentos pulp mill As part of UPM’s growth projects, commiswell-positioned among the few existing • Demand for hardwood pulp grows faster than The modernisation of one fibre line at the in Uruguay, entitling the mill to increase its sioning of the UPM Lappeenranta Biorefinery advanced biofuel alternatives available on the for softwood pulp due its end-use qualities UPM Pietarsaari pulp mill was completed in production from 1,200,000 tonnes to 1,300,000 proceeded well during the second half of 2014 market. and lower production costs. June. The investment of EUR 13 million tonnes. To achieve this, minor investments were and commercial production of UPM BioVerno, In sawn timber, UPM proceeded with meas• The global hardwood pulp production capacincreased the mill’s production flexibility in carried out during Q4 2014. Debottlenecking its advanced renewable diesel, started in Januures targeting improved operational efficiency, ity is growing, primarily through new producterms of the use of wood raw materials, as well potential has also been identified at the UPM ary 2015. The focus is on commercialising the and focused sales and supply chain managetion line installations entering the market. as the mill’s capacity to gradually grow by Kaukas mill. investment and developing UPM’s proprietary ment. As an example, the modernisation of The softwood pulp market has remained in 70,000 tonnes. UPM has consistently developed its pulp technologies for broader raw material use. the sticking machine at the Alholma sawmill balance thanks to limited capacity additions. In February, UPM announced EUR 160 business with a unique sales and marketing In June, UPM published a sales agreement increased production efficiency. • Chemical pulp demand is also supported million investment in its Kymi pulp mill, comnetwork providing customers with a multi-fibre for UPM BioVerno renewable diesel with structurally as the graphic paper segment prising a new pulp drying machine, modernisapulp product range directly from producers to NEOT (North European Oil Trade). NEOT supplies fewer white recycled fibres for the tion of the softwood fibre line, a new barking the global market. Pulp has a wide range of end specialises in oil and biofuels wholesale to growing tissue and speciality segments. Older line, as well as improvements to the energy uses with different features and quality requireservice stations such as St1 and ABC. UPM pulp capacity has been closed down for finanbalance of the Kymi integrate. The investment ments, and selecting the most suitable fibres BioVerno is distributed to Finnish service cial and environmental reasons. will increase the mill’s production capacity by provides clear benefits. UPM’s own pulp sales stations and the annual production of UPM • Demand for biofuels is growing due to stricter 170,000 tonnes and advance the decoupling of and technical service experts locate strategically BioVerno will cover nearly a quarter of Finenvironmental standards and sustainability UPM’s pulp and paper operations. The investclose to customers and in each mill. This model land’s 20% renewable energy target for transrequirements. The share of advanced biofuels ment is expected to be completed by the end of provides the customer with fast service and port in 2020. in increasing. 2015. support. CONTENTS 17 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 18 UPM Energy RENEWABLE ENERGY FROM HARJAVALTA BUSINESSES 15–30 The Harjavalta hydropower plant reburbishment project will significantly increase the production of renewable and emission-free energy capacity, and it is scheduled for completion by the end of 2017. The construction work has begun, and the main equipment purchases were made in OUR DIRECTION OUR STRENGTHS 2014. The total value of the investment is approximately EUR 40 million. • Create value in the Nordic • Cost competitive, low-emission The investment also provides new possibilities for managing the water flow rate in Kokemäenjoki and, as a result, decreasing the risk of flooding. The renewed plant will let more water electricity market through electricity generation portfolio flow through than before and enables minimum release more efficiently, which makes it easier generation and physical and to manage the foreseeable winter discharge volumes. The single largest flood risk area in financial trading • Versatile asset base – nuclear Finland is located at the lower reaches of the river around the city of Pori, which has over 83,000 inhabitants. power as base load capacity, • Profitable growth on the Nordic hydropower as flexible capacity CO2 emission-free electricity and condensing power as KEY FIGURES market reliable peak load capacity 2014 2013 Sales, EURm 464 466 The renovation of the Harjavalta • Strong competencies and value hydropower plant will increase Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 202 186 creation track record in physical generation capacity and adjustabilCapital employed (average), EURm 2,903 2,882 ity, and improve the efficiency and ROCE excl. special items, % 7.0 6.5 and financial electricity trading environmental safety. Personnel on 31 Dec. 80 92 Top performance continued With its competencies and generation assets, Otsotuuli Oy, a wind power development In June 2013, UPM announced that it is Markets and drivers UPM Energy is well-positioned to generate joint venture company established with Eleparticipating in the share issue from Pohjolan • Electricity consumption in the Nordic good profitability and create additional value ment Power in 2013, continued to develop wind Voima Oy to finance the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear countries is expected to remain stable. from the increased electricity price volatility in power production possibilities at a number of power plant project. UPM’s share of the issue • Demand is driven by household consumpthe market, through optimal use of its hydrosites throughout Finland, primarily on land is EUR 119 million, of which EUR 31 million tion and industrial activity. power assets. The share of weather-dependent leased from UPM. Based on wind measurewas paid in Q2 2013 and another EUR 31 • In 2014, electricity consumption in the Operating profit*) Business performance (wind and solar) power production in the marments, UPM has several land assets that are million was paid in Q4 2014. The remaining Nordic countries decreased slightly, primarEUR million Operating profit increased due to lower costs as ket is growing, increasing price volatility and well-suited to wind energy production. part of the share issue will be implemented ily due to warmer than normal weather. 300 well as higher hydro and nuclear power produccalling for flexible generation to balance out the The largest ongoing project is at Teolliduring the coming years based on the financing • New capacity investments are driven by tion, more than offsetting the negative impact variations in the production and consumption suuden Voima Oyj (TVO), which is building a needs of the project. economics and influenced by regulatory 240 of lower average sales prices. of electricity. third nuclear power reactor, OL3, at Olkiluoto, In July 2010, the Finnish parliament ratified issues and support schemes; capacity is In 2014, UPM proceeded with efforts to Finland. The new unit will have an annual the government’s favourable decision-in-princimainly growing in renewables. 180 Business development upgrade its hydropower production assets. nuclear power generation capacity of approxiple concerning TVO’s application to construct • Power markets across Europe are becoming UPM Energy is a market-driven business and Through its ownership of Länsi-Suomen Voima mately 1,600 MW. Through Pohjolan Voima OL4, its fourth nuclear power plant unit. UPM more integrated due to market coupling and 120 the second largest electricity generator in FinOy, UPM is participating in the expansion of Oy (PVO), UPM is entitled to approximately is participating in financing the bidding and new transmission lines. land. UPM Energy has developed wide compethe Harjavalta hydropower plant with provision 500 MW of capacity. engineering phase for OL4. • Hydrological balance and wind in the Nor60 tencies in physical and financial electricity of a new machine unit and refurbishment of the The commissioning phase for the building In September 2014, TVO’s application for dic countries impacts electricity supply and 0 trading, supported by market analysis. Its own existing two turbines. When completed in 2017, technology systems of the reactor and turbine an extension to submit a construction licence therefore electricity prices and price spreads 2012 2013 2014 hydropower plants and shares in energy compathe project will improve the efficiency, control plants is ongoing. Testing and planning, as well application for OL4 plant unit was rejected by between different price areas. *) excl. special items nies provide UPM Energy with a versatile and and environmental safety of the plant, as well as as documentation and licensing of the reactor the Finnish Government. The deadline for the • In the Nordic countries there are several cost competitive power generation portfolio responding to the increasing demand for flexible plant automation are continuing. The plant application is June 2015. different price areas; UPM Energy is curwith low emissions. capacity. The total power output of the plant supplier estimates that regular electricity genrently operating in the Finnish price area will increase from 72 MW to 110 MW. eration at the power plant should start in late only. 2018. UPM ENERGY VALUE CREATED CAPITALS VERSATILE GENERATION PHYSICAL POWER MARKET TRANSMISSION DISTRIBUTION HOUSEHOLD OUTCOMES (from own hydropower plants and CONSUMPTION Capital intensive utility oo Physical value creation Low-emission electricity shareholdings in energy companies) business Work safety oo Mainly Nord Pool Spot market Low-emission energy HYDROPOWER NUCLEAR for day-ahead and intraday Energy supply security sources, including oo Flexible oo Efficient base load trading SMALL AND MEDIUM Flexible power supply water rights oo Cost competitive oo Cost competitive oo Low emissions oo Low emissions oo Members (buyers and sellers) SIZED ENTERPRISES Risk mitigation Fuels oo Renewable agree on contracts for the ROCE Engaged high performing delivery of power people CONDENSING POWER Organisational experience oo Reliable peak load Energy trading platform INDUSTRIAL ELECTRICITY Regulation FINANCIAL POWER MARKETS CONSUMPTION Derivative power contracts traded on Nasdaq Commodities oo Value protection and creation CONTENTS 19 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 20 UPM Raflatac BUSINESSES 15–30 INVISIBLE NEVER LOOKED SO GOOD OUR DIRECTION OUR STRENGTHS UPM Raflatac launched a new VANISH™ range of ultra-thin, invisible clear film labelstocks in 2014. • Profitable growth through • Accurate supply chain and efficient VANISH™ clear PET films are ideal for beverage, personal care and food organic growth, product delivery network package labelling. These labels fit perfectly in applications where resistance portfolio development and against water, oil and chemicals is important, as they offer the exceptional synergistic acquisitions • Modern strategically-located combination of strength, good stability and excellent chemical resistance. production assets • Growth in high value added With new VANISH™ labels, brand owners can maximize brand representation films and speciality label as well as realise new productivity gains and reductions in packaging materials • Second largest supplier in most throughout their processes. products markets with global scale in R&D, • Expand presence in rapidlyquality development and technical Read more: growing developing markets know-how www.upmraflatac.com/vanish KEY FIGURES 2014 2013 Sales, EURm 1,248 1,213 Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 80 75 Capital employed (average), EURm 530 532 ROCE excl. special items, % 15.1 14.1 Personnel on 31 Dec. 2,847 2,869 Stable profitability Business development In parallel with the implementation of its million is part of UPM’s focused growth projects. Following this investment, a siliconIn April, UPM Raflatac announced plans to increase production capacity by more than 50% ogy is increasing its market share among labelling solutions. and growth in deliveries growth strategy, UPM Raflatac has continued ising line in Tervasaari, Finland was closed. in Asia. The investment of approximately • In 2014, global demand for label materials with efficiency improving measures in order to As part of UPM Raflatac’s efficiency EUR 14 million is part of UPM’s focused is estimated to have increased by 4% make full use of its production platform and improving measures, the sheet labelstock busigrowth projects. compared to the previous year. distribution network. Investments and restrucness closed down coating operations and Both growth investments are expected to be • Label materials have a wide range of end turing have taken place to reflect market reduced capacity in sheet finishing in Polinya, completed in Q1 2015. uses, of which 80% is driven by private demand in developed and growth markets and Spain. Sheet coating is being centralised at UPM’s labelstock business has seen a rapid consumption and 20% by industrial appliOperating profit*) Business performance maximise cost competitiveness. Nowa Wies, Poland. growth in Asia and the planned capacity allows cations. EUR million Operating profit increased mainly due to In developed markets such as Western The coating operations in Melbourne, UPM to respond to the increasing demand • Growth rates are strongest in Asia, Latin 100 higher delivery volumes and lower fixed Europe and North America, UPM Raflatac Australia and in Polinya, Spain were also with improved quality and cost competitiveAmerica and Eastern Europe, thanks to costs, more than offsetting the adverse sales has continuously strengthened its offering in closed. ness. UPM Raflatac’s sales increased by a faster urbanisation, an expanding middle 80 margin and currency impacts. films and speciality products. Efforts have In growth markets such as Eastern strong 10% in growth markets in 2014 comclass and increasing income levels. focused on distribution, marketing and prodEurope, Latin America and Asia, UPM pared to 2013. Demand is further supported by the rapid 60 uct development in parallel with complemenRaflatac has significantly enhanced its service development of retailers, distributor tary acquisitions which have enhanced growth. and manufacturing network by investing in Markets and drivers networks and automated product label40 In April, to secure cost competitive growth new technology and opening new slitting and • The global label materials market has a ling. in films, UPM Raflatac announced plans to distribution terminals in past years. In 2014 a robust growth outlook, driven by an • In the mature markets of Western Europe, 20 increase production capacity for its film labelnew terminal was opened in Mexico, and expanding middle class and the private the United States and Japan, growth is 0 stock business in Europe by investing in a new more openings are planned for growth marconsumption of branded and packaged mainly driven by product renewal and 2012 2013 2014 coating line in Nowa Wies, Poland. This kets in 2015. goods. Thanks to its versatility and brand tailored solutions. Increased private con*) excl. special items growth investment of approximately EUR 13 appeal, self-adhesive labelling as a technolsumption also increases demand. UPM RAFLATAC VALUE CREATED CAPITALS SELF-ADHESIVE DISTRIBUTION SALES AND CUSTOMERS LABEL USING INDUSTRIES END USES OUTCOMES LABELSTOCK AND SLITTING SERVICES Capital light Label printers Home & Personal care Safe and certified FACTORIES NETWORK converting business Food & Beverage products Engaged high oo Modern oo Optimised oo Loyal relationships Retail Brand appeal performing people distribution and Work safety oo Efficient oo Global scale A4 and cut-size Responsible sourcing slitting network oo Strategically oo Technical know-how Pharmaceutical Employment Face paper oo Efficient and Recyclable products located Transport & Logistics Release paper responsive Durables RafCycle – waste Films recycling concept Tyres Adhesives ROCE New concepts and products, sustainability through the lifecycle Silicones CONTENTS 21 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 22 UPM Paper Asia BUSINESSES 15–30 OFFICE PAPER IN HIGH DEMAND IN ASIA The market for office papers continues to grow in the Asia Pacific region. Key factors behind the growth include general economic growth, urbanisation and the increasing number of offices. OUR DIRECTION OUR STRENGTHS To further support the development, a new production unit for manufacturing • Profitable growth in office papers • Global market leadership in labelling woodfree papers and label materials is being built at the Changshu mill. in Asia Pacific and in labelling materials, focusing on high quality UPM has its own office paper brands for Asia and the company also acts materials globally through release liners and face papers as a contract manufacturer for other brands, such as office equipment manufaccompetitive production, new turers. UPM’s own brands have a strong position particularly in China. capacity investment and strength• Reliable supplier with high quality fine papers in Asia Pacific with own UPM is one of the leading office paper manufacturers in the region. With ened partnerships with customers distribution network significant local capacity, UPM is a reliable supplier whose delivery reliability by offering exceptional customer and consistent quality are well established. Responsibility in environmental experience • Exceptional customer service globally matters as well as ethical business practices bring competitive advantage. and strong office paper brands in Read more: China www.upmbiofore.com • Recognised industry leader in sustainability and environmental excellence KEY FIGURES 2014 2013 • Competitive production assets in China Sales, EURm 1,124 1,108 and Finland Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 108 80 Capital employed (average), EURm 861 882 ROCE excl. special items, % 12.5 9.1 Outstanding Personnel on 31 Dec. 1,652 1,457 achievement in profitability Business development In 2014, UPM Paper Asia streamlined its organisation and sharpened its customer focus. The The investment will enable growth, improve local cost efficiency and enhance global market coverage of UPM’s labelling Markets and drivers • The labelling materials market is growing globally, in Asia Pacific in particular. In • In Asia Pacific, growth in fine paper demand is levelling off, while office paper demand continues to grow. In 2014, office service and product offering were aligned with materials. It also provides an excellent plat2014, global labelling materials market paper demand grew by 2–4% compared to Operating profit*) Business performance individual customer needs. form for strengthening strategic partnerships grew by 3–5%. In Asia Pacific, the growth the previous year. EUR million Operating profit increased significantly due to UPM Paper Asia is capturing its share of the with self-adhesive labelstock customers and rate is twice as high. • Regional office paper demand is driven by 100 lower variable and fixed costs. Average sales growing markets by investing in new production expanding with new products in Asia Pacific. • In developing markets, growth is driven by economic activity, urbanisation and new prices were slightly lower partly due to capacity. As part of UPM’s growth projects, In February 2014, UPM decided to revise middle class expansion and consumption company establishments. 80 negative currency impacts. investment in the third production unit at the its investment scope by specifying more as well as by branded goods. Growth in • Overcapacity prevails in all paper grades. UPM Changshu mill in China proceeded well in focused infrastructure investments. UPM will labelling materials is also supported by the New investments and paper machine con60 2014 and is expected to start up by the end of upgrade existing boilers with state-of-the-art rapid development of retailers, distributor versions to uncoated woodfree and label2015. The annual production capacity is 360,000 technology to minimise environmental networks and automated product labelling. ling materials in Asia Pacific, as well as 40 tonnes of high quality labelling materials and impacts. With the revised plan, the investment • In mature markets, demand is shifting conversions to labelling materials in woodfree uncoated papers. cost decreased to EUR 277 million from towards customer-specific labelling soluEurope have intensified the competition. 20 the original EUR 390 million. tions. 0 Read more on UPM Changshu 2012 2013 2014 environmental investment (p. 51). *) excl. special items UPM PAPER ASIA VALUE CREATED CAPITALS PRODUCTION SALES CUSTOMERS END USES OUTCOMES Capital intensive process industry oo Global market leader in Safe and certified products LABELLING MATERIALS Engaged high performing people labelling materials Labelstock Work safety oo Extensive experience in high quality Community engagement release liners and face papers oo Own sales network of manufacturers Employment oo Cost competitive production fine papers in Asia Siliconisers Responsible sourcing Career opportunity Pacific Packaging converters Sustainable chemical pulp Ethical and compliance oo Reliable supplier with full traceability Merchants in global norms FINE PAPERS oo Exceptional customer Sustainable raw materials oo Leading office paper brands in China Printers & Publishers Recyclable products experience and energy oo Selectively in uncoated and coated segments Merchant-owned labels Low emissions oo Cost competitive production oo Recognised leader in sustainability ROCE oo BAT (Best Available Techniques) CUSTOMER-DRIVEN R&D CONTENTS 23 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 24 UPM Paper ENA BUSINESSES 15–30 LESS IS MORE IN PAPER (Europe & North America) UPM has launched a new high quality and competitive printing paper grade, UPM Valor, designed especially for magazine publishers and brand owners. It is a prime example of how UPM’s papers add value for customers by providing savings in mailing and delivery costs without the need to compromise on quality. OUR DIRECTION OUR STRENGTHS UPM Valor matches the quality and the properties of the reference paper grades but is up to 15% lighter in basis weight. Since fewer raw materials are needed, UPM Valor supports • Improve profitability and • Large low-cost operating platform the sustainability of customer operations with a smaller environmental footprint throughout maximise cash flow through providing continuous opportunities for the value chain. simplified customer-focused sales optimisation After the launch in 2014, several international brand owners such as Spiegel, IKEA and strategy Finnair have integrated UPM Valor into their paper portfolio. As an example, the weight loss • Reliable supplier with consistently high • Make use of optimisation achieved by Finnair’s in-flight magazine means that the airline company will save on fuel costs. quality, excellent service as well as wide opportunities in the large low-cost product palette Read more: production platform www.upmpaper.com • Scale and skills in responsible sourcing KEY FIGURES and manufacturing 2014 2013 Sales, EURm 5,284 5,560 • Environmental and technical expertise, Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 181 0 consistent product development Capital employed (average), EURm 2,511 2,672 ROCE excl. special items, % 7.2 0.0 CF/CE % 12.9 4.6 Personnel on 31 Dec. 10,467 11,081 Significant improvement in profitability Business development UPM Paper ENA also successfully launched outlook for growth in the European economy Markets and drivers 2014 was characterised by the decision in 2013 new paper products, e.g. UPM Valor, UPM deteriorated in the second half of the year • Graphic paper demand is driven by to reorganise the business into a customer-based Impresse and UPM ReCat. and contributed to the challenging market advertising spending in printed media and in structure with differentiated strategies. UPM In the first half of 2014, UPM Paper ENA environment. targeted and unaddressed direct marketing, Paper ENA was organised into three customerimplemented measures relating to the first In November, UPM announced plans magazine and newspaper circulations and based Strategic Business Units (SBU); Magazine profit improvement programme (announced to reduce 345,000 tonnes of newsprint and titles, as well as home and office paper Operating profit*) Business performance Publishing & Advertising; Newspaper Publishin August 2013). Fixed costs were reduced 460,000 tonnes of magazine paper capacity in consumption. EUR million Operating profit increased due to signifiing; Merchants, Home & Office. through focusing, de-layering, increased scalEurope in 2015. With the closures, UPM aims • Following the increased use of digital media 200 cantly lower variable and fixed costs, driven The reorganisation sharpened operational ability and simplification of working proceto adapt its production to meet profitable in the consumer market, paper consumption to a large extent by the profit improvement focus in each strategic business unit, facilitating dures. Variable costs were reduced in sourcing, customer demand and ensure efficient use of its is in structural decline in mature markets 150 programmes, more than offsetting the management of the business segments towards logistics and manufacturing. Thanks to successremaining production capacity without endanin Europe and North America. Despite negative impact from sales prices and delivdifferentiated target setting with faster decision ful implementation of the profit improvement gering customer deliveries. The fixed cost reducthe overall decline however there are still 100 ery volumes. making. UPM Paper ENA’s leaner structure and programme, combined with some tailwind from tion related to the capacity closures is expected growth opportunities in certain end uses decentralised profit responsibility also sparked lower input costs, UPM Paper ENA achieved to be EUR 55 million and is part of the groupand markets. 50 agility and engagement within the organisation, a clear turnaround in profitability. wide EUR 150 million profit improvement • In Europe, demand for graphic papers laying the foundations for further improvements Market conditions remained challenging programme. decreased by 3% in 2014. The decline was 0 2012 2013 2014 in production and supply chain management as in 2014 although the decline in paper demand The UPM Docelles paper mill in France steeper in newsprint and magazine paper, -50 well as customer focus. moderated somewhat, and the price slide levwas closed in January 2014. The mill produced while fine paper demand remained stable. elled off. Nevertheless, overcapacity continued 160,000 tonnes of uncoated woodfree papers • In North America, demand for magazine *) excl. special items to plague the European paper markets. The annually. paper decreased by 3% in 2014. UPM PAPER ENA VALUE CREATED CAPITALS CUSTOMER-BASED BUSINESS UNITS CUSTOMERS END USE OUTCOMES Capital intensive process industry oo Customer focus and offerings Publishers Safe and certified products Engaged high performing people oo Wide product range Printers Work safety oo Reliable supplier Community involvement and local Retailers Employment oo Common operational platform for production, supply chain and sales presence Cataloguers Recyclable products Responsible sourcing MAGAZINE PUBLISHING & ADVERTISING Advertisers Renewable energy Virgin fibre from certified sources NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING Brand owners Low emissions Recycled fibre MERCHANTS, HOME & OFFICE Merchants Vitality of local communities Chemical pulp with full traceability Converters Responsible restructuring PRODUCTION SALES Sustainable raw materials and Cash flow / Capital energy oo Efficient and cost competitive production oo Market-based, global sales employed oo Environmental and technical expertise oo World class technical service oo Focused R&D oo Excellent customer service CONTENTS 25 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 26 UPM Plywood BUSINESSES 15–30 CO-OPERATION DRIVES WELLBEING AT WORK OUR DIRECTION OUR STRENGTHS UPM Kalso veneer mill in Kouvola, Finland has focused on the development of leadership, management skills and solution-oriented decision-making, and the results are beginning to show. The changes have been driven by rapid changes in the veneer business, personnel • Profitable growth through • Leading supplier in demanding reductions and concern for the mill’s future, which could be seen in the Employee Engageoperational excellence and end-use segments ment Survey feedback. customer-oriented service • Reliable supplier with consistent The mill identified relevant development areas in workshops and created clear action plans • Strengthen market position in based on them. The business and mill management team, together with the employees, high quality selected businesses by increasing began to systematically change old practices and fix identified issues. From the beginning, value and service offering • Superior customer service shop stewards had a significant role in the improvement of the work environment and wellbeing of the employees. • Strongest brand in the market – WISA® The main action points for the mill were the development of multiple skills and job rotation. Changes were made to meeting practices and content, decision-making, information flow and communication. In addition, the mill has focused on improving people management, working conditions and wellbeing reviews. KEY FIGURES 2014 2013 Sales, EURm 440 429 Consistent work delivered Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 44 21 Capital employed (average), EURm 268 286 ROCE excl. special items, % 16.4 7.3 results Personnel on 31 Dec. 2,441 2,455 Operating profit*) Business performance UPM Plywood made further progress in its tion with trailer manufacturers and has efforts in supply chain and production manageMarkets and drivers EUR million Operating profit increased significantly due to customer-oriented approach in 2014. A clear launched the WISA Bonded Floor plywood ment resulted in improved quality, higher • Plywood demand is driven by activity in a clear improvement in sales margins resulting definition of the value proposition to customsolution. The new application brings about delivery assurance and lower unit costs. the building and construction and furniture 50 from both higher sales prices and lower variable ers in 2013 enabled UPM Plywood to enhance both economic and environmental benefits. In 2014, production efficiency improved in industries as well as industrial end-use 40 costs. Fixed costs remained on the previous its technical support, services tailored to endUPM Plywood’s increasingly value-oriented particular at the Savonlinna birch plywood mill segments such as transportation. year’s level. use needs and services to improve customers’ customer offering improved average sale prices in Finland. Since the extension and modernisa• Plywood demand in Europe is estimated 30 process efficiency. compared to the previous year. tion work was completed in 2012, production to have increased slightly in 2014. Demand Business development Through its improved customer focus, UPM In 2014, UPM Plywood also succeeded in efficiency has gradually improved and the mill was slightly higher in industrial applications 20 UPM Plywood’s performance has consistently Plywood has successfully increased sales to further improving its operational efficiency. offers further improvement potential. than in construction-related end-use improved thanks to past years’ restructuring and demanding end-use industrial applications such Fixed costs remained at the previous year’s level Safety issues have been made an integral segments. 10 streamlining measures and a renewed commeras LNG (liquefied natural gas) vessels and as the benefits of a new maintenance model and part of the business management system and • The plywood market in Europe was in 0 cial strategy. In 2014, UPM Plywood proceeded trailer manufacturers. Investment activity in the strict cost control offset the impact of cost daily activities, and thanks to a continued balance in 2014, and sales prices increased 2012 2013 2014 with measures to further improve performance LNG industry is high and the outlook remains inflation. A shorter maintenance shutdown at systematic approach and readiness to intervene slightly. *) excl. special items in several areas, focusing particularly on sales good. In the area of road freight applications, the Finnish mills improved production flexibilin risk situations, safety results have improved management and service offering as well as UPM Plywood has provided expertise to furity and enabled UPM to respond to customer considerably, reaching world class industry operational efficiency and work safety. ther reduce the weight of trailers in co-operademand with increased production. Intensified levels in 2014. UPM PLYWOOD VALUE CREATED CAPITALS PRODUCTION SALES CUSTOMER END USES OUTCOMES INDUSTRIES Moderately labour and capital oo Leading supplier in Safe and certified PLYWOOD MILLS intensive industry demanding end uses Construction products (SPRUCE) Engaged high performing people oo High quality LNG shipbuilding Carbon storing products Community engagement PLYWOOD MILLS oo Supply chain services Vehicle flooring Employment Responsible sourcing (BIRCH) oo Professional technical Parquet Work safety Sustainably sourced wood from services Other industrial Vitality of local certified sources with full traceability VENEER MILL oo Reliable supplier manufacturing communities Sustainable energy oo Strong brand Low emissions ROCE Product and process development CONTENTS 27 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 28 Innovations and R&D BUSINESSES 15–30 The objective of UPM’s R&D programmes and business development UPM ProFi and UPM Formi composites PARTNERSHIPS HELP BRING combine the best characteristics of natural fibres is to create new technologies and products, provide support to ADDED VALUE TO SIDE-STREAMS UPM’s development expenditure and plastic. Their principal ingredients are and ensure the competitiveness of its businesses. cellulose fibres and polymers, which can be EURm % In December 2014, UPM announced its 150 25 either virgin or recycled. The non-toxic composagreement with Indicatorium Oy for the The share of R&D work increased in new technologies and growth ites can be recycled. international commercialisation of the food 120 20 UPM ProFi products are used for decking businesses such as developing biofuels, biocomposites, biochemicals, freshness indicator technology developed by and other outdoor end uses. They are made 15 UPM. Food freshness indicator is a smart 90 biofibrils, pulp and CO2-neutral energy in 2014. UPM Biofuels mainly from the surplus paper and plastic left label that reacts to certain chemicals and entered its commercialisation phase in 2014 and is included in over from the production of self-adhesive label helps to determine whether a food product 60 10 materials. the UPM Biorefining business area. is still fresh and safe to eat. 5 UPM Formi composite is used to replace 30 plastic in many applications, from furniture to The co-operation is a good example of UPM 0 0 consumer electronics. UPM Formi is manufacactively using its extensive patent portfolio, 10 11 12 13 14 tured from cellulose fibre and plastics. Around by which it is seeking business development ■ Developing businesses*) half of the oil-based plastic is replaced with and innovative partnerships for various ■ Mature businesses cellulose fibres in the biocomposite. bioeconomy projects and the development Of operating cash flow Products manufactured from UPM Formi of by-product utilisation. With the help of *) Includes negative operating cash flow comply with food contact material requirements co-operation, UPM is aiming to develop new and capital expenditures stipulated in the EU and US Food and Drug business models and utilise patents that Administration (FDA) regulations. Increasing efficient use would otherwise be neglected. The composite also complies with EU toy Annual patent filings 2010–2014 safety regulations. UPM is looking for partners among other industrial companies, start-ups, research UPM Biochemicals has profound institutes (e.g. FIBIC) and various other 400 of resources know-how in lignin-based products The UPM Biochemicals unit develops woodentities that facilitate the commercialisation of technologies (VTT, Sitra). Occasionally, 320 based chemical building blocks, performance 240 UPM also forms partnerships with its chemicals and biofibrils. customers, like in the case of the RafCycle In 2014, UPM spent EUR 112 million (155 UPM is a shareholder in the Finnish CLEEN Chemical building blocks are a cost competi160 label waste recycling concept. million) on research and development work Ltd research company that is focusing on energy tive replacement for fossil-based monomers and equating to 9.0% (21.1%) of UPM’s operating and environmental research. chemicals such as intermediates to bioplastics. 80 These partnerships help UPM divide the cash flow. On top of the direct R&D expenditure The research clusters support the Finnish Performance chemicals utilise the basic structure workload, bringing more flexibility and 0 of approximately EUR 35 million (38 million), bioeconomy and cleantech strategies with the of the natural biopolymers of wood, such as 10 11 12 13 14 agility to its operations. UPM’s contributions the figures include negative operating cash flow aim of increasing sustainable businesses in lignin and hemicellulose. to the projects include transferring and and capital expenditure in developing businesses. Finland. The clusters’ research projects are in Biofibrils™ products and lignin, the binding UPM’s patent filings have grown sharing its know-how on technology and line with the research and implementation agent of wood, are examples of UPM’s perforsignificantly in past years. The filings environment. Versatile use of wood biomass activities of UPM’s Biofore strategy. mance chemicals. Biofibrils are cellulose microare mainly related to UPM’s developing businesses such as biofuels, UPM’s Biofore strategy is based on the versatile In July 2014, EU and industry leaders and nanofibril products that can be used for Read more: biocomposites and biochemicals. use of renewable wood biomass, combined with launched a new European Joint Undertaking on shaping materials and giving them new characwww.upm.com innovation, resource efficiency and sustainability. Bio-based Industries (BBI) in which UPM acted teristics. Lignin for example can be used in The purpose is to replace non-renewable materias one of the founding members in industrial various resin mixtures and adhesives. als with renewable, recyclable and low-impact consortium part. In 2014, UPM Biochemicals worked with alternatives – the main drivers for bioeconomy. This Public Private Partnership (PPP) aims Renmatix to test the company’s water-based Improvements in material efficiency make to trigger investments and create competitive Plantrose™ process. The goal is to convert it possible to consume fewer resources and raw market for bio-based products and materials woody biomass into intermediates for subsematerials in production processes. Therefore, that are sourced locally. For UPM, the PPP is an quent downstream processing into biochemicals. UPM’s R&D work has expanded its focus to important funding element for speeding up the In addition, UPM Biochemicals signed the more efficient use and reuse of side streams. implementation of future investments in new a lignin supply contract with Domtar Inc. to The most recent examples are UPM’s Elurit and areas such as biochemicals, biocomposites and develop the market and offer sustainable, valueCinerit construction products that are made of biofuels. added products for a growing variety of end fly ash from the thermal recovery of biogenic In 2014, UPM received approximately EUR uses. waste materials. 2.1 million (3.8 million) from Tekes (the Finnish UPM Biochemicals has developed profound EVENTS IN 2014 UPM has a global network of research cenFunding Agency for Technology and Innovaknow-how and intellectual property in the area 4 March: UPM’s Biofore Concept tres to support the businesses and their business tion) for its research projects. These projects of lignin-based products, e.g. resins, which are Car demonstrating versatile use development goals. All of UPM’s businesses and were carried out in co-operation with research typically used as binders in wood-based prodof biomaterials premieres at the R&D centres have adopted ecodesign in their institutes, universities and other companies. ucts. UPM BioPiva™ lignin for resin formulaGeneva International Motor Show product development processes. This means that UPM’s intellectual property rights applications, based on UPMs proprietary activation environmental aspects are systematically intetions have increased significantly during the last technology, is one example of this kind of 11 March: Fortum, UPM and Valgrated into product design at an early stage. few years. The importance of patent registration product. met announce their plan to jointly highlights the progress made in new businesses. Product development at UPM Biochemicals develop technology to produce advanced biomass-based fuels Wide-scale collaboration is at the pre-commercial phase, with UPM in new businesses UPM’s biocomposites combine actively developing and testing industrial appli19 March: UPM Plywood and UPM is a shareholder in the Finnish Bioecononatural fibres and plastic cations with its partners in order to create Finnish furniture manufacturer Isku my Cluster (FIBIC). The Cluster’s research The UPM Biocomposites business unit develmill-scale industrial concepts. sign a partnership agreement on programmes focus on the bioeconomy and prodops, manufactures, markets and sells high qualthermo-formable UPM Grada wood ucts based on renewable materials, thus supportity composite products and granulates for a wide material to cut Isku’s form press ing UPM’s internal R&D activities. Moreover, range of consumer and industrial applications. Read more on the reuse of materials (p.50). times by half CONTENTS 29 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 30 1 2 3 STAKEHOLDERS 31–44 THE POTENTIAL OF UPM’S Well-functioning stakeholder UPM’s materiality analysis highlights the most In 2014, the three most important BIOMATERIALS PRESENTED engagement is considered to important issues for UPM and its stakeholders. issues were Biofore value creation and bring competitive advantage The analysis uses feedback from different opportunities in the changing business The Biofore Concept Car – showcased at the International Geneva Motor Show in to the company. stakeholder enquiries and the company’s risk environment, product stewardship and March – demonstrates the innovative use of mapping based on which the importance and occupational health and safety. biomaterials in the car industry. Most of the potential impact of different issues or activities parts traditionally made from plastic have been replaced with high quality biomaterials, on UPM’s operations are assessed. UPM Formi and UPM Grada, and the vehicle runs on UPM’s renewable wood-based diesel, UPM BioVerno. Following the successful premiere, the car has appeared at dozens of events, including Creating added value UPM’s Annual General Meeting, WWF Living Planet Report 2014 seminar, the CEPI European Paperweek and the International Day of Forests at the UN’s Palais des Nations through stakeholder engagement in Geneva, Switzerland. During 2014, the car received wide publicity all over the world. The vehicle was designed and manufactured To deliver true stakeholder value, UPM focuses on suppliers, authorities UPM conducted a materiality analysis that by some 50 industrial design students from ensuring good co-operation, regular discussion and and key decisionhighlighted the most important issues for UPM the Helsinki Metropolia University of Applied makers, the media, and its stakeholders. The analysis uses feedback Sciences. Building the car took four years interaction at all levels. These tools and channels non-governmental from different stakeholder enquiries, the comand approximately 50,000 work hours. enhance knowledge and understanding of the organisations and pany’s risk mapping and other information company’s activities and targets, as well as building local communities. sources based on which the importance and Read more: long-term trust with its key stakeholder groups. The approach to each potential impact of different issues or activities www.bioforeconceptcar.upm.com varies based on busion UPM’s operations was assessed. ness focus, region During 2014, UPM was able to respond to and individual stakestakeholders’ expectations reasonably well. To ensure long-term engagement, UPM conholder groups. UPM was not involved in any major stakeholdtinuously works with its diverse range of stakeThe UPM Code of Conduct sets the stander conflicts. This creates good opportunities to holders to understand their specific needs and ards of responsible behaviour towards these further develop stakeholder relations in the expectations. It is equally important to commustakeholders for each and every UPM employee future. nicate and discuss the company’s targets, operglobally. The standards cover topics relating to The majority of direct feedback from stakeating principles, values and the challenges it legal compliance and disclosure, conflicts of holders focused on the local effects of UPM’s faces within the business environment. interest, gifts and bribes, HR practices, human operations, such as noise, odour or logging As UPM is primarily viewed as an economic rights questions and environmental matters. practices. The single largest topic of feedback operator, financial success, stability, future In 2015, the Code of Conduct will be reviewed. relates to the problems caused by malodorous outlook and growth are fundamental themes The level of stakeholder engagement is gas emissions at the UPM Kaukas pulp mill. for most stakeholders. In addition, UPM’s measured by several key performance indicaCustomer enquiries focused on topics such environmental performance and social respontors. Feedback from stakeholders adds real as product safety, ecolabels and the origin of sibility play a significant role in UPM’s ability value by contributing to risk management and raw materials. UPM actively participated in the to operate and affect the long-term success of mitigation, as well as the development of comdebate and sought to increase stakeholder its businesses. petitive advantage and continuous innovation. information of the situation. To address these different needs, and in It also helps third parties to understand key recognising the differing emphases of different challenges and opportunities in the company’s Competitiveness at stakeholders, UPM aims to provide a balanced operating environment. the forefront of public affairs view of the economic, environmental and social Should stakeholders have concerns or susThrough public affairs activity, the company aspects of its business activities. pect misconduct, they are encouraged to conaimed to foster the necessary prerequisites for tact UPM’s Stakeholder Relations function or investment, particularly in China, Finland and Stakeholder engagement use the UPM Report Misconduct channel Uruguay. Within the EU, UPM promoted is part of the strategy process accessible via the company website. A claim can competitive and consistent energy and climate Regular stakeholder mapping in all businesses be made confidentially and anonymously. The policy regulation. UPM co-operated with a is an essential part of stakeholder relations, company has agreed internal procedures on number of trade associations on these topics. along with the systematic gathering of feedhow to address possible misconduct. In Finland, UPM highlighted the economic back and views from different sources. This footprint of its existing operations. way, UPM aims to ensure that sufficient considActivity in 2014 In addition, the company defined six critical eration is given to stakeholder needs during At the beginning of the year, a new Stakeholder topic areas within the Finnish operating envithe strategic development and decision-making Relations function was formed. Globally, the ronment that impact the competitiveness of The Biofore Concept Car premiered at processes. function operates at Group Executive Team the forest industry in Finland and discussed the International Geneva Motor Show UPM’s most important stakeholders are level with UPM’s businesses responsible for these topic areas with several Finnish decisionin March. customers, investors and financiers, employees, local activity. makers. CONTENTS 31 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 32 UPM’S MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 2014 STAKEHOLDERS 31–44 Biofore strategy Economic Environmental Social PROMOTING ADVANCED BIOFUELS The European Union is aiming to increase the use of Value creation (direct/indirect) Business portfolio development & renewable fuels in transport by the year 2020. In 2014, High Biofore brand new Biofore products the EU decision-making bodies discussed the draft directive Biofore opportunities in the changing Stakeholder expectations on Indirect Land Use Change (ILUC) aiming to minimise & investor attractiveness business environment *) the changes in land use by favouring certain renewable Market presence Public policy & regulation Supplier reliability Profitability Importance to stakeholders raw materials, such as wood-based residues. Information availability Risk management Good governance & business ethics and materiality Anti-corruption Growth Legislation regarding renewable transport fuels will have Cost competition an impact on the development of the UPM Biofuels Transparency Environmental performance: business. UPM is developing high quality, residue-based Value offering and collabRisk management raw materials, water, climate, waste renewable fuels that will not cause changes in land use oration with customers Forest management Product stewardship: ecodesign, or compete with food production. Taxation & origin of wood qualification and product safety Biodiversity Responsible sourcing Transport UPM has established the Leaders of Sustainable Biofuels Land management Employee engagement Responsible restructuring (LSB) coalition together with other European companies Compliance & certification People development & OHS that produce and develop advanced biofuels. talent attraction Responsible sourcing Non-discrimination Local commitment Increasing The purpose of the coalition is to communicate with other Rewarding On the environmental front, the most organisations and stakeholders about the development Focus on health important influencing activity was the updating and opportunities of advanced biofuels and technologies, of the EU Best Available Techniques (BAT and to define the preconditions for advancing investments BREF) reference document. The document Increasing Significance of current or potential impacts on UPM High in the field. sets the basis for European pulp and paper mill permits. *) Change in consumer behaviour, climate change, demographic change, This is achieved, for example, by arranging joint meetings and open expert seminars. Expert assessments are also digitalisation, material scarcity, political and financial instability Co-operation on environment used to increase awareness of the challenges and provides prerequisites for trust possibilities relating to biofuels. Globally, UPM continued its active co-operation with local permit authorities. For environRead more: mental and responsibility issues, UPM’s stakewww.sustainablebiofuelsleaders.com holder engagement activity aimed to maintain THE FOCUS OF UPM’S STAKEHOLDER consistent quality in operations and products, along with securing the prerequisites for future ENGAGEMENT WORK 1 Solid and future-oriented partner and transparent supplier requirements activities. UPM’s Biofore strategy forms the foundation of UPM’s 2 Supplier collaboration projects and the Co-operation also continued on a voluntary stakeholder dialogue. The key focus areas and improvement of contractor safety 1 Reliable, safe neighbour, employment basis with a wide range of stakeholders relating activities vary locally and according to stakeholder opportunities, dialogue on local topics to ecolabels, standards and standardisation UPM has opened a dedicated visitor centre UPM’s support for its Uruguayan UPM 3 Cost efficiency, value creation and and responsible restructuring needs. Find out more about our activities in 2014 in compliance with Supplier code frameworks, as well as nature conservation. for its renewable diesel biorefinery. Foundation continued with EUR 530,000. The this picture. 2 Community forums, sponsorship and Regarding environmental issues, co-operaUPM’s Biofore Concept Car, launched at foundation supports and encourages training, local community projects, responsible tion continued with WWF, IUCN and the the Geneva Motor Show, showcased the opporentrepreneurship, employment and healthy restructuring Uruguayan Vida Silvestre, for example. As to tunities for renewable materials to an extensive living and entertainment in local communities Suppliers Communities 3 Acceptance and good collaboration ecolabels and standardisation issues, UPM international audience. The car was manufacin the Uruguayan countryside. collaborated with FSC, PEFC, the German tured in co-operation with students from the UPM does not financially support political 1 Proactive and Blue Angel, the Swan label and the EU EcolaMetropolia School of Applied Sciences. parties or individual candidates. responsive bel. The company also engaged in several joint Approximately EUR 225,000 was donated communications Global sustainable development projects initiatives with different parties: for example, to charities or other non-profit purposes, 1 Safe and motivating 2 Clear and reliable working environment have been developed alongside WBCSD (World together with VR, the Finnish state railways, targeting the health and wellbeing of children disclosure, active Media Employees Business Council for Sustainable Development) rail yard safety risks on wood transportation and the young, as well as universities. interaction with 2 Step Change in Safety media initiative and “The Forest Dialogue” organisation. were assessed. UPM also initiated co-operation with WWF Finland to promote the sustainabilContinuous development with 3 Fact-based media 1 Stakeholders’ main concerns 3 Employee engagement and expectations Biofore strategy communicated ity of economic forests and the sustainability of corrective actions coverage through versatile channels wood-based liquid biofuels. UPM does not tolerate any violations of the 2 Key engagement activities During 2014, UPM’s Biofore strategy and its UPM Code of Conduct or the rules and guide3 UPM’s target progress were regularly communicated to key Sponsorships revisited lines that accompany it. 1 Total shareholder value Investors stakeholder groups. The constant transformaUPM focuses on sponsorship initiatives that In 2014, a total of 16 concerns were report2 Clear and reliable disclosure and communications, Government 1 Compliance with laws, tion of the company, growth projects and are future oriented and appropriate for an innoed through the UPM Report Misconduct tax transparency investor meetings and events and innovations continued to generate significant vative bio-forest industry company with suschannel. UPM took corrective actions considregulators interest about UPM. tainable values. To better align with UPM’s ered appropriate to the circumstances. 3 Attractive investment 2 Co-operation with trade associations, discussions According to a brand tracking study carried strategy, the company’s guidelines for sponsorThe complaints related mainly to suspected with decision-makers of out at the end of 2014, UPM’s stakeholders ships and donations were revised in late 2013. cases of fraud and suspected failures to adhere Customers different levels, co-operation give the company very positive scores in future New targets and focus areas for 2014-2016 were to the company’s HR Rules or compliance 1 Reliable partner, service consistency, NGOs with tax authorities product safety and quality, orientation, sustainability and innovation. In defined. procedures. Some of the cases involved misconproduct profiles and ecolabels 3 Ensuring competitiveness the growing Asian markets, these features were The focus of the local sponsorship was to duct and led to disciplinary action including and a fair operating estimated to have a specific weight in the future. support the vitality of UPM production locaterminations of employment. 2 Collaboration, customer satisfaction environment as well as surveys, co-operation on environmental Since UPM opened its new head office in tions. UPM spent approximately EUR 490,000 1 High level of environmental and consistent energy and credentials of products social responsibility performance climate policy regulation Helsinki, more than 22,000 visitors have visited on local sponsorships and donations. For Read more on malodorous gas emissions at UPM the Biofore House and heard about UPM’s commercial sponsorships, UPM spent approxiKaukas (p. 52), co-operation with Vida Silvestre 3 Business success and Biofore opportunities 2 Dialogue, transparency and transformation. In Lappeenranta, Finland, mately EUR 750,000. (p. 53) and UPM Biofore Concept Car (p. 32). co-operation with relevant NGO’s 3 Collaboration, common projects CONTENTS 33 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 34 STAKEHOLDERS 31–44 UPM’S CORPORATE INCOME TAX IN FINLAND REACHES NEARLY EUR 90 MILLION UPM pays income tax where added value is created and profit generated. As a result, especially in the countries where UPM’s different business areas have significant valueadding operations, the company is also a major tax payer both of direct taxes (for example corporate income tax, real estate tax) and indirect taxes (value added tax). In addition to Finland, UPM has significant investments in production, for example in Uruguay, Germany, China, the UK and the USA. Corporate income tax particularly, which is based on the company’s taxable profits, is directly proportional to the company’s profitability. UPM has worked systematically to improve its profitability over the past few years, not only through increasing its cost efficiency and making savings, but also by investing in new operations. UPM’s tax policy promotes Corporate income tax is paid in accordance with local legislation. In some countries, governments support companies making significant investments, for example by granting temporary operating permits for special economic zones. In Uruguay, the government has granted a permit to UPM’s pulp mill to operate in a free trade zone. compliance, risk management, Finland’s corporate income tax rate decreased to 20% from the beginning of 2014. UPM’s corporate income tax in Finland in 2014, estimated at nearly EUR 90 million, has been calculated at the tax rate of 20%. In 2013, UPM’s corporate income tax in Finland was EUR transparency and efficiency 116 million at the tax rate of 24.5%. UPM is one of Finland’s biggest tax payers Despite the challenging operating environment, UPM has been able to improve its results through its own actions year on year, and thus the amount of taxes paid has also increased. Based on the standards of behaviour required local tax legislation and regulations of the by UPM’s Code of Conduct, UPM’s tax policy country in question. Another reason for the large amount of taxes paid is that UPM has significant operations describes the main principles and guidelines of UPM’s significance to local tax revenue in Finland through all of its six business areas. At the same time as some operations have taxation at UPM. UPM is committed to paying is especially emphasised at the locations of been reduced, new operations have been started and new service concepts have been all the relevant statutory indirect, direct and production sites. In addition to the taxes paid developed. other taxes and to file, report and disclose the by UPM, such as corporate income taxes and information required to comply with the prereal estate taxes, the local impact is augmented Investments have been made in production and service operations as well as in research vailing legal requirements and transparency by the taxes paid to the local municipalities and development, which will contribute to the results in the future. For example, following objectives of UPM. by UPM’s employees as well as those indirectly research work carried out in Finland, the production of biofuels has been started in The four main principles of UPM’s tax employed to perform various services at the Lappeenranta. policy, updated in 2014, are: production sites. Local investments and expertise can also be used in a completely new business environ• Compliance with relevant statutory Work on developing ment, good examples of which include business premises and related services provided by legislations and rules. tax transparency continues UPM to entrepreneurs in Kajaani and Kouvola, and the provision of forest management • Management of tax risks, both financial UPM supports transparency of tax issues services to an increasingly larger group of investors. and non-financial. through sufficient and regular reporting on • Transparency of tax issues and an overall taxes and by open communication with A certain amount of the corporate income tax paid by UPM in Finland is distributed to requirement of commercial rationale authorities and other relevant stakeholders. regions where the company has significant operations, for example Lappeenranta, Jämsä, concerning tax-related transactions. UPM aims to achieve a transparent, proacKouvola, Rauma and Tampere. In addition to this corporate income tax and real estate tax • Continuous enhancement of shareholder tive and professional relationship with tax paid by UPM, the taxes paid by the company’s own employees and indirectly-employed value by aiming for cost efficient and optiauthorities in all the countries where it operates. contractors increase the tax revenue of the regions. The taxes are used to finance common mal tax processes, business transactions and An enhanced relationship or co-operative services and projects, with the purchasing power of UPM and its employees also adding structures. compliance, available in some countries, is one to the vitality of these regions. example of a more structured way of improving UPM pays taxes where co-operation with tax authorities. OECD recomvalue is created mends an enhanced relationship between tax In addition to the enhanced relationship DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED All of UPM’s tax-relevant transactions are authorities and large taxpayers to enable the with tax authorities, UPM has engaged in open BY UPM IN 2014 (EUR MILLION) based on commercial rationale. The location real-time sharing of information on significant dialogue with various stakeholder groups interof UPM’s group entities is driven by business tax matters to make sure that the correct tax is ested in tax issues. UPM aims to develop tax Direct economic value created Economic value distributed reasons, such as the location of customers, paid when it is due and to avoid unnecessary reporting that meets the expectations of various suppliers, raw materials and know-how. compliance costs. stakeholders. UPM closely follows the developOperating costs –7,413 UPM recognises the importance of followIn Finland, UPM participates in a voluntary ment of international and local guidelines and Sales 9,868 ing arm’s length standards as stated in the pilot project of enhanced relationship with recommendations for country-by-country Employee wages and benefits –1,290 Income from UPM’s economic impact is significant OECD guidelines and in other standards. the Finnish tax authority, the Large Taxpayer’s reporting, for example via OECD’s work on sale of assets 158 Payments to providers of loans –51 in the surrounding communities. The Accordingly, transactions are taxed where Office. tax reporting or other international corporate Income from Dividend distribution –319 company’s operations contribute to operations are performed and where value is In 2014, the enhanced relationship started responsibility initiatives as well as local financial investments 9 local, regional and national economies created. with so-called compliance scans that included a legislations. Corporate income taxes paid by generating economic benefits for Due to UPM’s corporate and operational review of UPM’s current tax control framework Other income 29 and donations –82 different stakeholder groups. The structure, UPM reports and pays its corporate concerning all taxes supervised by the Large 10,064 –9,155 related direct monetary flows indicate income taxes mainly in the production counTaxpayer’s Office. Through the pilot project, UPM’s tax policy is available at the extent of added value globally. tries and in the countries where innovations UPM aims to achieve efficiency, cost savings www.upm.com are being developed, in accordance with the and certainty around tax issues in the long term. Economic value retained 909 CONTENTS 35 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 36 STAKEHOLDERS 31–44 UPM offers a wide range of renewable UPM’s interaction with customers Customers value UPM’s comprehensive and recyclable products to be further is based on continuous dialogue and product range, reliability and excellent processed into a variety of useful regular customer satisfaction surveys. environmental performance. everyday products, and also provides services that meet the needs of a versatile range of customers. Continuous dialogue and collaboration with customers UPM’s businesses vary in the products and CUSTOMER COLLABORATION IN UPM’S BUSINESSES services they offer. Each business has its own Wood Sourcing customer management process and way of Pulp Biofuels Timber products Energy UPM Raflatac UPM Paper Asia UPM Paper ENA Plywood and Forestry interacting with customers. A comprehensive Product Softwood, birch and Wood-based renewable Standard and special Trading in physical and Self-adhesive paper Fine papers, office papers, Magazine papers, Plywood and veneer Wood and wood-based understanding of the markets, knowledge of range eucalyptus pulp diesel for transport sawn timber derivatives electricity and film labelstock labelling and packaging newsprint, fine papers products biomass (logs, pulpwood, end uses and an appreciation of customers’ markets materials for various end uses chips, forest residues etc.), needs form the basis of UPM’s customer forest estates and lakeshore plots relationship management. UPM’s target is to provide customers with solutions that improve customers’ business Customer Tissue, specialty, printing Fuel distributors, Building, construction, UPM businesses and Label printers, packers, Distributors, retailers, OEMs Newspaper and Construction, vehicle All UPM businesses using industries and writing papers, transportation, oil and furniture, joinery, packaging electricity supply sector brand owners in durables, (original equipment magazine publishers, flooring, LNG shipbuilding wood or wood-based processes, with a special focus on creating as well as packaging petrochemicals industry industries in the Nordic countries tyres, retail, A4, food, manufacturers), printers printers, cataloguers, and parquet industries biomass, forest owners mutual benefits with increased efficiency. Matand Central Europe beverage, personal care, and publishers, converters retailers, distributors ters related to environmental performance are pharmaceutical, retail and and converters also at the centre of UPM’s customer offering. logistics segments Collaboration with customers Measurement Continuous dialogue, Continuous dialogue and Continuous dialogue and Continuous dialogue Continuous dialogue, Continuous dialogue, Continuous dialogue, Continuous dialogue, Continuous dialogue In addition to a continuous working dialogue, of customer regular customer surveys collection of feedback, collection of feedback, annual customer surveys, regular customer surveys regular customer bi-annual customer and regular customer satisfaction end-user studies customer surveys training, customer events surveys surveys surveys UPM is engaged in various development projects with customers. Many of the projects are related to product development, supply chain Actions • Sales and marketing • Supply chain and • Further focus on strategic • Sale of hydropower • Strengthen films & • Launch of a series of new • Launch of new • Sharpened end-use • Development of supply efficiency and optimisation, as well as the in 2014 co-operation with operative readiness markets and marketfrom Kymijoki river specials offering value-added products and products that bring prioritisation chain efficiency and Canfor Pulp in place specific weighting power plants to KSS • Optimisation of services savings to customers • Continuation of services co-planning of activities. Energia • Co-marketing events • Strengthening • Optimisation of raw production and • Joint development projects • Joint product the ongoing work to • Development of a new Customer satisfaction is measured regularly for customers partnerships with material quality and use distribution network • Enhancing sustainability development improve supply chain way of serving forest in most businesses through customer satisfacselected companies performance and owners • Increase of pulp • Product development message further • Development of tion surveys conducted by a third party. Based production at all mills • Ensuring product partnership service offering service • Development of web on various business customer satisfaction surfunctionality by • Quantifying value solutions to improve • Strengthened technical • Improvement of supply • Improved business veys, the overall total satisfaction with UPM customer service in comprehensive testing chain efficiency interaction with propositions customer service as a supplier is 77% (75%). The surveys act as Europe • Sustainability and customers • Customer and contract a tool for further development, and bring an • Strengthened sales recycling solutions management important customer dimension to performance in APAC and Europe management. Important Forest certification, Reducing greenhouse Chain of custody, Concern for fishways, Product safety, lifecycle Forest certification, origin of Safety, forest Forest certification, chain Competitive price and Customers interested corporate sustainable forestry, water gas emissions, biofuelsorigin of wood and low-emission energy analysis, waste wood, product safety and certification, environof custody, product safety sustainable forestry responsibility use and resource efficiency specific sustainability forest certification management, recyclability resource efficiency mental performance, and resource efficiency in responsibility certification, social and and forest certification supplier audits at mills, Based on the dialogue and surveys, UPM’s topics traceability criteria in ecolabels, resource customers take an interest in the company’s targets set by the EU efficiency and financial responsibility performance and the sustainability Renewable Energy stability as a supplier Directive of its operations. Product safety, forest certification and chains of custody, resource efficiency, safety perforMajor • Significant growth of • Global increase of • Growing importance • Structural changes in • Growth in personal Fine Papers APAC: • Digitalisation • Increased need for • Tightened competition changes tissue and packaging advanced biofuel of East Europe as a the electricity market care products • Structural services, stocks and • New Forest Act and mance and the supply chain are among the most board production volumes and demand production area short lead times in customer • Retailer and distributor • Changes in graphics overcapacity other legislative important topics. The significance of long term industries • Sharp decline of • Waste and residuenetwork development end uses • Requirement for forest changes impacting • Variations in raw financial performance and profitability of the printing and writing based biofuels are • Online shopping • Increased share of material availability certifications has forestry practices supplier have increased. paper industry in favoured by both e-media and costs increased within on-site and competitive mature markets customers and • Increase in automated construction end use environment UPM offers product declarations and legislation product labelling and • Quality upgrade in • Power shift in in Finland • China’s role as identification cut-size business global economy • More customer-driven environmental data for most products as a tool the most important specifications among to provide customers with information on the single country for • Increase in adhesive• Consolidation industrial end users sustainability of products and the supply chain. consumption of pulp based fastening in Labelling materials: decreasing supplier’s manufacturing see UPM Raflatac possibility to Read more on new printing paper UPM Valor • Increased use of differentiate with (p. 26), new invisible film labelstock VANISH (p. 22) composite materials in a product and UPM’s co-operation Hamelin Group on ecolabels materials technology (p. 49). CONTENTS 37 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 38 Suppliers STAKEHOLDERS 31–44 are an integral part of UPM value creation FOCUS ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2014, UPM focused more intensively on social responsibility issues in its supply chain. Based on Sourcing operations play a significant role in ensuring the efficiency and a human rights related assessment conducted in 2013, UPM evaluated its present sourcing processes profitability of UPM. The objective of UPM’s sourcing operations is to maintain and took the necessary steps in order to highlight human rights related issues in its sourcing activities. a supplier base that is capable of delivering material and service solutions The risk assessment related to the supplier base was enhanced. Consequently, the number of risk that are both cost competitive and innovative to UPM businesses globally. assessment-based supplier audits was doubled in 2014 with a much wider geographical coverage This calls for close co-operation between UPM sourcing professionals and than earlier. Some of the audits covered the entire up-stream supply chain. UPM businesses. UPM experts auditing UPM also combined forces with the Fair Working Conditions (FWC) organisation on audits in China a pulp supplier in Brazil. in order to benchmark the employment practices of UPM’s suppliers, based on the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), for example. The sourcing of all necessary products and WOOD DELIVERIES TO UPM MILLS services results in a significant cost element for In addition, UPM arranged training on responsible sourcing to nearly 200 employees and improved UPM business. Cost efficiency is the leading 1,000 m3 2014 2013 the awareness of the sourcing personnel. principle in UPM sourcing, including price and Finland 17,910 17,907 other cost elements. Germany 1,336 1,691 The development of responsible sourcing practices will continue in 2015. Besides cost, UPM’s holistic sourcing Austria 962 1,098 approach sets requirements for the reliability of Russia 328 352 Read more: deliveries in the long term, the quality of the United Kingdom 289 297 www.upm.com/suppliers, www.upm.com/responsibility products and services, the financial stability of and www.fairworkingconditions.ie Estonia 135 123 the supplier, the environmental management of UPM's external purchasing spend United States 940 881 operations, social responsibility and occupational health and safety as well as product Uruguay 4,366 4,519 Fibre 30% safety. Total 26,266 26,868 Logistics 17% Indirect Close co-operation with materials and a wide variety of suppliers services 15% UPM aims to be a professional partner to its suppliers and to develop supplier relationships in a responsible manner that deliver long-term the criteria concerning social and environmenTracing the origin of wood is ers. The results of these surveys are discussed fuels used by UPM were from renewable sources. Raw benefits to both parties. tal responsibility. These supplier requirements a prerequisite for UPM with the suppliers, both on and off-site, resulting In addition to the company’s own electricity materials 27% Energy 11% The company’s sourcing network consists are defined in the UPM Supplier Code. UPM’s tracing systems and chain of custody in improvements, action plans and commitments generation, electricity is also purchased from the of suppliers ranging from private forest owners In 2014, 67% (64%) of supplier spend was model cover the requirements for both PEFC™ such as continuous improvement. Nordic and Central European energy markets. and local companies to large international qualified against the Supplier Code. Good and FSC® forest certification schemes. UPM Since 2011, UPM Raflatac has annually In Germany, the company has bilateral agreecorporations. Long-term co-operation plans progress was achieved in sourcing of raw mateconsiders forest certification to be an excellent conducted the Responsibility Survey with the ments in place with electricity suppliers. In 2014, Sources of wood to UPM mills 2014 based on mutual commitment and openness rials for paper and label, where the qualified tool for promoting sustainable forestry. most important paper, film and chemical suppli4.9 TWh (5.1 TWh) of electricity was purchased. Company between companies are in place with key supspend is over 80%. Additional specific requireWith its chain of custody system, UPM ers. In 2014 the survey was conducted with 70 forests 17% pliers. The aim of this co-operation is to work ments are in place for areas such as wood, ensures full traceability of the origin of wood suppliers. The completed surveys were scored Logistics form the foundation Import 12% together to optimise the entire value chain, chemicals, safety, logistics, pulp and packaging. worldwide. UPM has several decades of experiand ranked and the suppliers were given feedof on-time deliveries while sharing best practice in areas such as Suppliers are encouraged to apply manageence of wood supplier audits. back based on their responses. UPM delivers approximately 1.3 million truckState forests 4% supply chain, manufacturing and product ment systems based on internationally recogUPM verifies that the wood raw material loads (c. 25 tonne each) of products and raw development. nised standards and up-to-date techniques and supplied to its mills is sustainably sourced, UPM is a significant user materials around the world every year; that is one Suppliers are an important stakeholder practices. legally logged and procured according to the and buyer of recovered paper load every 25 seconds. Of all UPM deliveries, 68% Private group for UPM. UPM sourcing professionals, basic requirements of international forest certifiUPM is the world’s largest user of recovered are transported by rail and road and 32% by sea. forest 35% Delivered with their full understanding of supply market Wood is the primary raw cation schemes and the EU Timber Regulation, paper for the production of graphic papers. In The majority of UPM’s haulage is handled by sale/ incl. dynamics, are one of the key resources of material for UPM’s businesses US Lacey act and other regional jurisdictions. 2014, the total consumption of recovered paper contract partners. UPM aims to create strategic sawmills 32% UPM. UPM is both a major forest owner and a purUPM therefore has control over the origin of its was approximately 3.4 million tonnes. long-term alliances to create benefits for the Ensuring responsible sourcing is an integral chaser of wood. UPM’s wood sourcing operaown harvesting and ensures that other sources Efficient paper recycling depends on the local company and its customers. UPM group’s electricity supply part of supplier performance management. tions are closely integrated with the UPM are controlled through contractual terms of infrastructure for national collection schemes UPM has focused on optimising transportaTWh UPM works closely with suppliers to ensure businesses that use wood as a basic raw mateagreement and supplier audits. and recovery systems. The recovered paper used tion. At the same time, emissions caused by that all the company’s requirements are met rial. UPM sources all wood assortments to All of UPM’s wood supplies are covered by by UPM is purchased from Europe, where the transportation are reduced to the lowest possible 20 and to establish mutual understanding on the ensure optimal utilisation of this valuable raw third-party-verified chains of custody and 83% most significant suppliers are local authorities, volume. 16 issues of sustainability and social responsibility. material. (80%) of the wood used is certified. waste management companies and printing Wood sourcing, transportation and logistics In 2014, UPM sourced 26.3 (28.0) million houses. UPM aims to optimise the value chain of have a significant socio-economic impact on rural 12 Systematic supplier cubic metres of wood from around the world. Pulp and chemicals are recovered paper by focusing on local supply close areas around the UPM mill sites. In Finland assessment and requirements The majority of wood is purchased from private purchased worldwide to the mills with minimal costs and environmenalone, the total external workforce includes 1,000 8 Transparent and systematic supplier requireforest owners who numbered nearly 24,000 in UPM buys approximately 1.8 million tonnes tal impact. harvester drivers, 1,400 truck drivers, 550 railroad ments are the basis for the company’s supplier 2014. of chemical pulp from external suppliers. Speworkers, 360 dock workers and 650 sailors. The 4 selection process and supplier performance A network of local entrepreneurs takes care cific requirements are set for pulp suppliers with Energy from renewable sources number of entrepreneurs and companies involved 0 evaluation. UPM’s risk assessment covers of harvesting, logistics and forestry work operaregard to environmental performance, social UPM is both a significant purchaser and prois 230. Looking at UPM global scale this, together 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 environmental, social and economic risks and is tions. There were nearly 3,000 harvester drivers responsibility, forestry, wood sourcing and ducer of energy. The majority of electrical and with purchases from the forest owners, results in carried out at supplier level. Supplier audits are and more than 3,000 truck drivers working for performance reporting. thermal energy is used for the company’s pulp significant support for local livelihoods in rural ■ CHP production ■ Hydro initiated based on identified risks or gaps in the entrepreneurs in 2014. UPM wood sourcing Environmental and social performance data and paper production. UPM favours a wide Europe, USA and Uruguay. ■ Nuclear supplier performance. creates employment opportunities for thoucollection is an integral part of supplier risk and range of low-emission energy sources and ■ Condensing UPM requires its suppliers to apply the sands of people living in rural areas within the performance management. The data is collected focuses on energy efficiency and energy savings ■ Purchase principles of the Code of Conduct and to fulfil UPM wood sourcing spheres. regularly from UPM’s pulp and chemical suppliin its businesses. In 2014, 67% (67%) of the Read more on UPM’s sustainable forestry (p.53). Electricity consumption CONTENTS 39 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 40 Employee Engagement Survey People enable company STAKEHOLDERS 31–44 (EES) results, Trend 2007–2014 UPM’s personnel by business area 2014 80 UPM Biorefining 12% transformation Other operations 3% 60 UPM Energy 0% UPM Plywood 12% UPM Raflatac 40 14% UPM Paper ENA 51% 20 UPM Paper In 2014 the main focus areas in UPM’s People Strategy were a safe and inspiring Asia 8% workplace, sharp commercial ambition and sales capabilities, and change 0 07 08 09– 10 11 12 13 14 readiness and agility in changing business environment. These focus areas have 10 ■ Response rate (%) been incorporated into the businesses’ strategy process. Employee Engagement Index (EEI) Manager Effectiveness Index (MEI) OHS Index Encouraging professional growth results and progress are evaluated in order to lion and the estimated amount of annual incenUPM aims to provide a safe and inspiring define further improvements both at organisatives for the 2014 STI plan is EUR 51 million. working environment where employees are tional and team level. For significant individual or team successes, capable of achieving good results. UPM there is a separate Achievement Award system encourages its employees to pursue professional Building capabilities in place. growth and supports them in learning and for empowering leadership UPM has two long term incentive plans: a developing their skills further. The company aims to have inspiring leaders Performance Share Plan (PSP) for senior execuThe company uses the 70/20/10 model based who empower and engage employees at all tives and a Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) for on the assumption that 70% of learning takes levels. To further develop its leadership capabiliother key employees. Approximately 600 place on the job, 20% comes from learning ties, UPM has a development programme employees are covered by the plans launched in from others, and 10% comes from development portfolio focusing on self-leadership, coaching 2011 and run on an annual basis. Under both programmes. capabilities, innovation and leading in complexplans, shares can be earned based on either UPM systematically uses a performance ity. group or business area level performance. The management process (PPR) to set individual In 2014, UPM continued to support a PSP and DBP have replaced the Stock Option strategy-related targets and development plans coaching leadership style and promoted the use Programme 2007 which expired during 2014. for all employees globally. The PPR provides an of various tools for feedback on behaviours and More information about long term incentives opportunity, both for managers and employees, performance. The target is to improve dialogue can be found in the Remuneration Statement on to give and receive feedback on performance and the feedback culture in the company. UPM www.upm.com in the Investors section under and behaviour based on UPM values. also continued its mentoring programme as a Governance. In past years UPM has developed its perforvaluable tool for developing leaders. mance appraisal process by emphasising manUPM promotes active participation PERSONNEL BY COUNTRY agers’ roles in leading performance and giving Rewarding and recognising At the end of 2014, UPM had 20,414 employfeedback. Managers are expected to focus on good performance ees working in 45 countries. As a multinational 31 Dec. 2014 2013 2012 performance management and guiding their UPM offers reward and recognition with an company, UPM complies with international, Finland 7,855 8,110 8,636 team members to reach agreed targets. 86% emphasis on high performance. UPM has a national and local laws and regulations and Germany 4,586 4,609 4,714 (85%) of all permanent UPM employees had a total compensation approach consisting of base respects international agreements concerning United Kingdom 1,098 1,136 1,205 personal performance review with their managsalary, benefits and incentives, which are deterhuman and labour rights and freedom of assoRussia 787 771 970 ers in 2014. mined by UPM’s global rules, local legislation ciation. France 785 901 1,146 and market practice. UPM abides by legally binding collective Austria 549 547 546 Developing the workplace together Intangible recognition is included in the agreements. UPM does not collect information The UPM Employee Engagement Survey total reward portfolio, which means that UPM on or report on its employees’ union memberPoland 499 440 454 (EES) invites all employees across the company provides, for instance, a safe and healthy workship at a global level due to differences in Estonia 204 206 217 to evaluate different aspects of the working ing environment, interesting and meaningful national legislation in the various countries. Spain 109 194 212 environment every year. The survey measures work, and excellent leadership and career The estimated percentage of active employees Italy 61 62 65 development in three main indices; Employee opportunities. Individual, team and business covered by collective agreement mechanisms Turkey 40 38 39 Engagement, Manager Effectiveness and Occuperformance are criteria for compensation was 73% (65%) in 2014. Sweden 27 26 29 pational Health and Safety (OHS). planning and decisions. UPM promotes active employee participaBelgium 28 32 35 In 2014, 78% (78%) of UPM employees Base salary is set with regard to general tion and consultation, organised in accordance responded to the survey which illustrates a high agreements and local market practice, the level with international and national rules and reguOther Europe 111 177 208 level of willingness to participate in the develof the particular position, and individual perlations. UPM respects the privacy of employees China 1) 1,424 1,412 1,430 opment of UPM as a place to work. The formance. Through their own personal achieveand promotes equal opportunities and objectivUnited States 2) 1,087 1,116 1,129 Engagement index increased to 63% (60%) ments and behaviour, employees have the posity in employment and career development. Uruguay 565 562 576 while favourable scores in the OHS index sibility to influence their base salary. To enhance open international dialogue, Malaysia 175 174 185 increased it to 78% (77%). Favourable scores in All UPM’s employees belong to a unified UPM has a co-operative body, The UPM EuroBrazil 89 95 48 the Manager Effectiveness index have steadily annual Short Term Incentive (STI) scheme. The pean Forum, that focuses on issues related to South Africa 67 66 72 improved over the years (from 74% in 2013 to plan includes companyand business-level changes within the company and the business Australia 61 77 86 75% in 2014), and the score is now close to the targets, safety targets and personal and/or team environment in general. The forum organises top quarter of the global norm. performance targets. EBITDA is one of the key regular meetings for employee representatives India 39 41 36 UPM is placing particular The EES gives an opportunity for annual financial indicators for the companyand busifrom business units operating in Europe. Rest of the world 168 158 142 emphasis on performance monitoring of long term trends and the proness-level targets. The annual incentives paid in Total 20,414 20,950 22,180 orientation and employee gress of agreed development activities. The 2014 for the 2013 STI plan were EUR 50 milengagement. 1) Incl. Hong Kong 2) Incl. Madison 50% CONTENTS 41 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 42 STAKEHOLDERS 31–44 UPM PERSONNEL IN FIGURES Significant change in UPM’s safety culture Part time Full time Male 3% 97% 80% Female 3% 20% 80% 97% YOUNG PROFESSIONALS Shop-floor 20% GAINING EXPERIENCE 3% 61% 79% 97% 2014 was the final year for the “Step frequency (LTAF, the number of lost-time work 2017, with the focus on implementing and 21% Emmi Reinikainen participates in UPM’s first accidents per one million hours of work) was perfecting local practices. 60% apprenticeship programme at the UPM Change in Safety 2012-2014” initiative Salaried 4.4 (5.4). The target for the end of 2014 was The UPM Paper ENA business area Kaukas mill in Finland. The objective is to that was launched to improve safety below five. launched its Safety 2.0 programme to ensure 39% 60% 40% provide a comprehensive knowledge of the culture and performance within UPM. At the end of the year, 11 production full implementation of new safety practices paper production process and maintenance units achieved more than one year without any in its paper mills. 40% work while performing different tasks at the Altogether, the initiative brought Fixed term 12% lost-time accidents. The target of the safety requirements is 12% 13% mills. approximately 18% improvement in Unfortunately, there were three fatal accito ensure that neither UPM employees nor lost time accident frequency on the dents in total in 2014 at UPM premises: one in contractors are subjected to any risks when “For me, on-the-job training has proved an 87% previous year and 70% improvement Finland as well as one fatal contractor accident working at UPM’s premises. 88% excellent way to learn the work of the mill in in Finland and one in Germany. practice,” says Emmi Reinikainen of her over three years. 88% 2012 22,180 In 2014, UPM adopted a new indicator: Contractor safety enhanced Permanent experiences. TRIF (total recordable injury frequency) which UPM requires its contractors to follow safety 2013 20,950 Safety is an essential part of UPM’s activities includes, in addition to LTA, modified duty guidelines which enable them to carry out their 2014 20,414 Despite the turbulent times within the paper and business management system. Equal safety cases and accidents requiring medical treatment. work safely whilst on UPM premises. The Number of employees in total industry, she is confident of her career requirements are applied to all employees as well In 2014 the frequency rate was 11.6 (13.5). safety induction is a prerequisite before startprospects. as to visitors and subcontractors working on The rate of absenteeism due to illness and ing work at a UPM site. Nearly 40,000 contracthe company’s premises. accidents at UPM was 3.4% (3.4%) globally. tors have completed the web-based UPM 2014 2013 2012 “Currently, there are difficulties in all In 2014, UPM’s lost time accident Absenteeism due to accidents at work decreased safety induction by the end of 2014. Turnover % 10.86 12.45 15.06 industrial sectors, but I believe that there will by nearly 20% in 2014. In 2014, the number of contractor accidents Turnover% (voluntary) 4.76 5.49 5.95 be more work opportunities in future. I have was at the same level as in 2013. enjoyed training very much, so I hope to be Accident prevention In 2014, UPM also rewarded contractors able to continue working in this field.” In 2014, safety efforts concentrated particularly for their good safety performance, commitAverage age of personnel 43.7 43.4 42.8 on avoiding slip, trip and fall accidents at UPM ment and initiative with an annual safety People development Altogether there are some 40 trainees at premises. Approximately one third of absences award. The 2014 local contractor safety awards Average training hours*) four paper mills in Finland. The programme due to work-related accidents have resulted from were given to 11 contractors in Finland, UK (hours employee) 15 15 17 runs in co-operation with local vocational these kinds of cases. and China. OHS figures schools. At the end of the programme, the Regardless of severity, employees must Lost-time accident frequency 4.4 5.4 8.5 participants will obtain a degree in the report all near misses and make safety observaFocus on health Total recordable injury frequency 11.6 13.5 n/a paper industry. The two-year programme tions. UPM has a monthly near miss and safety To support the wellbeing of its personnel UPM Absenteeism % 3.4 3.4 3.5 started in February 2014. observation report system in use at all its busiis working in close co-operation with employ*) Reflects active employees ness units. All high-risk near misses are investiees and external organisations responsible for UPM also organises apprenticeship progated with root cause analysis and corrective occupational health. grammes in other countries. For example, actions are undertaken to prevent their reoccurIn 2014, UPM launched the “Focus on there are more than 100 apprentices starting rence. In 2014, a total of 47,095 near miss Health” campaign, the aim of which is to Supporting re-employment in 15 professions at UPM in Germany every and safety observation reports were support continuous improvement of employThe UPM Docelles paper mill in France was year. recorded. ees’ health, quality of life and ability to perclosed in January 2014. UPM’s activities on Good performance in safety is form on a voluntary basis. The campaign was permanently closed sites and in restructuring Read more: recognised with company-wide run in connection with the Step Change in typically focus on retraining, re-employment www.upm.com/careers safety awards. The 2014 UPM Safety initiative. and relocation within the company, as well as Safety Award was given to The campaign concentrated on supporting on supporting entrepreneurship. Active measUPM Changshu paper mill personal health under the themes of Activity, ures promoting employment and retraining are for excellent development in Recovery and Nutrition. After reviewing health carried out in close co-operation with various safety results and activities. practices among different businesses, functions authorities and other third parties. In April, UPM celebrated the and sites, several new voluntary health and In November 2014, UPM announced a company’s second Safety Week in wellbeing initiatives were launched under the plan to reduce its publication paper capacity Absenteeism due to sickness and Lost-time accident frequency, connection with the World Day for themes. accidents at work, all UPM personnel all UPM personnel permanently in France, Finland and the UK. Safety and Health at Work organised by The pilot health project conducted at some In addition, UPM centralises UPM Paper % absence hours/theoretical working time the International Labour Organization sites in Finland consisted of a medical check, ENA supply chain planning and order fulfil5 25 (ILO). wellness assessment and personal support ment activities to Augsburg and Dörpen in Despite the end of the safety initiative, safety based on individual health improvement action Germany. Personnel would be reduced by 4 20 work will continue to be one of the key focus plans. approximately 500 people by the end of 2015 areas. UPM has set a new target for the next 3 15 according to the plan. three years: to achieve LTAF 3 by the end of Monitoring wellbeing As part of UPM Raflatac’s efficiency 2 10 To improve wellbeing at work, UPM is moniimproving measures, the sheet labelstock toring employees using several metrics and business closed down coating operations and 1 5 indicators on a yearly basis. The indicators reduced capacity in sheet finishing in Polinya, include, for example, the annual employee Spain. Sheet coating is being centralised at 0 0 70% IMPROVEMENT IN engagement survey (EES), follow-up of safety LOST TIME ACCIDENT 1 20 0 1 20 0 Nowa Wies, Poland. and absence indicators, and occupational 1 20 1 1 1 20 1 1 20UP 20 2 20 20 2 FREQUENCY IN THREE YEARS M 1 20 3 14 UP M 2 13 Bi Bi 01 health checks aligned with national legal o UP refi o UP refi 4 U M nin UP PM En g M e UP E ing UP M neM n M R rg UP P Rafl rgy M ap at P r ace UP Pa afl y M pe ata requirements. UP ape As M r E ia P r c UP ap Asi M er a Pl NA yw oo Pl EN yw A oo ■ Accidents at work d d Lost-time accidents at work/ More graphs available on page 139. ■ Sick leave mill. hours of work CONTENTS 43 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 44 1 2 3 MORE WITH BIOFORE: RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 45–59 AS A SOURCE OF COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Our existing and new businesses that make use of renewable and reusable UPM is listed as the best company in the paper and forest industry In 2014, the company’s main focus areas in corporate responsibility were the Step GN O ITI N Value creation with stakeholders Dialogue, feedback and engagement 4 raw materials form the core of the sector in the Dow Jones European Change in Safety initiative, the improveRE TY ILI CO New business Biofore strategy. UPM aims to create and World Sustainability Indices ment of contractor safety and the Clean opportunities with ecodesign B TY 3 LA FE YC Biofuels more with less in all its operations. (DJSI) 2014-2015. UPM is included Run environmental campaign. Special THIR Biocomposites SA The efficient use of raw materials and in these indices for the third time attention was also paid to the further D-P Biochemicals EW AN D AR AB T TY energy brings savings in terms of in a row. development of responsible sourcing EMP ILIT YA the environment and costs. activities. L OY Creating competitive EE I N 2 EN NO ND advantage and long-term value High performing people Resource efficiency GA VA RE RE N GE TIO C Ecolabels and certification M EN N Responsibility 1 Anticipating and managing risks Code of Conduct Environmental performance supports business development Responsible sourcing and forestry UPM is committed to sustainable development. Responsibility and a holistic EVENTS IN 2014 approach to environmental issues are key building blocks of UPM’s safe 12 March: UPM expands its and responsible business operations and product development. certification services in Finland and prepares its own PEFC group certificate 4 April: UPM donates EUR 100,000 for the new children’s The changing operating Resource efficiency encompasses various hospital in Helsinki environment drives companies areas, such as: to seek sustainable solutions • Using natural resources as efficiently and 6 May: WWF Poland and UPM Global megatrends, such as population productively as possible – creating more Raflatac continue to co-operate in growth, urbanisation, changes in consumer with less protecting rivers in Poland behaviour and power shift of economies, cause • Moving from the use of non-renewable 18 June: UPM and WWF Finland stress to the environment. For example, the resources to using renewable resources enter versatile co-operation increasing scarcity of raw materials, climate • Taking environmental aspects into considOPENING UPM BIOFORE change, the loss of biodiversity and the availeration early in the product design phase 25 June: UPM BioVerno wins EU STATIONS IN URUGUAY ability of clean water are all global environ• Reducing the environmental footprints Sustainable Energy Europe Award mental challenges. of products The “Palmares de Cuico” path was the first UPM These megatrends will change our business • Increasing the recyclability of products 11 September: UPM is listed as the Biofore station opened in Paysandú, Uruguay. environment and the way companies operate. and raw materials industry leader in the global Dow The competition for non-renewable and renewJones Sustainability Index The site is a part of an agreement between UPM’s able natural resources will intensify and may UPM is committed to responsible plantation company Forestal Oriental and the 15 October: UPM achieves top also lead to conflicts. However, renewable and ethical business practices position with the highest possible government of the Paysandú region to create and natural resources offer an advantage since they All UPM activities comply with local laws and score in the CDP Climate Perforpromote tourist areas. For visitors, the UPM Biofore can be used generation after generation, proregulations. The company respects international mance Leadership Index stations offer the possibility to come and enjoy the vided that they are managed in a sustainable human rights agreements and agreements concountryside as well as to familiarise themselves with manner. cerning labour rights, including the UN Decla30 October: UPM Raflatac aneucalyptus plantations and environmental protection. ration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration nounces that all its production sites The Biofore strategy is based on on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and terminals in China are certified The sites have been selected based on their potential resource efficiency and renewability and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational to FSC and PEFC forest certification tourist values. Some places have a beautiful landscape, For UPM, these megatrends create also new Enterprises. standards some are home to rare species and plants, and others opportunities, particularly in bio-based prodThe company is also a signatory of the UN may have a cultural value. 11 November: UPM is announced ucts. Our products manufactured from renewGlobal Compact initiative whose ten universal as sector leader for the materials able and recyclable materials respond to global principles are derived from international agreeindustry in CDP’s global forests The aim is to promote these areas alongside the challenges. ments in the areas of human rights, labour report region’s existing tourist services. UPM’s Biofore strategy is based on using standards, the environment and anti-corruption. renewable and recyclable raw materials in a Furthermore, UPM has promoted global 13 November: UPM receives its In the interests of ensuring safe and optimum enjoysustainable way. This means consuming sustainability projects by participating in the own PEFC group certificate in ment of the sites and facilities, Forestal Oriental has resources such as raw materials, water and World Business Council for Sustainable DevelFinland released advertisements and produced brochures, energy, in a prudent and responsible way while opment (WBCSD) and by active dialogue with signs and visitor guides. 4 December: UPM and WWF Finachieving energy, production and cost effiThe Forests Dialogue organisation and with land enter co-operation to promote Aerial view of UPM’s plantations ciency. Less waste is produced, giving products other organisations focusing on ethical conduct, the sustainability of wood-based There are currently nine UPM Biofore stations under development in Río Negro, Paysandú, Tacuarembó in Tacuarembó, Uruguay. more economic and environmental value. such as WWF, IUCN and Changemaker. liquid biofuels and Florida. Read more: CONTENTS www.upm.com/responsibility 45 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 46 RESPONSIBILITY 45–59 Key Key area trends of responsibility Target Achievement 2014 ECONOMIC Group Executive Team in charge of initiative, the improvement of contractor PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Profit • Operating profit margin > 10% Operating profit excluding special items was 8.6% of sales. Four out POWER SHIFT IN WORLD ECONOMY of six business areas achieved their long-term return targets. managing corporate responsibility safety and the Clean Run environmental WITH NEW TOOLS Shareholder value creation • Return on equity at least 5 percentage Return on equity excluding special items was 8.3%. The company’s Biofore strategy and the Code campaign. The business areas also focused on points above the yield of a 10-year risk-free of Conduct approved by the Board lay the increasing the amount of ecolabelled products, Product safety is the single most important investment foundations for responsible business operaverifying product safety and improving prodresponsibility-related topic for UPM’s • Gearing ratio to be kept below 90% Gearing ratio as of 31 December 2014 was 32%. tions and continuous improvement. uct safety-related communication. customers. The Group Executive Team, headed by the In addition, special attention was paid to Governance • > 90% coverage of participation to UPM Approximately 88% of employees have completed Code of Conduct President and CEO, is in charge of managing the continued development of UPM’s responAccountability and compliance Code of Conduct training by 2015 training. To support UPM’s paper customers, UPM corporate responsibility, determining the sible sourcing activities. The development created a new Product Safety Profile in course of action and guiding development work was based on the human rights related 2014. It is a unique tool to ensure that SOCIAL 1) work. The day-to-day work has been integratassessment conducted in 2013 within the UPM’s customers receive all relevant product Leadership • Employee engagement index overall Employee engagement index overall favourable score increased ed into the company’s business operations. context of the UN Protect, Respect and Reminformation in one, concise form. The Responsible leadership favourable score exceeding 70% by 2015 slightly to 63%. Group-level corporate responsibility is manedy Framework and the associated UN Guiddocument includes basic facts on product • Employee engagement survey response Employee engagement survey response rate was 78%. aged by the Environment and responsibility ing Principles on Business and Human Rights. rate reaching 70% and over by 2015 composition, product certificates, regulations team that coordinates the projects being carrelated to product compliance and other People development • Employee Personal Performance Review (PPR) Employee Personal Performance Review (PPR) coverage ried out in business areas and functions. Results of technology, know-how possible measures taken to ensure that High performing people coverage exceeding 90% globally by 2015 increased slightly and was at the level of 86%. The company’s Code of Conduct addresses and development the product is safe. human rights, labour rights, good business Investments ensure that businesses are able Working conditions • No fatal accidents (continuous) Three fatal accidents: one employee accident in Finland as well as conduct, occupational safety and environmento continue their good environmental perforThe UPM Restricted Substance List (UPM RSL) Safe and encouraging one contractor accident in Finland and one in Germany. tal practices. The Code of Conduct is complemance. UPM’s investments in environmental was updated in 2013, and its implementation working environment • Lost time accident frequency below Approximately 18% improvement in lost-time accident frequency mented by more detailed policies, rules and performance are part of the Group’s investstarted in 2014. UPM RSL includes nearly 5 (per million hours or work) by 2015 (LTAF) from the previous year and 70% achievement over 3 years. In 2014, the LTAF was 4.4. DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE guidelines, and training concerning these ment programme and aim to improve the 6,000 substances that are either restricted documents is provided regularly. efficient and responsible use of energy, water • Annual targets set for the reporting of near Annual target (two near misses or safety observations reported per or prohibited. misses and safety observations employee) set and achieved at corporate level. The Code of Conduct training is required and raw materials. from all employees and it is part of the inducIn 2014, the company’s environmental In 2014, all relevant sourcing personnel Community involvement • Continuous development of strategic Co-operation with IUCN, WWF and Vida Silvestre continued. tion programme for new employees. By the investments totalled EUR 12 (29) million. received training, and the new updated list Local commitment sustainability initiatives with leading NGOs end of 2014, approximately 88% of all active The largest investment was the combustion was communicated to UPM’s suppliers and • Continuous sharing of best practices Sharing of best practices ensured for example through well-estabUPM employees had attended Code of Congas purification system at UPM Changshu their compliance with the renewed restricted lished operational stakeholder forums in various locations. of stakeholder initiatives duct training. In 2015, the company will paper mill. substances list was examined. update the Code of Conduct and launch a new The company’s environmental protection Responsible sourcing • > 80% of UPM supplier spend qualified 67% of supplier spend qualified against UPM Supplier Code with round of training. costs amounted to EUR 127 (134) million Value creation through against UPM Supplier Code by 2015 5) 3 percentage points increase compared to the previous year. Read more: UPM continuously strives to improve its (including depreciation), and mainly consisted www.upm.com/responsibility responsible business practices • Continuous supplier auditing based Risk assessment related to supplier base enhanced and number of risk environmental and health and safety perforof effluent treatment and waste management on systematic risk assessment practices assessment-based supplier audits significantly increased in 2014, mance by using various tools, such as certified costs. with a wider geographical coverage than before. Awareness on management systems. In 2014, UPM began responsible sourcing raised through internal training. renewing the management systems of its pulp No major environmental incidents and paper mills in order to harmonise proceNo significant environmental incidents ENVIRONMENTAL 2) dures. occurred at UPM production plants in 2014. The company monitors and assesses its However, several minor temporary deviations Products • Environmental management systems certified in All sites except one have a certified environmental management Taking care of the entire 100% of production units (continuous) system in place. UPM is a global frontrunner in the use of EU EMAS. anti-corruption and anti-bribery activities, and from permit limits did arise. UPM immedilifecycle an Ethics Advisory Committee has been estabately reported these deviations to the local • Environmental declarations for all product groups Environmental declarations are available for all relevant UPM lished to perform these tasks. The committee authorities and undertook corrective measures (continuous) products. In 2014, UPM launched Product Safety Profiles for oversees UPM’s compliance with company to normalise the situation and prevent similar but the number of indicators. The GRI content its paper products. CLIMATE CHANGE rules and reports to the Audit Committee situations from occurring in the future. index can be found on pages 57-58, and an • 25% growth in the share of ecolabelled products Increase of ecolabelled sales in line with target. UPM actively regularly. These measures are part of UPM’s internal extended version of the GRI content index, by 2020 3) participated in developing new EU Ecolabel criteria for converted Clean Run campaign that aims to improve the including detailed descriptions of the scope of paper products. Responsibility principles company’s environmental performance further, the reporting and data measurement techniques, and targets steer business sharing best practices and promoting and is available at www.upm.com/responsibility. Climate • 15% reduction in fossil CO2 emissions by 2020 4) Development not in line with target. Despite improvements in fuel mix Creating climate solutions and energy efficiency, actions have not compensated for the Based on a materiality assessment, UPM has maintaining environmental awareness. To support the company’s strong focus on increased level caused by the Myllykoski acquisition in 2011. established a series of responsibility principles stakeholder engagement and sustainable develand determined targets and performance UPM provides an extensive opment further, UPM is committed to the RESOURCE SCARITY Water • 15% reduction in wastewater volume by 2020 4) Development not in line with target. Average specific wastewater indicators to monitor how these principles are amount of assured information principles of inclusivity, materiality and responUsing water responsibly volume for UPM decreased only slightly due to a higher weight of translated into action (see table on next page). At corporate level, UPM follows the Global siveness, as defined in the AA1000 AccountAbilpulp in portfolio, despite the fact that UPM Fray Bentos has one In the area of economic responsibility, Reporting Initiative’s G3 reporting guidelines, ity Principles Standard (2008). of the lowest water use rates in the industry. UPM’s responsibility principles cover ecowhich enable companies to measure and report UPM provides comprehensive environmental • 20% reduction in COD load by 2020 4) Development in line with target. 16% reduction achieved since 2008 nomic performance and good governance. on their sustainability performance. The corinformation that has been assured by third for the UPM average product. The principles for social responsibility focus porate responsibility information in English parties from corporate level right through to on sourcing, local co-operation between UPM (see the Independent Assurance Report on the mills and individual products. Ecolabelled Forest • Maintain high share of certified fibre 85% Development in line with target. The certified share increased from Keeping forests full of life 80% to 83%. and stakeholders, occupational safety and page 59) has been assured by Pricewaterhouseproducts, product declarations and certified UPM’s role as a responsible employer. In Coopers Oy, and congruence between the operations are used to inform the company’s • 100% coverage of chains of custody (continuous) Coverage is 100%. terms of environmental responsibility, the key English and Finnish versions has been stakeholders about sustainability, transparency focus areas are sustainable products, the clichecked. and risk management. Waste • 40% reduction in waste to landfill by 2020 Development in line with target. 21% reduction achieved since 2008 Reduce, reuse and recycle for the UPM average product. mate, the use of forests and water, and the PricewaterhouseCoopers has checked that reduction of waste. UPM’s corporate responsibility reporting for Read more on Step Change in Safety (p. 44), In 2014, UPM’s group-wide responsibility 2014 meets the GRI requirements for Applicaresponsible sourcing (p. 40) and the UPM efforts focused on the Step Change in Safety tion Level B+, which does not indicate quality, Changshu environmental investment (p. 51). 1) Social targets: from 2011 levels 4) Numerical targets relevant for pulp and paper production 2) Environmental targets: from 2008 levels 5) Covers all UPM business-to-business spend including wood 3) Includes paper, timber, plywood, pulp and label and wood-based biomass sourcing and excluding energy CONTENTS 47 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 48 RESPONSIBILITY 45–59 Taking care of Yesterday’s waste is today’s the entire lifecycle raw material UPM is the world’s largest user of UPM’s products are manufactured from renewable, UPM is committed to maximising the reuse of recovered paper biodegradable and recyclable raw materials. materials and minimising the generation of waste. for the production of graphic papers. The majority of UPM’s production sites, as well as Nearly all organic production residues, including its wood sourcing operations, are covered by envibark and wood residues, as well as fibre-containronmental, quality and occupational health and FI/28/002 ing solids from deinking and effluent treatment, safety systems which are certified in accordance Please collect used are used in energy generation at mill sites. Today, with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 HAMELIN GROUP ADOPTS EU ECOLABEL paper for recycling. approximately 90% of UPM’s production waste standards. FOR CONVERTED PAPER PRODUCTS is reused or recycled. UPM ProFi composite UNTIL THE END UPM has certified all its European pulp and Ash resulting from bioenergy production products are made OF ITS LIFECYCLE paper mills, the UPM Fray Bentos pulp mill in The European Union has extended the scope of the EU Ecolabel to forms the most significant proportion of UPM’s cover converted paper products. It is the very first official EU Ecolabel from the surplus paper Uruguay, and the UPM Changshu paper mill in solid waste. Ash is used on a large scale in applicaUPM’s new product ELURIT is criteria created by an external consortium. Hamelin Group, together and plastic left over China in accordance with the EU Eco-Managetions ranging from landscaping to road building. another excellent example of ment and Audit Scheme (EMAS). EMAS requires with UPM, played a key role in developing the new criteria. UPM has developed innovative ways to reduce from the production circular economy: how to prolong participants to have an Environmental Manageits own waste or residues and reuse waste in new of self-adhesive label Hamelin Group was the first UPM customer to adopt the EU Ecolabel the lifecycle of raw materials by ment System and to publish a third-party verified products. See the picture on the right. materials. creating innovative products from Environmental Statement, which increases the for a wide range of its stationery products, such as notebooks and UPM is also the world’s largest user of recovenvelopes. waste. The product is made of fly credibility and reliability of environmental data. ered paper for the production of graphic paper, ash that comes from the thermal UPM has participated in EMAS for 20 years. consuming 3.4 million tonnes of recovered paper recovery of the biogenic waste UPM products have been granted several ecolaAccording to Virginie Ori, Director of Sustainable Development for in 2014. At UPM, 35% of all fibre used in UPM’s Hamelin Group, the new criteria are an excellent opportunity to materials. bels, such as the EU Ecolabel, the German Blue paper production is recycled fibre. Angel label and the PEFC and FSC forest certificahighlight the best practices of the company. By 2020, UPM aims to reduce the amount ELURIT is the result of research tion labels. of its solid waste sent to landfill by 40% compared and development work conducted UPM is the largest producer of EU Ecolabelled “Products with the EU Ecolabel have a reduced environmental impact with the 2008 level. The reduction target was UPM’s renewable throughout their lifecycle, from the sourcing of raw materials to the at the UPM Schongau mill in newsprint, graphic and office papers. Ecolabels increased in 2012 because of the good progress diesel, UPM Bioproduction, use and recyclability of the product at the end of its life.” Germany. It will bring about demonstrate that UPM’s products meet the envimade. Verno, is produced other economic and environmenronmental performance criteria expected by third from crude tall oil, tal benefits since the use of fly parties. Read more about the EU Ecolabel for “So we decided to certify all our products that fell within the scope of the criteria and even included the principles in our product ecodesign a residue of pulp ash significantly decreases landfill converted paper products on the right. quantities and disposal costs. processes from a very early stage. Our customers expressed their production. Ecodesign: part of product interest in the demanding criteria, as they responded to their requirements,” she says. Read more: development www.upm.com/ UPM businesses have adopted an ecodesign responsibility approach in their product development, which Read more: means the systematic integration of environmental www.upm.com/responsibility aspects into product design at an early stage, covering the whole lifecycle. Some examples of UPM’s ecodesign: UPM’s construction New UPM Valor publication paper product Cinerit is Thermoformable UPM Grada wood material UPM's ecolabeled sales*) 35% OF ALL FIBRE USED IN PAPER made of fly ash from the thermal recovery EU Ecolabeled sales PRODUCTION IS RECYCLED. UPM BioVerno renewable diesel 50% (incl. products The UPM Biofore Concept Car with multiple labelling) of biogenic waste Sales without ecolabels 24 % materials. UPM’s aim is to deliver “More with Biofore” Other ecoby continuously reducing the environmental labeled sales impact of its products over the whole lifecycle. For 26% (FSC, PEFC, SFI, UPM’s total waste to landfills this ambitious goal to be achieved, resource effiGerman 1,000 t ciency needs to play a key role in all company Blue Angel) operations. 250 The total amount of solid waste sent to landfill has decreased UPM’s new product Product safety is an important part of product over the last ten years by over ELURIT, made of fly *) incl. Paper, Pulp, 200 stewardship and provides customers with products 30%. However, from 2012 Plywood, Timber and ProFi ash, can be used that are safe to use and environmentally sound. to 2013 the total amount of 150 at the pulping and waste sent to landfill increased In 2014, 76% (75%) of UPM’s overall sales of significantly. This is due to the bleaching stages of paper, chemical pulp, plywood and timber 100 fact that former reuse possibilities products was ecolabelled. This figure includes for ash ceased at one of UPM’s the papermaking Read more on product safety (p. 47), FSC, PEFC and EU Ecolabels, and national 50 paper mills. In 2014, new processes. UPM Valor printing paper (p. 26), ecolabels. By 2020, UPM aims to increase the methods of reuse were UPM BioVerno renewable diesel (p. 18) share of ecolabelled products by 25% 0 established, with further options and UPM Biofore Concept Car (p. 32). compared with the 2008 level. 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 for reuse still being investigated. CONTENTS 49 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 50 RESPONSIBILITY 45–59 Energy efficiency improved and CAPACITY TO GENERATE POWER UPM’s electricity consumption per tonne of paper THROUGH OWN POWER PLANTS kWh/t AND SHAREHOLDINGS climate actions recognised 2,000 1,600 Nominal MW Hydropower 708 1,200 Nuclear power 581 UPM products offer an alternative to fossil-based products because Condensing power 320 they are renewable and store carbon. UPM is continuously reducing 800 Wind power 1 the carbon footprint of its operations and improving energy efficiency. 400 UPM Energy in total 1,610 It is also the only forest industry company in the world to have Combined heat and power 0 achieved the A100 level in the CDP Climate indices. 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 at mill sites 1,473 Mill site hydropower 49 The electricity consumption per tonne of Mill site power generation in total 1,522 paper has decreased by 20% over the last ten years due to continuous improvements Total UPM 3,132 in energy efficiency. UPM’s energy production is based on a wide range of energy sources and the company aims UPM CHANGSHU REDUCING ITS EMISSIONS 79% OF ELECTRICITY ELECTRICITY GENERATION to maximise the use of carbon-neutral energy. GENERATED BY UPM IS FREE FROM TWh 2014 2013 Biomass-based fuels make up approximately FOSSIL-FUEL CO2 EMISSION The new investment at UPM Changshu paper Mill CHP 5.6 5.9 83% of the fuels used by UPM in Finland and mill is significantly reducing the production Hydropower 3.2 3.1 approximately 67% of those used worldwide. plant’s emissions. UPM installed a new Nuclear 4.8 4.8 UPM is the second largest generator of biocombustion gas purification system that reduces Condensing 0.8 1.1 mass-based electricity in Europe. the amount of sulphur dioxide released into the Total 14.4 14.9 The largest project is the combined heat and air to a tenth of the previous level. It also power (CHP) plant at the UPM Schongau mill reduces nitrogen oxide emissions by half. in Germany, completed in late 2014. The refurbishment of the company’s own hydropower Sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides are gases production assets in Finland is also underway. released during the burning of fossil fuels, and FUELS USED FOR HEAT GENERATION The refurbishment of the Harjavalta hydroCHASING THE SOURCE OF ODOUR they contribute to the acidifying of the TWh 2014 2013 power plant is due to be completed in 2017. environment. The advanced purification system UPM’s investments in the generation of The local community around the UPM Kaukas Black liquor 18.5 17.9 will also reduce the amount of particulate biomass-based power and heat at production integrate in Lappeenranta has experienced Bark and other biomass 8.5 9.4 emissions released into the atmosphere. facilities have significantly increased the capacodorous gases in 2014. According to studies, the Heat recovered from ity of the facilities. main problem originated from the old malodorous TMP production 1.3 1.4 The boilers at UPM Changshu’s combined heat gas boiler, which caused several unexpected and power plant use coal for fuel and produce Renewable fuels total 28.3 28.7 UPM’s continuous target is to steam and electricity for the mill site. burner shutdowns at the pulp mill. Peat 1.2 0.8 improve energy efficiency Energy efficiency has been significantly To improve the situation, UPM invested EUR 1.5 Purchased heat 0.5 0.2 Thanks to the new system, the thermal plant’s Natural gas 8.0 8.5 improved by energy audits, innovations and million in a new burner for the recovery boiler in emissions will be significantly below the new internal campaigns over the last 15 years. early 2014. However, the new installation alone Oil 0.7 0.7 official Chinese limits, which are considered From its energy-saving investments carried did not solve the problem and the work continued. Coal 3.6 3.6 strict when compared globally. out in 2014, UPM gained savings of EUR 1.3 Total 42.2 42.6 million, achieved 10,000 t avoidance in CO2 During the heat wave in summer 2014, the situation The total investment cost is approximately emissions and 33,000 MWh reduction in energy worsened when a high pressure area stagnated air CNY 100 million, which is approximately consumption. The annual savings are EUR 2.1 and remained over the region for several weeks. EUR 12 million. million, 15,000 t and 55,000 MWh. As a result, the malodorous gas problem has been In 2014, UPM’s climate change actions were the largest topic for which any UPM unit has recognised externally. The company was selectreceived critical stakeholder feedback in 2014. UPM’s fossil carbon dioxide emissions UPM's acidifying flue gases ed to the A List of the CDP Climate Performio t CO2/a mio t 1,000 t mio t mance Leadership Index 2014. UPM also UPM has communicated actively locally and will 5 15 20 20 keep on working to solve the problem by developing achieved full points in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. UPM was the only paper malodorous gas treatment at the mill. 4 12 16 16 and forest products company to achieve the CDP’s A100 level. 12 12 “So far, we have discovered and repaired essential 3 9 By 2020, UPM aims to reduce fossil CO2 machinery breakdowns and problems in our 2 6 emissions by 15% compared with the 2008 8 8 operating systems. Then we further improved the level. The company also aims to continuously collection of malodourous gases during the pulp 1 3 reduce all other air emissions. 4 4 cooking processes and at the wastewater treatment Problems in the system used to burn weak plant in November. We are also planning some 0 0 0 0 UPM completed the new malodorous gases at the UPM Kaukas pulp 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 additional investments to tackle random emissions 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 combined heat and mill in Finland were the largest topic in 2014 into the malodorous gas treatment system,” describes ■ Total emission ■ Total NOx power plant at the UPM (read more on next page). environmental manager Minna Maunus-Tiihonen. Paper production ■ Total SO2 Schongau paper mill in Chemical pulp production Paper production Germany in December Chemical pulp production In 2015, UPM Kaukas will prepare a malodorous 2014. Read more on the refurbishment of the Harjavalta gases spreading model to examine the impact of hydropower plant (p. 20). Increases in total volumes are due to acquisitions the integrated mill as a whole on the local area. More graphs available on page 139. (in 2010 and 2011). In 2014, reduction was achieved mainly due to investment in flue gas purification at UPM Changshu paper mill, and CONTENTS process improvements at pulp mills. 51 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 52 RESPONSIBILITY 45–59 UPM ensures that Responsible use of water all wood and wood fibre Water plays an important role in UPM’s process wastewater volumes is sustainably sourced UPM’s pulp and paper production and hydropower generation. UPM’s target m³/t 50 is to minimise the impacts of operations 40 UPM uses third-party verified chains of custody on local water resources and safeguard and forest certifications in its wood sourcing. the natural water cycle in forests. 30 20 UPM’s main production plants are located in 10 areas where there is sufficient water available. Wood is a renewable material and the primary UPM’s global biodiversity UPM uses water responsibly in terms of the 0 raw material for UPM’s businesses. UPM is programme company’s water consumption and effluent 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 both a major forest owner and a purchaser of The aim of UPM’s global biodiversity proquality. All of UPM’s pulp and paper mills are ■ per tonne of chemical pulp wood. gramme is to maintain and increase biodiverrequired to have both a mechanical and a ■ per tonne of paper Global forest loss, which is caused by the sity in forests and to promote best practices in biological effluent treatment facility. growing need for food production and wood, sustainable forestry. In connection with the The optimisation of operating models UPM has reduced wastewater volumes particularly in the tropics, is of particular biodiversity programme, UPM carried out continued at the UPM Pietarsaari pulp mill’s per tonne of paper by 25%, and per concern to the whole forest sector. UPM several projects with stakeholders in 2014. effluent treatment plant, completed in 2013. tonne of chemical pulp by 17% over recognises this global challenge and responds In one of the long-term projects that has A working group established as part of the the last ten years. to it in its own operations and by actively already been running for ten years, UPM has Clean Run campaign participates in the optimiparticipating in the WBCSD Forest Solutions participated in monitoring the insect species sation of all effluent treatment plants by sharGroup. found in retention trees in Janakkala, Fining good operating models and preparing for More graphs available on page 139. UPM does not use wood from tropical land. The project is being carried out in exceptional situations. rainforests as raw material, or accept wood co-operation with researchers and the Finnish During 2014, UPM participated in developfrom plantations that have been established Environment Institute. ing the ISO water footprint standard and by destroying rainforests. UPM does not UPM is also a network partner in the joined the WBCSD Water Cluster’s WASH operate in areas where the rights of indigBiodiversity in Good Company initiative in VIDA SILVESTRE PROMOTES Pledge programme enous peoples are threatened or endangered. Germany and the FIBS Business & BiodiverBIODIVERSITY IN URUGUAY as the first forest UPM continued its participation in the WWF sity programme in Finland, both of which products company. New Generation Plantations platform and is contribute to the UN Convention on Biologi“Our work aims to preserve nature and the As a participant in committed to develop and promote sustaincal Diversity. UPM also co-operated with diversity of ecosystems and species, by the WASH Pledge able plantation practices. IUCN in 2014. working together with different groups in programme, UPM is UPM manages its forests with a view to society,” declares Oscar Blumetto, President committed to ensurenhancing biological diversity, natural ecosysof Vida Silvestre, discussing the objectives of ing that all its tems and the carbon storage, and operates Read more on UPM’s wood sourcing (p. 39). the organisation. employees have according to the principles of sustainable access to clean forest management. Vida Silvestre and UPM’s plantation forestry water, sanitation and company Forestal Oriental have entered into At the end of 2014, UPM owned 765,000 hectares of forest in Finland and 75,000 83% OF UPM’S PAPER IS a three-year co-operation project on the hygiene in the workplace. PRODUCED USING FIBRE THAT conservation of the environment. This is the hectares in the USA. In December, UPM sold By 2020, UPM MEETS THE CRITERIA OF FSC OR first time a forestry company and an NGO all 7,100 hectares of its forest land in the UK aims to reduce its PEFC FOREST CERTIFICATION have established such a partnership in to The Church Commissioners for England. wastewater volume SEA TROUT AND WHITEFISH RETURNING SCHEME Uruguay. In Uruguay, UPM owns 235,000 hectares of by 15% and its COD plantations. Forests owned by UPM include load by 20% in pulp Sea trout and whitefish are good indicators of the efficiency approximately 43,000 protected sites with a The main purpose of the co-operation is to and paper producCertified wood supplied to mills of modern wastewater treatment and the improving state of total area of 121,000 hectares. contribute to the sustainable development of tion, as compared % natural resources in the long term. UPM and nature. The species are now returning to their spawning In addition, the company manages 1.6 with the 2008 level. locations in the Rauma river and Pitkäjärvenoja creek, which 100 Vida Silvestre are also looking for partnermillion hectares of privately owned forests The project has been runs into the sea through the UPM Rauma paper mill site in and 65,000 hectares of plantations. ships with other public or private stakeholdso successful to date 80 ers to facilitate more efficient management Finland. All of UPM’s forests and eucalyptus that the 2020 target plantations are certified according to the FSC 60 of biodiversity. was tightened in “The development is encouraging as the species are classiand/or PEFC certification schemes. In addi2012. fied as ‘very endangered’ in the Baltic Sea region. Reproduction, UPM has an FSC and PEFC Group 40 “We very much appreciate UPM’s recent initiative to create and protect native species tion may be tiny, but it is important to guard the genetic herCertificate in Finland and a UKWAS Group itage of the species,” explains Juha Hyvärinen, head of Certificate in the UK which private forest 20 in conservation areas that are found in the company’s eucalyptus plantations in Uruguay. environmental protection in the city of Rauma. owners can sign up to. 0 We are participating in this process by In 2014, UPM was selected as sector 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 assisting UPM in selecting these areas before PROCESS WASTEWATER The seaside in front of the Rauma area has been systemati­ leader for the materials industry in the CDP’s plantations are created,” adds Blumetto. HAS DECREASED cally monitored from the late 1960s. Nowadays, one joint forests programme. This was the second time The average share of certified fibre UPM received this acknowledgement. supplied to UPM’s mills increased to 83% (80%). By 2020, UPM aims to increase Read more: 17% PER TONNE OF CHEMICAL wastewater treatment plant operated by UPM purifies also all wastewater from Rauma municipality and Metsä Fibre pulp PULP OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS mill. The development of the wastewater treatment system the share of certified fibre to 85%. UPM’s www.upm.com/responsibility 2020 target was increased in 2012 has improved the water quality significantly since then. because of the good progress made. Read more: www.upm.com/responsibility CONTENTS 53 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 54 RESPONSIBILITY 45–59 UPM’s material balance 2014 Emissions to air EMISSIONS TO AIR 1) 2014 UPM’s material balance sums up the The majority of UPM´s airborne emissions Sulphur dioxide, t 2,800 for electricity as there is a direct supply from the neighbouring power plant. total material, energy and emission are caused by energy generation at its pulp flows to and from UPM worldwide. In Energy ENERGY 2014 and paper mills. Nitrogen oxides, t Carbon dioxide (fossil) 2), t 9,600 3,800,000 2) In addition to direct CO emissions, UPM is 2 also evaluating and reporting its indirect CO2 2010, UPM set long-term environmenThe majority of electrical and thermal Fossil fuels, GWh 13,000 Choice of fuels, combustion technology and and other greenhouse gas emissions. Power 1) Direct air emissions include emissions from UPM purchased from the grid results in an additional tal targets for 2020, and defined energy is used for paper and pulp production. Renewable fuels 1), GWh 27,000 flue gas purification are the primary ways power plants and a respective share of co-owned 2.7 million tonnes. Areas such as transport and raw indicators to measure performance However, pulp mills are producing more Purchased electricity 2), GWh 14,000 to reduce these emissions. power plants connected to UPM’s energy supply. material production result in an additional 6.7 million energy than they are using. Purchased heat, GWh 150 ­External power plants or boilers are considered tonnes. Detailed information can be found on in key areas. The targets for air emissions focus on the in terms of heat supply. Hürth is taken into account UPM’s website. UPM has invested significantly in the use 1)79% from UPM processes (e.g. bark, fibre sludge, reduction of fossil carbon dioxide emissions. In 2012, UPM revised the targets and of renewable and CO2-neutral energy to black liquor) reduce the environmental load from energy tightened when reasonable. UPM aims 2) Includes UPM shares of hydro, nuclear and Products generation. condensing power as well as purchases to continuously reduce environmental from the market PRODUCTS impacts over the entire lifecycle of its UPM’s CO2 target is strongly connected 2014 to energy sources and energy efficiency. UPM products are mainly based on renewable products and the company bases its Paper1), t 9,800,000 raw materials that are recyclable and biodegradChemical pulp1), t 2,200,000 annual performance evaluation on able. Fluff pulp, t 50,000 these indicators. Converting materials, t 480,000 Third-party-verified ecolabels are commonly used to prove good environmental performance. Plywood and veneer, m3 800,000 In 2014, improvements are visible in Sawn timber, m3 1,300,000 the reduction of effluent volume and The targets for products are to increase the Heat, GWh 700 effluent load (COD and BOD), air share of ecolabelled products, certified environElectricity, GWh 4,000 mental management systems and availability By-products (waste for reuse), dry t 1,300,000 emissions (NOx and SO2) as well as of environmental product declarations. of solid waste to landfills. These are 1) Paper and chemical pulp volumes differ from resulting from both special projects the overall production of the paper and pulp mills because the paper and chemical pulp used and continuous improvement efforts. internally have been deducted from the number Other environmental parameters like of products sold. fossil CO2 and AOX remained on a rather stable level compared to the previous year. Solid waste SOLID WASTE 1) 2014 Raw materials Much of the process waste is either used as To landfills, dry t 134,000 RAW MATERIALS raw material or in energy generation. 2014 To temporary storage, 2) dry t 20,000 To municipal incineration plants, dry t 600 Biomass is the basis for all UPM busiWood, m3 26,300,000 Most production sites have reduced the volume Hazardous waste for special nesses. Certified chain of custody systems Market pulp, t 1,800,000 of solid waste and improved handling by 3,900 treatment 3), t ensure that wood is sourced from sustainPaper for recovery, t 3,400,000 sorting waste at the source. ably managed forests. Purchased paper for converting, t 210,000 1)Includes process and production waste. Also The target for waste is to reduce the amount sorted waste from UPM Shotton’s MRRF plant is Minerals, t 2,500,000 UPM’s Supplier Code defines suppliers’ of production waste sent to landfills. included. Plastics, adhesives, resins, films, t 170,000 minimum compliance requirements in 2)In 2014, 12,000 dry t of solid waste have Co-mingled domestic waste 1), t 220,000 been taken out from the temporary storages to be terms of responsibility with regard to matters such as environmental impact, reused. 1)At UPM Shotton, a Material Recovery and human rights, labour practices, health 3)The main forms of hazardous waste are oil and Recycling Facility (MRRF) sorts co-mingled waste, and safety, and product safety. other oil waste that is either reused or recycled. of which the recovered paper fraction is reused UPM is working with local licenced external at the paper mill. The targets related to raw materials partners on hazardous waste treatment. concern the certified fibre share and the coverage of chains of custody. Emissions to water EMISSIONS TO WATER 1) Water WATER UPTAKE 1) 2014 2014 UPM`s paper and pulp production is the main Chemical oxygen demand 2), t 75,400 Water is an essential resource for pulp and Surface water, million m3 470 source of emissions to water. Biological oxygen demand (7 days) 2), t 9,200 paper production, where water is used within Groundwater, million m3 21 Adsorbable organic halogens, t 270 the process and for cooling. The share of the Communal water, million m3 4 All effluents are treated both mechanically and Process waste water, million m³ 240 other UPM units is minor. biologically in the effluent treatments plants, 1) Rainwater is not used in the process but it can before being released into watercourses. 1)The scope is pulp and paper mills: the impact The majority of water that is used comes from be gathered and led to watercourses, depending of other UPM units is minor. on the site. rivers or lakes. A small amount comes from Emission levels and environmental impacts 2)Information includes the load from the Augsburg, groundwater, where water levels are monitored. are regulated and monitored. Caledonian, Hürth and Madison paper mills to external effluent treatment plants as well as external The targets for water are to decrease process The targets have been set for process wastewater users of UPM’s treatment plants. COD is not meawastewater volume and effluent load. volume and chemical oxygen demand (COD). sured at Madison. BOD is not measured at Hürth. CONTENTS 55 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 56 RESPONSIBILITY 45–59 GRI content index UPM follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines (version 3.0) in its corporate responsibility reporting. The reporting meets the GRI requirements for the Application Level B+, which refers to the quantity of indicators. The index below shows how and where the GRI indicators Profile ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Location Level are addressed in the annual report and the company internet pages. An extended version of Management approach to environmental responsibility AR Pages 45–54 • the GRI content index can be found at www.upm.com/responsibility. Materials AR = Annual Report 2014 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume AR Page 55 • EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials AR Pages 50, 55 • • Fully reported Energy Partially reported EN3 Direct energy consumption AR Pages 52, 55 • EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source AR Page 55 Profile Location Level EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements AR Page 51 • 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services AR Pages 29, 32, 51 • Water 1.1 CEO’s statement AR Pages 3–4 • EN8 Total water withdrawal by source AR Page 55 • 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities AR Pages 7–8, 14, 48 • EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Extended GRI content index • 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Extended GRI content index 2.1 Name of the organisation AR Page 85 • Biodiversity 2.2 Primary brands, products and services AR Pages 1–2 • EN11 Location and size of land holdings in biodiversity-rich habitats AR Page 53, Ext. GRI*) • 2.3 Operational structure AR Pages 10, 117 • EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas and biodiversity-rich areas outside protected areas Extended GRI content index • 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters AR Page 144 • EN13 Habitats protected or restored Extended GRI content index • 2.5 Number of countries and locations of operations AR Pages 141–142 • EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity AR Page 53, Ext. GRI*) • 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR Page 85 • EN15 Species with extinction risk with habitats in areas affected by operations Extended GRI content index 2.7 Markets served AR Pages 37–38, 95 • Emissions, effluents and waste 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation AR Pages 1, 133 • EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions AR Pages 52, 56 • 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership AR Pages 71–72 • EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight AR Page 56, Ext. GRI*) • 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period AR Pages 10, 11, 45, Ext. GRI*) • EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions AR Page 51, Ext. GRI*) • 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Report profile EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions AR Page 56 • EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination AR Page 56, Ext. GRI*) • 3.1 Reporting period 1 January 2014–31 December 2014 • EN22 Total amount of waste by type and disposal method AR Page 56 • 3.2 Date of most previous report 26 February 2014 • EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats Extended GRI content index 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual • Products and services 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content AR Page 144 • EN26 Mitigating environmental impacts of products and services AR Pages 2, 49–50 • Report scope and boundary EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products AR Page 40, Ext. GRI*) 3.5 Process for defining report content AR Pages 31–34, 47 • EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type AR Page 47 3.6 Boundary of the report Extended GRI content index • SOCIAL INDICATORS 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Extended GRI content index • Management approach to social responsibility AR Pages 41–48, Ext. GRI*) • 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries, joint ventures and other entities affecting comparability Extended GRI content index • LABOUR PRACTISES AND DECENT WORK 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Extended GRI content index • Employment 3.10 Explanation of re-statements Extended GRI content index • LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region AR Pages 42–43 • 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Extended GRI content index • LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region AR Page 43 Assurance Labour/management relations 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report AR Pages 47, 59 • LA4 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements AR Page 41 • 4. GOVERNANCE Governance LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Extended GRI content index • Occupational health and safety 4.1 Governance structure AR Pages 60–62, Ext. GRI*) • LA7 Injuries, lost days, absentee rates and fatalities AR Pages 43–44, 139 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board Extended GRI content index • LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control AR Page 44 4.3 Independence of the Board members AR Pages 65–66, Ext. GRI*) • Training and education 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholder and employee consultation AR Pages 60–61 • LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee AR Page 43 4.5 Executive compensation and linkage to organisation’s performance AR Pages 62–63 • LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning AR Page 41 • 4.6 Process for avoiding conflicts of interest AR Pages 60–62 • LA12 Employees receiving performance and career development reviews AR Page 41 • 4.7 Process for determining the Board members’ expertise in strategic management and sustainability AR Pages 60–62, 65–66 • Diversity and equal opportunity 4.8 Implementation of mission or values statements, Code of Conduct and other principles AR Pages 2, 39, 45–47 • LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees AR Page 43, Ext. GRI*) • 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing management of sustainability performance, including risk management AR Page 47 • HUMAN RIGHTS 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s performance AR Pages 61–62 • HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone hr screening and actions taken AR Page 39 Commitments to external initiatives HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights relevant to operations AR Page 47 4.11 Addressing the precautionary approach Extended GRI content index • HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for child labour AR Pages 45–47, Ext. GRI*) • 4.12 Voluntary charters and other initiatives AR Pages 45–47 • HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for forced or compulsory labour AR Pages 45–47, Ext. GRI*) • 4.13 Memberships in associations Extended GRI content index • HR9 Number of incidents involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken AR Page 53, Ext. GRI*) • Stakeholder engagement SOCIETY 4.14 List of stakeholder groups AR Page 34 • Community 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders AR Pages 31–34 • SO1 Assessment and management of impacts of operations on communities AR Page 43 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement AR Pages 31–34, 37–38 • Corruption 4.17 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement AR Page 34 • SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures AR Page 47 5. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption AR Page 33 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Public Policy Management approach to economic responsibility AR Pages 13–14, 48, Ext. GRI*) • SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions AR Page 33 • EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR Page 36 • SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practises and their outcomes AR Pages 75–76 • EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities due to climate change AR Pages 14, 51 Compliance EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations AR Pages 108–111 • SO8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Extended GRI content index • EC4 Significant subsidies received from government AR Pages 29, 98–99 • PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Indirect Economic Impacts Product and service labelling EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts AR Pages 36, 43 PR3 Type of product information required by procedures AR Page 49, Ext. GRI*) • PR5 Practises related to customer satisfaction and results of customer satisfaction surveys AR Pages 37–38, Ext. GRI*) • *) Extended GRI content index We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B+ of the GRI G3 Guidelines. CONTENTS PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked our reporting and has confirmed it to be Application Level B+. 57 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 58 RESPONSIBILITY 45–59 Independent Assurance Report Corporate governance To the Management of UPM-Kymmene Corpobelieve that UPM-Kymmene Corporation does When reading our assurance report, the UPM-Kymmene Corporation (UPM) is a publicly listed limited liability company Read more: ration not adhere, in all material respects, to the inherent limitations to the accuracy and comwww.upm.com/governance with headquarters in Helsinki, Finland. It is the parent company of the UPM Group AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and that pleteness of sustainability information should We have been engaged by the Management of the CR Reporting is not reliable, in all material be taken into consideration. which consists of 110 subsidiaries in 44 countries. The Group’s business operations UPM-Kymmene Corporation (hereinafter also respects, based on the Reporting criteria. are divided into six business areas supported by global functions. the Company) to perform a limited assurance In a limited assurance engagement the eviObservations and recommendations engagement on corporate responsibility perfordence-gathering procedures are more limited Based on our work described in this report, we mance indicators in the areas of economic, social than for a reasonable assurance engagement, provide the following observations and recomand environmental responsibility for the reportand therefore less assurance is obtained than in mendations in relation to UPM-Kymmene CorCORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND POLICIES ing period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurporation’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountUPM’s governance structure OF UPM-KYMMENE CORPORATION The assured performance indicators are disclosed ance engagement involves performing proceAbility Principles. These observations and UPM’s control and governance is divided in UPM-Kymmene Corporation’s Annual Report dures to obtain evidence about the amounts and recommendations do not affect the conclusions among the General Meeting of Shareholders, 2014, and on its website in section “Responsibilother disclosures in the CR Reporting, and presented earlier. the Board of Directors and the President and GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS ity”, and they are listed in section 5 “Perforabout the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 CEO as shown in the illustration on the right. Issues mance Indicators” of the GRI Content Index AccountAbility Principles. The procedures • Regarding Inclusivity: UPM-Kymmene CorpoIn the operational management of the comElects Elects Auditor’s Remuneration Committee Report (hereinafter CR Reporting). The GRI Content selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, ration has processes in place for stakeholder pany, the President and CEO is assisted by the Report Index is disclosed in the Company’s Annual including an assessment of the risks of material inclusivity and engagement. Stakeholder RelaGroup Executive Team. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Nomination and AUDITOR Report 2014 and on its website. misstatement of the CR Reporting and an tions function coordinates stakeholder engageIn matters pertaining to the preparation of Assist Governance Committee Furthermore, the assurance engagement has assessment of the risks of the Company’s matement at the group level. We recommend that group and business area strategies, financial Appoints, covered UPM-Kymmene Corporation’s adherrial nonadherence to the AA1000 AccountAbilthe Company clarifies the need to increase targets, strategic projects, capital expenditure, steers, Reports Audit Committee monitors ence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles ity Principles. Our work consisted of, amongst stakeholder engagement related guidance from M&A initiatives and other strategic developwith moderate (limited) level of assurance. others, the following procedures: the Stakeholder Relations function to the ment initiatives, the President and CEO is PRESIDENT AND CEO businesses. assisted by the Strategy Team consisting of the Management’s responsibility • Interviewing senior management of the • Regarding Materiality: UPM-Kymmene CorpoCFO and the heads of the strategy, technology INTERNAL AUDIT Steers, STRATEGY TEAM monitors Appoints Reports The Management of UPM-Kymmene CorporaCompany. ration has a systematic process in place to and legal functions. tion is responsible for preparing the CR Report• Interviewing employees from various organisaevaluate and determine the materiality of Each of the company’s business areas and ing in accordance with the Reporting criteria as tional levels of the Company with regards to corporate responsibility topics. The Company functions has its own management team, the set out in the Company’s reporting instructions materiality, stakeholder expectations, meeting conducted a materiality analysis that highlights purpose of which is to assist the business area GROUP EXECUTIVE TEAM and the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of those expectations, as well as stakeholder the most important issues for the Company and or function head in the preparation and impleof the Global Reporting Initiative. engagement. its stakeholders in 2014. On this basis, we mentation of strategies, budgets, commercial The Management of UPM-Kymmene Corpo• Assessing stakeholder inclusivity and responrecommend that the Company continues to pay strategies, business development plans, and the ration is also responsible for the Company’s siveness based on the Company’s documentaspecial attention to business and regional operating model and organisation for the adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Princition and internal communication. characteristics in its stakeholder dialogue. business area or function in question. Charter / Policy Approved by Originally approved Last amended ples of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness • Assessing the Company’s defined material • Regarding Responsiveness: UPM-Kymmene Articles of Association General Meeting of 31 October and 1 22 March 2010 as set out in AccountAbility’s AA1000 Accountcorporate responsibility topics as well as Corporation has processes in place for respondGovernance guidelines Shareholders November 1995 *) Ability Principles Standard 2008. assessing the CR Reporting based on these ing to stakeholder needs and concerns. We In addition to laws and regulations applicable UPM Code of Conduct Board of Directors 31 May 2006 3 August 2010 topics. recommend that the Company considers the to Finnish listed companies, UPM complies Practitioner’s responsibility • Performing a media analysis and an internet possibilities to increasingly utilise the Stakewith – and its corporate governance is based on Board Charter Board of Directors 31 May 2006 24 October 2013 Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on search for references to the Company during holder Relations function in sharing best – the recommendations of the Finnish CorpoAudit Committee Charter Board of Directors 31 May 2006 24 October 2013 the CR Reporting and on the Company’s adherthe reporting period. practices between the businesses. rate Governance Code issued by the Securities ence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as Market Association. UPM’s Corporate GovRemuneration Committee Board of Directors 31 May 2006 24 October 2013 Charter based on our work performed. Our assurance three sites in Finland and Uruguay. Practitioner’s independence and ernance Statement for the year 2014, and the report has been prepared in accordance with the • Interviewing employees responsible for collectqualifications Remuneration Statement dated 3 March 2015, Nomination and Board of Directors 31 May 2006 24 October 2013 terms of our engagement. We do not accept, or ing and reporting the information presented We comply with the independence and other prepared in accordance with Recommendations Governance Committee Charter assume responsibility to anyone else, except to in the CR Reporting at the Group level and at ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for 54 and 47 of the Finnish Corporate GovernUPM-Kymmene Corporation for our work, for the different sites where our visits took place. Professional Accountants issued by the IESBA ance Code, are available on the corporate Risk Management Policy Board of Directors 1 February 2007 6 April 2009 this report, or for the conclusions that we have • Assessing how Group employees apply the (the International Ethics Standards Board for website www.upm.com in the Investors Section, Disclosure Policy Board of Directors 24 July 2008 – reached. reporting instructions and procedures of the Accountants). under Governance. We conducted our work in accordance with Company. Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate Furthermore, the company’s governance is Group Treasury Policy Board of Directors 1996 26 April 2012 the International Standard on Assurance • Testing the accuracy and completeness of responsibility and assurance specialists possesses based on the charters and policies listed in the Treasury Policy for Board of Directors 1996 26 April 2012 Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagethe information from original documents and the requisite skills and experience within finantable on the right. Subsidiaries and Business Units ments Other than Audits or Reviews of Historisystems on a sample basis. cial and non-financial assurance, corporate UPM’s Code of Conduct forms the framecal Financial Information”. This Standard • Testing the consolidation of information and responsibility strategy and management, social work for all company operations and sets out Insider Policy Board of Directors 31 October 2006 24 October 2013 requires that we comply with ethical requireperforming recalculations on a sample basis. and environmental issues, as well as the relevant standards of behaviour for each individual at Acceptance Policy Board of Directors 5 February 2009 3 February 2015 ments and plan and perform the assurance industry knowledge, to undertake this assurance UPM globally. It covers topics relating to legal engagement to obtain limited assurance whether Conclusion engagement. compliance and disclosure, conflicts of interest, Internal Audit Charter Board of Directors 1 February 2010 – any matters come to our attention that cause us Based on our work described in this report, gifts and anti-bribery, HR practices, human *) Approved in the General Meetings of the merging companies Repola Oy and Kymmene Oy. to believe that the CR Reporting has not been nothing has come to our attention that causes rights issues and environmental matters. Violaprepared, in all material respects, in accordance us to believe that UPM-Kymmene Corporation tion of the Code will lead to disciplinary action with the Reporting criteria. does not adhere, in all material respects, to the Helsinki, 19 February 2015 up to and including termination of employIn addition, we have conducted our work in AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. ment. The UPM Code of Conduct is compleAnnual General Meeting 2014 sentative, representing 45.6% (42.4%) of the accordance with the AA1000 Assurance StandFurthermore nothing has come to our PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy mented by more detailed rules and guidelines The General Meeting of Shareholders is the company’s registered share capital and voting ard 2008. For conducting a Type 2 assurance attention that causes us to believe that UPMapproved by the Group Executive Team. These company’s supreme decision-making body. The rights at the time of the meeting. engagement as agreed with the Company, the Kymmene Corporation’s CR Reporting has Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner rules and guidelines cover, among others, such Annual General Meeting (AGM) of 2014 was The AGM adopted the company’s financial AA1000AS (2008) requires planning and pernot been prepared, in all material respects, in Partner, Director, topics as anti-bribery, competition law compliheld on 8 April in Helsinki. A total of 1,984 (in statements for the period 1 January–31 Decemforming of the assurance engagement to obtain accordance with the Reporting criteria, or that Sustainability & Authorised Public ance, contract management, human resources, 2013: 1,769) shareholders attended the meeting ber 2013, decided to distribute dividends moderate (limited) assurance on whether any the CR Reporting is not reliable, in all material Climate Change Accountant environment, safety and equality. in person or through a legal or proxy repreamounting to EUR 0.60 (EUR 0.60) per share matters come to our attention that cause us to respects, based on the Reporting criteria. Assurance Services CONTENTS 59 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 60 and discharged the President and CEO, and the BOARD REMUNERATION AND SHAREHOLDINGS 2014 ing in December. Directors evaluated the BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ COMMITTEES 2014 members of the Board of Directors from liabilboard’s performance of its duties and responsiDirector Position in the Board Annual fees of which shares Shareholdings as Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination and ity for the financial year 2013. (EUR) (pcs) at 31 Dec. 2014 bilities, board composition and structure, board Committee Governance Committee The AGM elected nine members to the culture, and the effectiveness of board meetBjörn Wahlroos Chair 175,000 5,595 250,249 Members Piia-Noora Kauppi (Ch.) Berndt Brunow (Ch.) Björn Wahlroos (Ch.) Board of Directors and resolved on their remuings. Identified areas of improvement are conneration. Matti Alahuhta, Berndt Brunow, Berndt Brunow Deputy Chair 120,000 3,836 300,703 sidered when planning the board’s work. One Wendy E. Lane Matti Alahuhta Matti Alahuhta Piia-Noora Kauppi, Wendy E. Lane, Jussi area of improvement that came up in the previKim Wahl Veli-Matti Reinikkala Ari Puheloinen Matti Alahuhta Member 95,000 3,037 58,991 Pesonen, Veli-Matti Reinikkala, Kim Wahl and ous year’s evaluation was a need to focus on Björn Wahlroos were re-elected to the board for Piia-Noora Kauppi Audit Committee Chair 120,000 3,836 8,981 and spend more time discussing the company’s Number of meetings 5 3 4 a one-year term continuing until the end of the Wendy E. Lane Member 95,000 3,037 30,649 strategic direction. As a result, strategic considAttendance-% 100 100 100 next Annual General Meeting. General Ari erations were reflected on the board’s agenda Puheloinen was elected as a new member to the Jussi Pesonen Member, President and CEO – – 195,280 during 2014 as described above. board. Karl Grotenfelt, member since 2004, Ari Puheloinen Member 63,333 2,025 2,025 and Ursula Ranin, member since 2006, stepped Veli-Matti Reinikkala Member 95,000 3,037 33,821 Committees of the Board of Directors down from the board. The committees assist the Board of Directors As regards board remuneration, the AGM Kim Wahl Member 95,000 3,037 11,799 by preparing matters within the competence of resolved that the annual fee to the Board Chair Total 858,333 27,440 892,498 the board. The committee chairs report to the risks identified in this process. In 2014, the and reports to the Board of Directors on such be EUR 175,000, to the Board Deputy Chair board on committee activities on a regular committee also reviewed risk management and matters. The committee also reviews the results and Chair of the Audit Committee EUR The shareholdings as at 31 Dec. 2014 include also shares held by the directors’ closely basis. In addition, minutes are kept for all compliance procedures in UPM’s energy busiof the employee engagement survey which is associated persons and controlled entities. Up-to-date information on the directors’ 120,000 and to other members of the board shareholdings and any changes therein can be found on the corporate website. committee meetings and distributed to all ness and UPM IT, where the focus was on IT conducted every year in the autumn. EUR 95,000. Of the annual fee, 60% was paid directors. security (Cybersecurity) risks. in cash to cover taxes and 40% in company The Board of Directors has established The Audit Committee is also responsible for Nomination and Governance shares purchased on the board members’ chased amounts to 50 million shares, and the ed by the Board of Directors’ strategy and three committees composed of its members: the preparing a proposal to the AGM for the elecCommittee behalf. Since General Ari Puheloinen was able total amount of donations may not exceed budget meetings. In addition, teleconference Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committion of the external auditor. In this respect, the The primary purpose of the Nomination and to participate in the board work only from the EUR 250,000. All decisions were taken without and per capsulam meetings are held when tee and the Nomination and Governance Comcommittee evaluates the qualifications and indeGovernance Committee is to identify individustart of August, the AGM decided that he was voting. deemed necessary. In 2014, the Board held mittee. The board appoints the members of the pendence of the external auditor. The commitals qualified to serve as directors and prepare a entitled to 2/3 of the board member’s annual eleven meetings. The directors’ average attendcommittees and their chairs annually. A comtee also arranges a tendering process for audit proposal to the General Meeting of Shareholdfee. No annual fee was paid to the President Board of Directors ance at the meetings was 99.0% (97.8%). mittee always has at least three members. In services at regular intervals, to ensure the indeers for election or re-election of directors and and CEO for his role as a member of the board. The company’s Board of Directors is composed In 2014, the board focused on strategic 2014, all committees fulfilled their respective pendence and cost efficiency of the external for their remuneration. The committee may The board members’ annual fees, the numof nine members as detailed above. Eight of the considerations and held an extensive strategy independence and desirable qualification audit. The latest tendering process was carried engage – and has engaged – executive search ber of acquired shares and the number of UPM directors are non-executive and one is executive. meeting in May that resulted in the approval of requirements as set out in the Finnish Corpoout in 2013, and as a result of this, the Audit firms to identify potential director candidates. shares held by the members at the end of 2014 The directors’ personal details, career histories corporate and business area strategies. Part of rate Governance Code and Committee CharCommittee proposed the re-election of PricewaWhen preparing its proposal to the AGM are presented in the table on the right. The and other significant engagements are presented the board’s annual strategy work is the review ters. The President and CEO may not be terhouseCoopers Oy as the company’s external regarding director nominees, the Nomination board members do not receive any other finanon pages 65-66 and on the corporate website. of group strategic and operational risks. The appointed as a member of these committees. auditor at the AGM of 2014. The previous and Governance Committee reviews the comcial benefits for their board or committee memBjörn Wahlroos has chaired the board since board continued its strategy work in September The table on the right contains information tendering process took place in 2007. position of the board and the company’s curberships in addition to the annual fees. The 2008 and Berndt Brunow has been the Deputy when it was updated on the strategy implemenon the committees’ composition, the number of rent and evolving needs in terms of director annual fees have remained the same since 2007. Chair since 2005. tation. During the year, the board was also meetings and attendance levels in 2014. Remuneration Committee competencies and initiates a search for potential According to the Board Charter, board memregularly informed of the progress of the comThe Remuneration Committee’s primary purnew directors early in the autumn. bers are encouraged to own company shares on Directors’ independence pany’s strategic priorities: the EUR 200 million Audit Committee pose is to assist the Board of Directors in When reviewing the composition of the a long term basis. The Board of Directors, assisted by its Nomiprofit improvement programme, the EUR 200 Audit Committee duties and responsibilities are matters relating to management remuneration board, the committee considers whether the The AGM also resolved on the company’s nation and Governance Committee, evaluates million EBITDA target of focused growth defined in the Audit Committee Charter. To and succession planning. board is sufficiently diverse in terms of profesauditor, and re-elected PricewaterhouseCoopers the independence of its members on a continuinitiatives as well as the business portfolio perform these duties and responsibilities, the The company’s management remuneration sional and educational backgrounds, gender Oy, a firm of authorised public accountants, as ous basis. The evaluation is based on an overall development and value creation. Audit Committee reviews the company’s quarconsists of base salary and benefits, short-term and age, and whether it represents an approprithe company’s auditor for a one-year term, with assessment and, specifically, on the independIn addition to the board’s annual and quarterly financial results and interim financial incentives and share-based long-term incentives ate balance of competencies in order to address Ms Merja Lindh, Authorised Public Accountence criteria of the Finnish Corporate Governterly duties pertaining to, among others, finanstatements and recommends their approval to under the company’s Performance Share Plan the needs of the company’s business operations ant, as the auditor in charge. The AGM decided ance Code’s Recommendation 15. As the comcial reporting, budget follow-ups, management the board. The committee’s results review and Deferred Bonus Plan. To perform its duties, and strategic agenda. The committee has deterthat the audit fee would be paid against invoices pany has no controlling shareholders and only remuneration and proposals to the AGM, the includes a review of potential significant and the Remuneration Committee reviews each of mined that desirable skills and qualifications for approved by the Audit Committee. The fees two shareholders have disclosed an ownership Board of Directors resolved on a major investunusual transactions, accounting estimates and these components of the total remuneration on the directors include, among others, relevant paid to the auditor, as approved by the Audit of over five per cent of the company’s total ment in the UPM Kymi pulp mill in Finland policies for the period in question. The commita regular basis. The review includes benchmarkindustry experience, expertise in finance and Committee, are shown in the table below. shares and votes, the board has assessed that all and on the revision of the investment plan tee also receives quarterly reports on assurance ing the different components to market pracaccounting, senior executive level experience in directors are independent of significant shareregarding construction of the third production and legal matters including status reports on tices in corresponding positions in peer compaglobal international business, experience in AUDITOR’S FEES holders. The board has also assessed that all unit and power plant at UPM Changshu mill in internal control, internal audit, litigations, and nies. Based on this review, the committee makes leadership and strategy formation, and experinon-executive directors are independent of the China. Furthermore, the board approved the other legal proceedings. The external auditor recommendations to the board for the approval ence in corporate governance. EURm 2014 2013 company. As the President and CEO of the start of negotiations on capacity closures in the attends all committee meetings and provides of salaries and benefits for the President and Evaluation of director nominees’ independAudit 2.0 2.6 company, Jussi Pesonen is not independent of European publication paper business. These the committee with a review of the interim CEO and other senior executives, for structure, ence is an essential part of the director nominaAudit related – 0.1 it. decisions were announced in February and audit as well as an account of the audit and measures and targets for short-term incentives tion process. As part of the committee’s assessNovember respectively. In relation to the businon-audit fees incurred during the quarter. The and for earning criteria and targets for the plans ment of director nominees’ independence, the Tax consulting 0.6 0.9 Board work ness structure change that was implemented in committee also regularly meets with the interstarting annually under the Performance Share committee reviews the directors’ current Other services 0.5 0.1 The duties and responsibilities of the Board of November 2013, the board also approved new nal and external auditors without members of Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan. Each year, the engagements and the company’s verification Total 3.1 3.7 Directors and its committees are defined in the financial targets for the group and business the management being present. committee also evaluates the achievement of procedures concerning potential related party Board and Committee Charters approved by areas, as disclosed in connection with the comAs part of the committee’s compliance the set targets and the overall performance of transactions and commitments that could the Board of Directors. The Charters are availpany’s Capital Markets Day in March. review, the committee is provided with a quarthe President and CEO and other senior execujeopardise a director’s independence. Based on Further resolutions taken in the AGM able on the corporate website in the Investors terly report by the company’s Ethics Advisory tives, and makes recommendations to the board such procedures, no such transactions took include authorisations to the Board of Direcsection, under Governance. Board self-evaluation Committee and a report of submissions under for the approval of incentive pay-outs. place and no conflicts of interest were identified tors to decide on the repurchase of the comThe Board of Directors convenes according The Board of Directors reviews its performance the Report Misconduct channel. With regard to In addition, the committee annually reviews in 2014. In addition, the committee is regularly pany’s own shares and to decide on donations to a pre-determined meeting schedule. The and working methods annually. In 2014, the risk management, the committee annually procedures and development strategies for informed of any changes in directors’ employfor charitable or corresponding purposes. The meeting schedule is based on the company’s evaluation was conducted as a self-assessment reviews the company’s risk management prosenior positions and succession plans for the ment and other engagements so that it can maximum number of shares that may be repurfinancial reporting schedule and is complementand its results were reviewed at the board meetcess and is informed of the top 20 strategic President and CEO and other senior executives, assess the potential effects of such changes on CONTENTS 61 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 62 directors’ independence and availability for pension plan were EUR 0.7 million (EUR 0.7 SALARIES, INCENTIVES AND OTHER SHARES AND STOCK OPTIONS HELD BY THE GET MEMBERS board work. million). In addition, a single premium of BENEFITS OF THE GET (EXCLUDING When preparing its proposal to the AGM EUR 0.3 million was paid into the President THE PRESIDENT AND CEO) Shares 2007C options **) regarding board remuneration, the committee and CEO’s voluntary pension plan (EUR 1.1 31 December 31 December considers, among other things, the development million) to cover past service pension liabiliEUR 1,000 2014 2013 of director remuneration and the level of directies. Name 2014 2013 2014 2013 Salaries and benefits tor remuneration in peer companies. The comIf notice of termination is given to the Jussi Pesonen*) 195,280 195,294 0 200,000 mittee has underlined the importance of alignPresident and CEO, severance pay of 24 Salaries 3,457 3,396 ing the interests of directors with those of months’ base salary will be paid, in addition Bernd Eikens*) 10,000 21,536 – – Short-term incentives 869 1,067 shareholders and prefers payment of board to the salary for the six-month notice period. Pirkko Harrela 35,488 35,488 0 70,000 Share rewards remuneration in the form of shares. Should the President and CEO give notice of Tapio Kolunsarka*) 10,000 10,000 – – termination to the company, no severance pay Benefits 249 137 President and CEO will be paid in addition to the salary for the Total 4,575 4,600 Tapio Korpeinen*) 45,792 45,792 0 30,000 The Board of Directors appoints the President notice period. Juha Mäkelä 32,068 32,068 0 50,000 and CEO of the company. Jussi Pesonen has If there is a change of control in the Since 1 November 2013, the GET (excluding the President and CEO) comprises 11 members, prior to Jyrki Ovaska 64,612 64,612 0 60,000 served as the company’s President and CEO company, the President and CEO may termithat 8 members. since January 2004. The Board has approved his nate his service contract within three months Kim Poulsen*) – – – – service contract, including financial benefits from the date of the event that triggered the Riitta Savonlahti 16,570 16,570 0 5,000 and other terms of service. Mr Pesonen has also change of control and will receive compensaGET members participate in the Short-term been a member of UPM’s Board of Directors tion equivalent to 24 months’ base salary. Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Mika Sillanpää*) 10,117 9,000 0 10,000 since March 2007. He receives no financial Plan. Information on these plans is available in Kari Ståhlberg 4,212 4,212 0 20,875 benefit for his role as a member of the board. Group Executive Team the Remuneration Statement on the corporate Heikki Vappula*) 10,000 10,000 – – The Group Executive Team (GET) consists website. Remuneration of the President of the business area and function heads. GET GET members are covered by the statutory *) Executives belonging to UPM’s public insiders. Their shareholdings above include and CEO members are presented in the illustration pension plan in the country of residence, supshares held by their closely associated persons and controlled entities. The Board of Directors resolves on the remubelow. Their personal details, career histories plemented by voluntary defined contribution **) Stock option programme 2007 expired on 31 October 2014. neration of the President and CEO based on and other significant engagements are availpension plans. The retirement age is 63. Executhe proposal by the Board of Directors’ Remuable on pages 67-68 and on the corporate tives belonging to the GET before 1 January neration Committee. The President and CEO’s website. 2010 have fully vested rights corresponding to annual salary and other financial benefits in 100% of the accumulated account. Executives 2014 are shown in the table below. Information Remuneration of the GET who have become GET members after 1 JanuIf there is a change of control in the Each business area, function and unit is area heads and the auditor in charge. Public on the President and CEO’s shareholding in the The Remuneration Committee reviews GET ary 2010 are entitled to fully vested rights five company, each GET member may terminate responsible for the management of risks related insider holdings in the company are in the company is provided on pages 61 and 64. members’ performance annually based on the years after becoming a member. his/her employment contract within one to its own operations. The Risk Management public domain and up-to-date information on evaluation and proposal by the President and In 2014, costs under the Finnish and Germonth from the date of the event that trigCommittee, chaired by the CFO, is responsible these holdings is available on the corporate SALARIES, INCENTIVES AND OTHER CEO. On the basis of this review, the Remuman statutory pension schemes for the memgered the change of control, and will receive for recommending risk tolerances and profiles to website. It can also be obtained from Euroclear BENEFITS OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO neration Committee recommends the total bers of the GET (excluding the President and compensation equivalent to 24 months’ base the President and CEO and the Group ExecuFinland Ltd. Public insider shareholdings as at compensation of the GET members to the CEO) amounted to EUR 0.8 million (EUR 0.7 salary. tive Team, which is responsible for defining risk 31 December 2014 are presented in the tables EUR 1,000 2014 2013 board for approval. The annual salaries and million in 2013) and payments under the volunmanagement priorities and tolerances, and on this page and on page 61. Salaries and benefits other financial benefits of the GET members tary pension plan were EUR 0.7 million (EUR Internal control, risk management aligning business and risk management stratein 2014 are shown in the table above. Infor0.5 million). and internal audit gies and policies. The Audit Committee oversees Trading restrictions Salary 1,052 1,059 mation on their shareholdings in the company GET members receive severance pay in the The purpose of internal control is to ensure risk management activities and procedures. Certain trading procedures apply to both public Short-term incentives 627 553 is provided on the following page. event that their service contract is terminated that the company’s operations are effective, The Internal Audit function assists the insiders and permanent insiders (i.e. employees by the company prior to the retirement age. and that financial and other information is Board of Directors with its supervisory responwho regularly have access to inside information) Share rewards – – The period for severance pay is 12 months in reliable and that the company complies with sibility by ensuring that the group’s control of the company. Insiders are not allowed to Benefits 27 26 Read more: addition to the six months’ salary for the notice the relevant regulations and operating princimeasures have been planned and set up effectrade in the company’s securities during closed www.upm.com/governance period, unless notice is given for reasons that ples. The company’s Board of Directors, tively. The Internal Audit function is administrawindow periods. The closed window periods are Total 1,706 1,638 are solely attributable to the executive. assisted by the Audit Committee, is responsitively subordinate to the President and CEO, four-week periods preceding and including the ble for monitoring the company’s internal but has direct access to the Audit Committee date on which the company’s annual or quarThe President and CEO participates in the control system. The company has developed and reports to it quarterly on the adequacy and terly results are disclosed. Trading is allowed Short-term Incentive Plan and the Performance and implemented a comprehensive internal effectiveness of the group’s control systems. The during the open window periods, which are Share Plan. Information on these plans is availcontrol system that covers business and finanbasic operating principles for internal auditing three-week periods commencing on the first able in the Remuneration Statement on the cial reporting processes. Internal control are defined in the Internal Audit Charter, which business day following the disclosure of the corporate website. GROUP EXECUTIVE TEAM pertaining to financial reporting is described has been confirmed by the Board of Directors. company’s annual or quarterly results. Periods In accordance with the service contract, the in the Corporate Governance Statement The internal audit operations cover all aspects between the open and closed window periods retirement age of the President and CEO is 60. President and CEO Jussi Pesonen available on the corporate website. of the group’s business operations, units, comare referred to as clearance periods. Trading The target pension is 60% of the average The Risk Management function of UPM panies, processes and functions. during clearance periods requires prior permisindexed earnings from the last 10 years of is responsible for communicating and enforcsion from the company’s Insider Administraemployment calculated according to the FinnCFO 1) Tapio Korpeinen Heikki Vappula UPM Biorefining ing the Risk Management Policy and risk Insider administration tion. When necessary, project-specific insider ish statutory pension scheme. The cost of limits approved by the Board of Directors. In The company complies with the securities laws registers are set up and related trading restricGeneral Counsel Juha Mäkelä Tapio Korpeinen UPM Energy lowering the retirement age to 60 is covered by addition, it develops group-wide risk manageand regulations applicable to it. UPM also tions imposed. Persons possessing inside inforsupplementing the statutory pension with a Strategy Kari Ståhlberg Tapio Kolunsarka UPM Raflatac ment procedures and guidelines, and measfollows the Guidelines for Insiders issued by mation are not allowed to trade in the comvoluntary defined benefit pension plan. Should ures and monitors risk management perforNASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. The company’s pany’s securities. The company’s Insider the President and CEO leave the company Technology 2) Jyrki Ovaska Kim Poulsen UPM Paper Asia mance. Aggregating and reporting risk Insider Policy complements the statutory regulaAdministration monitors compliance with before reaching the age of 60, an immediate exposure and risk management results coltions and sets out company-specific guidelines trading restrictions. Human Resources Riitta Savonlahti Bernd Eikens UPM Paper ENA vesting right corresponding to 100% of the lected from the business areas and functions for the company’s insiders and for the manageTo avoid any suspicion related to the use of earned pension (pro rata) will be applied. Stakeholder Relations 3) Pirkko Harrela Mika Sillanpää UPM Plywood are part of the risk management process. A ment and administration of insider matters at inside information, the company’s public insidIn 2014, costs under the Finnish statutory description of the company’s strategic, operaUPM. ers are advised to employ trading plans in pension scheme for the President and CEO 1) Incl. Finance & Control, Treasury, IR, IT, Sourcing and Real Estate (incl. Finnish forest assets) tional, financial and hazard risks is included UPM’s public insiders include the members accordance with the Trading Guidelines for amounted to EUR 0.3 million (EUR 0.3 mil2) Incl. Investment Management, R&D, new business development (biocomposites, biochemicals) in the Report of the Board of Directors on of the Board of Directors, the President and Insiders issued by the Finnish Financial Superlion in 2013) and payments under the voluntary 3) Incl. Brand & Communications, Environment & Responsibility, Public Affairs pages 70–79. CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the business visory Authority. CONTENTS 63 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 64 Board of Directors Björn Wahlroos Berndt Brunow Matti Alahuhta Jussi Pesonen Ari Puheloinen Chairman Deputy Chairman Member since 2008 Member since 2007 Member since 2014 Chairman and member since 2008 Member since 2002, Deputy Chairman since 2005 Member of the Remuneration Committee and Independent of significant shareholders, Member of the Nomination and Governance Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Nomination and Governance Committee non-independent of the Company Committee Committee Independent of the Company and significant Independent of the Company and significant Born 1960, Finnish citizen Independent of the Company and significant Independent of the Company and significant shareholders shareholders M.Sc. (Eng.) shareholders shareholders Born 1950, Finnish citizen Born 1952, Finnish citizen Born 1951, Finnish citizen President and CEO of UPM-Kymmene CorporaBorn 1952, Finnish citizen B.Sc. (Econ.) D.Sc. (Eng.) General Staff Officer, General (ret.) tion since 2004. COO of the Paper Divisions and Ph.D. (Econ.) President and CEO of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 2002–2007. President and CEO of KONE Corporation 2006–2014 Deputy to the President and CEO 2001–2004. Several Commander of the Finnish Defence Forces President and CEO of Sampo plc 2001–2009. ChairPresident and CEO of Sanitec Corporation 2000– and President 2005–2006. Executive Vice President of management positions in UPM Paper Divisions 2009–2014. Chief of Finnish Defence Command man of the Board of Mandatum Bank plc 1998–2000, 2002. Over 20 years of experience in executive posiNokia Corporation 2004, President of Nokia Mobile 1987–2001. 2007–2009 and Commander of the Eastern Command CEO and Vice Chairman of the Board of Mandatum tions at Finnpap and UPM-Kymmene Corporation. Phones 1998–2003 and President of Nokia Telecom2004–2007. Deputy Chief of Operations of the FinnChairman of the Board of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension & Co Ltd 1992–1997. Member of the Executive Communications 1993–1998. ish Defence Staff 2000–2003 and Brigade CommandChairman of the Board of Lemminkäinen CorporaInsurance Company and the Finnish Forest Indusmittee and Executive Vice President of the Union er 1999–2000. Principal Secretary of the Defence tion, Oy Karl Fazer Ab and Mutual Pension InsurChairman of the Board of Outotec Oyj, DevCo Parttries Federation (FFIF). Co-Chairman of the Forest Bank of Finland 1985–1992. Council 1997–1999. Assistant Defence Attaché in ance Company Varma. Board member of Hartwall ners Oy, Aalto University Foundation and ConfedSolutions Group (FSG) in World Business Council for Moscow 1986–1990. Chairman of the Board of Sampo plc, Nordea Bank Capital Oy Ab and East Office of Finnish Industries eration of Finnish Industries (EK). Board member of Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Board member AB (publ) and Hanken School of Economics. Oy. KONE Corporation, AB Volvo (publ) and ABB Ltd. of the Confederation of European Paper Industries Board member of the Association for the New (CEPI) and East Office of Finnish Industries Oy. Children’s Hospital 2017. BJÖRN WAHLROOS BERNDT BRUNOW MATTI ALAHUHTA JUSSI PESONEN ARI PUHELOINEN PIIA-NOORA KAUPPI WENDY E. LANE VELI-MATTI REINIKKALA KIM WAHL Piia-Noora Kauppi Wendy E. Lane Veli-Matti Reinikkala Kim Wahl Member since 2013 Member since 2005 Member since 2007 Member since 2012 Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Independent of the Company and significant Independent of the Company and significant Independent of the Company and significant Independent of the Company and significant shareholders shareholders shareholders shareholders Born 1975, Finnish citizen Born 1951, US citizen Born 1957, Finnish citizen Born 1960, Norwegian citizen LL.M. MBA (Harvard) eMBA MBA (Harvard) BA, Business Economics (San Diego) Managing Director of Federation of Finnish FinanChairman of the Board of Lane Holdings, Inc. since President of ABB Region Europe since 2015 and cial Services since 2009. Member of the European 1992. Managing Director and Principal at Donaldmember of the Group Executive Committee of ABB Chairman of the Board of Strømstangen AS since Parliament and member of various parliamentary son, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. 1981–1992. Ltd since 2006. Head of ABB Process Automation 2009. Deputy Chairman and Co­founder of the committees 1999–2008, Head of the Finnish DelegaBanking Associate at Goldman, Sachs & Co. Division 2006–2014. Business Area Manager for ABB European private equity firm IK Investment Partners tion in the EPP-ED Group 2004–2008. Legal advisor 1977–1980. Process Automation 2005. Automation Technologies 1989–2009. Associate, Corporate Finance, Goldman, for the Parliamentary Group of the National CoaliDivision Manager in ABB China 2003–2004. ManagSachs & Co. 1987–1989. Board member of Willis Group Holdings PLC and tion Party Kokoomus 1997–1999. er for ABB Drives 1997–2002. CFO of ABB Industry Al-Dabbagh Group Holding Company Limited. Board member of DNB Bank ASA and IntermediOy 1994–1996. Before 1994, various positions in paper Board member of Sulava Oy and the Finnish Finanate Capital Group plc. Chairman of Voxtra AS and and packaging companies in Finland. cial Ombudsman Bureau. Member of the Supervisory Voxtra Foundation. Adjunct Professor at INSEAD Board of Helsinki Deaconess Institute and HSE business school. Foundation. Chairman of the Executive Committee of European Banking Federation. CONTENTS 65 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 66 Group Executive Team Jussi Pesonen Tapio Korpeinen Heikki Vappula Mika Sillanpää Kari Ståhlberg Juha Mäkelä President and CEO CFO, Executive Vice President, UPM Energy Executive Vice President, UPM Biorefining Executive Vice President, UPM Plywood Executive Vice President, Strategy General Counsel M.Sc. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Tech.), MBA M.Sc. (Econ.) M.Sc. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Eng.) LL.M. Born 1960, Finnish citizen Born 1963, Finnish citizen Born 1967, Finnish citizen Born 1958, Finnish citizen Born 1971, Finnish citizen Born 1962, Finnish citizen Member of the Group Executive Team since 2001. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2008. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2010. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2008. Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since 1987. 2005. 2006. 1985. 2007. 2005. Several management positions in the UPM Paper Several management positions at Jaakko Pöyry Sales Manager, Balance Consulting Oy 1992–1993. Several management positions at UPM Raflatac in Management Consultant at Jaakko Pöyry ConsultSeveral positions in law firms 1991–1996. Positions as Divisions 1987–2001. COO of the Paper Divisions Consulting in Finland and North America 1991–1998 Management Accountant, Nokia Group, Finland Finland and in France 1985–2000. Vice President, ing Oy 1998–2000. M&A Advisor at JP Capital legal counsel and senior legal counsel in KONE and Deputy to the President and CEO 2001–2004. and 1999–2005. A.T. Kearney in Finland 1998–1999 1993–1995. Several management positions at Nokia UPM Raflatac Europe 2001–2003. Senior Vice PresiInternational Limited in the UK 2000–2006. InvestCorporation 1997–2004. President and CEO since 2004. and McKinsey & Company in Sweden 1988–1990. Networks Corporation in Finland, Denmark, the dent, Strategic Development, UPM Raflatac Group ment Manager at Finnish Industry Investment Ltd Supervisory Board member of Kemijoki Oy. Vice President, Corporate Development and Senior UK and Hungary 1996–2002. Vice President of 2003–2008. Vice President, Sourcing at UPM Raflatac 2006–2007. Director, M&A, UPM-Kymmene CorpoChairman of the Board of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Vice President, Strategy, UPM 2005–2008. President, Nokia Mobile Phones Supply Line Management Group 2008–2013. ration 2007–2010. Senior Vice President, Corporate Insurance Company and the Finnish Forest IndusEnergy and Pulp Business Group, 2008–2010. 2002–2006. Senior Vice President, UPM Sourcing Strategy 2010–2013. tries Federation (FFIF). Co-Chairman of the Forest CFO since 2010. 2006–2010. President, Energy and Pulp Business Solutions Group (FSG) in World Business Council for Group 2010–2013. Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Board member Chairman of the Board of Pohjolan Voima Oy. Board of the Confederation of European Paper Industries member of Teollisuuden Voima Oyj and Kemijoki Oy. Board member of the Finnish Forest Industries (CEPI) and East Office of Finnish Industries Oy. Super­v isory board member of Varma Mutual Pension Federation (FFIF). Insurance Company. JUSSI PESONEN TAPIO KORPEINEN HEIKKI VAPPULA MIKA SILLANPÄÄ KARI STÅHLBERG JUHA MÄKELÄ TAPIO KOLUNSARKA KIM POULSEN BERND EIKENS JYRKI OVASKA RIITTA SAVONLAHTI PIRKKO HARRELA Tapio Kolunsarka Kim Poulsen Bernd Eikens Jyrki Ovaska Riitta Savonlahti Pirkko Harrela Executive Vice President, UPM Raflatac Executive Vice President, UPM Paper Asia Executive Vice President, UPM Paper ENA Executive Vice President, Technology Executive Vice President, Human Resources Executive Vice President, Stakeholder Relations M.Sc. (Eng.), M.Sc. (Econ.) M.Sc. (Econ.) Ph.D. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Econ.) M.A. Born 1975, Finnish citizen Born 1966, Finnish citizen Born 1965, German citizen Born 1958, Finnish citizen Born 1964, Finnish citizen Born 1960, Finnish citizen Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013 Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2002. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2004. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2004. Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since 2002. Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since 2011. 1998. 1984. 2004. 1985. Associate, McKinsey & Company 2000–2002. Several management positions at UPM Raflatac in Finland General Manager, Koskisen Ltd. 1993–1996. Several Senior Process Engineer, International Paper Co. Several management positions at United Paper HR Specialist positions at ABB 1990–1994. Human Several positions in Communications in Finnpap and in the USA 2002–2008. Senior Vice President, management positions at Finnforest Ltd. in Finland, 1996–1998. Several management positions at UPM Mills Ltd and UPM in the Printing Papers Division Resources Manager at Nokia Mobile Phones, Salo and UPM Paper Division 1985–2002. Vice President, UPM Raflatac, Europe 2008–2011. Senior Vice PresiUnited Kingdom and Germany 1996–2006. President Nordland Papier 1998–2005. President, UPM1984–2001. President, Fine and Speciality Papers Operations 1995–2000. Senior Vice President, Human Corporate Communications of UPM 2003, Execudent, UPM Raflatac, Europe, Middle-East and Africa and CEO, Paloheimo Group and Fenestra Ltd. Kymmene Inc. North America 2005–2008. Senior Division 2002–2003. President, Magazine Paper Resources at Raisio Group 2000–2001. Senior Vice tive Vice President, Corporate Communications 2011–2013. 2006–2010. Senior Vice President, UPM Plywood Vice President, Supply Chain, Paper Business Group Division 2004–2008. President, Paper Business Group President, Human Resources at Elcoteq Network 2004–2013. 2011–2013. Executive Vice President, Paper Business 2008–2013. 2008–2013. Corporation 2001–2004. Member of S-Group’s CSR Advisory Group. Asia Pacific and Corporate Relations 2013. Board member of EUROGRAPH, the European Vice Chairman of AmCham Finland (The American Board member of Posti Group Corporation. Association of Graphic Paper Producers and German Chamber of Commerce in Finland). Board member of Pulp and Paper Association VDP. Chairman of the FIBIC, Finnish Bioeconomy Cluster. Owners’ Committee of Madison Paper Industries. Board member of Johann Bunte Bauunternehmung GmbH & Co. KG. CONTENTS 67 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 68 Accounts for 2014 Report of the Board of Directors 70 Report of the Board of Directors Market environment in 2014 Key figures 80 Board of Directors’ proposal for the distribution of profits Global economic growth in 2014 was largely on the same level as in the 2014 2013 previous year. However, the development was highly uneven and country specific. Of the big economic areas, growth strengthened in the US and Sales, EURm 9,868 10,054 81 Consolidated financial statements, IFRS slowed in China. In the eurozone, growth turned positive, but remained EBITDA, EURm 1) 1,287 1,155 very low. % of sales 13.0 11.5 The second half of 2014 was characterised by increasing geopolitical Operating profit (loss), EURm 674 548 81 Consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income tensions and decreasing commodity prices, oil in particular. This excluding special items, EURm 847 683 82 Consolidated balance sheet increased uncertainty about the economic outlook and led to a clear % of sales 8.6 6.8 slowdown in many developing countries. Profit (loss) before tax, EURm 667 475 83 Consolidated statement of changes in equity excluding special items, EURm As a result of the continuously weak growth outlook in Europe, 774 610 84 Consolidated cash flow statement interest rate cuts and prospects of looser monetary policies, the Euro Net profit (loss) for the period, EURm 512 335 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements weakened against the US dollar during the second half of the year. Earnings per share, EUR 0.96 0.63 Against the US dollar, the Euro decreased by 12% during the year but excluding special items, EUR 1.17 0.91 was on average on the same level as in the previous year. The Euro weakDiluted earnings per share, EUR 0.96 0.63 ened against the British pound sterling and strengthened against the Return on equity, % 6.9 4.5 1 Accounting policies 20 Biological assets Japanese yen. excluding special items, % 8.3 6.4 2 Critical judgements in applying accounting 21 Investments in associated companies In UPM’s businesses and products, the market environment differed Return on capital employed, % 6.5 4.8 policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty and joint ventures in 2014. excluding special items, % 7.5 6.0 3 Financial risk management 22 Available-for-sale investments Demand grew in chemical pulp and self-adhesive label materials, Operating cash flow per share, EUR 2.33 1.39 4 Segment information 23 Non-current financial assets especially in developing markets. Whereas hardwood pulp production Equity per share at end of period, EUR 14.02 14.08 5 Acquisitions and disposals and notes to the 24 Other non-current assets capacity increased and prices decreased, a tight supply-demand balance Gearing ratio at end of period, % 32 41 cash flow statement 25 Inventories in softwood pulp underpinned higher prices. Net interest-bearing liabilities at end of period, EURm 2,401 3,040 6 Other operating income 26 Trade and other receivables The hydrological balance in Finland was close to the long-term averCapital employed at end of period, EURm 10,944 11,583 7 Costs and expenses 27 Equity and reserves age level. The Finnish area price was above the Nord Pool system price Capital expenditure, EURm 411 362 8 Change in fair value of biological assets 28 Deferred income taxes due to dependency on imports for peak hours. The Finnish electricity Capital expenditure excluding acquisitions and and wood harvested 29 Retirement benefit obligations spot price was lower on average than in the previous year – mainly due shares, EURm 375 329 9 Share of results of associated companies 30 Provisions to lower coal prices, warmer weather and increased renewable power Personnel at end of period 20,414 20,950 and joint ventures 31 Interest-bearing liabilities capacity. 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment 10 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 32 Other liabilities Labelling materials demand increased globally and fine paper charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood 11 Gains on available-for-sale investments, net 33 Trade and other payables demand in Asia grew modestly. harvested, excluding the share of results of associated companies and joint 12 Finance costs 34 Financial instruments by category The slight improvement in the eurozone economic region moderated ventures, and special items. 13 Income taxes 35 Derivative financial instruments the decline in graphic paper demand in Europe. Prices remained near the 14 Earnings per share 36 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations previous year’s level on average. Information on key financial and share-related indicators is presented in 15 Dividend per share 37 Share-based payments Demand for plywood and timber products increased slightly, prifinancial statements. 16 Goodwill 38 Related party transactions marily driven by certain markets and industrial end-uses. Prices 17 Other intangible assets 39 Commitments and contingencies increased. 18 Property, plant and equipment 40 Events after balance sheet date Results 19 Investment property 2014 compared with 2013 Sales for 2014 were EUR 9,868 million, 2% lower than the EUR 10,054 million in 2013. Sales decreased mainly due to lower deliveries at UPM Paper ENA. EBITDA was EUR 1,287 million, 13.0% of sales (1,155 million, 11.5% of sales). The increase was driven to a large extent by the Group’s 122 Parent company accounts profit improvement programme. Sales prices had a clearly negative net 128 Information on shares impact on earnings, but this was offset by a reduction in variable costs, partly due to the actions taken under the profit improvement pro132 Key figures 2005–2014 gramme. Fixed costs were EUR 60 million lower than the previous year. 134 Quarterly figures 2013–2014 UPM Paper ENA achieved a clear improvement in EBITDA based on lower variable and fixed costs. UPM Paper Asia also increased its 136 Auditor’s report EBITDA mainly due to lower variable and fixed costs. UPM Plywood improved its EBITDA mainly due to increased sales margins. UPM Energy increased its EBITDA due to lower costs as well as higher hydro and nuclear power production. UPM Raflatac reported a small increase in EBITDA, mainly driven by higher deliveries. EBITDA decreased in UPM Biorefining, mainly due to lower hardwood pulp prices. Operating profit excluding special items was EUR 847 million, 8.6% of sales (683 million, 6.8%). Depreciation excluding special items totalled EUR 521 million (542 million). Reported operating profit was EUR 674 million, 6.8% of sales (548 million, 5.5% of sales). Operating profit includes net charges of EUR 173 million as special items. UPM booked write-offs totalling EUR 135 million and restructuring charges totalling EUR 73 million related to the CONTENTS 69 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 70 planned paper capacity closures and charges of EUR 5 million related to Growth projects targeting EBITDA impact of France, newsprint machine 1 at UPM Shotton in the UK, SC paper UPM Biorefining 2014 2013 other restructurings in UPM Paper ENA. Restructuring measures in machine Jämsänkoski 5 at UPM Jämsä River Mills in Finland and UPM Raflatac resulted in charges of EUR 11 million. UPM recognised EUR 200 million coated mechanical paper machine 2 at UPM Kaukas in Finland. The On 6 August 2013, UPM announced quantified targets for its growth Sales, EURm 1,937 1,988 a capital gain of EUR 45 million from the sale of forestland in the UK. closures are planned to take place by the end of Q1 2015. EBITDA, EURm 1) 358 435 projects over three years. The increase in the fair value of biological assets net of wood harAs part of the profit improvement programme UPM has started a % of sales 18.5 21.9 Biofuels, a 10% capacity increase in UPM’s existing pulp mills, vested was EUR 78 million (68 million). review of the production, maintenance and other site operating practices wood-free speciality papers in China and growth measures in UPM RafChange in fair value of biological assets and Profit before tax was EUR 667 million (475 million) and excluding across all of UPM businesses and operating countries. latac are expected to provide top-line growth for UPM in the coming wood harvested, EURm 9 15 special items EUR 774 million (610 million). Net interest and other The total annualised cost reduction impact of EUR 150 million is years. With these growth projects, the company is targeting an EBITDA Share of results of associated companies and finance costs were EUR 62 million (84 million). Exchange rate and fair expected by the end of 2015, compared with the Q3 2014. The fixed cost contribution of EUR 200 million when the projects are in full operation. joint ventures, EURm 1 1 value gains and losses resulted in a loss of EUR 4 million (gain of EUR reduction of the planned capacity closures is expected to be EUR 55 The total investment requirement in these projects is EUR 680 milDepreciation, amortisation and ­ 10 million). Financial items include a special income of EUR 66 million million, and is included in the total savings target. lion. EUR 315 million has already been invested, and the total remainimpairment charges, EURm –150 –152 related to the sale of Metsä Fibre shares in 2012 due to UPM’s tag-along UPM booked write-offs of EUR 135 million and restructuring ing capital expenditure in the coming two years would be EUR 365 milOperating profit, EURm 223 306 rights under the shareholders’ agreement. The amount is based on the charges of EUR 73 million in Q4 2014. lion. % of sales 11.5 15.4 resolution of arbitration proceedings between UPM and Metsäliitto UPM invested EUR 175 million in a biorefinery to produce renewSpecial items, EURm 2) 6 6 Cooperative and Metsä Board Corporation. able diesel from crude tall oil in Lappeenranta, Finland. The biorefinery Events after the balance sheet date Income taxes totalled EUR 155 million (140 million). Special items Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 217 300 is capable of producing approximately 120 million litres of advanced On 12 January 2015, UPM announced that the UPM Lappeenranta in taxes were EUR 4 million negative (EUR 10 million negative). % of sales 11.2 15.1 renewable diesel for transport each year. Construction of the refinery Biorefinery had started commercial production. The production process Profit for 2014 was EUR 512 million (335 million) and earnings per Pulp deliveries, 1,000 t 3,287 3,163 was completed, and the testing and commissioning process was started works as planned and the high quality end product, UPM BioVerno share were EUR 0.96 (0.63). Earnings per share excluding special items diesel, fulfils customer specifications. Capital employed (average), EURm 2,862 2,825 in July 2014. The refinery started commercial production of renewable were EUR 1.17 (0.91). The UPM Lappeenranta Biorefinery is the world’s first wood-based ROCE (excl. special items), % 7.6 10.6 diesel in January 2015. Operating cash flow per share was EUR 2.33 (1.39). renewable diesel biorefinery, and is based on a hydrotreatment process In February 2014, UPM announced that it is building a new produc1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment tion unit at the UPM Changshu mill in China. The new unit will be developed by UPM. It is capable of producing approximately 120 milcharges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestFinancing capable of producing 360,000 tonnes of labelling materials and speciality lion litres of renewable UPM BioVerno diesel each year. ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special In 2014, cash flow from operating activities before capital expenditure On 20 January 2015, UPM announced that it will permanently close items. papers. The total investment is approximately EUR 277 million, and the and financing totalled EUR 1,241 million (735 million). Working capital unit is expected to start up at the end of 2015. down paper machine 2 at UPM Kaukas and paper machine 5 at UPM 2) In 2014, special income of EUR 5 million relate to a gain on sale of property, decreased by EUR 73 million (increased by EUR 128 million) during the In February 2014, UPM announced that it is investing approxiJämsänkoski in Finland, along with paper machine 1 at the UPM Shotplant and equipment and income of EUR 1 million relate to restructuring measures. year. mately EUR 160 million in its UPM Kymi pulp mill, comprising a new ton mill in the UK. Production will be ceased by the end of March 2015 In 2013, special charges of EUR 2 million relate to restructuring measures and The gearing ratio as of 31 December 2014 was 32% (41%). Net at the latest. Employee consultation processes concerning the closing special income of EUR 8 million to a capital gain from a sale of property, plant pulp drying machine, modernisation of the softwood fibre line, a new interest-bearing liabilities at the end of the period came to EUR 2,401 plans were concluded in mid-January 2015. The number of positions is and equipment. debarking plant, as well as improvements to the energy balance of the million (3,040 million). Kymi integrate. The investment will increase the pulp mill’s production reduced by 114 at the Kaukas mill in Lappeenranta, by 138 at the Jämsä On 31 December 2014, UPM’s cash funds and unused committed capacity by 170,000 tonnes and advance the decoupling of UPM’s pulp River Mills and by 121 at Shotton. Along with the closures, UPM Market review credit facilities totalled EUR 1.6 billion. and paper businesses. The investment is expected to be completed by the reduces its coated and uncoated magazine paper capacity by approxiIn 2014, the average softwood pulp (NBSK) market price was EUR 698/ end of 2015. mately 460,000 tonnes and its newsprint capacity by 215,000 tonnes. tonne, 8% higher than during the previous year (646/tonne). At the end Personnel The modernisation of one fibre line at the UPM Pietarsaari pulp of the year, the softwood pulp market price was EUR 763/tonne (656/ In 2014, UPM had an average of 20,852 employees (21,898). At the mill was completed in June 2014. The investment was EUR 13 million Outlook for 2015 tonne). A tight supply-demand balance supported additional price beginning of the year the number of employees was 20,950, and at the and increased the mill’s production capacity by 70,000 tonnes. The improved profitability achieved in 2014 is expected to continue in increases for softwood market pulp. end of 2014 it was 20,414. Further debottlenecking potential has been identified at the UPM 2015, and we have prospects to improve further. Our profitability is The average market price of hardwood pulp (BHKP) was EUR 561/ More information (unaudited) on personnel is published in UPM's Fray Bentos and UPM Kaukas pulp mills. In June 2014, UPM received underpinned by the EUR 150 million profit improvement programme, as tonne, 6% lower than in the same period the previous year (596/tonne). Annual Report 2014. an increased production permit for the Fray Bentos pulp mill in Uruwell as the first positive impacts from the company’s growth projects. New production capacity entered the market, impacting the supplyguay, entitling the mill to increase its production from the current Profitability is affected by lower publication paper prices and lower demand balance. The market price of hardwood pulp decreased in the Capital expenditure and divestments 1,200,000 tonnes to 1,300,000 tonnes. To achieve this, minor investments electricity sales prices in the beginning of the year. The current weakened first half of the year. In the second half of the year the euro denomiIn 2014, capital expenditure was EUR 411 million, 4.2% of sales (362 were carried out in Q4 2014. euro and lower oil price are supportive for the company’s earnings. nated market price increased mainly due to the EUR/USD exchange rate million, 3.6% of sales), and excluding investments in shares EUR 375 In April 2014, UPM announced that it is increasing its labelstock weakening. At the end of the year the BHKP market price was EUR million, 3.8% of sales (329 million, 3.3% of sales). Operational capital coating capacity in the Asia Pacific region by more than 50% by building Business area reviews 608/tonne (557/tonne). expenditure totalled EUR 194 million (209 million). The total capital a new coating line at the Changshu labelstock factory in China and UPM Biorefining In 2014 global chemical pulp shipments increased by 2% from the expenditure in 2015 is estimated to be approximately EUR 500 million. upgrading machinery at the Johor Bahru factory in Malaysia. The 2014 compared with 2013 previous year. Demand growth was mainly driven by developing ecoUPM’s main ongoing investment projects are related to the growth investments totalling to approximately EUR 14 million are expected to Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Biorefining decreased nomic regions such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. Shipprojects, as described in the next chapter. be completed in Q1 2015. to EUR 217 million (300 million). Sales decreased by 3% to EUR 1,937 ments to Western Europe increased slightly, whilst shipments to North In December 2014, UPM completed the new combined heat and In April 2014 UPM also announced it is increasing production million (1,988 million). Pulp deliveries increased by 4% to 3,287,000 America and Japan were on the previous year’s level. Shipments of power plant at the UPM Schongau mill in Germany. The target is to capacity for its film labelstock business in Europe by investing approxitonnes (3,163,000). NBSK pulp decreased modestly whilst shipments of BHKP grew. significantly reduce energy costs as well as to secure the mill’s energy mately EUR 13 million in a new coating line at the self-adhesive labelOperating profit decreased mainly due to lower hardwood pulp Sawn timber markets weakened in the second half of the year due to supply. The total investment is EUR 89 million. stock factory in Nowa Wies, Poland. The investment is expected to be prices. Fixed costs increased due to maintenance shutdowns carried out excessive production and inventory build-up earlier in the year. In June 2013, UPM announced that it is participating in the share completed in Q1 2015. at the UPM Kaukas and UPM Pietarsaari pulp mills in the first half of issue from Pohjolan Voima Oy to finance the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power the year and ramp-up of the Biofuels organisation. The commissioning UPM Energy plant project. UPM’s share of the issue is EUR 119 million, of which Profit improvement programmes phase of the biorefinery started in July, and commercial production of 2014 compared with 2013 EUR 31 million was paid in Q2 2013 and another EUR 31 million was On 6 August 2013, UPM announced that it had identified actions with advanced renewable diesel began in January 2015. Profitability in sawmill Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Energy increased to paid in Q4 2014. The remaining part of the share issue will be implean overall profit improvement impact of EUR 200 million in its existing operations improved thanks to further development in sales and producEUR 202 million (186 million). Sales were EUR 464 million (466 milmented during the coming years based on the financing needs of the businesses compared with the Q2 2013 results. Each business implementtion management. lion). The total electricity sales volume was 8,721 GWh (8,925 GWh). project. ed a profit improvement programme with a simplified business model Operating profit increased due to lower costs as well as higher hydro On 12 December 2014, UPM executed a transaction to sell all of its and variable and fixed cost savings. and nuclear power production, more than offsetting the negative impact forest land in the UK, 7,100 hectares in total, to The Church CommisThe full impact of the programme was achieved in Q3 2014, one of lower average sales prices. sioners for England. The transaction price was GBP 50.6 million. UPM quarter ahead of the original schedule. The average electricity sales price decreased by 2% to EUR 45.3/ recognised a capital gain of EUR 45 million as a special item for Q4 On 13 November 2014, UPM announced a new profit improvement MWh (46.1/MWh). 2014. target with an annualised impact of EUR 150 million by the end of 2015. The target includes savings in variable and fixed costs in all UPM businesses and functions, as well as planned capacity closures in the European paper business. UPM announced it’s plan to permanently reduce its publication paper capacity in Europe by approximately 800,000 tonnes, including newsprint machine 3 at UPM Chapelle in CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 71 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 72 UPM Energy 2014 2013 UPM Raflatac 2014 2013 Market review UPM Plywood In Asia Pacific, growth in fine paper demand is levelling off, though 2014 compared with 2013 Sales, EURm 464 466 Sales, EURm 1,248 1,213 development varies by product and market segment. Growth in office Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Plywood increased to EBITDA, EURm 1) 213 198 EBITDA, EURm 1) 112 109 paper demand continue. Competition in the region has been intense as EUR 44 million (21 million). Sales increased by 3% to EUR 440 million % of sales 45.9 42.5 % of sales 9.0 9.0 overcapacity prevails in all paper grades. (429 million). Deliveries decreased by 1% to 731,000 cubic metres Share of results of associated companies and Depreciation, amortisation and ­ The demand for labelling materials grew globally in 2014. New (737,000). joint ventures, EURm – –1 impairment charges, EURm –35 –36 investments and paper machine conversions to uncoated woodfree and Operating profit increased significantly due to a clear improvement Operating profit, EURm labelling materials in Asia, as well as conversions to labelling materials in in sales margins resulting from both higher sales prices and lower variDepreciation, amortisation and ­ 69 60 impairment charges, EURm % of sales Europe have intensified the competition. able costs. Fixed costs remained on the previous year’s level. –11 –11 5.5 4.9 Operating profit, EURm 202 186 Special items, EURm 2) –11 –15 % of sales 43.5 39.9 Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 80 75 UPM Paper ENA UPM Plywood 2014 2013 Special items, EURm – – % of sales 6.4 6.2 2014 compared with 2013 Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 202 186 Capital employed (average), EURm 530 532 Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Paper ENA increased Sales, EURm 440 429 % of sales ROCE (excl. special items), % 15.1 14.1 significantly to EUR 181 million (0 million). Sales decreased to EUR 43.5 39.9 EBITDA, EURm 1) 68 43 Electricity deliveries, GWh 5,284 million (5,560 million). Paper deliveries decreased by 3% to 8,721 8,925 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment % of sales 15.5 10.0 8,607,000 tonnes (8,910,000). Capital employed (average), EURm 2,903 2,882 charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestDepreciation, amortisation and ­ Operating profit increased due to significantly lower variable and ROCE (excl. special items), % 7.0 6.5 ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special impairment charges, EURm –24 –22 fixed costs, driven to a large extent by the profit improvement proitems. Operating profit, EURm 44 21 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment grammes, more than offsetting the negative impact from sales prices and charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvest2) In 2014, special items of EUR 11 million relate to restructuring charges, including delivery volumes % of sales 10.0 4.9 ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special impairments of EUR 3 million. In 2013, special items of EUR 15 million relate to The average price for all paper deliveries in euro was 1% lower than Special items, EURm – – items. restructuring charges, including impairments of EUR 2 million. Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 44 21 the previous year. In January 2014, UPM closed down the Docelles paper mill in % of sales 10.0 4.9 Market review Market review France. Deliveries, plywood, 1,000 m3 731 737 The hydrological balance in Finland remained fairly stable in 2014. In Along with the improvement in the macro-economic environment, Capital employed (average), EURm 268 286 the first half of the year the balance remained slightly above the longgrowth in the global demand for self-adhesive label materials strengthROCE (excl. special items), % 16.4 7.3 UPM Paper ENA 2014 2013 term average and deteriorated due to dry weather conditions during the ened over the year. Demand grew in Western Europe, especially in the 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment second half of the year. The average Finnish area spot price on the fourth quarter. In spite of the political tensions in Russia and Ukraine, charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestNordic electricity exchange in 2014 was EUR 36.0 /MWh, 13% lower Sales, EURm 5,284 5,560 solid demand growth continued in Eastern Europe. After a weak first ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special than during the previous year (EUR 41.2/MWh) mainly due to lower EBITDA, EURm 1) 392 232 quarter, impacted by poor weather conditions, demand in North Ameriitems. coal prices, warmer weather and increased renewable power generation % of sales 7.4 4.2 ca increased in 2014. Growth strengthened during the second half of the capacity. The Finnish area price was above the Nord Pool system price year. In Asia and Latin America growth continued. Share of results of associated companies and Market review due to dependency on imports. joint ventures, EURm 1 1 The improvement in European plywood demand was country specific in Due to global excess coal supply, coal prices decreased in 2014. The Depreciation, amortisation and UPM Paper Asia 2014. The progress was slightly stronger in industrial applications comCO2 emission allowance price was EUR 6.9/tonne at the end of the year, ­impairment charges, EURm –349 –233 2014 compared with 2013 pared to construction-related end-use segments. The plywood market in 47% higher than on the same date the previous year (EUR 4.7/tonne). Operating profit, EURm –32 –59 Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Paper Asia increased Europe remained in balance and market prices increased. Strengthening Backloading of emission allowances combined with structural reforms % of sales –0.6 –1.1 to EUR 108 million (80 million). Sales were EUR 1,124 million (1,108 demand in the US, certain delivery problems with overseas suppliers and proposed by the European Commission supported CO2 emission allowSpecial items, EURm 2) –213 –59 million). Paper deliveries increased by 3% to 1,421,000 tonnes the Euro weakening during the second half of 2014 limited excess supply ance price in 2014. Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 181 0 (1,378,000). of plywood to Europe. The weakening of the Russian economy however, The Finnish area front-year forward electricity price closed at EUR % of sales 3.4 0.0 Operating profit increased significantly due to lower variable and redirected standard birch plywood supply to the European market in the 36.1/MWh at the end of the year, 4% lower than on the same date the Paper deliveries, 1,000 t 8,607 8,910 fixed costs. Average sales prices were slightly lower partly due to negative fourth quarter of 2014. Raw material costs remained stable in 2014. previous year (37.6/MWh). Capital employed (average), EURm 2,511 2,672 currency impacts. ROCE (excl. special items), % 7.2 0.0 UPM Raflatac Other operations UPM Paper Asia 2014 2013 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment Other operations include wood sourcing and forestry, UPM Biocompos2014 compared with 2013 charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestites, UPM Biochemicals business units and Group services. Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Raflatac was EUR 80 ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special million (75 million). Sales increased by 3% to EUR 1,248 million (1,213 Sales, EURm 1,124 1,108 items. million). EBITDA, EURm 1) 188 161 2014 compared with 2013 2) In 2014, special items include write-offs totalling EUR 135 million and restructurOperating profit increased mainly due to higher delivery volumes % of sales 16.7 14.5 Operating profit excluding special items was EUR 37 million (25 miling charges totalling EUR 73 million related to planned capacity closures and and lower fixed costs, more than offsetting the negative sales margin and Depreciation, amortisation and lion). Sales decreased to EUR 447 million (490 million). charges of EUR 5 million related to other restructuring measures, mainly to the currency impacts. ­impairment charges, EURm –80 –81 closure of the UPM Docelles mill in France, including impairment charges of EUR The increase in the fair value of biological assets net of wood harThe coating operations in Melbourne, Australia and in Polinya, Operating profit, EURm 108 80 1 million. In 2013, special items include charges of EUR 25 million related to the vested was EUR 69 million (53 million). The increase in the fair value of Spain were closed in Q2 2014. % of sales 9.6 7.2 restructuring of the UPM Docelles mill in France and net charges of EUR 34 million biological assets (growing trees) was EUR 121 million (112 million), Special items, EURm – – mainly related to the ongoing restructurings. including gains on forest sales. The cost of wood harvested from UPM Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 108 80 forests was EUR 52 million (59 million). % of sales 9.6 7.2 In 2014, UPM sold 51,000 (36,000) hectares of forests. Market review Paper deliveries, 1,000 t 1,421 1,378 In 2014, demand for graphic papers decreased by 3% in Europe. The Capital employed (average), EURm 861 882 slight improvement in the eurozone economic region moderated the ROCE (excl. special items), % 12.5 9.1 decline in graphic paper demand during the first half of the year. During 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment the second half of the year market conditions turned worse and overcacharges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestpacity plagued the European paper markets, particularly in the newsed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special print segment. Graphic paper prices remained largely stable during the items. first half of the year and decreased towards the end of the year. On average, graphic paper prices were 1% lower than in 2013. In North America, demand for magazine papers decreased by 3% and the average US dollar price for magazine papers was 6% lower than in the previous year. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 73 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 74 Other operations 2014 2013 emptive subscription rights. This authorisation is valid until 4 April and compensate UPM for its legal fees. As a result, UPM recorded an The main risk factors that can materially affect the company’s busi2016. income of EUR 67 million as a special item in Q1 2014. In May 2014 ness and financial results are set out below. They have been classified as Sales, EURm 447 490 Aside from the above, the Board of Directors has no current Metsäliitto and Metsä Board commenced litigation proceedings in the strategic risks, operational risks, financial risks and hazard risks. Risks EBITDA, EURm 1) authorisation to issue shares, convertible bonds or share options. Helsinki District Court challenging the arbitral award and requesting the may also arise from legal proceedings incidental to UPM's operations. –21 –16 The subscription period for share options 2007C ended on 31 OctoDistrict Court to set aside the arbitral award or to declare it null and Change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvested, EURm 69 53 ber 2014. During the entire share subscription period 4,435,302 shares void. UPM considers Metsäliitto’s and Metsä Board’s claims unfounded. Strategic risks were subscribed through exercising 2007C share options. Following the At the moment, it is not known when the District Court will give its Competition, markets and customers. The energy, pulp, timber, paper, Share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, EURm expiration of the 2007 stock options, the company has no stock option decision. label, plywood and biofuels markets are cyclical and highly competitive. 1 1 programme in place. Neste Oil Oyj, a Finnish company producing traffic fuels (Neste), In all of these markets the price level is determined as a combination of Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, EURm The number of shares entered in the Trade Register on 31 December has filed an action for declaratory judgment against UPM in June 2013 demand and supply, and shocks to either demand (decrease/increase in –11 –13 Operating profit, EURm 2014 was 533,735,699, including subscriptions in 2014 of 4,433,802 with the Helsinki District Court. Neste seeks a declaration from the end-use demand, change in customer preferences etc.) or supply (e.g. 82 –42 shares through exercising 2007C share options. Through the issuance court that Neste enjoys protection on the basis of its patent against the new production capacity entering the market or old capacity being Special items, EURm 2) 45 –67 authorisation, the number of shares may increase to a maximum of technology that Neste alleges is being used at UPM’s Kaukas mill site closed) may impact both the volume and the price level for UPM. Also Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 37 25 558,735,699. biorefinery. In March 2014 Neste filed an action with the Finnish Marcompetitor behaviour influences the market price development. Capital employed (average), EURm 1,445 1,533 On 31 December 2014, the company held 230,737 of its own shares, ket Court in which Neste requests the Market Court to prohibit UPM UPM performance is also impacted by the performance of substiROCE (excl. special items), % 2.6 1.6 representing approximately 0.04% of the total number of the company from continuing the alleged infringement of Neste’s patent at UPM’s tute or alternative products. Most notably, the demand in graphical 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment shares and voting rights. Kaukas biorefinery in Finland. In June 2014 the Market Court dismissed papers in the mature markets is forecasted to continue to decline, due to charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestNeste’s demand for a preliminary injunction. Neste’s actions relate to the the shift away from print media to electronic media. ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special Company directors same Neste patent concerning which UPM has filed an invalidation Consumers’ environmental awareness has also increased, and this items. claim in 2012. The invalidation claim was filed as a procedural precauAt the Annual General Meeting held on 8 April 2014, the number of may have either a positive or negative impact on the consumption of 2) In 2014, special items relate to a capital gain of EUR 45 million from the sale of members of the Board of Directors was decreased from ten to nine and tionary measure to avoid unfounded legal processes. UPM considers UPM's products, depending on the product area. forestland in the UK. In 2013 special items of EUR 40 million relate to write-down Matti Alahuhta, Berndt Brunow, Piia-Noora Kauppi, Wendy E. Lane, Neste’s actions to be without merit. UPM sells a proportion of its products to several major customers. of receivable due to the Finnish Customs' decision to dismiss UPM's application Jussi Pesonen, Veli-Matti Reinikkala, Kim Wahl and Björn Wahlroos The largest customer in terms of sales represented approximately 3% of for the statutory refund of energy taxes for the year 2012. In addition, special were re-elected to the Board for a term continuing until the end of the Other shareholdings UPM's sales in 2014, and the ten largest customers represented approxiitems include charges of EUR 27 million mainly related to the streamlining of next Annual General Meeting. Ari Puheloinen was elected as a new In Finland, UPM is participating in a project to construct a new nuclear mately 15% of such sales. global functions. Board member. Due to his current obligations, Ari Puheloinen will power plant unit Olkiluoto 3 (OL3) through its shareholdings in PohjoM&A and changes in the business portfolio. UPM’s strategic direction participate in the Board work as of 1 August 2014. Karl Grotenfelt and Shares Ursula Ranin stepped down from the Board. lan Voima Oy. Pohjolan Voima Oy is a majority shareholder of Teollisuis to increase the share of growing businesses with positive long-term The company has one series of shares. There are no specific terms relatuden Voima Oyj (TVO), holding 58.47% of its shares. UPM’s indirect fundamentals. This may require acquisitions of new businesses or divestAt the organisation meeting of the Board of Directors, Björn Wahlshare of OL3 is approximately 31%. Originally the commercial electriciments of existing businesses. Participation in M&A involves risks such as ed to the shares except for the redemption clause which is presented in roos was re-elected as Chairman, and Berndt Brunow as Deputy Chairty production of the OL3 plant unit was scheduled to start in April 2009. successful implementation of a divestment and the ability to integrate the consolidated financial statements (Note 27). Information on the man of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Board of Directors The completion of the project, however, has been delayed. In September and manage acquired operations and personnel successfully, as well as to biggest shareholders and break-down by sector and size is disclosed in elected Piia-Noora Kauppi as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and 2014 TVO announced that it had received additional data about the achieve the economic targets set for an acquisition/divestment. Information on shares. Wendy E. Lane and Kim Wahl as other members of the Committee. schedule for the OL3 project from the AREVA-Siemens-Consortium Regulation. UPM is exposed to a wide range of laws and regulations. The company is a party to certain agreements concerning its busiBerndt Brunow was elected as Chairman of the Remuneration Commit(Supplier), which is constructing OL3 as a fixed-price turnkey project. The performance of UPM businesses, for example the biofuels businesses and financing. These agreements contain provisions as to the tee, and Matti Alahuhta and Veli-Matti Reinikkala as other Committee According to this data, the start of regular electricity production of the ness, the paper businesses and the energy business, are to a high degree change of control in the company. The service contracts with the Presimembers. Björn Wahlroos was elected as Chairman of the Nomination plant unit would take place in late 2018. According to TVO, detailed dependent on the current regulatory framework, and changes to reguladent and CEO, and Group Executive Team members include terminaand Governance Committee, and Matti Alahuhta and Ari Puheloinen as evaluation of the received data is ongoing. tion, direct and indirect taxation or subsidies would have a direct impact tion provisions in case of a change of control. The service contracts have other Committee members. In December 2008 the Supplier initiated the International Chamber on the performance of UPM. In addition, regulation may structurally been presented in the consolidated financial statements (Note 7). The share ownership of President and CEO and the members of the Board of Commerce (ICC) arbitration proceedings and submitted a claim conrestrict or exacerbate UPM’s ability to compete for raw material. of Directors is presented in the financial statements (Information on Litigation cerning the delay at the OL3 project and related costs. According to UPM’s environment related processes and management are based on shares). Group companies TVO, the Supplier updated its claim in 2014 which brings the total full compliance with such laws and regulations, and environmental Information of the authority of the Board of Directors in regard to In 2011, Metsähallitus (a Finnish state enterprise which administers amount claimed by the Supplier for events occurring during the coninvestments, audits and measurements are carried out on a continuous the issuance and buy back of own shares, and regulations to amend the state-owned land) filed a claim for damages against UPM and two other struction period ending June 2011 to approximately EUR 3.4 billion. basis. UPM is currently not involved in any major proceeding concernArticles of Association is disclosed in the consolidated financial stateFinnish forest companies. The claim relates to the Finnish Market Court Among other things, this sum includes over EUR 1.2 billion in respect ing environmental matters, but the risk of substantial environmental ments (Note 27). decision of 3 December 2009 whereby the defendants were deemed to of penalty interest (calculated until October 2014) and payments allegcosts and liabilities is inherent in industrial operations. In 2014, UPM shares worth EUR 6,233 million (5,308 million) in have breached competition rules in the Finnish roundwood market. In edly delayed by TVO under the plant contract, as well as approximately Political and economical risks. UPM has major manufacturing locatotal were traded on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki stock exchange. This addition to Metsähallitus, individuals and companies, as well as municiEUR 150 million of alleged lost profit. TVO has previously considered tions in Finland, Germany, the UK, France and the US. In these counis estimated to represent approximately two-thirds of all trading volume palities and parishes, have filed claims relating to the Market Court the claims upon which the amounts demanded are based, and found tries, the slow development of the individual economies and/or of in UPM shares. The highest quotation was EUR 13.99 in December and decision. The capital amount of all of the claims totals EUR 196 million them to be without merit. TVO will scrutinize the Supplier's updated Europe as a whole influences adversely UPM’s performance. Furtherthe lowest was EUR 10.07 in October. in the aggregate jointly and severally against UPM and two other comclaim, and respond to it in due course. According to TVO, the quantifimore, policies (on European and/or national level) that hamper ecoThe company’s ADSs are traded on the US over-the-counter (OTC) panies; alternatively and individually against UPM, this represents EUR cation estimate of its costs and losses related to its claim in the arbitranomic growth or lower the competitiveness of UPM (for example market under a Level 1 sponsored American Depositary Receipt pro34 million in the aggregate. It is expected that the amounts claimed will tion proceedings is approximately EUR 2.3 billion until the end of 2018, through adverse regulation or increase in direct or indirect taxation) may gramme. change as a result of new claims, which have not yet been served. In which is the estimated start of the regular electricity production of OL3 have an adverse impact on UPM’s performance. In the developed counThe Annual General Meeting held on 8 April 2014 authorised the addition to the claims on capital amounts, the claimants are also reaccording to the schedule submitted by the Supplier in September 2014. tries, the low transparency and predictability of the political system and Board of Directors to acquire no more than 50,000,000 of the compaquesting compensation relating to value added tax and interests. UPM TVO´s updated estimate was submitted to the tribunal in the arbitration regulation may lead to an increasing uncertainty and risk level when ny’s own shares. This authorisation is valid for 18 months from the date considers all the claims unfounded in their entirety. No provision has proceedings in October 2014. The arbitration proceedings may continue investing in or operating in these countries. of the decision. been made in UPM’s accounts for any of these claims. for several years, and the claimed amounts may change. No receivables UPM has manufacturing operations in a number of emerging marThe Annual General Meeting held on 4 April 2013 authorised the In 2012 UPM commenced arbitration proceedings against or provisions have been recorded by TVO on the basis of claims preket countries, such as China, Uruguay, Russia and Brazil. In the emergBoard to decide on the issuance of new shares and/or the transfer of the Metsäliitto Cooperative and Metsä Board Corporation due to their sented in the arbitration proceedings. ing market countries, the lack of transparency and predictability of the company’s own shares held by the company and/or the issue of special breaches of UPM’s tag-along right under the shareholders’ agreement political, economic and legal systems may lead to an increasing uncerrights entitling to shares of the company as follows: (i) the maximum concerning Metsä Fibre Oy in connection with the sale of shares in Risks tainty and risk level when investing in, or operating in these countries. number of new shares that may be issued and the company’s own shares Metsä Fibre to Itochu Corporation. UPM claimed jointly from Risk management These uncertainties may materialize as unfavourable taxation treatment, held by the company that may be transferred is, in total, 25,000,000 Metsäliitto and Metsä Board a capital amount of EUR 58.5 million. UPM regards risk management as a systematic and proactive means to trade restrictions, inflation, currency fluctuations and nationalisation of shares. This figure also includes the number of shares that can be Metsäliitto and Metsä Board had sold a 24.9% holding in Metsä Fibre analyse and manage the opportunities and threats related to its business assets. received on the basis of special rights; (ii) new shares and special rights to Itochu Corporation for EUR 472 million. In connection with the operations. This includes also risks avoided by careful planning and entitling to shares of the company may be issued, and the company’s transaction with Itochu, Metsäliitto had exercised a call option to evaluation of future projects and business environment. Operational risks own shares held by the company may be transferred to the company’s purchase UPM’s remaining 11% shareholding in Metsä Fibre for EUR UPM seeks to transfer insurable risks through insurance arrangeEarnings uncertainty. The main short-term uncertainties in UPM’s earnshareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings in the com150 million. The arbitral tribunal rendered its final decision (arbitral ments if the risks exceed the defined tolerance. The insurance cover is ings relate to sales prices and delivery volumes of the Group’s products, pany, or in a directed share issue, deviating from the shareholder’s preaward) in February 2014 and ordered Metsäliitto and Metsä Board to always subject to the applicable insurance conditions. as well as to changes in the main input cost items and exchange rates. pay UPM the capital amount of EUR 58.5 million and penalty interest Most of these items are dependent on general economic developments. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 75 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 76 The main earnings sensitivities and the Group’s cost structure are prelong term debt is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements icantly during the last few years. The importance of patent registration ried out with the Technical Research Centre of Finland (VTT). Due to sented in the Annual Report of 2014, on page 13. (Notes 3 and 31). highlights the progress made in new businesses. the high quality, there are no technical blending limits. After the start-up Availability and price of major inputs. In 2014, third-party suppliers of the biorefinery, the emphasis will be on optimising and increasing the accounted for approximately 83% of UPM’s wood requirements. Other Hazard risks UPM's Biocomposites combine natural fibres and plastic efficiency of the production processes. production inputs, such as chemicals, fillers and recovered paper, are UPM operates a significant number of manufacturing facilities globally, UPM Biocomposites business unit develops, manufactures, markets and In the long term, research work aims to extend biofuel production to obtained from third-party suppliers. Disruptions in the supply of key mostly UPM-owned, and is also the largest private owner of forestland sells high quality composite products and granulates for a wide range of new processes and raw materials, such as pyrolysis oils and solid bioinputs would impact upon manufacturing operations, for example, by in Finland. UPM is exposed to risks in areas such as occupational health consumer and industrial applications. mass. In technology development, UPM joined a five-year project called interrupting or resulting in the downscaling of production or a change in and safety, environment, fire, natural events and site security. These risks UPM ProFi and UPM Formi composites combine the best characLignoCat (lignocellulosic fuels by catalytic pyrolysis) to produce the product mix. They could also cause price increases for critical inputs are managed through established management procedures and loss teristics of natural fibres and plastic. Their principal ingredients are advanced high value lignocellulosic fuels for transportation. or shifts in the availability and price of wood. It is also uncertain how prevention programmes. UPM’s insurance programme also provides cellulose fibres and polymers, which can be either virgin or recycled. The the EU energy policies may impact upon the availability and costs of coverage for insurable hazard risks, subject to terms and conditions. non-toxic composites can be recycled. UPM Energy fibre and energy. UPM ProFi products are used for decking and other outdoor end UPM Energy focuses on improving the efficiency and cost competitiveProject execution. Investment projects in UPM businesses such as Research and development uses. They are made mainly from the surplus paper and plastic left over ness of biomass-based energy technologies. energy, pulp, paper or biofuels are often large and take one or more The objective of UPM’s research and development programmes and from the production of self-adhesive label materials. To reach its target, UPM Energy participates in several research years to complete. UPM has experience in such projects in various busibusiness development is to create new technologies and products, proUPM Formi composite is used to replace plastic in many applicaprogrammes. These programmes are looking for new innovative solunesses and locations around the world, and applies vigorous planning, vide support to and ensure the competitiveness of its core businesses. tions, from furniture to consumer electronics. UPM Formi is manufactions to improve the design and operation of large-scale energy converproject management and follow-up processes. Participation in large projThe share of R&D work increased in new technologies and growth tured from cellulose fibre and plastics. Around half of the oil-based sion systems using biomass fuel mixtures. ects involves risks such as cost overruns or delays, as well as achievement businesses like developing biofuels, biocomposites, biochemicals, biofiplastic is replaced with cellulose fibres in the biocomposite. of the economic targets set for the investment. brils, pulp and CO2-neutral energy in 2014. Products manufactured from UPM Formi comply with food conUPM Raflatac Partnerships. UPM currently works together with many partners In 2014, UPM’s direct expenditure on research and development was tact material requirements stipulated in EU and US Food and Drug In the specialty business, UPM Raflatac focused on developing new high without control over strategic direction and operational output. The approximately EUR 35 million (38 million), or 0.4% (0.4%) of the Administration (FDA) regulations. added value products to its end-use range as well as tailored solutions highly competitive market situation and, for example, new developments Group’s sales. In total, UPM spent approximately EUR 112 million (155 The composite also complies with EU toy safety regulations. for specific customer needs. in biofuels or bioenergy are likely to increase the importance of partnermillion) on research and development for existing and developing busiIn the standard products the re-engineering of paper-based products ships in the search for higher efficiency or new products and businesses. nesses including negative operating cash flow and capital expenditures in UPM Biochemicals has profound know-how in lignin-based for greater cost efficiency and improved performance continued. Partnerships, however, may create risks to the profitability, for example, developing businesses, corresponding 9.0% (21.1%) of UPM’s operating products New thin film products have been developed both for the rigid and through changes occurring within the partner entity or changes in how cash flow. squeezable package applications. For the rigid packages UPM Raflatac UPM Biochemicals unit develops wood-based chemical building blocks, the partnership operates. launched a new VANISH™ range of ultra-thin, invisible clear film label performance chemicals and biofibrils. Ability to recruit and retain skilled employees. To meet the challenges Versatile use of wood biomass stocks. A new thin squeezable film has also been developed mainly for Chemical building blocks are a cost competitive replacement for of sustaining growth and improving the effectiveness of operations, a labelling of personal care products. The squeezable film is based on UPM’s Biofore strategy is based on the versatile use of renewable wood fossil-based monomers and chemicals such as intermediates to bioplasskilled workforce is necessary. UPM is continuously evaluating its UPM Raflatac’s proprietary film technology. biomass, combined with innovation, resource efficiency and sustainabilitics. Performance chemicals utilise the basic structure of the natural recruitment, compensation and career development policies and taking ty. The purpose is to replace non-renewable materials with renewable, biopolymers of wood, such as lignin and hemicellulose. measures to attract and retain skilled personnel, thereby seeking to avoid UPM Paper Asia recyclable and low-impact alternatives the main drivers for bioeconoBiofibrils™ products and lignin, the binding agent of wood, are shortages of appropriately skilled personnel in the future. my. examples of UPM’s performance chemicals. Biofibrils are cellulose UPM R&D centre based in Changshu concentrates to support UPM’s Availability of information systems. UPM business operations are Improvements in material efficiency make it possible to consume micro and nanofibril products that can be used for shaping materials production units in China and in the Asia Pacific region, with main depending on the availability of supporting information system and netfewer resources and raw materials in production processes. Therefore, and giving them new characteristics. Lignin can be used in e.g. various focus being R&D work for paper and label products. work services. Unplanned interruptions in critical information services UPM R&D work has increased its focus on more efficient use and reuse resin mixtures and adhesives. can potentially cause a major interruption of UPM business areas. UPM of side streams. The most recent examples are UPM’s construction In 2014, UPM Biochemicals worked with Renmatix to test the comUPM Paper ENA has implemented numerous technical, physical and process improveproducts Elurit and Cinerit that are made of fly ash from the thermal pany’s water-based Plantrose™ process. The goal of the initiative is to The R&D work focuses on improving cost efficiency by implementing ments to mitigate the availability risk and to reduce the service interruprecovery of the biogenic waste materials. convert woody biomass into intermediates for subsequent downstream various research results and launching new material efficient paper tion related recovery time to acceptable level. UPM has a global network of research centres to support the busiprocessing into biochemical. grades. UPM Valor is a prime example of how UPM’s papers add value nesses and their business development goals. UPM’s all businesses and In addition, UPM Biochemicals signed a lignin supply contract for customers by providing savings in mailing and delivery costs without Financial risks R&D have adopted ecodesign in their product development processes. with Domtar Inc. to develop the market and offer sustainable, value the need to compromise on quality. UPM Valor matches the quality and Changes in exchange and interest rates. Exchange rate exposure primarily This means that environmental aspects are systematically integrated into added products for a growing variety of end uses. the properties of the reference paper grades but is up to 15% lighter in affects export operations when sales are denominated in currencies other product design at an early stage. UPM Biochemicals has developed profound know-how and intelbasis weight. than those in which manufacturing costs are incurred. Part of UPM’s lectual property in the area of lignin based products, e.g. resins, which One key target is to reduce water consumption at the paper mills. sales and purchases are denominated in currencies other than the euro Wide-scale collaboration in new businesses are typically used as binders in wood based products. UPM BioPiva™ UPM is also studying ways to exploit deinking process waste and recycle (primarily the US dollar and the British pound sterling). To manage lignin for resin formulations, based on UPMs proprietary activation UPM is a shareholder in the Finnish Bioeconomy Cluster (FIBIC). The surplus materials coming from paper mills to use waste streams more exposure to such exchange rate fluctuations, close monitoring of the technology, is one example of this kind of products. Cluster’s research programmes focus on the bioeconomy and products efficiently. exposure to currency risks is carried out simultaneously with the hedging Product development of UPM Biochemicals is at the pre-commerbased on renewable materials, thus supporting UPM’s internal R&D of such risks, using financial instruments including forward foreign cial phase. The purpose of the work is to develop and test industrial activities. Moreover, UPM is a shareholder in the Finnish CLEEN Ltd UPM Plywood exchange agreements and currency swaps. Furthermore, changes in applications with UPM's partners in order to create mill-scale industrial research company that is focusing on energy and environmental reUPM Plywood’s product management and development work focused interest rates may have a considerable impact on the values of the comconcepts. search. on creating new customer-based solutions in addition to commercialispany’s assets (e.g. biological assets or available-for-sale investments, such The research clusters support the Finnish bioeconomy and cleantech ing and piloting applications developed previously. as energy assets), which are valued on a discounted cash flow model. Businesses strategies with the aim of increasing sustainable businesses in Finland. One of the key areas was to improve the properties of plywood for Availability of capital and liquidity. Availability of capital to UPM is The clusters’ research projects are in line with the research and impleUPM Biorefining end-uses such as the LNG containment systems. dependent on conditions of the financial markets and the Group's finanmentation activities of UPM’s Biofore strategy. UPM has reduced process water consumption significantly in its pulp For concrete forming end uses, R&D work concentrated on creating cial health. If either or both of these factors were to change dramatically In July 2014, EU and industry leaders launched a new European mills. In UPM’s newest mill, UPM Fray Bentos, Uruguay, the consumpnew customer-focused products that are more economic with better for the worse, the cost and availability of capital would be at risk. To Joint Undertaking on Bio-based Industries (BBI) in which UPM acted tion of process water is among the lowest in the industry. Recently functional properties. mitigate possible materialisation of these risks, the UPM has liquidity as one of the founding members in industrial consortium part. special focus has been in significant reduction of phosphor emissions. For vehicle industries a more economical fire retardant plywood reserves in the form of committed multi-year loan facilities. UPM’s availThis Public Private Partnership (PPP) aims to trigger investments In plantations operations, development work focuses on the tree solution was developed. able-for-sale investments are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. and create competitive market for bio-based products and materials that breeding programme and developing new frost-tolerant eucalyptus Development of rigid structures for vehicle flooring continued with Changes in the assumptions used (e.g. electricity price estimate and startare sourced locally. For UPM, the PPP is an important funding element clones in order to create more value and improve productivity. pilot installations for customers selected earlier. Piloting of the rigid up schedule of the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power plant) might have a signififor speeding up the implementation of future investments in new areas UPM Pulp continued to focus on joint development activities with structure solution was also agreed with new customers. Plywood with cant impact on UPM’s financial position. such as biochemicals, biocomposites and biofuels. customers, mainly in Europe and China, in 2014. high friction surface was in the development pipeline. Payment defaults. There is a risk of non-payment or non-perforIn 2014, UPM received approximately EUR 2.1 million (3.8 million) In Biofuels, UPM focused strongly for the market entry of the In addition to product development, high effort was put in raw mance by the Group's customers in connection with the sale of products. from Tekes (the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and InnovaUPM BioVerno renewable diesel. material testing and process development. UPM has various programmes in place to monitor and mitigate custion) for its research projects. These projects were carried out in co-operAs a product, UPM BioVerno has been extensively tested in engine tomer credit risk, and insurance policies cover most of the trade receivation with research institutes, universities and other companies. tests and fleet tests, and has been found to function like any regular dieables. UPM’s intellectual property rights applications have increased signifsel. The comprehensive emission, performance and wear tests were carAdditional information about financial risks and the maturity of CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 77 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 78 Environmental performance power (CHP) plant at the UPM Schongau mill in Germany, completed Board of Directors’ proposal for the distribution of profits In 2014, UPM’s environmental investments totalled EUR 12 million in late 2014. The refurbishment of the company's own hydropower pro(29 million). The largest investment was the combustion gas purification duction assets in Finland is also underway. system at UPM Changshu paper mill. Energy efficiency has been significantly improved by energy audits, UPM’s environmental costs, which were mainly attributable to effluinnovations and internal campaigns over the last 15 years. ent treatment and waste management, totalled EUR 127 million The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting of On the date of the dividend proposal, 3 February 2015, the (134 million), including depreciation. More results with responsible water management UPM-Kymmene Corporation to be held on 9 April 2015 that a dividend Company's registered number of shares is 533,735,699. The aforemenNo significant environmental incidents occurred in 2014. However, UPM has reduced wastewater volumes per tonne of paper by 25% and of EUR 0.70 per share be paid based on the balance sheet to be adopted tioned number of shares includes 230,737 treasury shares. Treasury several minor temporary deviations from permit limits did arise. These per tonne of chemical pulp by 17% over the last ten years. The COD for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 and that the remaining shares are not entitled to dividend. Based on this, the proposed dividend deviations were reported to the relevant authorities immediately, and load has decreased by 26% per tonne of paper, and by 39% per tonne of portion of the distributable funds be retained in the Company's unrewould total EUR 373.5 million. corrective and preventive measures were taken. These measures are part pulp, over the last ten years. stricted shareholders' equity. On 31 December 2014, the distributable funds of the parent comof UPM’s internal Clean Run campaign that aims to improve the comThe optimisation of operating models continued at the UPM PietarThe dividend will be paid to a shareholder who is registered in the pany were EUR 3,361,198,148.19 including EUR 710,263,052.06 profit pany’s environmental performance further, sharing best practices and saari pulp mill effluent treatment plant, completed in 2013. A working Company's shareholders' register held by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the for the period. No material changes have taken place in respect of the promoting and maintaining environmental awareness. group established as part of the Clean Run campaign participates in the dividend record date of 13 April 2015. The Board of Directors proposes Company’s financial position after the balance sheet date. In the opinion optimisation of all effluent treatment plans by sharing good operating that the dividend be paid on 23 April 2015. of the Board of Directors, the proposed distribution of profits does not Taking care of the entire lifecycle models and preparing for exceptional situations. During 2014, UPM risk the solvency of the ­Company. UPM’s products are made from renewable, biodegradable and recyclable participated in developing the ISO water footprint standard and joined raw materials. UPM businesses have adopted an eco-design approach in the WBCSD Water Cluster's WASH Pledge programme as the first forest their product development processes, which means the systematic inteproducts company. As a participant in the WASH Pledge programme, gration of environmental aspects into product design at an early stage, UPM is committed to ensuring that all its employees have access to clean covering the whole lifecycle. water, sanitation and hygiene in the workplace. The majority of UPM’s production sites, as well as its forestry operations, are covered by environmental, quality and health and safety sysCorporate Governance Statement tems, which are certified in accordance with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 UPM presents the Corporate Governance Statement as a separate report and OHSAS 18001 standards respectively. UPM has certified all its which is available on the company's website www.upm.com. European pulp and paper mills and the UPM Fray Bentos pulp mill in Uruguay and UPM Changshu paper mill in China in accordance with the voluntary EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). UPM has participated in EMAS for 20 years. UPM is the largest producer of EU Ecolabelled newsprint, graphic and office papers. In 2014, UPM was part of consortium which created the EU Ecolabel criteria for Converted Paper products. Signatures of the annual accounts and the report of the Board of Directors for the year 2014 More waste reduction through recycling and reuse Today, approximately 90% of all UPM’s production waste is reused or recycled. UPM has developed innovative ways to reduce its own waste and reuse waste or residues in new products such as UPM BioVerno, Helsinki, 3 February 2015 UPM’s renewable diesel and UPM ProFi composite which utilises partly waste from the production of self-adhesive label materials. UPM is also the world’s largest user of recovered paper for the production of graphic papers, consuming 3.4 million tonnes of paper for recycling in 2014. The total amount of solid waste sent to landfill has decreased with 17% compared to the previous year. Björn Wahlroos Berndt Brunow Matti Alahuhta Chairman UPM ensures that all wood and wood fibre is sustainably sourced All of UPM’s own forests and eucalyptus plantations are certified acPiia-Noora Kauppi Wendy E. Lane Jussi Pesonen cording to the FSC and/or PEFC certification schemes. All of UPM’s President and CEO wood supplies are covered by third-party-verified chains of custody. 83% (80%) of all wood used by UPM is sourced from certified forests. 83% (83%) of UPM’s paper is produced using fibre that meets the criteria of Ari Puheloinen Veli-Matti Reinikkala Kim Wahl either the FSC or the PEFC forest certification scheme. In connection with the biodiversity programme, UPM carried out several projects with stakeholders in 2014. UPM is a network partner in the Biodiversity in Good Company initiative in Germany and the FIBS Business & Biodiversity programme in Finland, both of which contribute to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. UPM also co-operated with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in 2014. Climate actions recognised and energy saved Since 1990, specific CO2 (carbon dioxide) emissions per tonne of paper have been reduced by approximately 25%. UPM has a wide range of energy sources and it maximises the use of carbon-neutral energy. Biomass-based fuels make up 83% of the fuels used by UPM in Finland and 67% of those used worldwide. UPM is the second largest generator of biomass-based electricity in Europe. In addition, UPM has invested significantly in renewable energy and modern power plants. The largest project is the combined heat and CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 79 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 80 Consolidated financial statements, IFRS Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement As at 31 December Year ended 31 December EURm Note 2014 2013 EURm Note 2014 2013 Assets Sales 4 9,868 10,054 Non-current assets Other operating income 6 91 60 Goodwill 16 230 219 Costs and expenses 7 –8,708 –9,091 Other intangible assets 17 340 342 Change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvested 8 78 68 Property, plant and equipment 18 4,707 4,757 Share of results of associated companies and joint ventures 9 3 2 Investment property 19 31 40 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 10 –658 –545 Biological assets 20 1,469 1,458 Operating profit (loss) 4 674 548 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 21 25 22 Available-for-sale investments 22 2,510 2,661 Gains on available-for-sale investments, net 11 59 1 Other non-current financial assets 23 334 282 Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses 12 –4 10 Deferred tax assets 28 532 564 Interest and other finance costs, net 12 –62 –84 Other non-current assets 24 91 142 Profit (loss) before tax 667 475 10,269 10,487 Current assets Income taxes 13 –155 –140 Inventories 25 1,356 1,327 Profit (loss) for the period 512 335 Trade and other receivables 26 1,856 1,948 Income tax receivables 14 50 Attributable to: Cash and cash equivalents 3 700 787 Owners of the parent company 512 335 3,926 4,112 Non-controlling interests – – Total assets 14,195 14,599 512 335 Earnings per share for profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent company As at 31 December Basic earnings per share, EUR 14 0.96 0.63 EURm Note 2014 2013 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 14 0.96 0.63 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to owners of the parent company Share capital 27 890 890 Treasury shares –2 –2 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Translation differences 256 6 Fair value and other reserves 27 1,867 2,256 Reserve for invested non-restricted equity 1,273 1,226 Retained earnings 3,194 3,073 Year ended 31 December 7,478 7,449 EURm Note 2014 2013 Non-controlling interests 27 2 6 Total equity 7,480 7,455 Profit (loss) for the period 512 335 Non-current liabilities Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax: Deferred tax liabilities 28 428 501 Items that will not be reclassified to income statement: Retirement benefit obligations 29 867 680 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligations –181 69 Provisions 30 214 189 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement: Interest-bearing liabilities 31 3,058 3,485 Translation differences 291 –219 Other liabilities 32 150 164 Net investment hedge –41 77 4,717 5,019 Cash flow hedges –107 –28 Current liabilities Available-for-sale investments –164 58 Current interest-bearing liabilities 31 406 643 –21 –112 Trade and other payables 33 1,549 1,419 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 13, 27 –202 –43 Income tax payables 43 63 Total comprehensive income for the period 310 292 1,998 2,125 Total liabilities 6,715 7,144 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Total equity and liabilities 14,195 14,599 Owners of the parent company 310 292 Non-controlling interests – – The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 310 292 The income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in Note 13. Disclosure of components of other comprehensive income is presented in Note 27. The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 81 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 82 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated cash flow statement Attributable to owners of the parent company Year ended 31 December EURm Note 2014 2013 Reserve Translafor invested tion Fair value nonNonCash flow from operating activities Share Treasury differand other restricted Retained controlling Total Profit (loss) for the period 512 335 EURm Note capital shares ences reserves equity earnings Total interests equity Adjustments 5 779 750 Interest received 7 3 Balance at 1 January 2013 890 –2 148 2,232 1,207 2,980 7,455 6 7,461 Interest paid –40 –50 Dividends received 2 2 Profit (loss) for the period – – – – – 335 335 – 335 Other financial items, net –11 –20 Actuarial gains and losses on defined Income taxes paid –81 –157 benefit obligations, net of tax – – – – – 69 69 – 69 Change in working capital 5 73 –128 Translation differences – – –219 – – – –219 – –219 Net cash generated from operating activities 1,241 735 Net investment hedge, net of tax – – 77 – – – 77 – 77 Cash flow hedges, net of tax – – – –28 – – –28 – –28 Cash flow from investing activities Available-for-sale investments, net of tax – – – 58 – – 58 – 58 Capital expenditure –378 –337 Total comprehensive income for the period – – –142 30 – 404 292 – 292 Acquisition of shares in associated companies and joint ventures –1 –1 Acquisition of available-for-sale investments –31 –31 Share options exercised – – – – 19 – 19 – 19 Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets 89 33 Share-based compensation, net of tax – – – –6 – 9 3 – 3 Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries 5 1 –2 Dividend distribution 15 – – – – – –317 –317 – –317 Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale investments 68 1 Other items – – – – – –3 –3 – –3 Change in other non-current assets 5 40 Total transactions with owners for the period – – – –6 19 –311 –298 – –298 Net cash used in investing activities –247 –297 Balance at 31 December 2013 27 890 –2 6 2,256 1,226 3,073 7,449 6 7,455 Cash flow from financing activities Balance at 1 January 2014 27 890 –2 6 2,256 1,226 3,073 7,449 6 7,455 Proceeds from non-current liabilities – 553 Payments of non-current liabilities –836 –323 Profit (loss) for the period – – – – – 512 512 – 512 Change in current liabilities 34 –64 Actuarial gains and losses on defined Share options exercised 47 19 benefit obligations, net of tax – – – – – –181 –181 – –181 Dividends paid –319 –317 Translation differences – – 291 – – – 291 – 291 Other financing cash flow –22 – Net investment hedge, net of tax – – –41 – – – –41 – –41 Net cash used in financing activities –1,096 –132 Cash flow hedges, net of tax – – – –107 – – –107 – –107 Available-for-sale investments, net of tax – – – –164 – – –164 – –164 Change in cash and cash equivalents –102 306 Total comprehensive income for the period – – 250 –271 – 331 310 – 310 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 787 486 Share options exercised – – – – 47 – 47 – 47 Foreign exchange effect on cash and cash equivalents 15 –5 Share-based compensation, net of tax – – – –15 – 16 1 – 1 Change in cash and cash equivalents –102 306 Dividend distribution 15 – – – – – –319 –319 – –319 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 700 787 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 27 – – – – – –1 –1 –4 –5 Other items – – – –103 – 94 –9 – –9 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Total transactions with owners for the period – – – –118 47 –210 –281 –4 –285 Balance at 31 December 2014 27 890 –2 256 1,867 1,273 3,194 7,478 2 7,480 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 83 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements transferred. Associated company and joint venture accounting policies derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the poliare highly effective both prospectively and retrospectively are recorded in cies adopted by the Group. Equity accounting is discontinued when the the income statement under financial items, along with any changes in (In the notes all amounts are shown in millions of euros unless otherwise stated.) carrying amount of the investment in an associated company or interest the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the in a joint venture reaches zero, unless the Group has incurred or guaranhedged risk. The carrying amounts of hedged items and the fair values teed obligations in respect of the associated company or joint venture. of hedging instruments are included in interest-bearing assets or liabilities. Derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges 1 Accounting policies and the equity instruments issued at the acquisition date. The considerNon-controlling interests mature at the same time as hedged items. If the hedge no longer meets ation transferred includes the fair value of any assets or liabilities resultThe profit or loss attributable to owners of the parent company and nonthe criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount ing from a contingent consideration arrangement. Transaction costs The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the controlling interests is presented on the face of the income statement. of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amorrelated to an acquisition are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets consolidated financial statements are set out below: Non-controlling interests are presented in the consolidated balance sheet tised to profit or loss over the period to maturity. acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business within equity, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition Principal activities date. For each business combination, the Group measures any non-concompany. are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other UPM-Kymmene Corporation (“the parent company” or “the company”) Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transaccomprehensive income. Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to trolling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controltogether with its consolidated subsidiaries (“UPM” or “the Group”) is a tions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from non-controlthe income statement and classified as income or expense in the same ling interest's proportionate share of the acquiree's net assets. global paper and forest products group, mainly engaged in the producling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the releperiod as that in which the hedged item affects the income statement (for The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nontion of paper, with an emphasis on the manufacture and sale of printing vant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary example, when the forecast external sale to the Group that is hedged controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of and writing papers. UPM reports financial information for the following is recorded in equity. Gains or losses of disposals to non-controlling takes place). The period when the hedging reserve is released to sales any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the business areas (segments): UPM Biorefining, UPM Energy, UPM Rafinterests are also recorded in equity. after each derivative has matured is approximately one month. The gain identifiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill. latac, UPM Paper Asia, UPM Paper ENA, UPM Plywood and Other or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary operations. The Group’s activities are centred in European Union counacquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised Foreign currency transactions variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within tries, North and South America and Asia with production plants in 13 Items included in the financial statements of each Group subsidiary are finance costs. When the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the directly in the income statement (see below “Intangible assets” for goodcountries. measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, fixed assets) the gains will accounting policy). UPM-Kymmene Corporation is a Finnish limited liability company, which the subsidiary operates (“the functional currency”). The consoliand losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is domiciled in Helsinki in the Republic of Finland. The address of the dated financial statements are presented in euros, which is the functional included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset. The deferred transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date company’s registered office is Alvar Aallon katu 1, 00100 Helsinki, where and presentation currency of the parent company. amounts are ultimately recognised in depreciation of fixed assets. when control ceases. a copy of the consolidated financial statements can be obtained. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional curWhen a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no All intercompany transactions, receivables, liabilities and unrealised The parent company is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. rency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of transaction. Forlonger meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or profits, as well as intragroup profit distributions, are eliminated. UnreThese Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for eign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised alised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence issue by the Board of Directors on 3 February 2015. According to the transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subFinnish Companies Act, the General Meeting of Shareholders is entitled monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are the income statement. However, if a forecast transaction is no longer sidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with to decide on the adoption of the company’s financial statements. recognised in the income statement, except when recognised in other expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity the policies adopted by the Group. comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net is immediately transferred to the income statement. When the Group ceases to have control in subsidiary, any retained Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for Basis of preparation interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in investment hedges. Foreign exchange differences relating to ordinary business operasimilarly to cash flow hedges. The fair value changes of forward These consolidated financial statements of UPM are prepared in accorcarrying amount recognised in income statement. tions of the Group are included in the appropriate line items above operexchange contracts that reflect the change in spot exchange rates are recdance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by ating profit and those relating to financial items are included in a sepaognised in other comprehensive income. Any gain or loss relating to the the European Union (IFRS as adopted by the EU) and IFRIC InterpreJoint operations rate line item in the income statement and as a net amount in total interest portion of forward exchange contracts is recognised immediately tations. A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have finance costs. in the income statement under financial items. Gains and losses accumuThe consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets and obligations Income and expenses for each income statement of subsidiaries that lated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign historical cost convention, except for biological assets, available-for-sale for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the conhave a functional currency different from the Group’s presentation curoperation is partially disposed of or sold. investments and certain other financial assets and financial liabilities, tractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists rency are translated into euros at quarterly average exchange rates. At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the reladefined benefit plan assets and obligations and share-based payment only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries for each balance sheet presented are tionship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its arrangements. consent of the parties sharing control. translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet. All resultrisk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge The preparation of financial statements requires the use of accountThe Group accounts in relation to its interest for the assets, liabiliing translation differences are recognised as a separate component in transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives designated as ing estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets ties, revenues and expenses related to a joint operation in accordance other comprehensive income. On consolidation, exchange differences hedges to specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm commitments or and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the with IFRS applicable for the particular item. Transactions with joint arising from the translation of net investment in foreign operations and forecast transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues operations are recognised in the consolidated financial statements only other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are the hedge inception and on an on-going basis, as to whether the derivaand expenses during the reporting periods. Accounting estimates are to the extent of other parties’ interests in the joint operation. recognised in other comprehensive income. When a foreign entity is partives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetemployed in the financial statements to determine reported amounts, tially disposed of, sold or liquidated, translation differences accrued in ting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. including the realisable value of certain assets, the useful lives of tangible Associated companies and joint ventures equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss Certain derivative transactions, while providing effective hedges and intangible assets, income tax and other items. Although these estiAssociated companies are entities over which the Group has significant on sale. under the Group Treasury Policy, do not qualify for hedge accounting. mates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and influence but no control, generally accompanying a shareholding of Such derivatives are classified held for trading, and changes in the fair actions, actual results may ultimately differ from them. The preparation between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Joint ventures are joint Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge of financial statements also requires management to exercise its judgearrangements whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangeaccounting are recognised immediately in the income statement as other ment in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The ment have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement. Derivatives are initially recognised on the balance sheet at fair value and operating income or under financial items. most significant critical judgements are summarised in Note 2. Interests in associated companies and joint ventures are accounted thereafter remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising the for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at resulting gain or loss is dependent on whether the derivative is designatConsolidation principles ed as a hedging instrument, and on the nature of the item being hedged. Segment reporting cost. Under this method the Group’s share of the associated company On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group designates Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the interSubsidiaries and joint venture profit or loss for the period is recognised in the income certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of a recognised nal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. The chief The consolidated financial statements of UPM include the financial statement and its share of movements in other comprehensive income is assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge), hedges of a operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and statements of the parent company, UPM-Kymmene Corporation, and its recognised in other comprehensive income. The Group’s interest in an highly probable forecasted transaction or cash flow variability in funcassessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group has associated company and joint venture is carried on the balance sheet at tional currency (cash flow hedge), or hedges of net investment in a forthe President and CEO. control. The Group has control over an entity if it has power over the an amount that reflects its share of the net assets of the associated comeign operation (net investment hedge). The fair value of derivative finanThe accounting policies used in segment reporting are the same as entity; it is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement pany and joint venture together with goodwill on acquisition (net of any cial instrument is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the those used in the consolidated accounts, except for that the joint operawith the entity and has the ability to use its power to affect the amount accumulated impairment loss), less any impairment in the value of indiremaining maturity is more than 12 months and as a current asset or tion Madison Paper Industries (MPI) is presented as subsidiary in UPM of its returns from the entity. vidual investments. Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between liability when the remaining maturity is less than 12 months. Paper ENA segment reporting. The costs and revenues as well as assets Business combinations are accounted for by using the acquisition the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed and liabilities are allocated to segments on a consistent basis. All intermethod of accounting. The consideration transferred in a business comextent of the Group’s interest in the associated company and joint veninterest risk on interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in the fair value of segment sales are based on market prices, and they are eliminated on bination is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred ture, unless the loss provides evidence of an impairment of the asset consolidation. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 85 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 86 Revenue recognition Intangible assets cally, over the compliance period to which the corresponding emission currently existing seedling stands and the felling of forests during one Group's sales mainly comprises of sale of energy, pulp, sawn timber, Intangible assets with finite lives are carried at historical cost less amortirights relate. The emissions realised are expensed under other operating rotation, are based on the Group’s forest management guidelines. The papers, self-adhesive label materials and plywood. sation. Amortisation is based on the following estimated useful lives: costs and expenses in the income statement and presented as a provision calculation takes into account growth potential, environmental restricSales are recognised when it is probable that future economic benein the balance sheet. Emission rights and associated provisions are derections and other forests conditions. Felling revenues and maintenance fits will flow to the entity, the associated costs and the amount of revenue Computer software 3–5 years ognised when disposed. Any profit or loss on disposal is recognised in costs are calculated on the basis of actual costs and prices, taking into can be measured reliably, the risks and rewards of ownership have transOther intangible assets 5–10 years the income statement. account the Group’s projection of future price development. ferred to the buyer and the Group has neither continuing managerial Periodic changes resulting from growth, felling, prices, discount rate, involvement with the goods nor a continuing right to dispose of the Goodwill and other intangible assets that are deemed to have an Property, plant and equipment costs and other premise changes are included in operating profit on the goods nor effective control of those goods. The timing of revenue recogindefinite life are not amortised, but are tested annually for impairment. Property, plant and equipment acquired by Group companies are stated income statement. nition is largely dependent on delivery terms. Group terms of delivery at historical cost. Assets of acquired subsidiaries are stated at fair value are based on Incoterms 2010, the official rules for interpretation of trade Goodwill at the date of acquisition. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line Financial assets terms issued by the International Chamber of Commerce. Revenue is basis and the carrying value is adjusted for impairment charges, if any. Financial assets have been classified into the following categories: finanGoodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the recorded when the product is delivered to the destination point for terms The carrying value of property, plant and equipment on the balance cial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisidesignated Delivered Duty Paid (“DDP”) or Delivered at Place ( DAP ). sheet represents the cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairavailable-for-sale investments. The classification depends on the purpose tion date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over ment charges. for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the For sales transactions designated Free on Carrier (“FCA”), Carriage the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary, Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying classification of financial assets at initial recognition. paid to (“CPT”) or Carriage and Insurance Paid to ( CIP ), revenue is associated company or joint arrangement at the date of acquisition. assets are capitalised during the period of time required to complete and Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash recorded at the time of shipment. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. prepare the asset for its intended use. Other borrowing costs are Revenues from services are recorded when the service has been perGoodwill on acquisitions of associated companies and joint ventures is flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the expensed. formed. included in investments in associated companies and joint ventures and Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownerLand is not depreciated. Depreciation of other assets is based on the Sales are recognised net of indirect sales taxes, discounts, rebates is tested for impairment as part of the overall balance. Goodwill is iniship. following estimated useful lives: and exchange differences on sales under hedge accounting. The costs of tially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial distributing products sold are included in costs and expenses. less any accumulated impairment losses. assets held for trading. Derivatives are categorised as held for trading, Buildings 25–40 years Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive a payment Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are unless they are designated as hedges. These are measured at fair value Heavy machinery 15–20 years is established. tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indiand any gains or losses from subsequent measurement are recognised in Light machinery and equipment 5–15 years Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate cation that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the the income statement. The Group has not used the option of designating method. cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the financial assets upon initial recognition as financial assets at fair value Expected useful lives of assets are reviewed at each balance sheet difference is an impairment loss, which is allocated first to reduce the through profit or loss. date and, where they differ significantly from previous estimates, depreciIncome taxes carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to other ation periods are changed prospectively. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed The Group’s income taxes include current income taxes of Group comassets of the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recpanies based on taxable profit for the financial period, together with tax reversed in a subsequent period. are included in non-current assets unless they mature within 12 months ognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that adjustments for previous periods and the change of deferred income of the balance sheet date. Loan receivables that have a fixed maturity are the future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to the taxes. Research and development measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Loan Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, receivables are impaired if the carrying amount is greater than the estiResearch and development costs are expensed as incurred, except for amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All other repairs and mainon temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and mated recoverable amount. certain development costs, which are capitalised when it is probable that tenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial stateTrade receivables are non-derivatives that are recognised initially at a development project will generate future economic benefits, and the in which they are incurred. Major renovations are depreciated over the ments. However, deferred income taxes are not recognised if they arise fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision cost can be measured reliably. Capitalised development costs are amorremaining useful life of the related asset or to the date of the next major from initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not for impairment. Provision for impairment is charged to the income statetised on a systematic basis over their expected useful lives, usually not renovation, whichever is sooner. accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability ment when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to exceeding five years. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disin a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. posal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in operating the transaction, does not affect either accounting or taxable profit or Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor Computer software profit. Assets accounted under IFRS 5 that are to be disposed of are loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that will enter bankruptcy, or default or delinquency in payments more than Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes and reported at the lower of the carrying amount and the fair value less sellhave been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable may costs related to the preliminary project phase of internally developed ing costs. are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is be irrecoverable. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written software are recognised as an expense as incurred. Development costs realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. off are credited to the income statement. relating to the application development phase of internally developed Government grants Available-for-sale investments are non-derivatives that are either Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on software are capitalised as intangible assets. Capitalised costs include Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value where investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categoexternal direct costs of material and services and an appropriate portion there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is ries. They are included in non-current assets unless they are intended to of the software development teams' relevant overheads. Computer softGroup will comply with the attached conditions. Government grants controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference be disposed of within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Purchases ware development costs recognised as assets are amortised using the relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are deducted will not reverse in the foreseeable future. and sales of financial investments are recognised on the settlement date, straight-line method over their useful lives. from the acquisition cost of the asset and recognised as a reduction to Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is which is the date that the asset is delivered to or by the Group. Investthe depreciation charge of the related asset. Other government grants are ments are initially recognised at cost, including transaction costs, and probable that there will be future taxable profits against which the temOther intangible assets recognised in the income statement in the period necessary to match porary differences can be utilised. subsequently carried at fair value. Separately acquired patents, trademarks and licences with a finite useful them with the costs they are intended to compensate. Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of life are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairinvestments classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other comSpecial items ment. Contractual customer relationships or other intangible assets Investment property prehensive income. When investments classified as available-for-sale are Certain financial performance indicators have been reported excluding acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the Investment property includes real estate investments such as flats and sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments in equity are special items. These indicators are non-GAAP measures applied in the acquisition date. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line methother premises occupied by third parties. included in the income statement as gains and losses from available-forGroup's financial statements to eliminate the income statement impact od over their estimated useful lives. Other intangible assets that are Investment property is treated as a long-term investment and is sale investments. of certain significant transactions which are unusual or infrequent in deemed to have an indefinite life are not amortised and are tested annustated at historical cost. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is nature. The Group believes that non-GAAP measures enhance the ally for impairment. basis and the carrying value is adjusted for impairment charges, if any. objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is understanding of the historical performance. Any measures derived with Useful lives are the same as for property, plant and equipment. The balimpaired. In the case of equity investments classified as available-foreliminating special items are not measures of financial reporting under Emission rights ance sheet value of investment property reflects the cost less accumulated sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security the IFRS, and they may not be comparable to other similarly titled depreciation and any impairment charges. The Group participates in government schemes aimed at reducing greenbelow its cost is considered when determining whether the investments measures of other companies. house gas emissions. Emission rights received from governments free of are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale investIn the UPM Biorefining, UPM Paper Asia and UPM Paper ENA charge are initially recognised as intangible assets based on market value Biological assets ments, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the segments the transaction (income or expense) is considered to be special at the date of initial recognition. Emission rights are not amortised but Biological assets (i.e. living trees) are measured at their fair value less acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on item, if the impact is one cent (EUR 0.01) after tax per share or more, are recognised at an amount not exceeding their market value at the estimated costs to sell. The fair value of biological assets other than that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss – is removed and if it arises from asset impairments, asset sales or restructuring meabalance sheet date. Government grants are recognised as deferred inyoung seedling stands is based on discounted cash flows from continuous from equity and recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses sures, or relate to changes in legislation or legal proceedings. In other come in the balance sheet at the same time as emission rights and are operations. The fair value of young seedling stands is the actual reforesrecognised in the income statement on equity investments are not subsesegments the impact is considered to be significant if it exceeds recognised in other operating income in the income statement, systematitation cost of those stands. Continuous operations, the maintenance of quently reversed through the income statement. EUR 1 million pre-tax. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 87 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 88 Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity Other post-employment obligations Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to attributable to the owners of the parent company. Some Group companies provide post-employment medical and other operations offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to healthcare benefits is usually Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Interest-bearing liabilities conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs Interest-bearing liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of to sell, if their carrying amount is recovered principally through a sale Impairment of non-financial assets transaction costs incurred. In subsequent periods, interest-bearing liabilthese benefits are accrued over the period of employment, using an transaction rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation ities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method; any accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension highly probable. Non-current assets classified as held for sale, or includand are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amordifference between proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redempplans. Valuations of these obligations are carried out by independent ed within a disposal group that is classified as held for sale, are not tisation (or depreciation) are reviewed for impairment whenever events tion value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the qualified actuaries. depreciated. or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not interest-bearing liabilities. The Group has not used the option of desigA discontinued operation is a component of an entity that either has be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by nating financial liabilities upon initial recognition as financial liabilities Share-based compensation been disposed of, or that is classified as held for sale and represents a which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The at fair value through profit or loss. Under the Group’s long term incentive plans the Group has granted separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or is recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell Most non-current interest-bearing liabilities are designated as share options to executive management and key personnel. From 2011 a part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line and its value in use. The value in use is determined by reference to dishedged items in a fair value hedge relationship. Fair value variations the Group’s long term incentive plans are long-term share incentive of business or geographical area of operations, or is a subsidiary counted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. For the resulting from hedged interest rate risk are recorded to adjust the carryplans, a Performance Share Plan for senior executives and a Deferred acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The post-tax profit or loss purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels ing amount of the hedged item and reported in the income statement Bonus Plan for other key employees. These compensation plans are from discontinued operations is shown separately in the consolidated for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating under finance income and expenses. If hedge accounting is discontinued, recognised as equity-settled or cash-settled share-based payment transacincome statement. units). the carrying amount of the hedged item is no longer adjusted for fair tions depending on the settlement. The fair value of the granted options Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, that have suffered impairvalue changes attributable to the hedged risk and the cumulative fair and shares are recognised as indirect employee costs over the vesting Dividends ment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reportvalue adjustment recorded during the hedge relationship is amortised period. Dividend distribution to the owners of the parent company is recognised ing date. Where an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the carrybased on a new effective interest recalculation through the income stateThe fair values of the options granted are determined using the as a liability in the Group’s consolidated financial statements in the ing amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recovment under finance income and expenses. Black-Scholes valuation model on the grant date. Non-market vesting period in which the dividends are approved by the parent company’s erable amount, but the increased carrying amount will not exceed the Interest-bearing liabilities are classified as non-current liabilities conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options shareholders. carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment unless they are due for settlement within 12 months of the balance sheet expected to vest. Estimates of the number of exercisable options are loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. date. revised quarterly and the impact of the revision of original estimates, if Earnings per share any, is recognised in the income statement and equity. The basic earnings per share are computed using the weighted average Leases Trade payables The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group, as a lessee, Trade payables are obligations due to acquisition of inventories, fixed costs, are credited to equity when the options are exercised. share are computed using the weighted average number of shares outhas substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as assets, goods and services in the ordinary course of business from suppliUnder the Performance Share Plan the UPM shares are awarded standing during the period plus the dilutive effect of share options. finance leases. Finance leases are recognised as assets and liabilities in ers. Such operating items are classified as current liabilities if they are based on the Group’s financial performance and under the Deferred the balance sheet at the commencement of lease term at the lower of the due to be settled within the normal operating cycle of the business or Bonus Plan share incentives are based on the participants´ short-term fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum within 12 months from the balance sheet date. Trade payables are recogincentive targets. Shares are valued using the market rate on the grant lease payments. nised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the date. The settlement is a combination of shares and cash. The Group Adoption of new and revised International Financial Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance effective interest method. may obtain the necessary shares by using its treasury shares or may purReporting Standards interpretations and amendments charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are chase shares from the market. to existing standards included in other long-term interest-bearing liabilities. The interest eleEmployee benefits New and revised standards, interpretations and amendments to ment of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the Pension obligations Provisions existing standards effective in 2014 lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the The Group operates a mixture of pension schemes in accordance with Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or conIn 2014, the Group has adopted the following new, revised and amended remaining balance of the liability for each period. Property, plant and local conditions and practices in the countries in which it operates. These structive obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an standards and interpretations: equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter programmes include defined benefit pension schemes with retirement, outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliThe amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation on of the asset’s useful life and the lease term. disability and termination benefits. Retirement benefits are usually a able estimate of the amount can be made. Where the Group expects a offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities provides clarifications Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards function of years of employment and final salary with the company. provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the on the application of the offsetting rules. The amendment did not have a of ownership are classified as operating leases. Payments made as a lesGenerally, the schemes are either funded through payments to insurance reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when such significant effect on the Group’s financial statements. see under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a companies or to trustee-administered funds as determined by periodic reimbursement is virtually certain. Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets: recoverable amount straight-line basis over the period of the lease. actuarial calculations. In addition, the Group also operates defined disclosures for non-financial assets. IFRS 13 amended IAS 36 to require contribution pension arrangements. Most Finnish pension arrangements Restructuring and termination provisions disclosures about the recoverable amount of impaired assets. The new Inventories are defined contribution plans. Restructuring provisions are recognised in the period in which the Group amendment clarifies that the scope of those disclosures is limited to the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined becomes legally or constructively committed to payment and when the recoverable amount of impaired assets that is based on fair value less is determined by the method most appropriate to the particular nature benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligarestructuring plan has been announced publicly. Employee termination costs of disposal. The amendment did not have an impact on the of inventory, the first-in, first-out (FIFO) or weighted average cost. The tion at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The charges are recognised when the Group has communicated the plan to Group’s financial statements. cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuarthe employees affected. Costs related to the ongoing activities of the Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: recognition and meadirect labour, other direct costs and related production overheads (based ies using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the Group are not provisioned in advance. surement. A narrow-scope amendment that allows hedge accounting to on normal operating capacity) but excludes borrowing costs. Net realisdefined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated continue in a situation where a derivative, which has been designated as a able value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of busifuture cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds Environmental provisions hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a central counterness, less the costs of completion and selling expenses. that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid party as a result of laws or regulation, if specific conditions are met. The Expenditures that result from remediation of an existing condition and that have terms to maturity approximating the term of the related caused by past operations and that do not contribute to current or amendment did not have an impact on the Group’s financial statements. Cash and cash equivalents pension liability. The cost of providing pensions is charged to the income future revenues are expensed. The recognition of environmental proviInterpretation IFRIC 21 Levies clarifies the criteria when to recogCash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call statement as personnel expenses so as to spread the cost over the service sions is based on current interpretations of environmental laws and nise a liability for a levy imposed by a government, both for levies that with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original lives of employees. Changes in actuarial assumptions and actuarial gains regulations. Such provisions are recognised when it is likely that the are accounted for in accordance with IAS 37 and those where the timing maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within and losses arising from experience adjustments are charged or credited in liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reaand amount of the levy is certain. The amendment did not have an current interest-bearing liabilities in the balance sheet. other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Past sersonably estimated. Amounts provisioned do not include third-party impact on the Group’s financial statements. vice costs and gains or losses on settlement are recognised immediately recoveries. Other standards, amendments and interpretations which are effecTreasury shares in income when they occur. tive for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2014 are not material Where any Group company purchases the parent company’s shares For defined contribution plans, contributions are paid to pension to the Group. Emission rights (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributinsurance companies. Once the contributions have been paid, there are Emission obligations are recognised in provisions when the obligation to able incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity no further payment obligations. Contributions to defined contribution return emission rights has incurred, based on realised emissions. The attributable to the owners of the parent company until the shares are plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the provision is recognised based on the carrying amount of emission rights cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any contributions relate. held. In case of deficit in emission rights, the shortage is valued at the consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental market value at the balance sheet date. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 89 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 90 New and revised standards, interpretations and amendments to Amendment to IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38 Environmental provisions The objective of foreign exchange risk management is to limit the existing standards that are not yet effective and have not yet Intangible assets regarding depreciation and amortisation are effective Operations of the Group are based on heavy process industry which uncertainty created by changes in foreign exchange rates on the future been early adopted by the Group for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. The amendrequires large production facilities. In addition to basic raw materials, value of cash flows and earnings as well as in the Group’s balance sheet ment clarifies that the use of revenue-based methods to calculate the considerable amount of chemicals, water and energy is used in processes. by hedging foreign exchange risk in forecast cash flows and balance sheet IFRS 9 Financial Instruments includes requirements for classification, depreciation of an asset is not appropriate. The amendments are not The Group’s operations are subject to several environmental laws and exposures. measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. expected to impact on the Group’s financial statements. The amendregulations. The Group aims to operate in compliance with regulations The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 and it replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement ments are not yet endorsed by the EU. related to the treatment of waste water, air emissions and landfill sites. Transaction exposure Amendment to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 address an acknowledged The Group has provisions for normal environmental remediation costs. The Group hedges transaction exposure related to highly probable of financial instruments. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed inconsistency between the requirements in IFRS 10 and those in IAS 28, Unexpected events occurred during production processes and waste future commercial foreign currency cash flows on a rolling basis over the measurement model and establishes three primary measurement in dealing with the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and treatment could cause material losses and additional costs in the Group’s next 12-month period based on the units’ forecasts. According to the categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through other its associate or joint venture. The amendments are prospective and are operations. Provisions are disclosed in Note 30. Group’s Treasury Policy 50% hedging is considered risk neutral. Some comprehensive income and fair value through profit or loss. The basis of effective from 1 January 2016. The amendments are not yet endorsed by highly probable cash flows have been hedged for longer than 12 months classification depends on the entity’s business model and the contractual the EU. Income taxes ahead while deviating from the risk neutral hedging level at the same cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. Investments in equity Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements is part of time. Forward contracts are used in transaction exposure management. instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit or Management judgement is required for the calculation of provision for IASB major initiative to improve presentation and disclosures in finanMost of the derivatives entered into to hedge foreign currency cash flows loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair income taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities. The Group reviews at cial reports. The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on meet the hedge accounting requirements. At 31 December 2014, 47% value in other comprehensive income not recycling. There is a new each balance sheet date the carrying amount of deferred tax assets. The or after 1 January 2016. The amendments are not expected to have mate(46%) of the forecast 12-month currency flow was hedged. expected credit loss model that replaces the incurred loss impairment Group considers whether it is probable that the subsidiaries will have rial impacts on the Group’s financial statements. The amendments are The table below shows the nominal values of all cash flow hedging model used in IAS 39. The accounting and presentation for financial sufficient taxable profits against which the unused tax losses or unused not yet endorsed by the EU. instruments at 31 December 2014 and 2013 liabilities remained the same except for the recognition of changes in tax credits can be utilised. The factors used in estimates may differ from There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet own credit risk in other comprehensive income for liabilities designated actual outcome which could lead to significant adjustment to deferred at fair value through profit or loss. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for effective that would be expected to have an impact on the Group. tax assets recognised in the income statement. Income taxes are disclosed Nominal values of hedging instruments hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests. in Note 13 and deferred income taxes in Note 28. 2014 2013 It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and Currency EURm EURm hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same as the one 2 Critical judgements in applying accounting Legal contingencies USD 439 462 management actually use for risk management purposes. The standards policies and key sources of estimation Management judgement is required in measurement and recognition of GBP 288 196 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. provisions related to pending litigation. Provisions are recorded when the JPY 134 142 IFRS 9 standard is expected to have some impacts on accounting for uncer ­tainty Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past AUD 45 41 Group's financial assets. The standard is not yet endorsed by the EU. event, an unfavourable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can Others 1 10 Total 907 851 IFRS 15 Revenues from contracts with customers deals with revenue Impairment of non-current assets be reasonably estimated. Due to inherent uncertain nature of litigation, recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to Goodwill, intangible assets not yet available for use and intangible assets the actual losses may differ significantly from the originally estimated users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and with indefinite useful lives are tested at least annually for impairment. provision. Details of legal contingencies are presented in Note 39. External forwards are designated at group level as hedges of foreign uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity's contracts Other long-lived assets are reviewed when there is an indication that exchange risk of specific future foreign currency sales on gross basis. with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control impairment may have occurred. Estimates are made of the future cash Available-for-sale investments The Group has several currency denominated assets and liabilities in of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposGroup's available-for-sale investments include investments in unlisted its balance sheet such as foreign currency loans and deposits, accounts the benefits from the good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 al. If the balance sheet carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverequity shares that are measured at fair value in the balance sheet. The payable and receivable and cash in other currencies than functional curRevenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and related Interpretations. able amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Actual cash flows could fair valuation requires management's assumptions and estimates of rency. The aim is to hedge this balance sheet exposure fully using finanThe standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January vary from estimated discounted future cash flows. The long useful lives number of factors (e.g. discount rates, electricity price, start-up schedule cial instruments. The Group might, however, within the limits set in the 2017. The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 15. The standard is not of assets, changes in estimated future sales prices of products, changes in of Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power plant), that may differ from the actual Group Treasury Policy have unhedged balance sheet exposures. At 31 yet endorsed by the EU. product costs and changes in the discount rates used could lead to signifoutcome which could lead to significant adjustment to the carrying December 2014 unhedged balance sheet exposures in interest-bearing Amendments to IAS 19 Defined benefit plans: employee contribuicant impairment charges. Details of the impairment tests are provided amount of the available-for-sale investment and equity. Fair value estiassets and liabilities amounted to EUR 18 million (7 million). In additions are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. in Note 16. mation of financial assets is disclosed in Note 3 and available-for-sale tion the Group has non-interest-bearing accounts receivable and payable The amendments clarify the requirements that relate to how contribuinvestments in Note 22. balances denominated in foreign currencies. The nominal values of the tions from employees or third parties that are linked to service should be hedging instruments used in accounts payable and receivable hedging Biological assets attributed to periods of service. In addition, it permits a practical expewere EUR 575 million (675 million). The Group owns about 1.1 million hectares of forest land and plantadient if the amount of the contributions is independent of the number of years of service. The amendments are not expected to have material tions. Biological assets (i.e. living trees) are measured at their fair value 3 Financial risk management Translation exposure at each balance sheet date. The fair value of biological assets other than impacts on the Group’s financial statements. The Group has net investments in foreign subsidiaries that are subject to young seedling stands is based on discounted cash flows from continuous Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 cycle, a collection of The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market foreign currency translation differences. The exchange risks associated operations. The fair value of biological assets is determined based amendments to IFRSs, in response to issues addressed during the 2010– risk (including foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk), credit risk with net investments in foreign subsidiaries are hedged in Canada and among other estimates on growth potential, harvesting, price develop2012 cycle are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July and liquidity risk. Uruguay. The net investments of all other foreign operations are not ment and discount rate. Changes in any estimates could lead to recogni2014. Seven standards are affected by the amendments. The amendments The objective of financial risk management is to protect the Group hedged. tion of significant fair value changes in income statement. Biological are not expected to have material impacts on the Group’s financial statefrom unfavourable changes in financial markets and thus help to secure assets are disclosed in Note 20. ments. profitability. The objectives and limits for financing activities are defined Foreign exchange risk sensitivity Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 cycle, a collection of in the Group Treasury Policy approved by the company’s Board of At 31 December 2014, if Euro had weakened/strengthened by 10% amendments to IFRSs, in response to issues addressed during the 2011– Employee benefits Directors. against the USD with all other variables held constant, pre-tax profit for 2013 cycle are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July The Group operates a mixture of pension and other post-employment In financial risk management various financial instruments are used the year would have been EUR 11 million (8 million) lower/higher due to 2014. Four standards are affected by the amendments. The amendments benefit schemes. Several statistical and other actuarial assumptions are within the limits specified in the Group Treasury Policy. Only such balance sheet foreign exchange exposure. The effect in equity would have are not expected to have material impacts on the Group’s financial stateused in calculating the expense and liability related to the plans. These instruments whose market value and risk profile can be continuously and been EUR 36 million (42 million) lower/higher, arising mainly from ments. factors include, among others, assumptions about the discount rate, reliably monitored are used for this purpose. foreign currency forwards used to hedge forecasted foreign currency Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014 cycle, a collection of expected return on plan assets and changes in future compensation. Financial services are provided and financial risk management carflows. amendments to IFRSs, in response to issues raised during the 2012-2014 Statistical information used may differ materially from actual results due ried out by a central treasury department, Treasury and Risk ManageAs of 31 December 2014, if Euro had weakened/strengthened by cycle are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January to, among others, changing market and economic conditions, or changes ment (TRM). The centralisation of Treasury functions enables efficient 10% against the GBP with all other variables held constant, pre-tax 2016. Four standards are affected by the amendments. The amendments in service period of plan participants. Significant differences in actual financial risk management, cost-efficiency and efficient cash manageprofit for the year would have been EUR 0 million (0 million) higher/ are not expected to have material impacts on the Group's financial stateexperience or significant changes in assumptions may affect the future lower due to balance sheet foreign exchange exposure. The effect in ment. ments. The amendments are not yet endorsed by the EU. amounts of the defined benefit obligation and future expense. Retireequity would have been EUR 29 million (20 million) lower/higher, arisment benefit obligations are disclosed in Note 29. Amendment to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements is effective for annual Foreign exchange risk ing mainly from foreign currency forwards used to hedge forecasted forperiods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. The amendment provides The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various eign currency flows. guidance on how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint currency exposures, primarily with respect to the USD the GBP and the As of 31 December 2014, if Euro had weakened/strengthened by operation that constitutes a business. The amendments are not yet JPY. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, 10% against the JPY with all other variables held constant, pre-tax profit endorsed by the EU. from recognised assets and liabilities and from translation exposure. for the year would have been EUR 2 million (1 million) higher/lower. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 91 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 92 The effect in equity would have been EUR 13 million (14 million) lower/ the hedging instruments attributable to the interest rate moveOperational credit risk Fair value estimation higher, arising mainly from foreign currency forwards used to hedge ments balance out almost completely in the income statement in With regard to operating activities, the Group has a credit policy in place The different levels of fair value hierarchy used in fair value estimation forecasted foreign currency flows. the same period. However, the possible ineffectiveness has an and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Open have been defined as follows: The following assumptions were made when calculating the sensitiveffect on the profit of the year. trade receivables, days of sales outstanding (DSO) and overdue trade Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical ity to changes in the foreign exchange risk: • Fixed rate interest-bearing liabilities that are measured at amorreceivables are followed on monthly basis. assets or liabilities. • The variation in exchange rates is 10%. tised cost and which are not designated to fair value hedge relationPotential concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade and Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that • Major part of non-derivative financial instruments (such as cash ship are not subject to interest rate risk sensitivity. other receivables are limited due to the large number and geographic are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) and cash equivalents, trade receivables, interest bearing-liabilities dispersion of companies that comprise the Group’s customer base. Cus• In case of variable to fixed interest rate swaps which are included or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). and trade payables) are either directly denominated in the functomer credit limits are established and monitored, and ongoing evaluain cashflow hedge accounting, fair value changes of hedging Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observtional currency or are transferred to the functional currency tions of customers’ financial condition are performed. Most of the swaps are booked to equity. able market data (that is, unobservable inputs). through the use of derivatives i.e. the balance sheet position is receivables are covered by credit risk insurances. In certain market areas, • Variable rate interest-bearing liabilities that are measured at measures to reduce credit risks include letters of credit, prepayments and The fair values of commodity derivatives traded in active markets close to zero. Exchange rate fluctuations have therefore minor or are based on quoted market rates and included in Level 1 amortised cost and which are not designated as hedged items are bank guarantees. The ageing analysis of trade receivables is disclosed in no effects on profit or loss. Fair values of Level 2 financial instruments (e.g. over-the counter included in interest rate sensitivity analysis. Note 26. The Group considers that no significant concentration of cus• The position includes foreign currency forward contracts that are derivatives) have been estimated as follows: Interest forward rate agree• Changes in the market interest rate of interest rate derivatives tomer credit risk exists. The ten largest customers accounted for approxipart of the effective cash flow hedge having an effect on equity. ments and futures contracts are fair valued based on quoted market (interest rate futures, swaps and cross currency swaps) that are mately 17% (17%) of the Group’s trade receivables as at 31 December • The position includes also foreign currency forward contracts rates on the balance sheet date; forward foreign exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge accounting affect 2014 – i.e., approximately EUR 240 million (240 million). The credit risk that are not part of the effective cash flow hedge having an effect fair valued based on the contract forward rates in effect on the balance the financial income or expenses (net gains or losses from remearelating to the commitments is disclosed in Note 39. on profit. sheet date; foreign currency options are fair valued based on quoted • The position excludes foreign currency denominated future cash surement of the financial assets and liabilities to fair value) and flows and effects of translation exposure and related hedges. are therefore included in the income-related sensitivity analysis. Electricity price risk market rates on the balance sheet date; interest and currency swap agreeUPM is hedging both power production and consumption in the marments are fair valued based on discounted cash flows; and commodity kets. UPM’s sensitivity to electricity market price is dependent on the derivatives are fair valued based on quoted market rates on the balance Interest rate risk Liquidity and refinancing risk electricity production and consumption levels and the hedging levels. sheet date. The fair values of non-traded derivatives such as embedded The interest-bearing debt exposes the Group to interest rate risk, namely The Group seeks to maintain adequate liquidity under all circumstances In the Nordic and Central European market areas the operative risk derivatives are assessed by using valuation methods and assumptions repricing and fair value interest rate risk caused by interest rate moveby means of efficient cash management and restricting investments to management is done by entering into electricity derivatives contracts. In that are based on market quotations existing at each balance sheet date. ments. The objective of interest rate risk management is to reduce the those that can be readily converted into cash. The Group utilises comaddition to hedging UPM is also trading electricity forwards and futures. Embedded derivatives that are identified are monitored by the Group fluctuation of the interest expenses caused by the interest rate movemercial paper programmes for short term financing purposes. CommitAs well as hedging, proprietary trading risks are monitored on a daily and the fair value changes are reported in other operating income in the ments. ted credit facilities are used to secure financing under all circumstances basis. Value-At-Risk levels are set to limit the maximum risk at any given income statement. The management of interest rate risk is based on the 0.5 years averand as a backup for commercial paper programmes. time. Cumulative maximum loss is limited by stop-loss limits. The Group's fair valuation procedures and processes are set by the age duration of the net debt portfolio as defined in the Group Treasury Refinancing risks are minimised by ensuring balanced loan port­folio Group management. Fair valuations are performed quarterly by respecPolicy. This relatively short duration is based on the assumption that on maturing schedule and sufficient long maturities. The average loan matuElectricity derivatives price sensitivity tive business areas or functions. Fair valuations are reviewed by the average yield curves will be positive. Thus this approach reduces interest rity at 31 December 2014 was 4.9 years (5.1 years). Group’s Finance & Control management and overseen by the Audit Sensitivity analysis for financial electricity derivatives is based on posiUPM has some financial agreements which have Gearing as financost in the long term. At 31 December 2014 the average duration was 2.2 tion on 31 December 2014. Sensitivities change over time as the overall Committee. cial covenant. According to this covenant gearing should not exceed years (0.5 years). In 2014 UPM made a decision to execute certain interhedging and trading positions change. Underlying physical positions are Available-for-sale investments categorised in Level 3 are disclosed in 110% (31.12.2014 gearing was 32%). est fixing transactions, which prolonged the duration to 2.2 years. Duranot included in the sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity analysis is calculated Note 22 and biological assets categorised in Level 3 in Note 20. tion effect of these transactions are long-term but gradually decrease separately for the hedge accounted and non-hedge accounted volumes. The following table analyses financial instruments carried at fair over time. The Group uses interest rate derivatives to change the duraLiquidity In the analysis it is assumed that forward quotation in NASDAQ OMX value, by valuation method. tion of the net debt. EURm 2014 2013 Commodities and EEX would change EUR 1/MWh throughout the The Group’s net debt per currency corresponds to the parent period UPM has derivatives. Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value Cash at bank 535 462 ­company’s and subsidiaries’ loan portfolios in their functional currenCash equivalents 165 325 Fair values as at 31 December 2014 cies. The nominal values of the Group’s interest-bearing net debts Committed facilities 925 1,025 EURm Effect 2014 2013 Total including derivatives by currency at 31 December 2014 and 2013 were as of which used – – +/EUR 1/MWh in electricity forward quotations EURm Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 balance ­follows: Loan commitments –25 – Effect on profit before taxes +/8.6 9.6 Used uncommitted credit lines –76 –49 Assets Effect on equity +/5.0 5.8 Trading derivatives 1 61 – 62 Long-term loan repayment cash flow –291 –506 2014 2013 Liquidity 1,233 1,257 Derivatives used for hedging 52 328 – 380 Currency EURbn EURbn Capital risk management Available-for-sale investments – – 2,510 2,510 EUR 3.1 4.0 The most important financial programmes in use are: The Group’s objective in managing its capital is to ensure maintenance At 31 Dec. 53 389 2,510 2,952 USD 0.4 0.1 Uncommitted: of flexible capital structure to enable the Group to operate in capital GBP –0.2 –0.2 markets. Liabilities • Domestic commercial paper programme, EUR 1,000 million CAD –0.7 –0.7 Trading derivatives 22 111 – 133 Committed: To measure a satisfactory capital balance between equity investors Others –0.2 –0.2 Derivatives used for hedging 81 156 – 237 • Revolving Credit Facility, EUR 500 million (matures 2016) and financial institutions the Group has set a target for the ratio of net Total 2.4 3.0 At 31 Dec. 103 267 – 370 interest-bearing liabilities and total equity (gearing). To ensure sufficient The contractual maturity analysis for financial liabilities is presented in flexibility, the aim is to keep the gearing ratio well below 90%. Most of the long-term loans and the interest rate derivatives related to Note 31. The following capitalisation table sets out the Group’s total equity Fair values as at 31 December 2013 them meet hedge accounting requirements. and interest-bearing liabilities and gearing ratios: Total EURm Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 balance Interest rate risk sensitivity Credit risk Assets At 31 December 2014, if the interest rate of net debt had been 100 basis Financial counterparty risk As at 31 December Trading derivatives 1 56 – 57 The financial instruments the Group has agreed with banks and financial EURm 2014 2013 points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, pre-tax profit Derivatives used for hedging 101 307 – 408 for the year would have been EUR 4 million (4 million) lower/ higher, institutions contain an element of risk of the counterparties being unEquity attributable to owners of Available-for-sale investments – – 2,661 2,661 mainly as a result of higher/lower interest expense on floating rate interable to meet their obligations. According to the Group Treasury Policy the parent company 7,478 7,449 At 31 Dec. 102 363 2,661 3,126 derivative instruments and investments of cash funds may be made only Non-controlling interests 2 6 est-bearing liabilities. Effect to equity would be lower/higher 45 million with counterparties meeting certain creditworthiness criteria. The Group Total equity 7,480 7,455 Liabilities (0 million) as a result of an decrease/increase in the fair value of derivaminimises counterparty risk also by using a number of major banks and Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 3,058 3,485 Trading derivatives 20 166 – 186 tives designated as cash flow hedges of floating rate borrowing. financial institutions. Creditworthiness of counter­parties is constantly Current interest-bearing liabilities 406 643 Derivatives used for hedging 104 43 – 147 The following assumptions were made when calculating the sensitivmonitored by TRM. Interest-bearing liabilities, total 3,464 4,128 At 31 Dec. 124 209 – 333 ity to changes in interest rates: Total capitalisation 10,944 11,583 • The variation of interest rate is assumed to be 100 basis points Interest-bearing liabilities, total 3,464 4,128 parallel shift in applicable interest rate curves. Less: Interest-bearing financial assets, total –1,063 –1,088 • In the case of fair value hedges designated for hedging interest Net interest-bearing liabilities 2,401 3,040 rate risk, the changes in the fair values of the hedged items and Gearing ratio, % 32 41 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 93 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 94 There have been no transfers between levels. UPM Raflatac Segment information for the year ended 31 December 2014 UPM Raflatac segment manufactures self-adhesive label materials for The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments product and information labelling. UPM UPM Eliminations for the year ended 31 December 2014 UPM Paper Asia UPM UPM UPM Paper Paper UPM Other and reconciAvailableUPM Paper Asia segment consists of UPM Changshu paper mill in EURm Biorefining Energy Raflatac Asia ENA Plywood operations liations 8) Group for-sale China and label paper operations in the Tervasaari and Jämsänkoski EURm investments mills in Finland. External sales 1,374 251 1,248 939 5,216 415 442 –17 9,868 Opening balance 2,661 Internal sales 563 213 – 185 68 25 5 –1,059 – Additions 31 UPM Paper ENA Total sales 1) 1,937 464 1,248 1,124 5,284 440 447 –1,076 9,868 Disposals –1 UPM Paper ENA segment produces magazine paper, newsprint and fine Transfers into Level 3 – paper in Europe and North America. Share of results of associates and joint ventures 1 – – – 1 – 1 – 3 Transfers from Level 3 –10 Translation differences 2 UPM Plywood Operating profit 223 202 69 108 –32 44 82 –22 674 Gains and losses UPM Plywood segment produces plywood and veneer products in FinRecognised in income statement, land, Estonia and Russia. Finance costs, net –7 under gains on available-for-sale investments – Income taxes –155 Recognised in statement of Profit (loss) for the period 512 Other operations comprehensive income, under available-for-sale investments –173 Other operations include wood sourcing and forestry, UPM BioSpecial items in operating profit 2) 6 – –11 – –213 – 45 – –173 Closing balance 2,510 composites, UPM Biochemicals business units and Group services. Operating profit excluding special items 217 202 80 108 181 44 37 –22 847 The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2013 The information reported for each segment is the measure of what the Assets 3) 3,171 2,826 678 1,008 2,754 284 1,605 –246 12,080 Group’s President and CEO uses internally for evaluating segment perUnallocated assets 2,115 Availableformance and deciding on how to allocate resources to operating segTotal assets 14,195 for-sale EURm investments ments. The performance of an operating segment is evaluated primarily Liabilities 4) 170 8 125 86 451 26 188 –191 863 Opening balance 2,587 Unallocated liabilities 5,852 based on the segment’s operating profit. The joint operation Madison Additions 31 Total liabilities 6,715 Paper Industries (MPI) is reported as subsidiary in UPM Paper ENA Transfers into Level 3 1 segment reporting. In addition, the changes in fair value of unrealised Transfers from Level 3 – Other items commodity hedges are not allocated to segments. Otherwise the segGains and losses Depreciation and amortisation 151 11 32 80 213 24 11 –2 520 ment’s operating profit is measured on a basis consistent with the consolRecognised in income statement, idated financial statements. Sales between the segments are based on Impairment charge –1 – 3 – 136 – – – 138 under gains on available-for-sale market prices. Capital expenditure 5) 151 35 24 84 102 8 8 –1 411 investments –1 The amounts provided to the President and CEO in respect of segCapital expenditure, Recognised in statement of ment assets and liabilities are measured on a basis consistent with conexcluding acquisitions and shares 147 3 24 84 102 8 8 –1 375 comprehensive income, under solidated financial statements. Assets and liabilities are allocated to the Capital employed, 31 December 6) 3,002 2,818 553 922 2,303 257 1,417 –328 10,944 available-for-sale investments 43 segments based on segment operations. Unallocated assets and liabilities Capital employed, average 2,862 2,903 530 861 2,511 268 1,445 –117 11,263 Closing balance 2,661 comprise other than energy shares under available-for-sale investments, Return on capital employed, non-current financial assets, deferred tax assets and liabilities, other nonexcluding special items % 7) 7.6 7.0 15.1 12.5 7.2 16.4 2.6 18.8 7.5 current assets, income tax receivables and payables, cash and cash equivPersonnel at year end 2,529 80 2,847 1,652 10,467 2,441 509 –111 20,414 4 Segment Information alents, assets classified as held for sale and related liabilities, retirement Personnel, average 2,612 85 2,845 1,663 10,735 2,463 559 –110 20,852 benefit obligations, provisions, interest-bearing liabilities and other liabil1) The Group's sales comprise mainly of product sales. The Group’s management has determined the operating segments based ities and payables. 2) In 2014, special income of EUR 5 million in the UPM Biorefining segment relate to a gain on sale of property, plant and equipment and income of EUR 1 million relate to on management reporting regularly reviewed by the Group’s chief operrestructuring measures. In the UPM Raflatac segment special items of EUR 11 million relate to restructuring charges, including impairments of EUR 3 million. In the UPM Paper ating decision maker. The chief operating decision maker has been ENA segment special items include write-offs totalling EUR 135 million and restructuring charges totalling EUR 73 million related to planned capacity closures and charges identified as the Group’s President and CEO. of EUR 5 million related to other restructuring measures, mainly to the closure of the UPM Docelles mill in France, including impairment charges of EUR 1 million. In the Other The operating segments are organised on a product basis. operations special items relate to a capital gain of EUR 45 million from the sale of forestland in the UK. UPM’s business structure consists of the following business areas 3) Segment assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property, biological assets and investments in associated companies and and reporting segments: UPM Biorefining, UPM Energy, joint ventures, available-for-sale investments, inventories and trade receivables. UPM Raflatac, UPM Paper Asia, UPM Paper ENA (Europe and North 4) Segment liabilities include trade payables and advances received. America) and UPM Plywood. Wood sourcing and forestry, UPM Bio5) Capital expenditure includes goodwill arising from business combinations, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property, and investments in ascomposites, UPM Biochemicals business units and Group services are sociated companies and joint ventures and other shares. reported in Other operations. 6) Capital employed is segment assets less segment liabilities. Eliminations and reconciliations include unallocated assets and unallocated non-interest-bearing liabilities. Reportable segments 7) Formulae for calculation of the return on capital employed; for segments: Operating profit excluding special items/Capital employed (average) x 100, for the Group: (Profit before tax + interest expenses and other financial expenses–special items)/(Total equity+interest bearing liabilities (average)) x 100. UPM Biorefining UPM Biorefining segment consists of pulp, timber and biofuels busi8) Eliminations and reconciliations include the elimination of internal sales and internal inventory margin and the consolidation of MPI as a joint operation. In addition the changes in fair value of unrealised commodity hedges that are not allocated to segments are included in reconciliations. nesses. UPM has three pulp mills in Finland, one pulp mill and plantation operations in Uruguay and four sawmills in Finland. UPM’s biorefinery for producing wood-based renewable diesel has started up in January 2015 in Finland. UPM Energy UPM Energy segment operates in power generation and physical and derivatives trading. The segment consist of UPM’s hydro power assets in Finland and shareholdings in energy companies CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 95 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 96 Segment information for the year ended 31 December 2013 Geographical information Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement UPM UPM Eliminations External sales by destination Adjustments UPM UPM UPM Paper Paper UPM Other and reconciYear ended 31 December Year ended 31 December EURm Biorefining Energy Raflatac Asia ENA Plywood operations liations 8) Group EURm 2014 2013 EURm 2014 2013 External sales 1,299 222 1,210 914 5,451 402 496 60 10,054 Germany 1,694 1,788 Change in fair value of biological assets and Internal sales 689 244 3 194 109 27 –6 –1,260 – Finland 980 1,011 wood harvested –78 –68 United Kingdom 919 915 Share of results of associated companies and Total sales 1) 1,988 466 1,213 1,108 5,560 429 490 –1,200 10,054 France 414 454 joint ventures –3 –2 Other EU countries 2,052 1,900 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 658 545 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 1 –1 – – 1 – 1 – 2 Other European countries 508 563 Capital gains on sale of non-current assets, net –117 –19 United States 1,006 1,077 Finance costs, net 66 74 Operating profit 306 186 60 80 –59 21 –42 –4 548 Canada 50 50 Taxes 155 140 China 637 715 Change in restructuring provisions 14 –13 Finance costs, net –73 Uruguay 41 43 Other adjustments 84 93 Income taxes –140 Rest of world 1,567 1,538 Total 779 750 Profit (loss) for the period 335 Total 9,868 10,054 Special items in operating profit 2) 6 – –15 – –59 – –67 – –135 Operating profit excluding special items 300 186 75 80 – 21 25 –4 683 Change in working capital Total assets by country Year ended 31 December Assets 3) 2,946 2,984 616 937 3,013 299 1,677 –247 12,225 As at 31 December EURm 2014 2013 Unallocated assets 2,374 EURm 2014 2013 Inventories 18 33 Total assets 14,599 Germany 1,222 1,252 Current receivables 59 12 Finland 8,753 9,344 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities –4 –173 Liabilities 4) 156 22 108 67 451 25 214 –196 847 United Kingdom 250 294 Total 73 –128 Unallocated liabilities 6,297 France 67 152 Total liabilities 7,144 Other EU countries 335 347 The total amount of taxes paid in 2014 amounted to EUR 81 million Other European countries 79 96 (161 million). In 2013, EUR 4 million of total taxes paid related to Other items United States 464 421 investing activities. Depreciation and amortisation 152 11 33 81 229 22 13 –3 538 Canada 11 20 Impairment charge – – 3 – 4 – – – 7 China 913 767 Capital expenditure 5) 159 39 13 22 97 10 23 –1 362 Uruguay 1,790 1,626 Capital expenditure, Rest of world 311 280 6 Other operating income excluding acquisitions and shares 158 7 13 22 92 9 29 –1 329 Total 14,195 14,599 Year ended 31 December Capital employed, 31 December 6) 2,790 2,962 508 870 2,562 274 1,463 154 11,583 EURm 2014 2013 Capital employed, average 2,825 2,882 532 882 2,672 286 1,533 –19 11,593 Gains on sale of non-current assets 62 19 Return on capital employed, Capital expenditure by country Rental income, investment property 4 5 excluding special items % 7) 10.6 6.5 14.1 9.1 – 7.3 1.6 21.1 6.0 Year ended 31 December Rental income, other 11 10 Personnel at year end 2,376 92 2,869 1,457 11,081 2,455 735 –115 20,950 EURm 2014 2013 Emission rights received (Note 7) 27 16 Personnel, average 2,539 95 2,905 1,510 11,695 2,507 760 –113 21,898 Germany 59 52 Derivatives held for trading –53 32 1) The Group's sales comprise mainly of product sales. Finland 236 242 Exchange rate gains and losses 23 –36 2) In 2013, special charges of EUR 2 million in the UPM Biorefining segment relate to restructuring measures and special income of EUR 8 million to a capital gain from a sale of United Kingdom 9 9 Other 17 14 property, plant and equipment. In the UPM Raflatac segment special items of EUR 15 million relate to restructuring charges, including impairments of EUR 2 million. In the UPM France 2 5 Total 91 60 Paper ENA segment special items include charges of EUR 25 million related to the restructuring of the UPM Docelles mill in France and net charges of EUR 34 million mainly Poland 11 1 related to the ongoing restructurings. In the Other operations special items of EUR 40 million relate to write-down of receivable due to the Finnish Customs’ decision to dismiss Other European countries 2 6 UPM’s application for the statutory refund of energy taxes for the year 2012. In addition, special items include charges of EUR 27 million mainly related to the streamlining of global functions. United States 5 7 7 Costs and expenses China 77 21 3) Segment assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property, biological assets and investments in associated companies and Uruguay 8 17 Year ended 31 December joint ventures, available-for-sale investments, inventories and trade receivables. EURm 2014 2013 Rest of world 2 2 4) Segment liabilities include trade payables and advances received. Total 411 362 Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress –12 37 5) Capital expenditure includes goodwill arising from business combinations, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property, and investments in asProduction for own use –6 –9 sociated companies and joint ventures and other shares. 6) Capital employed is segment assets less segment liabilities. Eliminations and reconciliations include unallocated assets and unallocated non-interest-bearing liabilities. 5 Acquisitions and disposals and notes Materials and services 7) Formulae for calculation of the return on capital employed; for segments: Operating profit excluding special items/Capital employed (average) x 100, for the Group: (Profit to the cash flow statement Raw materials, consumables and goods 5,559 5,801 before tax + interest expenses and other financial expenses–special items)/(Total equity+interest bearing liabilities (average)) x 100. Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 47 13 External services and charges 1) 913 902 8) Eliminations and reconciliations include the elimination of internal sales and internal inventory margin and the consolidation of MPI as a joint operation. In addition the changes Acquisitions in fair value of unrealised commodity hedges that are not allocated to segments are included in reconciliations. 6,519 6,716 In 2014 and 2013, no acquisitions were made. Disposals In 2014, UPM had minor company disposals. In 2013, there were no disposals. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 97 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 98 Year ended 31 December Shareholdings (no. of shares) and fees of the Board of Directors For the President and CEO, the target pension is 60% of average indexed 10 Depreciation, amortisation and EURm 2014 2013 earnings calculated according to the Finnish statutory pension scheme Personnel expenses Shareholdings Fees (EUR 1,000) from the last ten years of employment. The costs of lowering the retireimpairment charges 31 Dec. 2014 1) 2014 2013 ment age to 60 years is covered by supplementing statutory pension with Salaries and fees 1,020 1,047 Year ended 31 December Board members a voluntary defined benefit pension plan. Should the President and CEO EURm 2014 2013 Björn Wahlroos, Chair 250,249 175 175 leave the company prior to the age of 60, immediate vesting right correShare-based payments (Note 37) 10 8 Amortisation of intangible assets Berndt Brunow, Deputy Chair 300,703 120 120 sponding to 100% of earned pension (pro rata) will be applied. The Matti Alahuhta 58,991 95 95 Intangible rights 16 17 Indirect employee costs retirement age of the other members of the Group Executive Team is 63 Piia-Noora Kauppi 8,981 120 95 Other tangible assets 30 28 Pension costs-defined benefit plans (Note 29) 16 27 years. The expenses of the President and CEO's defined benefit pension Wendy E. Lane 30,649 95 95 46 45 Pension costs-defined contribution plans 116 119 plan in 2014 were EUR 0.5 million (0.5 million), and the plan assets Ari Puheloinen 2,025 63 – Depreciation of property, plant and e ­ quipment Other post-employment benefits (Note 29) 2 2 amounted to EUR 6.6 million (4.6 million) and obligation to EUR 5.1 Veli-Matti Reinikkala 33,821 95 95 Buildings 81 81 Other indirect employee costs 2) 126 123 million (3.8 million). Other Group Executive Team members are under Kim Wahl 11,799 95 95 Machinery and equipment 373 390 260 271 Jussi Pesonen, President and CEO 195,280 – – defined contribution plans. Other tangible assets 17 19 In case the notice of termination is given to the President and CEO, 471 490 Other operating costs and expenses Former Board members a severance pay of 24 months' fixed salary will be paid in addition to the Depreciation of investment property Rents and lease expenses 52 59 Karl Grotenfelt – 120 salary for six months' notice period. Should the President and CEO give Buildings 3 3 Emission expenses (Note 6) 15 9 Ursula Ranin – 95 a notice of termination to the company, no severance pay will be paid in Other assets 1 – Losses on sale of non-current assets 4 2 Total 892,498 858 985 addition to the salary for the notice period. For other members of the 4 3 Other operating expenses 3) 846 951 Group Executive Team, the period for additional severance compensa1) The above shareholdings include shares held by the Board members' closely asImpairment charges of intangible assets 917 1,021 tion is 12 months, in addition to the six months’ salary for the notice sociated persons and controlled entities. Emission allowances –1 4 period, unless notice is given for reasons that are solely attributable to –1 4 Costs and expenses, total 8,708 9,091 the employee. Salaries, fees and other benefits of the Group Executive Team Impairment charges of property, If there is a change in the control over the company, as defined in 1) External services and charges mainly comprise delivery costs of products sold. plant and equipment Year ended 31 December the employment or service contracts, the President and CEO may termiLand areas 1 – 2) Other indirect employee expenses primarily include other statutory social EUR 1,000 2014 2013 nate his service contract within three months and each member of the Buildings 42 – ­expenses, excluding pension expenses. President and CEO Jussi Pesonen Group Executive Team may terminate his/her service contract within Machinery and equipment 93 3 3) Other operating expenses include, among others, energy and maintenance Salaries and benefits one month, from the date of the event that triggered the change of conOther tangible assets 2 – ­expenses as well as expenses relating to services and the Group’s a ­ dministration. Salaries 1,052 1,059 trol and shall receive compensation equivalent to 24 months' base salary. 138 3 Incentives 627 553 The research and development costs included in costs and expenses were Benefits 27 26 Total 658 545 EUR 35 million (38 million). Total 1,706 1,638 Auditor's fees In 2014, costs under the Finnish statutory pension scheme for the PresiYear ended 31 December In November 2014, UPM announced that it is planning to permanently EURm 2014 2013 Government grants dent and CEO amounted to EUR 303,000 (282,000) and costs under the reduce its publication paper capacity in Europe by approximately In 2014, the Group recognised government grants of EUR 3 million (1 voluntary pension plan were EUR 682,000 (677,000). In addition, a Audit 2.0 2.6 800,000 tonnes, including newsprint machine 3 at UPM Chapelle in million) as reduction of non-current assets. In 2014, government grants single premium of EUR 268,000 was paid into to the President and Audit-related – 0.1 France, newsprint machine 1 at UPM Shotton in UK, SC paper machine relate to environmental investments in Austria. Government grants CEO's voluntary group pension plan (EUR 1.1 million) to cover past Tax consulting 0.6 0.9 Jämsänkoski 5 at UPM Jämsänkoski in Finland and coated mechanical recognised as deduction of costs and expenses totalled to EUR 7 million service pension liabilities. Other services 0.5 0.1 paper machine 2 at UPM Kaukas in Finland. Based on the plan, UPM (11 million) in 2014. In addition, the Group received emission rights Total 3.1 3.7 recognised impairment charges of EUR 135 million related to property, Year ended 31 December from governments, Note 17. EUR 1,000 2014 2013 plant and equipment in the UPM Paper ENA segment. In addition, impairment charges of EUR 3 million related to restructuring in the Remuneration paid to members of the Board of Group Executive Team (excluding the President and 8 Change in fair value of biological assets UPM Raflatac segment were recognised in property, plant and equipCEO) 1) ment. Directors and the Group Executive Team Salaries and benefits and wood harvested In July 2013, UPM Raflatac announced that it will reduce labelstock The Annual General Meeting 2014 resolved that the annual fee to the Salaries 3,457 3,396 Year ended 31 December production capacity in Europe, South-Africa and Australia. Impairment Board Chair is EUR 175,000, to the Board Deputy Chair and Chair of Incentives 869 1,067 EURm 2014 2013 charges EUR 3 million were recognised in the UPM Raflatac segment´s the Audit Committee EUR 120,000 and to other members of the Board Benefits 249 137 Total 4,575 4,600 Wood harvested –91 –88 property, plant and equipment. EUR 95,000. Of the annual fee, 60% was paid in cash to cover taxes and 40% in company shares purchased on the Board members’ behalf. Since Change in fair value 169 156 1) 11 members in 2014 and in 2013. General Ari Puheloinen was able to participate in the Board work only Total 78 68 from the start of August, the Annual General Meeting decided that he In 2014, costs under the Finnish and German statutory pension schemes 11 Gains on available-for-sale investments, net was entitled to two-thirds of the Board member’s annual fee. No annual for Group Executive Team members (excluding the President and CEO) Year ended 31 December fee was paid to the President and CEO for his role as a member of the Board. amounted to EUR 752,000 (740,000) and costs under the voluntary 9 Share of results of associated companies EURm 2014 2013 pension plan were EUR 686,000 (531,000). In 2014, 5,595 (8,925) company shares were paid to the Chair, 3,836 and joint ventures Net gains and losses on disposals 1) 59 1 Total 59 1 (6,120) shares to the Deputy Chair and the Chair of the Audit CommitThe total remuneration of the President and CEO and the members of Year ended 31 December tee respectively and 3,037 (4,845) shares to each of the other members of the Group Executive Team consists of base salary and benefits, shortEURm 2014 2013 1) In 2014, includes a gain of EUR 59 million related to the sale of Metsä Fibre Oy the Board, except for Ari Puheloinen 2,025 shares. shares in 2012. term incentives and share-based long-term incentive schemes. Associated companies 3 3 The short-term incentive plan for the President and CEO and the Joint ventures – –1 members of the Group Executive Team has been linked with achieveTotal 3 2 ment of the predetermined financial targets of the Group or Business Areas and individual targets. The incentives amount to a total maximum of 100% of annual base salary to the Business Area Executives and to a total maximum of 70% of annual base salary to the other members of the Group Executive Team. For the President and CEO the maximum annual incentive amounts to 150% of the annual base salary. The expenses recognised in income statement in respect of sharebased payments for the Group Executive Team were EUR 2.8 million (1.4 million). In accordance with the service contract of the President and CEO the retirement age of the President and CEO, Jussi Pesonen, is 60 years. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 99 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 100 12 Finance costs Profit before taxes for 2014 and 2013 include income not subject to tax Goodwill by reporting segment As at 31 December from subsidiary operating in tax free zone. EURm 2014 2013 Year ended 31 December As at 31 December In 2014, change in recoverability of deferred tax assets relates to EURm 2014 2013 EURm 2014 2013 Other intangible assets 1) reassessment of estimated recoverability of deferred tax assets in France. UPM Biorefining 209 198 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 673 669 Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses In 2013, change in tax legislation includes a tax income of EUR 76 UPM Raflatac 7 7 Additions 6 13 Derivatives held for trading 96 –190 million from tax rate change in Finland and a tax income of EUR 5 milUPM Plywood 13 13 Disposals –10 –15 Fair value gains on derivatives designated lion from tax rate change in UK. Change in recoverability of deferred Other operations 1 1 Reclassifications 11 8 as fair value hedges 51 –124 tax assets relates to reassessment of estimated recoverability of EUR 120 Total 230 219 Translation differences 5 –2 Fair value adjustment of interest-bearing liabilities million related to deferred tax assets in Canada. Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 685 673 attributable to interest rate risk –50 126 Fair value adjustment of firm commitments attributable Tax effects of components of other comprehensive income to foreign exchange risk 5 – Impairment tests Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 Jan. –591 –582 Year ended 31 December Amortisation –30 –28 Foreign exchange gains/losses on financial liabilities The Group prepares impairment test calculations at operating segment EURm 2014 2013 Disposals 10 15 measured at amortised cost –123 105 or at lower business unit level annually. The key assumptions for calculaBefore After Before After Reclassifications – 2 Foreign exchange gains/losses on loans and tions are those regarding business growth outlook, product prices, cost tax Tax tax tax Tax tax Translation differences –5 2 receivables 17 93 development, and discount rate. –4 10 Actuarial gains and losses on Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 Dec. –616 –591 The business growth outlook is based on general forecasts for the Interest and other finance costs, net defined benefit obligations –235 54 –181 103 –34 69 business in question. Ten-year forecasts are used in these calculations as Interest expense on financial liabilities measured Translation differences 291 – 291 –219 – –219 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 82 87 the nature of the Group’s business is long-term, due to its capital intenat amortised cost –148 –146 Net investment hedge –51 10 –41 102 –25 77 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 69 82 sity, and is exposed to cyclical changes. In estimates of product prices Interest income on derivative financial instruments 90 85 Cash flow hedges –133 26 –107 –36 8 –28 and cost development, forecasts prepared by management for the next Interest income on loans and receivables 15 5 Available-for-sale investments –173 9 –164 43 15 58 Advance payments and construction in progress three years and estimates made for the following seven years are taken Other financial expenses –19 –28 Other comprehensive income –301 99 –202 –7 –36 –43 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 13 12 into consideration. The Group’s recent profitability trend is taken into –62 –84 Additions 2 7 account in the forecasts. In addition, when preparing estimates, considerTotal –66 –74 Reclassifications –13 –6 ation is given to the investment decisions made by the Group as well as Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 2 13 14 Earnings per share the profitability programmes that the Group has implemented and the views of knowledgeable industry experts on the long-term development Net gains and losses on derivative financial Year ended 31 December Carrying value at 1 Jan. 13 12 of demand and prices. instruments included in the operating profit 2014 2013 In annual impairment tests, the recoverable amount of groups of Carrying value at 31 Dec. 2 13 Year ended 31 December Profit (loss) attributable to owners of cash generating units is determined based on value in use calculations. Emission rights EURm 2014 2013 the parent company, EURm 512 335 The discount rate is estimated using the weighted average cost of Acquisition cost 1 Jan. 18 40 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 30 75 capital on the calculation date adjusted for risks specific to the business Weighted average number of shares (1,000) 531,574 527,818 Additions 2) 42 2 Derivatives held for trading –53 32 in question. The pre-tax discount rate used in 2014 for pulp operations Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.96 0.63 Disposals and settlements –13 –24 Total –23 107 Finland was 9.86% (10.06%), and for pulp operations Uruguay 9.62% Acquisition cost 31 Dec. 47 18 For the diluted earnings per share the number of shares is adjusted by (8.48%). The recoverable amount is most sensitive to pulp sales prices the effect of the share options. and the cost of wood raw material. As at 31 December 2014, for pulp The aggregate foreign exchange gains and losses Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 Jan. –7 –15 operations Finland, a decrease of more than 13.4% in pulp prices would included in the consolidated income statement Impairment charges – –4 result in recognition of impairment loss against goodwill. The Group Profit (loss) attributable to owners of Impairment reversal 1 – Year ended 31 December believes that no reasonable change in wood cost would cause the aggrethe parent company, EURm 512 335 Disposals 2 12 EURm 2014 2013 gate carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount. For pulp operaProfit (loss) used to determine diluted earnings Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 Dec. –4 –7 Sales 11 56 tions Uruguay, a decrease of more than 3.9% in pulp prices or an Other operating income 23 –36 per share, EURm 512 335 increase of more than 10% in wood cost would result in recognition of Carrying value at 1 Jan. 11 25 Net financial items –11 4 impairment loss against goodwill. A decrease of more than 5.6% in pulp Weighted average number of shares (1,000) 531,574 527,818 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 43 11 Total 23 24 prices or an increase of more than 15% in wood cost would result in a Weighted average number of shares for write-down of the entire goodwill. diluted earnings per share (1,000) 531,574 527,818 Other intangible assets, total 340 342 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.96 0.63 13 Income taxes 1) Other intangible assets consist primarily of capitalised software assets. 2) Additions include emission rights received free of charge. Year ended 31 December 17 Other intangible assets EURm 2014 2013 Major components of tax expenses 15 Dividend per share As at 31 December Water rights EURm 2014 2013 Current tax expense 100 123 Intangible rights include EUR 189 million (189 million) in respect of the Intangible rights Change in deferred taxes (Note 28) 55 17 The dividends paid in 2014 were EUR 319 million (EUR 0.60 per share) water rights of hydropower plants belonging to the UPM Energy segIncome taxes, total 155 140 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 536 536 and in 2013 EUR 317 million (EUR 0.60 per share). The Board of ment that are deemed to have an indefinite useful life as the company has Additions 3 3 Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of a contractual right to exploit water resources in the energy production of Income tax reconciliation statement Disposals –2 –1 EUR 373 million, EUR 0.70 per share, will be paid in respect of 2014. these power plants. The values of these water rights are tested annually Profit (loss) before tax 667 475 Reclassifications – 2 for impairment based on expected future cash flows of each separate Computed tax at Finnish statutory rate of 20% (24.5%) 133 116 Translation differences 12 –4 hydropower plant. Difference between Finnish and foreign rates 9 –6 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 549 536 Non-deductible expenses and tax-exempt income –27 –42 16 Goodwill Tax loss with no tax benefit 25 32 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 Jan. –300 –294 As at 31 December Amortisation –16 –17 Results of associated companies –1 – EURm 2014 2013 Disposals 2 2 Change in tax legislation 1 –80 Change in recoverability of deferred tax assets 19 129 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 219 222 Reclassifications – 8 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses –5 – Translation differences 11 –3 Translation differences –9 1 Other 1 –9 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 230 219 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 Dec. –323 –300 Income taxes, total 155 140 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 236 242 Effective tax rate 23.2% 29.5% Carrying value at 31 Dec. 226 236 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 101 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 102 18 Property, plant and equipment As at 31 December 19 Investment property 21 Investments in associated companies EURm 2014 2013 As at 31 December Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 Jan. –752 –770 As at 31 December and joint ventures EURm 2014 2013 Depreciation –17 –19 EURm 2014 2013 As at 31 December Land and water areas Impairment charges –2 – Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 71 67 EURm 2014 2013 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 670 683 Disposals 2 43 Additions 1 5 At 1 Jan. 22 20 Additions 2 11 Reclassifications –6 –7 Reclassifications –14 –1 Additions 1 1 Disposals –15 –5 Translation differences –8 1 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 58 71 Share of results after tax (Note 9) 3 2 Reclassifications 3 –3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 Dec. –783 –752 Dividends received –2 –1 Translation differences 48 –16 Accumulated depreciation and Translation differences 1 – Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 708 670 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 121 140 impairment at 1 Jan. –31 –28 At 31 Dec. 25 22 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 114 121 Depreciation –4 –3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 Jan. –34 –34 Reclassifications 8 – Investments in associated companies at 31 December 2014 include goodImpairment charges –1 – Advance payments and construction in progress Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 Dec. –27 –31 will of EUR 1 million (1 million). Translation differences 1 – Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 240 161 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 Dec. –34 –34 Additions 225 216 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 40 39 Disposals – –66 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 31 40 Associated companies and joint ventures Carrying value at 1 Jan. 636 649 Reclassifications –103 –70 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 674 636 Translation differences 4 –1 The fair value of investment property is determined annually on 31 As at 31 December Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 366 240 December by the Group. Fair value is based on active market prices, EURm 2014 2013 Buildings adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature of the specific Associated companies 17 16 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 3,489 3,598 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 240 161 asset. Joint ventures 8 6 Additions 22 17 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 366 240 The fair value of investment property in Finland at 31 December At 31 Dec. 25 22 Disposals –17 –105 2014 was EUR 31 million (31 million) and fair value of investment propReclassifications 43 9 Property, plant and equipment, total 4,707 4,757 erty in other countries at 31 December 2014 was EUR 0 (11 million). UPM has no individually material associated companies or joint venTranslation differences 74 –30 tures. Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 3,611 3,489 The amounts recognised in the income statement Finance lease arrangements Year ended 31 December Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 Jan. –2,333 –2,352 Property, plant and equipment includes property that is acquired under EURm 2014 2013 Transactions and balances Depreciation –81 –81 finance lease contracts: with associated companies and joint ventures Rental income 4 5 Impairment charges –42 – As at 31 December Year ended 31 December Direct operating expenses arising from investDisposals 17 101 EURm 2014 2013 ment properties that generate rental income –3 –3 EURm 2014 2013 Reclassifications –8 –14 Buildings Sales 2 2 Translation differences –31 13 Acquisition cost 2 3 There were no contractual obligations for future repair and maintenance Purchases 83 80 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 Dec. –2,478 –2,333 Accumulated depreciation –1 –2 or purchase of investment property. Non-current receivables 8 8 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 1 1 All assets under investment property are leased to third parties Trade and other receivables 1 1 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 1,156 1,246 under operating leasing contracts. Trade and other payables 2 2 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 1,133 1,156 Machinery and equipment Acquisition cost 265 330 Loan receivables from associated companies Machinery and equipment Accumulated depreciation –95 –126 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 14,504 15,184 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 170 204 20 Biological assets and joint ventures At 1 Jan. 8 7 Additions 115 84 As at 31 December Loans granted 1 1 Disposals –374 –691 EURm 2014 2013 Leased assets, total 171 205 Repayments –1 – Reclassifications 50 32 At 1 Jan. 1,458 1,476 At 31 Dec. 8 8 Translation differences 303 –105 Additions 8 8 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 14,598 14,504 Capitalised borrowing costs Disposals –65 –38 In 2014, the borrowing costs capitalised as part of non-current assets Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 Jan. –11,900 –12,291 amounted to EUR 5 million (2 million). In 2014, amortisation of capiWood harvested –91 –88 22 Available-for-sale investments Change in fair value 120 108 Depreciation –373 –390 talised borrowing was EUR 3 million (4 million). Reclassifications – 2 As at 31 December Impairment charges –93 –6 The average interest rate used was 2.34% (2.33%), which represents EURm 2014 2013 Translation differences 39 –10 Disposals 369 684 the costs of the loan used to finance the projects. At 31 Dec. 1,469 1,458 At 1 Jan. 2,661 2,587 Reclassifications 19 32 Translation differences –200 71 Additions 31 31 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 Dec. –12,178 –11,900 The Group owns approximately 765,000 and 75,000 hectares forests in Disposals –1 –1 Finland and in the United States, respectively, and 235,000 hectares Reclassification –10 1 plantations in Uruguay. Biological assets (living trees) are measured at Changes in fair values –173 43 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 2,604 2,893 fair value less costs to sell. The fair value is determined using discounted Translation differences 2 – Carrying value at 31 Dec. 2,420 2,604 cash flow models. Main factors used in the valuation are estimates for At 31 Dec. 2,510 2,661 growth and wood harvested, stumpage prices and discount rates. StumpOther tangible assets age price forecasts are based on the current prices adjusted by the manAt 31 December 2014 and 2013, the available-for-sale investments inAcquisition cost at 1 Jan. 873 910 agement’s estimates for the full remaining productive lives of the trees, clude only investments in unlisted shares. Additions 5 5 up to 100 years for forests in Finland and in the US and up to 10 years Disposals –3 –44 for plantations in Uruguay. The cash flows are adjusted by selling costs Reclassifications 10 5 and risks related to the future growth. Young saplings are valued at cost. Translation differences 12 –3 The pre-tax discount rates used in to determine fair value in 2014 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 897 873 were 7.50% (7.50%) for Finnish forests and 10% (10%) for Uruguayan plantations. A decrease (increase) of one percentage point in discount rate would increase (decrease) the fair value of biological assets by approximately EUR 200 million. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 103 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 104 Principal available-for-sale investments The maximum exposure to credit risk in regard to other loan receivables 27 Equity and reserves A resolution of a general meeting of shareholders to amend or Carrying value, is their carrying amount. delete this redemption clause must be carried by shareholders representNumber Group EURm Share capital ing not less than three-quarters of the votes cast and shares represented of shares holding % 2014 2013 at the meeting. Number of shares Share Pohjolan Voima Oy, A serie 8,176,191 61.24 381 407 24 Other non-current assets EURm (1,000) capital Pohjolan Voima Oy, B serie 4,140,132 58.11 1,370 1,313 As at 31 December At 1 Jan. 2013 526,124 890 Fair value and other reserves Pohjolan Voima Oy, B2 serie 1,859,255 50.98 187 306 EURm 2014 2013 Exercise of share options 3,177 – Kemijoki Oy 100,797 4.13 401 443 As at 31 December Defined benefit plans (Note 29) 40 88 At 31 Dec. 2013 529,302 890 EURm 2014 2013 Länsi-Suomen Voima Oy 10,220 51.10 107 109 Exercise of share options 4,434 – Other non-current assets 51 54 OEP Technologie B.V. 243,670 10.86 35 35 At 31 Dec. 2014 533,736 890 Fair value reserve of available-for-sale investments 1,988 2,152 At 31 Dec. 91 142 Other 1) – – 29 48 Hedging reserve –128 –21 At 31 Dec. 2,510 2,661 Legal reserve – 53 1) Includes C, H, M and V series of Pohjolan Voima Oy. Shares Share premium reserve – 50 25 Inventories At 31 December 2014, the number of the company’s shares was Share-based compensation 7 22 Fair valuation of available-for-sale investments in the UPM Energy 533,735,699. Each share carries one vote. The shares do not have any At 31 Dec. 1,867 2,256 As at 31 December segment (Pohjolan Voima Oy’s A, B, B2, C, C2, H, M and V-shares, nominal counter value. The shares are included within the book entry EURm 2014 2013 Kemijoki Oy shares, and Länsi-Suomen Voima Oy shares) is based on system for securities. Raw materials and consumables 548 565 discounted cash flows model. The Group’s electricity price estimate is Changes in hedging reserve Work in progress 55 39 based on fundamental simulation of the Finnish area price. A change of Reserve for invested non-restricted equity Year ended 31 December Finished products and goods 713 684 +/-5% in the electricity price used in the model would change the total Reserve for invested non-restricted equity includes, under the CompaEURm 2014 2013 Advance payments 40 39 value of the assets by +/EUR 369 million. The discount rate of 5.82% nies’ Act, the exercise value of shareholders’ investments in the company At 31 Dec. 1,356 1,327 Hedging reserve at 1 Jan. –21 7 used in the valuation model is determined using the weighted average unless otherwise decided by the company. Gains and losses on cash flow hedges –102 33 cost of capital method. A change of +/0.5% in the discount rate would Transfers to sales –85 –85 change the total value of the assets by approximately -/+ EUR 360 Treasury shares Transfers to costs and expenses 51 14 million. Other uncertainties and risk factors in the value of the assets The Annual General Meeting held on 8 April 2014 authorised the Board relate to start-up schedule of the fixed price turn-key Olkiluoto 3 nuclear 26 Trade and other receivables of Directors to acquire no more than 50,000,000 of the company's own Transfers to financial costs 3 2 Tax on gains and losses on cash flow hedges 20 –9 power plant project and the on-going arbitration proceedings between As at 31 December shares. The authorisation is valid for 18 months from the date of the Tax on transfers to income statement 6 17 the plant supplier AREVA-Siemens Consortium and the plant owner EURm 2014 2013 decision. Hedging reserve at 31 Dec. –128 –21 Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO). UPM’s indirect share of the capacity of As at 31 December 2014, the company held 230,737 (230,737) of its Trade receivables 1,412 1,398 Olkiluoto 3 is approximately 31%, through its PVO B2 shares. The own shares, 0.04% (0.04%) of the total number of shares. 211,481 of the Loan receivables 6 10 possible outcome of the arbitration proceedings has not been taken into shares were returned upon their issue in 2011 to UPM without considerPrepayments and accrued income 143 154 Components of other comprehensive income account in the valuation. Changes in regulatory environment or taxation ation as part of the contractual arrangements relating to the Myllykoski Derivative financial instruments 151 226 Year ended 31 December could also have an impact on the value of the energy generating assets. transaction and 19,256 shares in accordance with the Group’s share Other receivables 144 160 EURm 2014 2013 Fair value of the OEP Technologie B.V. shares is based on the disreward scheme due to the termination of employment contracts in 2012. At 31 Dec. 1,856 1,948 counted value of sales option related to the shareholding. Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligations –181 69 Pohjolan Voima Oy B and B2 series relate to shareholdings in TeolliAuthorisations to increase the number of shares Translation differences 291 –219 Ageing analysis of trade receivables The Annual General Meeting, held on 4 April 2013, authorised the suuden Voima Oyj, which operates and constructs nuclear power plants Net investment hedge –41 77 As at 31 December Board of Directors to decide on the issuance of shares and/or the transCash flow hedges in Olkiluoto, Finland. The operation of a nuclear power plant involves EURm 2014 2013 fer of the company’s own shares held by the company and/or the issue of gains/losses arising during the year –82 24 potential costs and liabilities related to decommissioning and dismanspecial rights entitling holders to shares in the company as follows: (i) reclassification adjustments –25 –52 tling of the nuclear power plant and storage and disposal of spent fuel Undue 1,225 1,191 The maximum number of new shares that may be issued and the compa–107 –28 and, furthermore, is governed by international, European Union and Past due up to 30 days 133 137 ny’s own shares held by the company that may be transferred is, in total, Available-for-sale investments local nuclear regulatory regimes. Pursuant to the Finnish Nuclear LiabilPast due 31–90 days 32 37 25,000,000 shares. This figure also includes the number of shares that gains/losses arising during the year –164 58 ity Act, the operator of a nuclear facility is strictly liable for damage Past due over 90 days 22 33 can be received on the basis of the special rights. (ii) The new shares and –164 58 resulting from a nuclear incident at the operator’s installation or occurAt 31 Dec. 1,412 1,398 special rights entitling holders to shares in the company may be issued Other comprehensive income –202 –43 ring in the course of transporting nuclear fuels. Shareholders of power and the company’s own shares held by the company may be transferred companies that own and operate nuclear power plants are not subject to In determining the recoverability of trade receivables the Group con­ to the company’s shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdliability under the Nuclear Liability Act. In Finland, the future costs of siders any change to the credit quality of trade receivables. There are no ings in the company, or in a directed share issue, deviating from the conditioning, storage and final disposal of spent fuel, management of indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations with shareholder’s pre-emptive subscription right. This authorisation is valid low and intermediate level radioactive waste and nuclear power plant regard to trade receivables that are not overdue or impaired at 31 Deuntil 4 April 2016. decommissioning are the responsibility of the operator. Reimbursement cember 2014. In 2014, impairment of trade receivables amounted to The subscription period for share options 2007C ended on 31 Octoof the operators’ costs related to decommissioning and dismantling of EUR 8 million (17 million) and is recorded under other costs and exber 2014. During the entire share subscription period 4,435,302 shares the power plant and storage and disposal of spent fuel are provided for penses. Impairment is recognised when there is objective evidence that were subscribed through exercising 2007C share options. Following the by state-established funds funded by annual contributions from nuclear the Group is not able to collect the amounts due. expiration of the 2007 stock options, the company has no stock option power plant operators. The contributions to such funds are intended to Maximum exposure to credit risk, without taking into account any programme in place. be sufficient to cover estimated future costs which have been taken into credit enhancements, is the carrying amount of trade and other receivAside from the above, the Board of Directors has no current consideration in the fair value of the related available-for-sale investables. authorisation to issue shares, convertible bonds or share options. ments. The shares available for subscription under the Board’s share issue Main items included in prepayments and accrued income authorisation may increase the total number of the company’s shares by As at 31 December 4.68%, i.e. by 25,000,000 shares, to 558,735,699 shares. 23 Other non-current financial assets EURm 2014 2013 As at 31 December Personnel expenses 14 11 Redemption clause EURm 2014 2013 Interest income 5 2 Under § 12 of UPM-Kymmene Corporation’s Articles of Association, a Energy and other excise taxes 70 89 shareholder who, alone or jointly with another shareholder owns 33 1/3 Loan receivables from associated companies Other items 54 52 percent or 50 percent or more of all the company’s shares or their associ(Note 21) 8 8 At 31 Dec. 143 154 ated voting rights shall, at the request of other shareholders, be liable to Other loan receivables 35 35 redeem their shares and any securities that, under the Companies Act, Derivative financial instruments 291 239 carry the right to such shares, in the manner prescribed in § 12. At 31 Dec. 334 282 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 105 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 106 Non-controlling interests Year ended 31 December Reconciliation of the movements of deferred tax asset and liability balances during the year 2013 On 11 December 2014, the Group acquired the remaining 10% of the EURm 2014 2013 As at Charged to As at issued shares of Wisapower Oy for a purchase consideration of EUR 4 Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 1 Jan. the income Charged to Translation 31 Dec. million. The Group now holds 100% of the equity share capital of acquired 3 – EURm 2013 statement OCI differences 2013 Wisapower Oy. The carrying amount of the non-controlling interests in Consideration paid to non-controlling interests –4 – Wisapower Oy on the date of acquisition was EUR 3 million. The Excess of consideration paid recognised in Deferred tax assets Group derecognised non-controlling interests of EUR 3 million and equity attributable to owners of the parent Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 221 –8 – – 213 recorded a decrease in equity attributable to owners of the parent of company –1 – Inventories 40 –13 – – 27 Retirement benefit obligations and provisions 164 –12 –18 1 135 EUR 1 million. The effect of changes in the ownership interest of Other temporary differences 68 –39 – 1 30 Wisapower Oy on the equity attributable to owners of the parent comTax losses and tax credits carried forward 368 –103 – –13 252 pany during the year is summarised as follows: Deferred tax assets, total 861 –175 –18 –11 657 Deferred tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 366 –127 – – 239 Biological assets 224 –26 – – 198 Retirement benefit obligations and provisions 5 –3 16 – 18 Other temporary differences 139 –2 2 – 139 Deferred tax liabilities, total 734 –158 18 – 594 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet Deferred tax assets 739 –146 –18 –11 564 Deferred tax liabilities 612 –129 18 – 501 28 Deferred income taxes Deferred tax liabilities, less deferred tax assets –127 17 36 11 –63 Reconciliation of the movements of deferred tax asset and liability balances during the year 2014 As at Charged to As at 1 Jan. the income Charged to Translation 31 Dec. EURm 2014 statement OCI differences 2014 Deferred tax assets At 31 December 2014, net operating loss carry-forwards for which the 29 Retirement benefit obligations Group has recognised a deferred tax asset amounted to EUR 782 million Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 213 –53 – – 160 (831 million), of which EUR 630 million (678 million) was attributable The Group operates a number of defined benefit and contribution plans Inventories 27 8 – – 35 to German subsidiaries and EUR 39 million (74 million) to a Canadian in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries in Retirement benefit obligations and provisions 135 –23 46 – 158 subsidiary. In Germany the net operating loss carry-forwards do not Other temporary differences 30 7 – – 37 which it operates. About 90% of the Group's defined benefit arrangeexpire. In other countries net operating loss carry-forwards expire at ments exist in Finland, in the UK and in Germany. The Group has Tax losses and tax credits carried forward 252 –12 – 1 241 various dates and in varying amounts. The net operating loss carry-fordefined benefit obligations also in Austria, Holland, France, Canada and Deferred tax assets, total 657 –73 46 1 631 wards for which no deferred tax is recognised due to uncertainty of their in US. Globally about one quarter of employees belong to defined beneutilisation amounted to EUR 1,088 million (903 million) in 2014. These fit arrangements. Deferred tax liabilities net operating loss carry-forwards are mainly attributable to a Canadian In Finland employers have to insure their employees for statutory Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 239 –28 – – 211 subsidiary and certain German and French subsidiaries. benefits, as determined in Employee’s Pension Act (TyEL). Under TyEL, Biological assets 198 3 – 4 205 No deferred tax liability has been recognised for the undistributed the benefits that are funded during employment are old age benefit and Retirement benefit obligations and provisions 18 –1 –8 – 9 profits of Finnish subsidiaries and associated companies as such earndisability benefit. The benefits can be insured with an insurance company Other temporary differences 139 8 –45 – 102 ings can be distributed without any tax consequences. or the employer can establish a fund or a foundation to manage the Deferred tax liabilities, total 594 –18 –53 4 527 In addition the Group does not recognise a deferred tax liability in statutory benefits. Approximately 92% of UPM’s Finnish employees are respect of undistributed earnings of non-Finnish subsidiaries to the insured with an insurance company and these arrangements are regarded The amounts recognised in the balance sheet extent that such earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested in as defined contribution plans. In addition, the Group operates a TyEL Deferred tax assets 564 –79 46 1 532 those operations or such earnings can be distributed without any tax foundation to fulfil the requirement for approximately 8% of employees. Deferred tax liabilities 501 –24 –53 4 428 consequences. The TyEL foundation, Kymin Eläkesäätiö, is regarded as a defined Deferred tax liabilities, less deferred tax assets –63 55 –99 3 –104 benefit plan for the benefits that are based on employee's average salary. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income The TyEL Foundation is administered by the representatives of both the taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. employer and the employees. The foundation has named an authorised representative to take care of its regular operations. The Plan is supervised by Financial Supervisory Authority. In the UK, the Group operates a legacy defined benefit scheme, which is closed both to new members and future accrual. A defined contribution section also exists and is open to all current employees. The UK Pension Scheme operates under a single Trust which is independent from the Group. In Germany employees within defined benefit arrangements are entitled to annual pensions on retirement based on their service and final salary. The members also receive benefits on disability and on death. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 107 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 108 Post-employment and other long-term benefits as at 31 December 2014 Present value of obligation and fair value of plan assets 2014 Other postOther long-term Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets employment employee Other postOther postEURm Pension benefits benefits benefits Total Pension employment Pension employment Present value of funded obligations 923 – – 923 EURm benefits benefits Total benefits benefits Total Net Present value of unfunded obligations 625 33 – 658 At 1 Jan. 2014 1,239 29 1,268 –717 – –717 551 Fair value of plan assets –794 – – –794 Net defined benefit liability 754 33 – 787 Current service cost 11 1 12 – – – 12 Curtailments –4 – –4 – – – –4 Other long-term employee benefits – – 40 40 Past service cost and gains and losses from settlements –7 – –7 – – – –7 Defined benefit asset reported in the assets (Note 24) 40 – – 40 Interest expense (+) income (–) 43 1 44 –27 – –27 17 Total liability in the balance sheet 794 33 40 867 Total included in personnel expenses (Note 7) 43 2 45 –27 – –27 18 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation Post-employment and other long-term benefits as at 31 December 2013 arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1 – 1 – – – 1 Other postOther long-term Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation employment employee arising from changes in financial assumptions 276 3 279 – – – 279 EURm Pension benefits benefits benefits Total Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from experience adjustments 6 – 6 – – – 6 Present value of funded obligations 736 – – 736 Actuarial gains and losses on plan assets – – – –51 – –51 –51 Present value of unfunded obligations 503 29 – 532 Fair value of plan assets –717 – – –717 Total remeasurement gains (–) and losses (+) included Net defined benefit liability 522 29 – 551 in other comprehensive income 283 3 286 –51 – –51 235 Other long-term employee benefits – – 41 41 Benefits paid –47 –3 –50 47 3 50 – Defined benefit asset reported in the assets (Note 24) 88 – – 88 Settlements – – – – – – – Total liability in the balance sheet 610 29 41 680 Contributions by the employer – – – –23 –3 –26 –26 Translation differences 30 2 32 –23 – –23 9 At 31 Dec. 2014 1,548 33 1,581 –794 – –794 787 The net liability of pension and other post-employment benefits by country as at 31 December 2014 Present value of obligation and fair value of plan assets 2013 Other EURm Finland Germany UK countries Total Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets Present value of funded obligations 355 33 494 41 923 Other postOther postPresent value of unfunded obligations – 559 – 99 658 Pension employment Pension employment Fair value of plan assets –394 –2 –363 –35 –794 EURm benefits benefits Total benefits benefits Total Net Net liability –39 590 131 105 787 At 1 Jan. 2013 1,296 31 1,327 –659 – –659 668 Current service cost 12 1 13 – – – 13 The net liability of pension and other post-employment benefits by country as at 31 December 2013 Curtailments –3 – –3 – – – –3 Past service cost and gains and losses from settlements 1 – 1 – – – 1 Other Interest expense (+) income (–) 39 1 40 –22 – –22 18 EURm Finland Germany UK countries Total Total included in personnel expenses (Note 7) 49 2 51 –22 – –22 29 Present value of funded obligations 294 29 381 32 736 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation Present value of unfunded obligations – 447 – 85 532 arising from changes in demographic assumptions – –1 –1 – – – –1 Fair value of plan assets –380 –2 –305 –30 –717 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation Net liability –86 474 76 87 551 arising from changes in financial assumptions –51 – –51 – – – –51 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from experience adjustments 4 1 5 – – – 5 Actuarial gains and losses on plan assets – – – –56 – –56 –56 Total remeasurement gains (–) and losses (+) included in other comprehensive income –47 – –47 –56 – –56 –103 Benefits paid –50 –3 –53 46 3 49 –4 Settlements – – – 3 – 3 3 Contributions by the employer – – – –35 –3 –38 –38 Translation differences –9 –1 –10 6 – 6 –4 At 31 Dec. 2013 1,239 29 1,268 –717 – –717 551 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 109 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 110 The significant weighted actuarial assumptions used as at 31 December 30 Provisions Finland Germany UK Other countries Restructuring Termination Environmental Emission rights Other 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 EURm provisions provisions provisions provision provisions Total Discount rate % 1.56 2.95 1.62 2.95 3.50 4.50 2.42 3.62 At 1 Jan. 2014 50 93 20 9 17 189 Inflation rate % 1.25 2.00 2.00 2.00 3.35 2.25 2.12 2.05 Additional provisions and increases Rate of salary increase % 1.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 N/A N/A 2.46 2.63 to existing provisions 15 76 8 11 5 115 Rate of pension increase % 2.21 2.26 2.00 2.00 3.20 3.25 1.00 1.10 Utilised during year –10 –55 –2 –8 –3 –78 Expected average remaining working years of participants 10.3 10.3 12.8 12.6 12.0 12.0 10.9 9.1 Unused amounts reversed –5 –5 – – –2 –12 At 31 Dec. 2014 50 109 26 12 17 214 The sensitivity analysis of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the significant weighted assumptions At 1 Jan. 2013 73 84 25 10 15 207 Impact on defined benefit obligation Additional provisions and increases Change in assumption Increase in assumption Decrease in assumption to existing provisions 19 81 – 8 7 115 Reclassification –3 3 – – – – Discount rate % 0.5% Decrease by 8.1% Increase by 9.4% Utilised during year –25 –62 –3 –9 –3 –102 Rate of salary increase % 0.5% Increase by 1.3% Decrease by 1.2% Unused amounts reversed –14 –13 –2 – –2 –31 Rate of pension increase % 0.5% Increase by 4.9% Decrease by 4.6% At 31 Dec. 2013 50 93 20 9 17 189 Life expectancy Increase by 1 year Increase by 3.6% – The weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation is 17.4 years. The above analyses assume that assumption changes occur in isolation, holding all other assumptions constant. The same method (projected unit method) has been applied when calculating the pension liability as well as these sensitivities. The main categories of pension and other post-employment benefit plan assets 2014 2013 Provisions Allocation between non-current and current provisions Quoted % Unquoted % Total % Quoted % Unquoted % Total % Restructuring provisions include charges related primarily to mill cloAs at 31 December sures. Termination provisions are concerned with planned mill closures EURm 2014 2013 Money market and operational restructuring primarily in Germany, Finland, France Europe 1 – 1 2 – 2 Non-current provisions 112 83 and the UK. In Finland provisions include also unemployment arrangeDebt instruments Current provisions 102 106 ments and disability pensions. Unemployment pension provisions are Europe 28 – 28 29 – 29 Total 214 189 recognised 2–3 years before the granting and settlement of the pension. US 2 – 2 2 – 2 Other 7 – 7 3 – 3 In 2014, additions in provisions relate mainly to planned capacity Equity instruments closures in UPM Paper ENA. In November, UPM announced the plan Europe 12 – 12 14 – 14 to permanently close four of its paper machines: PM3 at UPM Chapelle, US 11 – 11 12 – 12 PM1 at UPM Shotton, PM5 at UPM Jämsänkoski and PM2 at UPM 31 Interest-bearing liabilities Other 32 – 32 31 – 31 Kaukas. In addition, the restructuring measures have started in the As at 31 December Property UPM Raflatac segment in April. EURm 2014 2013 Europe 3 4 7 – 7 7 In 2013, additions in provisions are mainly related to restructuring Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Total 96 4 100 93 7 100 of UPM Docelles mill and closures of paper machines Rauma PM3 and Bonds 1,081 955 In Finland, plan assets include the company's ordinary shares with a fair value of EUR 0.7 million (0.7 million). In 2015 contributions to the Group's Ettringen PM4 in UPM Paper ENA segment and the restructuring in the Loans from financial institutions 1,335 1,655 defined pension plans are expected to be EUR 33 million and to other post-employment plans EUR 2 million. UPM Raflatac segment. In addition, provisions were recognised due to Pension loans 241 323 the streamlining of global functions and other actions under UPM’s Finance lease liabilities 100 270 profit improvement programme. Derivative financial instruments 99 100 Environmental provisions include expenses relating to closed mills Other loans 191 171 and the remediation of industrial landfills. Other liabilities 11 11 Main risk areas related to defined benefit plans In the UK the pensions in payment are tied to Retail Price Index The Group takes part in government programmes aimed at reducing 3,058 3,485 The main risks related to the Group’s defined benefit plans are changes whilst being tied to Consumer Price Index during deferment. An greenhouse gas emissions. In 2014, the Group has recognised provisions in discount rate, asset volatility, inflation, changes in salaries and longevincrease of 0.5% in indexes will increase the liabilities by some amounting to EUR 12 million (9 million) to cover the obligation to Current interest-bearing liabilities ities of the beneficiaries. EUR 35 million. return emission rights. The Group possesses emission rights worth Current portion of non-current liabilities 290 512 In Germany the pensions have to be adjusted in accordance with the EUR 43 million (11 million) as intangible assets. In 2013 UPM has recDerivative financial instruments 41 82 Consumer Price Index. ognised current receivables of EUR 14 million due to the delayed distriDiscount rates Other liabilities 75 49 bution of 2013 emission rights. The discount rates are based on corporate bond yields as at reporting 406 643 Salary risk date. A decrease in yields increases the defined benefit obligation. The Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,464 4,128 In Finland the salary risk is related to 8% of employees that are insured decrease of 0.5% in discount rate would increase Group’s defined benefit through TyEL foundation. obligation by EUR 149 million. As all UK defined benefit arrangements are closed to future accrual, changes in salary levels have no impact on the funding position. Asset volatility In Germany the salaries affect directly to benefit cost in part of the The Group is exposed to changes of assets’ values especially in the plans and to part of the plans salary changes have no impact. investments of the foundations and schemes in Finland and in the UK. The asset values of these arrangements constitute 90% of total asset Life expectancy values in defined benefit plans within Group. Adjustments in mortality assumption have an impact on Group’s defined benefit obligation. An increase in life expectancy by one year will inInflation risk crease liabilities in Finland of EUR 16 million, in the UK of EUR In Finland, the plan’s benefits in payment are tied to TyEL index which 15 million and in Germany of EUR 24 million. depends 80% on inflation and 20% on common salary index. Higher inflation increases the TyEL index which increases the employer’s payments to the pooling system. Index increments do not increase directly the plan’s liabilities as they are covered through the pooling system. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 111 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 112 As of 31 December 2014 the contractual maturity of interest-bearing liabilities Bonds in interest-bearing liabilities Finance lease liabilities – the present value of minimum EURm 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020+ Total Interest Nominal As at 31 Dec. lease payments Bonds rate value issued 2014 2013 As at 31 December Repayments – – 321 206 – 378 905 Fixed rate % m EURm EURm EURm 2014 2013 Interests 58 58 58 31 25 211 441 1997–2027 7.450 USD 375 424 342 No later than 1 year 171 39 58 58 379 237 25 589 1,346 Loans from financial institutions 2000–2030 3.550 JPY 10,000 85 80 1–5 years 43 209 Repayments 45 233 316 302 451 44 1,391 2002–2014 5.625 USD 500 – 374 Later than 5 years 58 61 Committed facilities – – – – – – – 2002–2017 6.625 GBP 250 346 329 Total 272 309 Interests 20 19 18 15 2 1 75 2003–2018 5.500 USD 250 226 203 65 252 334 317 453 45 1,466 Total at 31 Dec. 1,081 1,328 Pension loans Current portion – 373 Repayments 74 74 74 74 – – 296 Non-current portion 1,081 955 32 Other liabilities Interests 13 10 6 3 – – 32 87 84 80 77 – – 328 As at 31 December Finance lease liabilities EURm 2014 2013 Repayments 171 30 4 4 5 58 272 Fair value hedge of non-current interest-bearing Derivative financial instruments 51 66 Interests 6 1 1 – – 2 10 177 31 5 4 5 60 282 liabilities Other 1) 99 98 Other loans Fair value hedge accounting results in a cumulative fair value adjustment Total 150 164 Repayments 2 2 2 2 1 148 157 totalling EUR 261 million (211 million), which has increased the carry1) Consists mainly of non-current advances received and a put liability that is not Interests 7 7 7 3 10 62 96 ing amount of the liabilities. estimated to mature within 12 months. 9 9 9 5 11 210 253 Accordingly, the positive fair value of the hedging instruments, Interest rate swaps (liabilities) excluding accrued interests, amounts EUR 279 million (229 million) in Repayments – – 48 – – 19 67 Interests 4 3 4 4 6 16 37 assets, and negative fair value of EUR 0 million (1 million) in liabilities. 4 3 52 4 6 35 104 The effect of the fair value hedge ineffectiveness on the income state33 Trade and other payables Current loans ment was profit EUR 1 million (2 million). Repayments 74 74 As at 31 December Interests – – EURm 2014 2013 74 74 Net interest-bearing liabilities Advances received 8 16 Trade payables 854 831 Guarantees, repayments 5 5 As at 31 December Accrued expenses and deferred income 429 414 Non-current loans repayments excl. committed facilities 292 339 717 588 457 628 3,021 EURm 2014 2013 Derivative financial instruments 179 85 Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,464 4,128 Other current liabilities 79 73 Total 1,549 1,419 As of 31 December 2013 the contractual maturity of interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing financial assets Non-current Trade and other payables mature within 12 months. EURm 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019+ Total Loan receivables 11 11 Bonds Derivative financial instruments 281 212 Repayments 363 – – 300 181 341 1,185 Interests 73 53 53 53 28 212 472 Other receivables 29 31 436 53 53 353 209 553 1,657 321 254 Main items included in accrued expenses Loans from financial institutions Current and deferred income Repayments 29 333 233 317 300 496 1,708 Loan receivables 4 9 As at 31 December Committed facilities – – – – – – – EURm 2014 2013 Other receivables 13 11 Interests 28 30 30 32 27 6 153 57 363 263 349 327 502 1,861 Derivative financial instruments 25 24 Personnel expenses 194 188 Pension loans Cash and cash equivalents 700 790 Interest expenses 33 35 Repayments 74 74 74 74 74 – 370 742 834 Indirect taxes 8 8 Interests 17 13 10 6 3 – 49 Interest-bearing financial assets 1,063 1,088 Other items 1) 194 183 91 87 84 80 77 – 419 Finance lease liabilities Total 429 414 Repayments 39 171 30 4 4 61 309 Net interest-bearing liabilities 2,401 3,040 1) Consists mainly of customer rebates. Interests 6 6 1 1 1 2 17 45 177 31 5 5 63 326 Other loans Repayments 1 2 2 2 1 150 158 Finance lease liabilities Interests 6 6 6 6 3 63 90 As at 31 December 2014 the Group has one sale and leaseback agree7 8 8 8 4 213 248 ment and five finance lease agreements regarding power plant machinery. Interest rate swaps (liabilities) The Group uses the energy generated by these plants for its own producRepayments 19 – – 67 4 18 108 tion. The Group also has a finance lease arrangement over the usage of a Interests –1 –1 –1 – 2 37 36 waste water treatment plant. In addition, the Group leases certain pro18 –1 –1 67 6 55 144 Current loans duction assets and buildings under long term arrangements. Repayments 49 49 Interests – – 49 49 Finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments Guarantees, repayments 5 5 As at 31 December EURm 2014 2013 Non-current loans repayments excl. committed facilities 506 580 339 697 560 1,048 3,730 No later than 1 year 177 45 Amounts are based on the exchange rates and interest rates on the reporting date. 1–5 years 45 218 The difference between the above listed cash-based repayment amounts and the respective balance sheet values mainly arise from fair value adjustments to balance sheet items. Later than 5 years 60 63 282 326 Future finance charges –10 –17 Finance lease liabilities – the present value of minimum lease payments 272 309 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 113 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 114 34 Financial instruments by category Financial Financial assets/ Available liabilities Carrying Financial 2013 liabilities at fair for sale Derivatives measured at amounts Financial assets/ Available liabilities Carrying EURm value through Loans and financial used for amortised by balance 2014 liabilities at fair for sale Derivatives measured at amounts Balance sheet item profit or loss receivables assets hedging cost sheet item Fair values Note EURm value through Loans and financial used for amortised by balance Balance sheet item profit or loss receivables assets hedging cost sheet item Fair values Note Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale investments – – 2,661 – – 2,661 2,661 22 Non-current financial assets Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale investments – – 2,510 – – 2,510 2,510 22 Loan receivables – 43 – – – 43 43 23 Non-current financial assets Derivative financial instruments 3 – – 236 – 239 239 23 Loan receivables – 43 – – – 43 43 23 282 282 23 Derivative financial instruments 9 – – 282 – 291 291 23 Current financial assets 334 334 23 Trade and other receivables Current financial assets Trade and other receivables – 1,568 – – – 1,568 1,568 26 Trade and other receivables Prepayments and accrued income – 154 – – – 154 154 26 Trade and other receivables – 1,562 – – – 1,562 1,562 26 Derivative financial instruments 54 – – 172 – 226 226 26 Prepayments and accrued income – 143 – – – 143 143 26 1,948 1,948 Derivative financial instruments 53 – – 98 – 151 151 26 1,856 1,856 Carrying amount by category 57 1,765 2,661 408 – 4,891 4,891 Carrying amount by category 62 1,748 2,510 380 – 4,700 4,700 Non-current financial liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 3,385 3,385 3,489 31 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 2,959 2,959 3,037 31 Derivative financial instruments 75 – – 25 – 100 100 31 Derivative financial instruments 50 – – 49 – 99 99 31 3,485 3,589 31 3,058 3,136 31 Other liabilities Other liabilities Other liabilities – – – – 98 98 98 32 Other liabilities – – – – 99 99 99 32 Derivative financial instruments 7 – – 59 – 66 66 32 Derivative financial instruments 12 – – 39 – 51 51 32 164 164 32 150 150 32 Current financial liabilities Current financial liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 561 561 561 31 Interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 365 365 365 31 Derivative financial instruments 82 – – – – 82 82 31 Derivative financial instruments 41 – – – – 41 41 31 643 643 31 406 406 31 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables Trade and other payables – – – – 920 920 920 33 Trade and other payables – – – – 941 941 941 33 Accrued expenses and deferred income – – – – 414 414 414 33 Accrued expenses and deferred income – – – – 429 429 429 33 Derivative financial instruments 22 – – 63 – 85 85 33 Derivative financial instruments 30 – – 149 – 179 179 33 1,419 1,419 1,549 1,549 Carrying amount by category 186 – – 147 5,378 5,711 5,815 Carrying amount by category 133 – – 237 4,793 5,163 5,241 Fair values of long-term loans, have been estimated as follows: The fair value of quoted bonds is based on the quoted market value as of 31 December. The fair value of fixed rate and market-based floating rate loans is estimated using the expected future payments discounted at market interest rates and it is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The carrying amounts of current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair value. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 115 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 116 35 Derivative financial instruments Group 37 Share-based payments The share subscription price was the trade volume weighted average Subsidiaries, country of incorporation holding % quotation of the share on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd, from 1 Net fair values of derivative financial instruments nortrans Speditionsgesellschaft mbH, DE 100.00 Share options April to 31 May 2008 for share option 2007A i.e. EUR 12.40 per share, OOO UPM-Kymmene, RU 100.00 from 1 April to 31 May 2009 for share option 2007B i.e. EUR 6.24 per 2014 2013 The Annual General Meeting held on 27 March 2007 approved the Positive NegaPositive NegaNet OOO UPM-Kymmene Chudovo, RU 100.00 share and from 1 April to 31 May 2010 for share option 2007C i.e. Board of Directors’ proposal to issue share options to the Group’s key fair tive fair Net fair fair tive fair fair PT UPM Raflatac Indonesia, ID 100.00 EUR 10.49 per share. personnel. The number of options was no more than 15,000,000, EURm values values values values values values Rhein Papier GmbH, DE 100.00 The share subscription period for share options 2007A ended on entitling subscription for a total of no more than 15,000,000 UPMSteyrermühl Sägewerksgesellschaft m.b.H. Nfg KG, AT 100.00 31 October 2012. During the entire share subscription period 300 shares Interest rate swaps Kymmene Corporation shares. Of the share options, 5,000,000 were Tilhill Forestry Ltd, GB 100.00 were subscribed with share options 2007A. Cash flow hedges – –23 –23 – – – marked with the symbol 2007A, 5,000,000 are marked with the symbol UPM (China) Co., Ltd, CN 100.00 The share subscription period for share options 2007B ended on Fair value hedges 201 – 201 183 –1 182 2007B and 5,000,000 are marked with the symbol 2007C. The UPM (Vietnam) Ltd, VN 100.00 31 October 2013. During the entire share subscription period 4,330,009 Held for trading 31 –2 29 32 – 32 subscription periods were 1 October 2010 to 31 October 2012 for share UPM AS, EE 100.00 shares were subscribed with share options 2007B. Forward foreign options 2007A, 1 October 2011 to 31 October 2013 for share options UPM Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd, SG 100.00 The share subscription period for share options 2007C ended on exchange contracts 2007B, and 1 October 2012 to 31 October 2014 for share options 2007C. UPM France S.A.S., FR 100.00 31 October 2014. During the entire share subscription period 4,435,302 Cash flow hedges 49 –77 –28 60 –18 42 UPM GmbH, DE 100.00 shares were subscribed with share options 2007C. Net equity hedges – –30 –30 18 – 18 Held for trading 24 –18 6 23 –31 –8 UPM Manufatura e Comércio de Produtos Florestais Ltda, BR 100.00 Currency options UPM Raflatac (Changshu) Co., Ltd, CN 100.00 Held for trading, bought – – – – – – UPM Raflatac (S) Pte Ltd, SG 100.00 Held for trading, written – – – – – – UPM Raflatac Co., Ltd, TH 100.00 Changes in the numbers of share options granted Cross currency swaps UPM Raflatac Iberica S.A., ES 100.00 2014 2013 Cash flow hedges – –26 –26 – –24 –24 UPM Raflatac Inc., US 100.00 UPM Raflatac Mexico S.A. de C.V., MX 100.00 Weighted average Number of Weighted average Number of Fair value hedges 78 – 78 46 – 46 exercise price, EUR share options exercise price, EUR share options Held for trading 6 –90 –84 – –135 –135 UPM Raflatac NZ Limited, NZ 100.00 Commodity Contracts UPM Raflatac Oy, FI 100.00 Outstanding 1 Jan. 10.49 4,501,500 8.71 7,734,478 Cash flow hedges 52 –81 –29 101 –104 –3 UPM Raflatac Pty Ltd, AU 100.00 Share options granted – – – – Held for trading 1 –23 –22 2 –20 –18 UPM Raflatac s.r.l., AR 100.00 Share options forfeited – – – – UPM Raflatac Sdn. Bhd., MY 100.00 Share options exercised 10.49 –4,433,802 6.24 –3,177,487 Interest rate forward UPM Raflatac South Africa (Pty) Ltd, ZA 100.00 Share options expired 10.49 –67,698 6.24 –55,491 contracts UPM Raflatac Sp.z.o.o., PL 100.00 Outstanding 31 Dec. – 10.49 4,501,500 Held for trading – – – – – – UPM S.A., UY 91.00 Exercisable share options 31 Dec. – 4,501,500 Total 442 –370 72 465 –333 132 No derivative financial instruments are subject to offsetting in the UPM Sales GmbH, DE 100.00 Weighted average remaining contractual life was 10 months as at 31 December 2013. UPM Sales Oy, FI 100.00 Group's financial statements. All derivative financial instruments are UPM Silvesta Oy, FI 100.00 under ISDA or similar master netting agreement. UPM Sähkönsiirto Oy, FI 100.00 members and other selected members of the management and it consists UPM-Kymmene (UK) Ltd, GB 100.00 UPM-Kymmene AB, SE 100.00 Share-based rewards of a three-year earning period. The earned shares are delivered after the Net fair values calculated by counterparty The Group's long-term incentives consist of the Performance Share Plan earning period has ended. Under the plans, UPM shares are awarded UPM-Kymmene Austria GmbH, AT 100.00 As at 31 December 2014 (PSP) for senior executives and the Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) for other based either on group-level performance or total shareholder return durUPM-Kymmene B.V., NL 100.00 Positive fair Negative fair Net fair key employees. ing a three-year earning period. Total shareholder return takes into UPM-Kymmene Inc., US 100.00 EURm values values values The Performance Share Plan consists of annually commencing account share price appreciation and paid dividends. The number of UPM-Kymmene India Private Limited, IN 100.00 shares delivered to participants under Performance Share Plans as well Derivative financial instruments 219 –147 72 three-year plans. The plan is targeted at Group Executive Team (GET) UPM-Kymmene Japan K.K., JP 100.00 as other key figures of the plans are presented in the table below. UPM-Kymmene Kagit Urunleri Sanayi ve Ticaret Ltd. Sti, TR 99.99 Notional amounts of derivative financial instruments UPM-Kymmene Otepää AS, EE 100.00 As at 31 December UPM-Kymmene S.A., ES 100.00 EURm 2014 2013 UPM-Kymmene Seven Seas Oy, FI 100.00 Performance share plans PSP 2011-2013 PSP 2012-2014 PSP 2013-2015 PSP 2014-2016 Interest rate swaps 2,134 1,609 UPM-Kymmene S.r.l., IT 100.00 Forward foreign exchange contracts 4,465 4,973 UPM-Kymmene Wood Oy, FI 100.00 No. of participants (31 Dec. 2014) 30 32 35 26 Currency options 38 33 Werla Insurance Company Ltd, MT 100.00 Actual achievement 0% 22.3% – – Cross currency swaps 617 804 Wisapower Oy, FI 100.00 Max no. of shares to be delivered 1): Commodity contracts 442 490 to the President and CEO – 48,837 219,000 125,000 Interest rate forward contracts 2,310 2,332 The table includes subsidiaries with sales exceeding EUR 2 million. to other members of GET – 103,695 470,000 410,000 to other key individuals – 85,855 465,000 347,500 Cash collaterals pledged for derivative contracts totalled EUR 8 million Group Total max no. of shares to be delivered – 238,387 1,154,000 882,500 of which EUR 6 million relate to commodity contracts and EUR 2 Joint operations, country of incorporation holding % Share delivery (year) 2014 2015 2016 2017 million to interest rate forward contracts. Oy Alholmens Kraft Ab (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G serie), FI 27.88 Operating cash flow Operating cash flow Operating cash flow Total shareholder Earning criteria (weighting) (60%) and EPS (40%) (60%) and EPS (40%) (60%) and EPS (40%) return (100%) EEVG Entsorgungsund Energieverwertungs36 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations gesellschaft m.b.H., AT 50.00 1) For PSP 2011-2013 and PSP 2012-2014 actual no. of shares delivered. Järvi-Suomen Voima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G3 serie), FI 50.00 as at 31 December 2014 Kainuun Voima Oy, FI 50.00 Group Kaukaan Voima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G9 serie), FI 54.00 Subsidiaries, country of incorporation holding % Kymin Voima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G2 serie), FI 76.00 The Deferred Bonus Plan is targeted at other selected key employees of dends and other capital distribution, if any, paid to all shareholders Blandin Paper Company, US 100.00 Madison Paper Industries, US 50.00 the Group and it consists of annually commencing plans. Each plan during the restriction period. The shares earned on the basis of DBP Forestal Oriental S.A., UY 100.00 Rauman Biovoima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G4 serie), FI 71.95 consists of a one-year earning period and a two-year restriction period. 2011 were delivered in the spring of 2014 and shares earned on the basis Gebrüder Lang GmbH Papierfabrik, DE 100.00 Prior to share delivery, the share rewards earned are adjusted with diviof DBP 2012 in the spring of 2015. Key figures related to the Deferred LLC UPM Ukraine, UA 100.00 Bonus Plans are presented in the table below. MD Papier GmbH, DE 100.00 Nordland Papier GmbH, DE 100.00 NorService GmbH, DE 100.00 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 117 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 118 with the Helsinki District Court. Neste seeks a declaration from the Commitments Deferred bonus plans DBP 2011 DBP 2012 DBP 2013 DBP 2014 court that Neste enjoys protection on the basis of its patent against the As at 31 December technology that Neste alleges is being used at UPM’s Kaukas mill site No. of participants (at grant) 520 580 560 395 EURm 2014 2013 biorefinery. In March 2014 Neste filed an action with the Finnish MarNo. of participants (31 Dec. 2014) 445 489 523 390 ket Court in which Neste requests the Market Court to prohibit UPM On own behalf Max no. of shares to be delivered (at grant) 1,200,000 1,800,000 1,640,000 950,000 from continuing the alleged infringement of Neste’s patent at UPM’s Mortgages and pledges 289 357 Estimated no. of shares to be delivered as at 31 Dec. 2014 1) 333,000 613,000 253,000 343,000 Kaukas biorefinery in Finland. In June 2014 the Market Court dismissed Share delivery (year) 2014 2015 2016 2017 Neste’s demand for a preliminary injunction. Neste’s actions relate to the On behalf of others Group/Business Area Group/Business Area same Neste patent concerning which UPM has filed an invalidation Guarantees 5 5 Earning criteria Financial STI targets Financial STI targets EBITDA EBITDA claim in 2012. The invalidation claim was filed as a procedural precautionary measure to avoid unfounded legal processes. UPM considers Other commitments, own 1) For DBP 2011 actual no. of shares earned. Neste’s actions to be without merit. Operating leases, due within 12 months 60 57 The above indicated estimates of the share rewards under the Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan represent the gross value of the Operating leases, due after 12 months 339 339 rewards of which the applicable taxes will be deducted before the shares are delivered to the participants. The amount of estimated payroll tax accruals Other shareholdings Other commitments 160 141 recognised as liabilities were EUR 9.9 million (6.9 million). Total 853 899 In Finland, UPM is participating in a project to construct a new nuclear power plant unit Olkiluoto 3 (OL3) through its shareholdings in Pohjolan Voima Oy. Pohjolan Voima Oy is a majority shareholder of TeollisuMortgages and pledges 289 357 uden Voima Oyj (TVO), holding 58.47% of its shares. UPM’s indirect Guarantees 5 5 38 Related party transactions Subsidiaries and joint operations share of OL3 is approximately 31%. Originally the commercial electriciOperating leases 399 396 The Group’s principal subsidiaries and joint operations are disclosed in ty production of the OL3 plant unit was scheduled to start in April 2009. Other commitments 160 141 Note 36. Total 853 899 The Board of Directors and the Group Executive Team The completion of the project, however, has been delayed. In September There have not been any material transactions between UPM and its 2014 TVO announced that it had received additional data about the members of the Board of Directors or the Group Executive Team (key schedule for the OL3 project from the AREVA-Siemens-Consortium Property under mortgages given as collateral for own commitments management personnel) or persons closely associated with these mem39 Commitments and contingencies (Supplier), which is constructing OL3 as a fixed-price turnkey project. include property, plant and equipment, industrial estates and forest land. bers or organisations in which these individuals have control or signifiAccording to this data, the start of regular electricity production of the In addition, UPM has committed to participate in the share issue plant unit would take place in late 2018. According to TVO, detailed from Pohjolan Voima Oy to finance the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power plant cant influence. There are no loans granted to any members of the Board Contingent liabilities evaluation of the received data is ongoing. project. UPM’s total commitment of the share issue is EUR 119 million, of Directors or the Group Executive Team at 31 December 2014 and The Group is a defendant or plaintiff in a number of legal proceedings 2013. Shares and share options held by members of the Board of DirecIn December 2008 the Supplier initiated the International Chamber of which EUR 31 million was paid in 2014 and EUR 31 million in 2013. incidental to its operations. These lawsuits primarily involve claims The remaining part of the share issue will be implemented during the tors and members of the Group Executive Team are disclosed in pages of Commerce (ICC) arbitration proceedings and submitted a claim conarising from commercial law issues. coming years based on the financing needs of the project. 61 and 64. Remuneration to members of the Board of Directors and the cerning the delay at the OL3 project and related costs. According to Group Executive Team are disclosed in Note 7. TVO, the Supplier updated its claim in 2014 which brings the total Group companies amount claimed by the Supplier for events occurring during the conOperating lease commitments, In 2011, Metsähallitus (a Finnish state enterprise which administers struction period ending June 2011 to approximately EUR 3.4 billion. Associated companies and joint ventures where a Group company is the lessee state-owned land) filed a claim for damages against UPM and two other Among other things, this sum includes over EUR 1.2 billion in respect The Group’s recovered paper purchases in 2014 from associated compaThe Group leases office, manufacturing and warehouse space through Finnish forest companies. The claim relates to the Finnish Market Court of penalty interest (calculated until October 2014) and payments allegnies and joint ventures were close to 620,000 tonnes (610,000 tonnes). In various non-cancellable operating leases. Certain contracts contain decision of 3 December 2009 whereby the defendants were deemed to edly delayed by TVO under the plant contract, as well as approximately Finland, the Group organises its producer’s responsibility of recovered renewal options for various periods of time. have breached competition rules in the Finnish roundwood market. In EUR 150 million of alleged lost profit. TVO has previously considered paper collection through Paperinkeräys Oy, in which the Group has addition to Metsähallitus, individuals and companies, as well as municithe claims upon which the amounts demanded are based, and found 33.1% interest. Austria Papier Recycling G.m.b.H purchases recovered The future aggregate minimum lease payments under palities and parishes, have filed claims relating to the Market Court them to be without merit. TVO will scrutinize the Supplier's updated non-cancellable operating lease contracts paper in Austria, in which the Group has a 33.3% equity interest. LCI decision. The capital amount of all of the claims totals EUR 196 million claim, and respond to it in due course. According to TVO, the quantifis.r.l. is an Italian recovered paper purchasing company in which the As at 31 December in the aggregate jointly and severally against UPM and two other comcation estimate of its costs and losses related to its claim in the arbitraGroup has a 50.0% interest. The purchases from those three companies EURm 2014 2013 panies; alternatively and individually against UPM, this represents tion proceedings is approximately EUR 2.3 billion until the end of 2018, represented approximately 62% (64%) of total recovered papers purchase EUR 34 million in the aggregate. It is expected that the amounts claimed which is the estimated start of the regular electricity production of OL3 No later than 1 year 60 57 amount from associated companies and joint ventures. Recovered paper will change as a result of new claims, which have not yet been served. In according to the schedule submitted by the Supplier in September 2014. 1–2 years 47 42 purchases are based on market prices. addition to the claims on capital amounts, the claimants are also reTVO´s updated estimate was submitted to the tribunal in the arbitration 2–3 years 39 35 The balances with the Group's associated companies and joint venquesting compensation relating to value added tax and interests. UPM proceedings in October 2014. The arbitration proceedings may continue 3–4 years 35 31 tures are presented in Note 21. considers all the claims unfounded in their entirety. No provision has for several years, and the claimed amounts may change. No receivables 4–5 years 31 29 been made in UPM’s accounts for any of these claims. or provisions have been recorded by TVO on the basis of claims preLater than 5 years 187 202 Pension Funds In 2012 UPM commenced arbitration proceedings against MetsäliTotal 399 396 sented in the arbitration proceedings. In Finland, UPM has a pension foundation, Kymin Eläkesäätiö, which itto Cooperative and Metsä Board Corporation due to their breaches of is a separate legal entity. Pensions for about 8% of the Group’s Finnish employees are arranged through the foundation. In 2014 the contribuUPM’s tag-along right under the shareholders’ agreement concerning Commitments Capital commitments at the balance sheet date but not recognised Metsä Fibre Oy in connection with the sale of shares in Metsä Fibre to In the normal course of business, UPM enters into various agreements in the financial statements; major commitments under construction tions paid by UPM to the foundation amounted to EUR 7 million Itochu Corporation. UPM claimed jointly from Metsäliitto and Metsä listed below (11 million). The foundation manages and invests the contributions paid providing financial or performance assurance to third parties. The maxiBoard a capital amount of EUR 58.5 million. Metsäliitto and Metsä mum amounts of future payments for which UPM is liable is disclosed Commitment to the plan. The fair value of the foundation’s assets at 31 December Board had sold a 24.9% holding in Metsä Fibre to Itochu Corporation in the table below under “Other commitments”. Total as at 31 December 2014 was EUR 351 million (337 million), of which 48% was in the form for EUR 472 million. In connection with the transaction with Itochu, EURm cost 2014 2013 of equity instruments, 42% in the form of debt instruments and 10% The Group has also entered into various agreements to provide Metsäliitto had exercised a call option to purchase UPM’s remaining financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain Changshu PM3 277 212 268 invested in property and money market. 11% shareholding in Metsä Fibre for EUR 150 million. The arbitral In the UK, all UPM Pension Schemes now operate under a single companies in which the Group has a non-controlling interest. These Capacity increase/Kymi 160 118 – tribunal rendered its final decision (arbitral award) in February 2014 and agreements are entered into primarily to support or enhance the creditTrust which is independent from the Company. The Trust consists of ordered Metsäliitto and Metsä Board to pay UPM the capital amount various Defined Benefit sections, all of which are closed to future accrual worthiness of these companies. The Group has no collateral or other of EUR 58.5 million and penalty interest and compensate UPM for its recourse provisions related to these guarantees. It is the Group’s policy and one common Defined Contribution section which is open to all legal fees. As a result, UPM recorded an income of EUR 67 million as a UPM employees in the UK. The Group made contributions of EUR not to give guarantees on behalf of third parties. special item in Q1 2014. In May 2014 Metsäliitto and Metsä Board com6 million (5 million) to the Defined Benefit sections of the Scheme in menced litigation proceedings in the Helsinki District Court challenging 2014 following completion of the triennial Actuarial Valuation in April the arbitral award and requesting the District Court to set aside the arbi2013. The next UK actuarial valuation will be in April 2016. The fair tral award or to declare it null and void. UPM considers Metsäliitto’s value of the UK Defined Benefit fund assets at 31 December 2014 was and Metsä Board’s claims unfounded. At the moment, it is not known EUR 363 million (305 million), of which 63% was invested in equity when the District Court will give its decision. instruments, 31% in debt instruments and 6% in property and money Neste Oil Oyj, a Finnish company producing traffic fuels (Neste), market. has filed an action for declaratory judgment against UPM in June 2013 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 119 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 120 Parent company accounts 40 Events after the balance sheet date On 12 January 2015, UPM announced that the UPM Lappeenranta Biorefinery had started commercial production. The production process works as planned and the high quality end product, UPM BioVerno diesel, fulfils customer specifications. The UPM Lappeenranta Biorefinery is the world’s first wood-based (Finnish Accounting Standards, FAS) renewable diesel biorefinery, and is based on a hydrotreatment process developed by UPM. It is capable of producing approximately 120 million litres of renewable UPM BioVerno diesel each year. Income statement Cash flow statement On 20 January 2015, UPM announced that it will permanently close down paper machine 2 at UPM Kaukas and paper machine 5 at UPM Year ended 31 Dec. Year ended 31 Dec. EURm Note 2014 2013 EURm Note 2014 2013 Jämsänkoski in Finland, along with paper machine 1 at the UPM Shotton mill in the UK. Production will be ceased by the end of March 2015 Turnover 1 3,395 3,715 Operating activities at the latest. Employee consultation processes concerning the closing Change in inventories of finished goods and work Profit before extraordinary items 618 267 plans were concluded in mid-January 2015. The number of positions is in progress –33 –4 Financial income and expenses –405 –59 reduced by 114 at the Kaukas mill in Lappeenranta, by 138 at the Jämsä Production for own use 5 7 Adjustments to operating profit 1 384 305 River Mills and by 121 at Shotton. Along with the closures, UPM Other operating income 2 186 113 Change in working capital 2 99 227 reduces its coated and uncoated magazine paper capacity by approxiMaterials and services Interest paid –75 –78 mately 460,000 tonnes and its newsprint capacity by 215,000 tonnes. Materials and consumables Dividends received 560 2 Purchases during the financial period –2,079 –2,377 Interest received 23 19 Change in inventories –7 17 Other financial items 25 1 External services –36 –107 Income taxes paid 3 –63 –140 –2,122 –2,467 Net cash generated from operating activities 1,166 544 Personnel expenses 3 Wages and salaries –361 –372 Investing activities Social security expenses Investments in tangible and intangible assets –181 –199 Pension expenses –59 –68 Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible Other social security expenses –22 –20 assets 100 79 –442 –460 Investments in shares and holdings –29 –36 Depreciation and value adjustments 4 Proceeds from sale of shares and holdings 59 4 Depreciation according to plan –227 –239 Increase in other investments –9 –11 Value adjustments to goods held as Decrease in other investments 39 265 non-current assets –50 –25 Net cash used in investing activities –21 102 –277 –264 Other operating costs and expenses 3 –499 –432 Financing activities Operating profit 213 208 Increase in non-current liabilities – 527 Decrease in non-current liabilities –766 –244 Financial income and expenses Increase or decrease in current liabilities –223 –337 Income from investments held as non-current assets Share options exercised 47 20 Dividends from Group companies 559 2 Dividends paid –319 –317 Interest income from Group companies 8 10 Group contributions received and paid 4 –70 Other interest and financial income Net cash used in financing activities –1,257 –421 Other interest income from Group companies 3 4 Other interest income from other companies 11 – Cash and cash equivalents Other financial income from Group Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 576 351 companies 8 94 Change in cash and cash equivalents –112 225 Other financial income from other companies 1 30 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 464 576 Value adjustments on investments –10 – Interest and other financial expenses Interest expenses to Group companies –37 –39 Notes to the cash flow statement Interest expenses to other companies –37 –39 Other financial expenses to other companies –101 –3 1 Adjustments to operating profit Total financial income and expenses 405 59 Depreciation 227 239 Profit before extraordinary items 618 267 Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 102 46 Value adjustments on non-current assets 50 25 Extraordinary items 5 Change in provisions 5 –5 Extraordinary income 70 35 Total 384 305 Extraordinary expenses –9 –31 Total extraordinary items 61 4 2 Change in working capital Profit before appropriations and taxes 679 271 Inventories 37 –15 Current receivables 77 236 Appropriations Current non-interest-bearing liabilities –15 6 Increase or decrease in accumulated Total 99 227 depreciation difference 117 96 Income taxes 6 –86 –116 Profit/loss for the financial period 710 251 3 Taxes from sales of non-current assets are reported here on a net basis. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 121 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 122 Balance sheet As at 31 December As at 31 December Notes to the parent company financial statements EURm Note 2014 2013 EURm Note 2014 2013 (All amounts in millions of euros unless otherwise stated.) Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets Shareholders’ equity 11 Intangible assets 7 Share capital 890 890 Accounting policies 4 Depreciation and value adjustments Intangible rights 5 5 Revaluation reserve 463 493 The parent company financial statements are prepared in accordance Year ended 31 Dec. Other capitalised expenditure 198 219 Reserve for invested non-restricted equity 1,273 1,226 with Finnish Accounting Standards. The main differences in accounting EURm 2014 2013 Advance payments 3 6 Retained earnings 1,378 1,446 policies between the Group and the parent company relate to the meaTotal intangible assets 206 230 Profit/loss for the financial period 710 251 Depreciation according to plan surement of derivative financial instruments and biological assets and Total equity 4,714 4,306 Intangible rights 2 3 the recognition of defined benefit obligations, revaluations and deferred Tangible assets 8 Other capitalised expenditure 32 36 income taxes. See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 1. Buildings 35 33 Land and water areas 934 974 Appropriations Machinery and equipment 151 160 Buildings 441 460 Accumulated depreciation difference 564 682 Other tangible assets 7 7 Machinery and equipment 720 841 Other tangible assets 38 41 Provisions 12 1 Turnover Total 227 239 Advance payments and construction Provisions for pensions 17 17 Value adjustments in progress 209 142 Other provisions 51 46 Owing to the corporate structure of the Group, the turnover of the Intangible and tangible assets 50 25 Total tangible assets 2,342 2,458 Total provisions 68 63 parent company has not been divided by segment and destination. See Total 277 264 Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 4. Investments 9 Non-current liabilities 13 Holdings in Group companies 4,648 4,922 Bonds 905 822 5 Extraordinary items Receivables from Group companies 666 693 Loans from financial institutions 1,223 1,523 2 Other operating income Holdings in participating interest Pension loans 202 270 Year ended 31 Dec. companies 99 99 Other liabilities 145 145 Year ended 31 Dec. EURm 2014 2013 Receivables from participating Total non-current liabilities 2,475 2,760 EURm 2014 2013 interest companies 6 5 Gains on sale of non-current assets 163 94 Extraordinary income Other shares and holdings 582 562 Rental income 17 15 Group contributions received 70 35 Current liabilities 14 Other receivables 30 31 Gains on sale of emission rights 1) – 1 Total 70 35 Bonds – 363 Total investments 6,031 6,312 Loans from financial institutions 16 8 Other 6 3 Total 186 113 Extraordinary expenses Pension loans 68 68 Total non-current assets 8,579 9,000 Group contributions paid –9 –31 Advances received 1 6 1) Emissions trading rights are accounted for on a net basis. Total –9 –31 Trade payables 280 303 Current assets Total extraordinary items 61 4 Payables to Group companies 2,123 2,383 Inventories Raw materials and consumables 229 236 Payables to participating interest 3 Personnel expenses and other operating companies 6 7 Finished products and goods 77 110 Other liabilities 37 30 costs and expenses 6 Income taxes Advance payments 38 35 Accruals and deferred income 292 296 Year ended 31 Dec. Total inventories 344 381 Year ended 31 Dec. Total current liabilities 2,823 3,464 EURm 2014 2013 EURm 2014 2013 Wages and salaries Current receivables 10 Total liabilities 5,298 6,224 Income taxes for the financial period 86 116 President and CEO, and members of Trade receivables 121 155 the Board of Directors 2) 3 3 Total 86 116 Receivables from Group companies 953 969 Other wages and salaries 358 369 Receivables from participating Total 361 372 Deferred income taxes interest companies 11 13 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities of the parent company are not 2) See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 7. Loan receivables 2 2 recorded on the balance sheet. Deferred tax liability mainly comprises Other receivables 79 70 depreciation differences, for which the deferred tax liability at 31 DecemPrepayments and accrued income 91 109 Year ended 31 Dec. ber 2014 was EUR 113 million at 20% tax rate (136 million). Deferred Total current receivables 1,257 1,318 2014 2013 tax liability is not stated separately for revaluations. The potential tax Average number of personnel 5,880 6,410 liability arising from the sale of revalued asset is EUR 124 million at Cash and cash equivalents 464 576 20% tax rate (131 million). Deferred tax asset mainly comprises proviTotal current assets 2,065 2,275 sions, for which the deferred tax asset at 31 December 2014 was Owing to the corporate structure of the Group, the average number of personnel has not been divided by segment. See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, EUR 14 million at 20% tax rate (13 million). Note 4. Total assets 10,644 11,275 Total equity and liabilities 10,644 11,275 Year ended 31 Dec. EURm 2014 2013 Auditor's fees 0.8 1.0 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 123 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 124 7 Intangible assets As at 31 Dec. As at 31 Dec. There were no loans granted to the company’s President and CEO, and EURm 2014 2013 EURm 2014 2013 members of the Board of Directors at 31 December 2014 or 2013. As at 31 Dec. Machinery and equipment Holdings in participating interest companies EURm 2014 2013 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 5,013 5,040 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 99 332 10 Current receivables Intangible rights Increases 45 44 Transfers between balance sheet items – –233 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 19 19 As at 31 Dec. Decreases –3 –93 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 99 99 Increases 3 3 EURm 2014 2013 Transfers between balance sheet items 13 22 Revaluations at 1 Jan. – 103 Decreases –2 –3 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 5,068 5,013 Transfers between balance sheet items – –103 Trade receivables 229 227 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 20 19 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –4,172 –4,089 Revaluations at 31 Dec. – – Loan receivables 848 872 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –14 –13 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 3 92 Book value at 31 Dec. 99 99 Other receivables 79 70 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 1 2 Depreciation for the period –151 –160 Prepayments and accrued income 101 149 Depreciation for the period –2 –3 Value adjustments –28 –15 Receivables from participating interest companies Total at 31 Dec. 1,257 1,318 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –15 –14 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –4,348 –4,172 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 5 21 Book value at 31 Dec. 5 5 Book value at 31 Dec. 720 841 Increases 2 – Main items included in prepayments and Decreases –1 – accrued income Other capitalised expenditure Other tangible assets Transfers between balance sheet items – –16 Personnel expenses 6 7 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 535 522 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 200 199 Book value at 31 Dec. 6 5 Interest income 42 41 Increases 5 12 Increases 3 1 Derivative financial instruments 8 60 Decreases –2 –4 Decreases –1 –1 Other shares and holdings Income taxes – 2 Transfers between balance sheet items 6 5 Transfers between balance sheet items 1 1 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 398 111 Other items 45 39 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 544 535 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 203 200 Increases 30 30 At 31 Dec. 101 149 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –316 –283 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –159 –152 Value adjustments –10 – Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 2 3 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 2 1 Transfers between balance sheet items – 257 Receivables from Group companies Depreciation for the period –32 –36 Depreciation for the period –7 –7 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 418 398 Trade receivables 97 59 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –346 –316 Value adjustments –1 –1 Revaluations at 1 Jan. 164 61 Loan receivables 846 870 Book value at 31 Dec. 198 219 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –165 –159 Transfers between balance sheet items – 103 Prepayments and accrued income 10 40 Book value at 31 Dec. 38 41 Revaluations at 31 Dec. 164 164 At 31 Dec. 953 969 Advance payments Book value at 31 Dec. 582 562 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 6 6 Advance payments and construction in progress Receivables from participating interest companies Increases 3 5 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 142 65 Other receivables Trade receivables 11 13 Transfers between balance sheet items –6 –5 Increases 105 112 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 31 14 At 31 Dec. 11 13 Book value at 31 Dec. 3 6 Transfers between balance sheet items –38 –35 Increases – 3 Book value at 31 Dec. 209 142 Decreases –1 –1 Transfers between balance sheet items – 15 Book value at 31 Dec. 30 31 8 Tangible assets As at 31 Dec. 9 Investments EURm 2014 2013 As at 31 Dec. Land and water areas EURm 2014 2013 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 487 492 Holdings in Group companies 11 Shareholders’ equity Increases 3 4 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 6,109 6,163 Reserve for Decreases –14 –9 Increases – 5 invested Total Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 476 487 Share Revaluation non-restricted Retained shareholders’ Decreases –39 –37 Revaluations at 1 Jan. 488 507 EURm capital reserve equity earnings equity Transfers between balance sheet items – –22 Reversal of revaluation –30 –20 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 6,070 6,109 Revaluations at 31 Dec. 458 487 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –1,187 –1,069 Balance at 1 January 2013 890 512 1,207 1,762 4,371 Book value at 31 Dec. 934 974 Transfers between balance sheet items – –1 Share options exercised – – 19 – 19 Value adjustments –235 –117 Dividend distribution – – – –317 –317 Buildings Revaluations – –19 – – –19 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –1,422 –1,187 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 1,206 1,177 Other items – – – 1 1 Book value at 31 Dec. 4,648 4,922 Increases 12 19 Profit for the financial period – – – 251 251 Decreases –2 –2 Balance at 31 December 2013 890 493 1,226 1,697 4,306 Value adjustments relate to holdings in Group companies in Finland and Transfers between balance sheet items 24 12 in foreign countries. Value adjustments are included in other operating Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 1,240 1,206 Balance at 1 January 2014 890 493 1,226 1,697 4,306 costs and expenses. The principal subsidiaries are disclosed in the conShare options exercised – – 47 – 47 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –746 –706 solidated financial statements, Note 36. Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 3 2 Dividend distribution – – – –319 –319 Depreciation for the period –35 –33 As at 31 Dec. Revaluations – –30 – – –30 Value adjustments –21 –9 EURm 2014 2013 Profit for the financial period – – – 710 710 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –799 –746 Receivables from Group companies Balance at 31 December 2014 890 463 1,273 2,088 4,714 Book value at 31 Dec. 441 460 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 693 950 Increases 7 7 Decreases –34 –264 As at 31 Dec. Book value at 31 Dec. 666 693 EURm 2014 2013 Distributable funds at 31 Dec. Reserve for invested non-restricted equity 1,272.8 1,226.4 Retained earnings from previous years 1,378.1 1,446.0 Profit/loss for the financial period 710.3 251.3 Distributable funds at 31 Dec. 3,361.2 2,923.7 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 125 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 126 Information on shares 12 Provisions As at 31 Dec. EURm 2014 2013 As at 31 Dec. Main items included in accruals and deferred income EURm 2014 2013 Personnel expenses 102 95 Provisions for pensions 17 17 Interest expenses 40 38 Restructuring provisions 17 13 Income taxes 20 – Environmental provisions 13 12 Derivative financial instruments 160 207 Changes in number of shares 1 January 2010 – 31 December 2014 Other provisions 21 21 Customer rebates 4 1 Total at 31 Dec. 68 63 Other items 1 4 Number of shares Changes of provisions are included in personnel and other operating At 31 Dec. 327 345 2009 Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2009 519,970,088 expenses. Information of provisions is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements, Note 30. Payables to Group companies 2010 Options exercised – Trade payables 45 43 Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2010 519,970,088 Other liabilities 2,043 2,291 Accruals and deferred income 35 49 2011 Share issue 5,000,000 13 Non-current liabilities At 31 Dec. 2,123 2,383 Options exercised 2,750 As at 31 Dec. Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2011 524,972,838 EURm 2014 2013 Payables to participating interest companies Bonds 905 822 Trade payables 6 7 2012 Options exercised 1,151,572 Loans from financial institutions 1,223 1,523 At 31 Dec. 6 7 Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2012 526,124,410 Pension loans 202 270 Other liabilities 145 145 2013 Options exercised 3,177,487 Total at 31 Dec. 2,475 2,760 15 Contingent liabilities Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2013 529,301,897 As at 31 Dec. 2014 Options exercised 4,433,802 Maturity of non-current liabilities EURm 2014 2013 Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2014 533,735,699 In 2–5 years Bonds 527 481 Mortgages 1) Loans from financial institutions 1,215 1,075 As security against own debts 289 357 Pension loans 202 270 1,944 1,826 Guarantees Later than 5 years Guarantees for loans Bonds 378 341 On behalf of Group companies 903 907 Loans from financial institutions 8 448 Other guarantees Other liabilities 145 145 On behalf of Group companies 120 67 531 934 Other commitments2) Total at 31 Dec. 2,475 2,760 Leasing commitments for next year 104 22 Leasing commitments for subsequent years 66 146 Stock exchange trading Shares and options held by the Board of Directors and Bonds Other commitments 111 52 UPM’s shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. The compathe Group Executive Team ny’s ADSs are traded on the U.S. over-the-counter (OTC) market under At the end of the year, the members of the Board of Directors including Interest Nominal As at 31 Dec. 1) The mortgages given relate mainly to giving mandatory security for borrowing a Level 1 sponsored American Depositary Receipt programme. President and CEO owned a total of 892,498 (946,727) UPM-Kymmene rate value issued 2014 2013 from Finnish pension insurance companies. A total of 508.3 million UPM-Kymmene Corporation shares were Corporation shares, including shares held by persons closely associated Fixed-rate % m EURm EURm 2) Other commitments relate to procurement of commodities. traded on the Helsinki stock exchange in 2014 (563.4 million). This repwith him or her or by organisations of which the person has control. 1997–2027 7.450 USD 375 309 272 resented 95.2% (106.7%) of the total number of shares. The highest quoThese represent 0.17% (0.18%) of the shares and 0.17% (0.18%) of the 2000–2030 3.550 JPY 10,000 69 69 Pension commitments of the President and CEO and the members of tation was EUR 13.99 in December and the lowest EUR 10.07 in Octovoting rights . At the end of the year, President and CEO Jussi Pesonen 2002–2014 5.625 USD 500 – 363 the Group Executive Team ber. The total value of shares traded in 2014 was EUR 6,233 million owned 195,280 shares. At the end of the year, the other members of the 2002–2017 6.625 GBP 250 321 300 See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 7. (5,308 million). Group Executive Team owned a total of 238,859 shares. 2003–2018 5.500 USD 250 206 181 During the year, 6.0 million 2007C share options were traded for Total at 31 Dec. 905 1,185 Other commitments EUR 10.3 million (5.4 million, EUR 6.1 million). Current portion – 363 The commitment to participate in the share issue from Pohjolan Voima Oy would total EUR 55 million (86 million). Non-current portion 905 822 Treasury shares As at 31 December 2014, the company held 230,737 (230,737) of its own Derivative contracts shares, 0.04% (0.04%) of the total number of shares. Of these shares 14 Current liabilities Fair values and notional values are disclosed in the consolidated finan211,481 were returned upon their issue to UPM without consideration as cial statements, Notes 35. All derivatives disclosed have been contracted part of Myllykoski transaction and 19,256 shares in accordance with the As at 31 Dec. by the parent Company. Group's share reward scheme due to the termination of employment EURm 2014 2013 contracts. Bonds – 363 Related party transactions Loans from financial institutions 16 8 See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 38. Pension loans 68 68 Advances received 1 6 Trade payables 331 353 Other liabilities 2,080 2,321 Accruals and deferred income 327 345 Total at 31 Dec. 2,823 3,464 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 127 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 128 Biggest registered shareholders at 31 December 2014 Monthly average share price and Share price in 2014 Equity per share shares traded 1–12/2014 Shares at EUR EUR EUR % of all shares 31 December 2014 % of shares % of votes 14 15 20 15 IImarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 12,930,409 2.42 2.42 12 12 16 12 10 9 12 9 Mandatum Life Insurance Company 9,531,219 1.79 1.79 8 6 8 6 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8,074,488 1.51 1.51 6 3 4 3 ELO Mutual Pension Insurance Company 6,610,000 1.24 1.24 4 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 10 11 12 13 14 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 The Local Government Pensions Institution 4,521,794 0.85 0.85 ■ Monthly average share price, EUR Shares traded, % The State Pension Fund 4,230,000 0.79 0.79 Svenska litteratursällskapet i Finland 3,868,600 0.72 0.72 Swiss National Bank 3,126,520 0.59 0.59 UPM share price 2010–2014 compared with indices Earning and dividend per share Market capitalisation EUR EUR EURm Skagen Global Verdipapirfond 2,433,683 0.45 0.45 20 1.5 7,500 Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2,280,968 0.43 0.43 1.2 16 6,000 Nominees & registered foreign owners 333,204,242 62.43 62.43 12 0.9 4,500 8 0.6 3,000 Others 142,923,776 26.78 26.78 4 0.3 1,500 Total 533,735,699 100.00 100.00 0 0.0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 During 2014, the company received the following notifications of changes in holdings pursuant to Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act: UPM share price UPM has received an announcement according to which Norges Bank’s (The Central Bank of Norway) holding in UPM has fallen below the threshNASDAQ OMX Helsinki (rebased) -2.39 old of 5 per cent on 3 April 2014 after a share lending transaction where Norges Bank is the lender. UPM has received an announcement according to DJ STOXX 600 (rebased) ■ Earnings per share which Norges Bank’s (The Central Bank of Norway) holding in UPM has gone above the threshold of 5 per cent on 17 April 2014 after a share lend■ Dividend per share ing transaction where Norges Bank is the lender. (2014: proposal) Shares traded on Helsinki stock Dividend per share (EUR) and exchange 2010–2014 dividend to earnings ratio (%) EURm % EUR % 2,000 25 1.25 200 1,600 20 1.00 160 1,200 15 0.75 120 800 10 0.50 80 400 5 0.25 40 0 0 0.00 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 10 11 12 13 14 ■ Monthly trading in UPM shares ■ Dividend per share on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, EURm (2014: proposal) Trading in UPM shares as Dividend to earnings ratio, % % of total number of shares (2012 : neg.) Charts in this page are unaudited. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 129 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 130 Key figures 2005–2014 Distribution of shareholders at 31 December 2014 Number of % of shareNumber of % of Size of shareholding shareholders holders shares, million shares 1 – 100 20,359 22.74 1.2 0.2 101 – 1,000 50,184 56.05 21.2 4.0 1,001 – 10,000 17,434 19.47 48.1 9.0 Adjusted share-related indicators 2005–2014 10,001 – 100,000 1,404 1.57 33.6 6.3 100,001 – 152 0.17 106.0 19.9 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Total 89,533 100.00 210.1 39.4 Earnings per share, EUR (diluted 2014: 0.96) 0.96 0.63 –2.14 0.88 1.08 0.33 –0.35 0.16 0.65 0.50 Nominee-registered 323.4 60.6 Equity per share, EUR 14.02 14.08 14.18 14.22 13.64 12.67 11.74 13.21 13.90 14.01 Not registered as book entry units 0.2 0.0 Dividend per share, EUR 1) 0.70 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.55 0.45 0.40 0.75 0.75 0.75 Total 533.7 100.0 Dividend to earnings ratio, % 72.9 95.2 neg. 68.2 50.9 136.4 neg. 468.8 115.4 150.0 Effective dividend yield, % 5.1 4.9 6.8 7.1 4.2 5.4 4.4 5.4 3.9 4.5 P/E ratio 14.2 19.5 neg. 9.7 12.2 25.2 neg. 86.4 29.4 33.1 Operating cash flow per share, EUR 2.33 1.39 1.98 1.99 1.89 2.42 1.21 1.66 2.32 1.63 Dividend distribution, EURm 1) 373 317 317 315 286 234 208 384 392 392 Share price at 31 Dec., EUR 13.62 12.28 8.81 8.51 13.22 8.32 9.00 13.82 19.12 16.56 Shareholder breakdown by sector at 31 December, % Market capitalisation, EURm 7,266 6,497 4,633 4,466 6,874 4,326 4,680 7,084 10,005 8,665 Shares traded, EURm 2) 6,233 5,308 5,534 8,835 8,243 5,691 10,549 16,472 16,021 11,358 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Shares traded (1,000s) 508,318 563,382 600,968 790,967 790,490 805,904 932,136 952,300 876,023 697,227 Shares traded, % of all shares 95.6 106.7 114.4 151.5 152.0 155.0 180.1 182.1 167.4 133.6 Companies 2.8 3.2 4.3 4.2 4.1 Lowest quotation, EUR 10.07 7.30 7.82 7.34 7.37 4.33 8.15 13.01 15.36 15.05 Financial institutions and insurance companies 4.3 4.1 5.4 6.5 5.1 Highest quotation, EUR 13.99 13.02 10.98 15.73 13.57 9.78 13.87 20.59 20.91 18.15 Public bodies 8.0 7.8 7.9 11.3 9.8 Average quotation for the period, EUR 12.26 9.42 9.21 11.17 10.43 7.06 11.32 17.30 18.29 16.29 Non-profit organisations 5.3 5.7 6.2 6.3 6.4 Number of shares, average (1,000s) 531,574 527,818 525,434 521,965 519,970 519,955 517,545 522,867 523,220 522,029 Households 17.2 18.7 19.9 19.9 18.4 Number of shares at end of period (1,000s) 533,736 529,302 526,124 524,973 519,970 519,970 519,970 512,569 523,259 523,093 Non-Finnish nationals 62.4 60.5 56.3 51.8 56.2 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Formulae for calculating indicators are given on page 135. 1) Proposal. 2) Trading on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki stock exchange. Treasury shares bought by the company are included in shares traded. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 131 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 132 Financial indicators 2005–2014 EURm 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Quarterly figures 2013–2014 Sales 9,868 10,054 10,492 10,068 8,924 7,719 9,461 10,035 10,022 9,348 EBITDA 1,287 1,155 1,312 1,383 1,343 1,062 1,206 1,546 1,678 1,428 % of sales 13.0 11.5 12.5 13.7 15.0 13.8 12.7 15.4 16.7 15.3 EURm Q4/14 Q3/14 Q2/14 Q1/14 Q4/13 Q3/13 Q2/13 Q1/13 Q1–Q4/14 Q1–Q4/13 Operating profit, excluding special items 847 683 556 682 731 270 513 835 725 558 Sales 2,531 2,415 2,441 2,481 2,588 2,472 2,520 2,474 9,868 10,054 % of sales 8.6 6.8 5.3 6.8 8.2 3.5 5.4 8.3 7.2 6.0 Other operating income 61 14 9 7 5 28 –10 37 91 60 Operating profit 674 548 –1,318 459 755 135 24 483 536 318 Costs and expenses –2,286 –2,082 –2,161 –2,179 –2,365 –2,190 –2,245 –2,291 –8,708 –9,091 % of sales 6.8 5.5 –12.6 4.6 8.5 1.7 0.3 4.8 5.3 3.4 Change in fair value of biological assets and Profit (loss) before tax 667 475 –1,271 417 635 187 –201 292 367 257 wood harvested 32 17 17 12 37 11 14 6 78 68 % of sales 6.8 4.7 –12.1 4.1 7.1 2.4 –2.1 2.9 3.7 2.7 Share of results of associated companies and Profit (loss) for the period 512 335 –1,122 457 561 169 –180 81 338 261 joint ventures – 1 2 – – 1 1 – 3 2 % of sales 5.2 3.3 –10.69 4.5 6.3 2.2 –1.9 0.8 3.4 2.8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges –267 –129 –132 –130 –131 –135 –134 –145 –658 –545 Exports from Finland and foreign operations 8,923 9,089 9,565 9,252 8,139 7,054 8,515 9,170 9,102 8,397 Operating profit (loss) 71 236 176 191 134 187 146 81 674 548 Exports from Finland 4,340 4,118 4,248 4,313 3,882 3,442 4,371 4,546 4,644 4,006 Gains on available-for-sale investments, net – – – 59 – 1 – – 59 1 Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses 3 –3 –1 –3 – – 5 5 –4 10 Non-current assets 10,269 10,487 11,066 11,412 10,557 10,581 10,375 10,639 11,355 12,321 Interest and other finance costs, net –17 –19 –16 –10 –19 –22 –23 –20 –62 –84 Inventories 1,356 1,327 1,388 1,429 1,299 1,112 1,354 1,342 1,255 1,256 Profit (loss) before tax 57 214 159 237 115 166 128 66 667 475 Other current assets 2,570 2,785 2,489 2,548 1,956 1,912 2,052 1,972 1,859 1,964 Income taxes –49 –32 –30 –44 –79 –28 –14 –19 –155 –140 Assets, total 14,195 14,599 14,943 15,389 13,812 13,605 13,781 13,953 14,469 15,541 Profit (loss) for the period 8 182 129 193 36 138 114 47 512 335 Total equity 7,480 7,455 7,461 7,477 7,109 6,602 6,120 6,783 7,289 7,348 Attributable to: Owners of the parent company 8 182 129 193 36 138 114 47 512 335 Non-current liabilities 4,717 5,019 5,430 5,320 4,922 5,432 5,816 4,753 4,770 5,845 Current liabilities 1,998 2,125 2,052 2,588 1,781 1,571 1,828 2,417 2,410 2,348 Non-controlling interest – – – – – – – – – – Total equity and liabilities 14,195 14,599 14,943 15,389 13,812 13,605 13,781 13,953 14,469 15,541 8 182 129 193 36 138 114 47 512 335 Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.01 0.34 0.25 0.36 0.06 0.26 0.22 0.09 0.96 0.63 Capital employed at year end 10,944 11,583 11,603 12,110 11,087 11,066 11,193 11,098 11,634 12,650 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.01 0.34 0.25 0.36 0.06 0.26 0.22 0.09 0.96 0.63 Return on equity, % 6.9 4.5 neg. 6.3 8.2 2.8 neg. 1.2 4.6 3.5 Earnings per share, excluding special items, EUR 0.32 0.32 0.26 0.27 0.27 0.26 0.20 0.18 1.17 0.91 Return on capital employed, % 6.5 4.8 neg. 4.4 6.6 3.2 0.2 4.3 4.7 3.4 Average number of shares basic (1,000) 532,916 531,932 531,932 529,514 528,887 528,211 527,922 526,252 531,574 527,818 Cash flow from operating activities 1,241 735 1,040 1,041 982 1,259 628 867 1,215 853 Average number of shares diluted (1,000) 532,202 532,114 532,201 529,777 528,329 528,155 528,158 526,631 531,574 527,818 Equity to assets ratio, % 52.7 51.1 50.0 48.6 51.5 48.6 44.5 48.8 50.4 47.3 Special items in operating profit (loss) –159 1 –10 –5 –73 –7 8 –63 –173 –135 Gearing ratio, % 32 41 43 48 46 56 71 59 56 66 Operating profit (loss), excl. special items 230 235 186 196 207 194 138 144 847 683 Net interest-bearing liabilities 2,401 3,040 3,210 3,592 3,286 3,730 4,321 3,973 4,048 4,836 % of sales 9.1 9.7 7.6 7.9 8.0 7.8 5.5 5.8 8.6 6.8 Capital expenditure 411 362 357 1,179 257 913 551 708 699 749 Special items in financial items – – – 66 – – – – 66 – % of sales 4.2 3.6 3.4 11.7 2.9 11.8 5.8 7.1 7.0 8.0 Special items before tax –159 1 –10 61 –73 –7 8 –63 –107 –135 Capital expenditure excluding acquisitions 375 329 347 340 252 229 532 683 631 705 Profit (loss) before tax, excl. special items 216 213 169 176 188 173 120 129 774 610 % of sales 3.8 3.3 3.3 3.4 2.8 3.0 5.6 6.8 6.3 7.5 % of sales 8.5 8.8 6.9 7.1 7.3 7.0 4.8 5.2 7.8 6.1 Personnel at year end 20,414 20,950 22,180 23,909 21,869 23,213 24,983 26,352 28,704 31,522 Impact on taxes from special items –6 11 4 –13 –31 6 – 15 –4 –10 Formulae for calculating indicators are given on page 135. Return on equity, excl. special items, % 9.2 9.1 7.3 7.7 7.5 7.5 5.7 5.1 8.3 6.4 Return on capital employed, excl. special items, % 8.2 8.0 6.5 6.6 7.2 6.8 4.9 5.1 7.5 6.0 EBITDA 330 346 298 313 302 311 258 284 1,287 1,155 % of sales 13.0 14.3 12.2 12.6 11.7 12.6 10.2 11.5 13.0 11.5 Deliveries Sales by segment UPM Biorefining 484 480 477 496 497 484 512 495 1,937 1,988 Deliveries UPM Energy 115 113 112 124 115 109 110 132 464 466 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 UPM Raflatac 330 312 306 300 298 307 309 299 1,248 1,213 UPM Paper Asia 288 274 285 277 268 274 289 277 1,124 1,108 Pulp (1,000 t) 3,287 3,163 3,128 2,992 2,919 1,759 1,982 1,927 UPM Paper ENA 1,361 1,303 1,286 1,334 1,445 1,392 1,358 1,365 5,284 5,560 Electricity (GWh) 8,721 8,925 9,486 8,911 9,426 8,865 10,167 10,349 UPM Plywood 107 101 118 114 112 98 111 108 440 429 Papers, total (1,000 t) 10,028 10,288 10,871 10,615 9,914 9,021 10,641 11,389 10,988 10,172 Other operations 113 102 113 119 120 117 128 125 447 490 Plywood (1,000 m3) 731 737 679 656 638 567 806 945 931 827 Internal sales –248 –248 –241 –263 –259 –283 –292 –297 –1,000 –1,131 Sawn timber (1,000 m3) 1,609 1,661 1,696 1,683 1,729 1,497 2,132 2,325 2,457 2,016 Eliminations and reconciliations –19 –22 –15 –20 –8 –26 –5 –30 –76 –69 Sales, total 2,531 2,415 2,441 2,481 2,588 2,472 2,520 2,474 9,868 10,054 Operating profit (loss) excl.special items by segment UPM Biorefining 67 63 31 56 66 67 97 70 217 300 UPM Energy 57 43 46 56 45 40 46 55 202 186 UPM Raflatac 22 21 17 20 16 22 19 18 80 75 UPM Paper Asia 27 29 27 25 16 20 22 22 108 80 UPM Paper ENA 30 62 47 42 31 29 –23 –37 181 – UPM Plywood 14 7 12 11 9 1 7 4 44 21 Other operations 19 14 6 –2 27 5 3 –10 37 25 Eliminations and reconciliations –6 –4 – –12 –3 10 –33 22 –22 –4 Operating profit (loss) excl. special items, total 230 235 186 196 207 194 138 144 847 683 % of sales 9.1 9.7 7.6 7.9 8.0 7.8 5.5 5.8 8.6 6.8 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 133 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 134 Calculation of key indicators Auditor’s report (Translation from the Finnish Original) Formulae for calculation of finanFormulae for calculation of adjustcial indicators ed share-related i­ndicators To the Annual General Meeting of UPM-Kymmene Corporation An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence Return on equity, %: Earnings per share: about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the Profit before tax – income taxes Profit for the period attributable to owners We have audited the accounting records, the financial statements, the report report of the Board of Directors. The procedures selected depend on the x 100 of the Board of Directors and the administration of UPM-Kymmene Corpoauditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material Total equity (average) of the parent company Adjusted average number of shares during the ration for the year ended 31 December, 2014. The financial statements commisstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessperiod excluding treasury shares prise the consolidated statement of financial position, income statement, ments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s Return on capital employed, %: statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and preparation of financial statements and report of the Board of Directors Profit before tax + interest expenses and statement of cash flows, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, as that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are other financial expenses Equity per share: x 100 well as the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow stateappropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing Total equity + interest-bearing Equity attributable to owners of ment and notes to the financial statements. an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An liabilities (average) the parent company audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies Adjusted number of shares at end of period Responsibility of the Board of Directors and used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by manageEquity to assets ratio, %: Dividend per share: the Managing Director ment, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial stateTotal equity The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the ments and the report of the Board of Directors. x 100 Balance sheet total – advances received Dividend distribution We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view Adjusted number of shares at end of period in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of financial statements and Net interest-bearing liabilities: Dividend to earnings ratio, %: the report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in accorOpinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements Interest-bearing liabilities – interest-bearing assets Dividend per share dance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the finanIn our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view x 100 Earnings per share cial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The of the financial position, financial performance, and cash flows of the group Gearing ratio, %: Board of Directors is responsible for the appropriate arrangement of the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as Effective dividend yield, %: control of the company’s accounts and finances, and the Managing Director adopted by the EU. Net interest-bearing liabilities x 100 shall see to it that the accounts of the company are in compliance with the Total equity Adjusted dividend per share x 100 law and that its financial affairs have been arranged in a reliable manner. Opinion on the Company’s Financial Statements and Adjusted share price at 31.12. EBITDA: the Report of the Board of Directors Auditor’s Responsibility In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Board of P/E ratio: Operating profit + depreciation + impairment Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements, on the Adjusted share price at 31.12. Directors give a true and fair view of both the consolidated and the parent +/– change in value of biological assets consolidated financial statements and on the report of the Board of Directors company’s financial performance and financial position in accordance with +/– share of results of associated companies and Earnings per share based on our audit. The Auditing Act requires that we comply with the the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements joint ventures +/– special items requirements of professional ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The information in the Market capitalisation: with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing practice requires that report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the Return on capital employed (ROCE) for the Total number of shares x share price at end of we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether financial statements. segments (operating capital), %: period the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors are free from material misstatement, and whether the members of the Board of Operating profit – special items x 100 Directors of the parent company or the Managing Director are guilty of an Other Opinions Non-current assets + inventories + trade Adjusted share price at end of period: We support that the financial statements and the consolidated financial act or negligence which may result in liability in damages towards the compareceivables – trade payables (average) Share price at end of period statements should be adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors ny or whether they have violated the Limited Liability Companies Act or the Share issue coefficient regarding the use of the profit shown in the balance sheet is in compliance articles of association of the company. with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of Adjusted average share price: the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent company Total value of shares traded should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. Adjusted number of shares traded during period Operating cash flow per share: Cash from operating activities Adjusted average number of shares during the period excluding treasury shares Helsinki 13 February 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Key exchange rates for the euro at end of period 31.12.2014 30.9.2014 30.6.2014 31.3.2014 31.12.2013 30.9.2013 30.6.2013 31.3.2013 USD 1.2141 1.2583 1.3658 1.3788 1.3791 1.3505 1.3080 1.2805 CAD 1.4063 1.4058 1.4589 1.5225 1.4671 1.3912 1.3714 1.3021 Merja Lindh Authorised Public Accountant JPY 145.23 138.11 138.44 142.42 144.72 131.78 129.39 120.87 GBP 0.7789 0.7773 0.8015 0.8282 0.8337 0.8361 0.8572 0.8456 SEK 9.3930 9.1465 9.1762 8.9483 8.8591 8.6575 8.7773 8.3553 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 135 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 136 Key financial information 2005–2014 Capital expenditure Sales and personnel EBITDA Operating profit Cash flow from operations excluding acquisitions Cash flow after investing activities EURm Employees EURm % EURm % EURm EUR EURm EURm 10,000 40,000 2,500 25 1,250 12.5 2,000 4 1,000 1,000 8,000 32,000 2,000 20 1,000 10.0 800 800 1,500 3 6,000 24,000 1,500 15 750 7.50 600 600 1,000 2 4,000 16,000 1,000 10 500 5.00 400 400 500 1 2,000 8,000 500 5 250 2.50 200 200 0 0 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 ■ Sales ■ EBITDA ■ Cash flow from operations Personnel % sales Per share, EUR ■ Operating profit excl. special items % sales excl. special items ■ Special items Net interest-bearing liabilities Profit before tax Earnings per share Dividend per share Equity and ROE Capital employed and ROCE and gearing EURm % EUR EUR % EURm % EURm % EURm % 1,000 10 2.0 1.0 250 10,000 20 15,000 15 7,000 100 800 8 1.6 0.8 200 8,000 16 12,000 12 5,600 80 600 6 1.2 0.6 150 6,000 12 9,000 9 4,200 60 400 4 0.8 0.4 100 4,000 8 6,000 6 2,800 40 200 2 0.4 0.2 50 2,000 4 3,000 3 1,400 20 0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 *) 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 ■ Equity ■ Capital employed ■ Net interest-bearing liabilities ■ Dividend per share EUR ROE excl. special items, % ROCE excl. special items, % Gearing % Dividend/earnings, % ■ Profit before tax excl. special items ■ Earnings per share excl. special items % sales ■ Special items *) 2014: Board’s proposal ■ Special items CONTENTS 137 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 138 Additional responsibility information 2005–2014 Employees’ years of service Absenteeism due to sickness and UPM's CO2 emission-free UPM's fossil CO2 emissions with UPM 2012–2014 Age structure of UPM personnel 2014 accidents at work, all UPM personnel power generation capacity per tonne of paper Sources of UPM’s greenhouse gas emissions*) persons persons % MW kg/t 5,000 4,000 5 2,500 500 Stationery fuel Indirect emissions combustion 30% 4,000 4 2,000 400 from supply 3,000 chain 50% 3,000 3 1,500 300 2,000 2,000 2 1,000 200 Indirect emissions 1,000 1,000 1 500 100 from purchased 0 0 0 0 0 power 20% 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 measured in *) <1 1– 10 5 0 0 >3 ≤2 y d ce A ua hina 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 an CO2-equivalents 21 0 –2 26 5 US y 5 6– –1 –2 –3 0 –3 31 0 –3 36 5 –4 an Ki Un an 11 16 21 41 0 –4 46 5 –5 51 0 m nl Fr ng ite ug C do d –5 56 5 er ■ Biomass –6 61 0 –6 ≥6 4 Fi Ur m 5 G ■ 2012, total 22,180 ■ Hydro Absence hours/ Improvements were made not only through Compared to the previous year UPM’s ■ 2013, total 20,950 ■ Nuclear theoretical working time investments in renewable energy production, overall greenhouse gas emissions ■ 2014, total 20,414 but also by continuously improving energy decreased by approximately 3%. UPM’s capacity for CO2 emission-free efficiency. In 2011, the acquisition of paper According to the calculations, approxipower generation has increased mills with a high share of fossil fuels mately 50% of the direct and indirect continuously over the last ten years. increased the CO2 (carbon dioxide) greenhouse gas emissions are related to emissions significantly. Since 1990, specific UPM’s energy use, but raw materials, CO2 emissions per tonne of paper have transportation and processing of sold been reduced by approximately 25%. products also have a significant impact. More details are available at www.upm. com/responsibility. UPM’s recovered paper UPM's solid waste to landfills UPM's solid waste to landfills UPM's AOX load per tonne of Development of UPM’s ecolabelled consumption per tonne of converted products per tonne of paper UPM's COD load bleached chemical pulp sales 2008–2014 1,000 t kg/t kg/t kg/t kg/t % 3,500 30 20 25 80 0.20 2,800 24 16 20 64 0.15 2,100 18 12 15 48 0.10 1,400 12 8 10 32 700 6 4 5 0.05 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 ■ per tonne of chemical pulp ■ per tonne of paper Solid waste to landfills per tonne of The amount of solid waste sent to landfills AOX indicates the amount of halogens From 2008 (61%) sales of ecolabelled converted product decreased by 71% has decreased by 48% over the last ten bound to the organic compounds present paper, chemical pulp, plywood, timber over the last ten years. Since 2007 the years. However, from 2012 to 2013 the The COD load has decreased by 26% in the effluent. Over the last ten years, the and biocomposite products have figure includes UPM Raflatac’s label total amount of waste sent to landfill per tonne of paper, and by 39% per AOX load per tonne of bleached increased by 15% until 2014 (76%). products only. increased significantly. This is due to the tonne of chemical pulp, over the last ten chemical pulp has decreased by 53%. The figure includes FSC, PEFC and EU fact that former reuse possibilities for ash years. Ecolabels as well as national ecolabels. ceased at one of UPM’s paper mills. In 2014, new methods of reuse were established, with further options for reuse still being investigated. CONTENTS 139 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 140 UPM businesses on a world map Our 20,000 people work in 45 UPM BIOREFINING UPM ENERGY UPM RAFLATAC UPM PAPER ASIA UPM PAPER ENA countries across six continents. With head office in Finland, our • A versatile range of chemical pulp for many • Cost competitive low-emission power generation • Self-adhesive label materials for product • Labelling materials for global markets and fine • Magazine papers, newsprint and fine papers for most important markets are in growing end uses with annual production in Finland consisting of hydropower, nuclear and information labelling papers for Asian markets a wide range of end uses capacity of 3.4 million tonnes produced at three power, condensing power and wind power Europe, North America and Asia, • 11 factories and 24 slitting and distribution • Annual production capacity of 0.8 million tonnes of • Annual paper production capacity of 9.4 million pulp mills in Finland and one in Uruguay • The total electricity generation capacity is 1,610 terminals in all continents fine papers and 0.6 million tonnes of labelling and tonnes, manufactured in 17 paper mills China in particular. • Annual capacities by mills: UPM Fray Bentos 1.3 MW, including UPM’s own hydropower plants packaging materials • Capacities: 4.8 million tonnes of magazine papers, million; UPM Pietarsaari 800,000; UPM Kaukas and shareholdings in energy companies Labelstock factories 2.4 million tonnes of newsprint and 2.2 million 740,000 and UPM Kymi 600,000 tonnes • Largest shareholdings: Brazil: Rio de Janeiro Paper mills tonnes of fine papers annually • Certified sawn timber with annual capacity of 1.5 – 44.3% of Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), which is China: UPM Changshu • The combined heat and power (CHP) plants China: Changshu million cubic metres, produced at four sawmills in a majority shareholder (58.5%) in Teollisuuden operating on paper mill sites included in Finland: Tampere Finland: UPM Jämsänkoski (Jämsä) and UPM Finland Voima Oyj (TVO) the business area Tervasaari (Valkeakoski) • Wood-based renewable diesel with the annual – 19% of Kemijoki Oy’s hydropower shares France: Nancy capacity of 120 million litres produced in Finland Malaysia: Johor Paper mills Hydropower plants: Poland: Kobierzyce (Wroclaw) and Austria: UPM Steyrermühl Pulp mills Finland: Harjavalta, Kallioinen (Sotkamo), Kaltimo Nowa Wies´ (Wroclaw) (Joensuu), Katerma (Kuhmo), Keltti (Kouvola), Finland: UPM Jämsä River Mills (Jämsänkoski and Finland: UPM Kaukas (Lappeenranta), United Kingdom: Scarborough Kaipola), UPM Kaukas (Lappeenranta), UPM Kymi UPM Kymi (Kouvola) and UPM Pietarsaari Kuusankoski (Kouvola), Tyrvää (Sastamala), Voikkaa (Kouvola) and Äetsä USA: Mills River, NC; Fletcher, NC and Dixon, IL (Kouvola) and UPM Rauma Uruguay: UPM Fray Bentos France: UPM Chapelle Darblay (Grand-Couronne) Germany: UPM Augsburg, UPM Ettringen, UPM Hürth, Sawmills Slitting and distribution terminals UPM Nordland Papier (Dörpen), UPM Plattling, Finland: UPM Alholma (Pietarsaari), UPM Kaukas Argentina: Provincia de Buenos Aires UPM Schongau and UPM Schwedt (Lappeenranta), UPM Korkeakoski (Juupajoki) Australia: Adelaide, Brisbane and Melbourne United Kingdom: UPM Caledonian Paper (Irvine), and UPM Seikku (Pori) Brazil: Jaguariúna UPM Shotton Paper China: Guangzhou and Tianjin USA: UPM Blandin (Grand Rapids, MN) and Biorefinery India: Bangalore and Navi Mumbai UPM Madison (Madison, ME) (50%) Finland: UPM Lappeenranta Biorefinery Indonesia: Jakarta (Lappeenranta) Italy: Osnago México: Ciudad de México and Guadalajara New Zealand: Auckland Russia: Moscow and St Petersburg South Africa: Cape Town and Pinetown Spain: Barcelona Thailand: Bangkok Turkey: Istanbul Ukraine: Kiev USA: Ontario, California Vietnam: Binh Thang Ward Di An District UPM PLYWOOD • Plywood and veneer products, mainly for UPM’s sales by market 2014 EUR 9,868 million construction, vehicle flooring, LNG shipbuilding and other manufacturing industries d • Annual plywood and veneer production capacity: m orl do he rE ing No uro ew approximately one million cubic metres y rth pe an dK Fra Am f th d nc eri ca • Production in 7 mills in Finland, Estonia and Russia rm ite lan Ot e st o Ge Un Fin he rE U Ot As ia Re OTHER OPERATIONS Plywood mills • Wood Sourcing and Forestry: wood and Estonia: UPM Otepää 17% 9% 10% 4% 21% 5% 11% 16% 7% biomass purchases in approx. 17 countries, 0 20 40 60 80 100 840,000 ha of own forests in Finland and in the Finland: UPM Joensuu, UPM Jyväskylä, UPM Pellos USA (Ristiina) and UPM Savonlinna • UPM Biocomposites producing UPM ProFi Russia: UPM Chudovo UPM’s personnel by area 31.12.2014 20,414 Un d outdoor products and UPM Formi composite ited Fra King n do orl material for injection moulding and extrusion Veneer mill Ot ce he m ew • UPM Biochemicals developing wood-based Finland: UPM Kalso (Kouvola) rE U an y Ot f th d lan rm he r No Euro rth p st o building blocks, performance chemicals and As Am e eri biofibril Fin Ge ia ca 1 ) Re 39% 0 20 22% 40 60 5% 4% 8% 4% 6% 8% 80 4% 100 Biocomposites mills Finland: UPM Lahti Read more: 1) USA, Canada and Mexico www.upm.com Germany: UPM Bruchsal (Karlsruhe) CONTENTS 141 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 142 Contact us Group Head Office UPM Stakeholder relations Alvar Aallon katu 1 Tel. +358 2041 5111 PO Box 380 info@upm.com FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 2041 5111 Environment and responsibility Fax +358 2041 5110 Tel. +358 2041 5111 info@upm.com responsibility@upm.com Investor relations Media desk Tel. +358 2041 50033 Tel. +358 40 588 3284 ir@upm.com media@upm.com Businesses UPM Raflatac UPM Biorefining Tesomankatu 31 Alvar Aallon katu 1 PO Box 53 PO Box 380 FI-33101 Tampere, Finland FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 2041 6143 Tel. +358 2041 5111 Fax +358 2041 6142 info@upm.com info@upmraflatac.com UPM Wood Sourcing UPM Paper Asia and Forestry 23F, Grand Gateway Tower 2 Åkerlundinkatu 11 B 3 Hongqiao Road PO Box 85 Shanghai 200030 FI-33100 Tampere, Finland People’s Republic of China Tel. +358 2041 6121 Tel. +86 21 6288 1919 Fax +358 2041 6120 Fax +86 21 5292 8912 metsaviestinta@upm.com paperasia@upm.com UPM Timber UPM Paper ENA (Europe and Åkerlundinkatu 11 C, 5th Floor North America) PO Box 203 Georg-Haindl-Strasse 5 FI-33101 Tampere, Finland D-86153 Augsburg, Germany Tel. +358 2041 5113 Tel. +49 821 31090 Fax +358 2041 5112 Fax +49 821 3109 156 timber@upm.com paperinfo@upm.com UPM Energy UPM Plywood Alvar Aallon katu 1 Niemenkatu 16 PO Box 380 PO Box 203 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland FI-15141 Lahti, Finland Tel. +358 2041 5111 Tel. +358 2041 5113 info@upm.com Fax +358 2041 5112 plywood@upm.com Follow us online at www.upm.com, www.upmbiofore.com Subscribe to our press releases: www.upm.com/media Twitter: @UPM_News, www.twitter.com/UPM_News LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/UPM-Kymmene Youtube: www.youtube.com/upmdotcom UPM Biofore House features the company’s own, renewable timber, Facebook: www.facebook.com/UPMGlobal plywood and composite materials. iPad: UPM Investor Relations App The building has been awarded LEED® Platinum Certification for sustainable design. CONTENTS 143 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 144 Contents Annual General Meeting UPM Group 1 UPM in brief UPM-Kymmene Corporation will hold its Annual General Meeting on 3 Review by the President and CEO Thursday 9 April 2015 at 14:00, at the Exhibition and Convention 5 Strategy Centre, Messuaukio 1, 00520 Helsinki, Finland. Instructions for those 11 UPM as an investment 13 Financial targets and earnings sensitivities wishing to attend are given in the notice to the meeting, which is 14 Risk management available on the company’s website at www.upm.com. Businesses Dividend 15 UPM Biorefining The Board of Directors has decided to propose to the Annual General Meeting that 19 UPM Energy a dividend of EUR 0.70 per share be paid for the 2014 financial year. The dividend 21 UPM Raflatac will be paid to the shareholders who are registered in the company’s shareholder register held by Euroclear Finland Ltd. on 13 April 2015, which is the record date for 23 UPM Paper Asia the dividend payment. The Board of Directors proposes that the dividend will be 25 UPM Paper ENA paid on 23 April 2015. 27 UPM Plywood 29 Innovations and R&D Financial information in 2015 UPM will publish the interim reports in 2015 as follows: Stakeholders The Interim Report for January–March (Q1) on 28 April 2015 31 Creating added value through stakeholder The Interim Report for January–June (Q2) on 28 July 2015 engagement The Interim Report for January–September (Q3) on 27 October 2015 35 UPM’s tax policy promotes compliance, risk management, transparency and efficiency 37 Continuous collaboration with customers 39 Suppliers are an integral part of UPM value creation 41 People enable company transformation 44 Significant change in UPM’s safety culture Responsibility 45 Responsibility supports business development 49 Taking care of the entire lifecycle 50 Yesterday’s waste is today’s raw material 51 Energy efficiency improved and climate actions recognised 53 UPM ensures that all wood and wood fibre is sustainably sourced 54 Responsible use of water 55 UPM’s material balance 2014 57 GRI content index 59 Independent assurance report FI / 28 / 003 Corporate governance Please collect used 60 Corporate governance paper for recycling. 65 Board of Directors 67 Group Executive Team UPM Annual Report 2014 has been awarded the EU Ecolabel for printed UPM does not publish a separate environmental and products. corporate responsibility report but has integrated Accounts for 2014 the contents into this annual report. Various highlights The printing process has to meet strict from the year 2014 can be found under the sections 69 Contents criteria in relation to chemicals, energy for each business area. The GRI content index is on consumption, emissions to air and water pages 57–58. 137 Key financial information 2005–2014 and waste management. Also the paper 139 Additional responsibility information used shall be EU Ecolabelled. UPM To find out more about UPM’s responsibility agenda, 141 UPM businesses on a world map promotes sustainability of print media. please visit www.upm.com/responsibility. 144 Addresses 146 Annual General Meeting CONTENTS 145 UPM Annual Report 2014 UPM Annual Report 2014 146 www.upm.com CONTENTS Cover: UPM Finesse premium silk, 250 g/m2. Accounts: UPM Fine, 90 g/m2. Other pages: UPM Finesse premium silk, 135 g/m2. Printed on papers granted the EU Ecolabel , EN/15/2. Printer: Erweko Oy
